GLOBAL COMPACT Good practices 2014 (Financial Year 2013) Dassault Aviation belongs to the major players in the global civil and military aircraft industry. A reasonably sized and financially secure private international group, with a presence in more than 70 countries across 5 continents, Dassault Aviation has been profitable ever since its creation in 1936. Structured to adapt its production to market cycles, Dassault Aviation encompasses a rich industrial network of high-tech companies in France, Europe, and many countries worldwide. In order to achieve its objectives in a highly competitive and increasingly global economy, Dassault Aviation builds on strong values, a clear identity and strict ethical standards. Its values are customer spirit, human qualities, technological excellence and innovation, economic performance, openness to the world, environmental protection measures. Commitment In 2003, Dassault Aviation, whose Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is Mr Eric Trappier, joined the UN Global Compact initiative. The Group supports the ten principles relating to human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and the fight against corruption. It is through this commitment that Dassault Aviation has progressively incorporated the Global Compact principles into its strategy, culture and daily operations. The following ‘Good Practices’ document illustrates a few actions undertaken by the company as a commitment to the Global Compact. Dassault Aviation renews its commitment to the Global Compact for 2014. The CEO , Mr Eric Trappier : 1 Human rights (principles 1 &2) Dassault Aviation is committed to the respect of Human Rights as stated in Principle 1 and 2 of the Global Compact, whether in France where Dassault Aviation designs and manufactures aircraft or in the United States where the company makes the completion of some of its business jets. Dassault Aviation is also watchful regarding its suppliers which are mostly located in industrialised countries. Labour (principles 3-6) A number of measures taken in 2013 are illustrative of a strong and steady orientation in favour of social progress and equality at work (principles 3 and 6). They also belong to Principle 1 (human rights) of the Global Compact. As an integral part of its equal opportunity policy, Dassault Aviation has contracted a specialized human resources consultancy to train all its managers in “management and diversity”. This training improves the managers’ awareness towards promoting diversity, non-discrimination and gender equality in recruitment, the working environment and professional career. In 2012, 475 managers had been following this training which was continued in 2013 with another 486 managers trained through 40 sessions. In order to improve sex equality in still a very masculine sector (only 16% of women in this industrial sector), Dassault Aviation has significantly raised the proportion of women in its recruitment. Thus, in 2013, Dassault Aviation recruited 27% women at manager level and 30% at non-management level. Dassault Aviation has also encouraged its female employees to join two major inhouse management and leadership training programs (“Dassault Management” and “Dassault Leader”) to increase the number of female employees in the management pool. In 2013, the company has implemented quotas for women to raise the number of women following these programs. Dassault Aviation is a founding member of the association “elles bougent” which helps women discover engineering and technical careers and participated in 2013 in major events such as the first forum on “women’s careers and networks”; the national day for “women’s engineering science”. The association also welcomed 120 young women at the Paris Air Show, Le Bourget. Regarding handicapped employees, Dassault has implemented a dedicated agreement (signed October 7, 2010) and raised the share of handicapped employees 2 from 7.5% to 9.3% in 2013 (8.4% in 2011). In France, the minimum share of handicapped employees in the workforce has been fixed by law at 6% but the effective rate is closer to 4% which make Dassault Aviation among the most dedicated to the employment of handicapped persons. In November 2013, Dassault Aviation has led an all-site sensitization campaign entitled: “I have a handicap, so what?”. The aim was to combat clichés and to remind the employees all the existing programs through interactive workshops, quizz, and comics leaflets. In addition, Dassault Aviation is a founding member of HANVOL, a non-profit organisation helping the training and employment of handicapped persons in the aircraft industry. For further information, please follow these links: http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/finance/publications http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/group/employee-mater http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/careers Environment (principles 7-9) In 2013, Dassault Aviation has taken several environmental steps related to Principles 7, 8 and 9 of the Global Compact. For several years, Dassault Aviation has gradually developed an environmental policy and an organizational structure that helped reinforce environmental considerations at all its sites. In 2005, Dassault Aviation production sites obtained the ISO certification. In 2007, the whole company processes were certified. An in 2009, Dassault Aviation obtained integrated quality and environmental management ISO certification. Hence, Dassault Aviation has already achieved major actions in favour of the environment, as illustrated in its 2013 Environmental Report, and keeps a highly responsible environmental policy. Dassault Aviation subscribed to the objectives defined by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Research in Europe (ACARE), i.e.: -50% reduction of noise levels on the ground, -50% reduction of CO2 emissions, -reducing the environmental impact created by the production and withdrawal from service of aircraft. Based on these objectives, Dassault Aviation has constructed an “Eco –approach 2021 “plan grounded on two key points: eco-design (green aircraft) and ecoproduction (green factory). For more details, please follow these links: http://www.acare4europe.com 3 Improving the higher level is now the order of the day, with the following actions undertaken in 2013: setting up a central management to enhance energy consumption and identify axis of progress; finalisation a innovative process of pre-diagnosis and mapping of energy efficiency in all its sites; the results of the 2013 energy pre-diagnosis helped identify future areas of potential CO 2 footprint reduction for the Company plans for “greening” industrial processes to substitute the most environmentally impacting processes energy efficiency by friendlier ones such as chemical machining or surface treatments. In 2013, the SPFDB process has been terminated. The Poitiers industrial site is now no more under Seveso regulations. -improvement of industrial tools such as: installation of solar heating, extension of the rainwater recovery circuit , the reuse of decontaminated water for cooling facilities . trials of a company employee transportation planning promoting car sharing and collective transports; -actions to reduce GHC emissions ;note in particular the setting up of platforms for the distribution of raw materials which reduce significantly the emissions linked to road transport . In its General terms of purchase, the company recommends to its suppliers to respect the 10 principles of the Global Compact and to obtain ISO 14001 certification. The company has sent to its major suppliers an environmental evaluation & audit questionnaire. Compliance with the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) European Union Regulation has again been a priority in 2011. Based on transparency and precaution, REACH is to improve the protection of human health and the environment through the better and earlier identification of the intrinsic properties of chemical substances. It also calls for the progressive substitution of the most dangerous chemicals when suitable alternatives have been identified. In 2012, actions for substituting substances of concern (substitution plans for chromates, cadmium and lead) and for reducing chemical risks were reinforced, particularly with regard to the processes using hexavalent chromium-based mixtures. This five-year plan has continued in 2013. 4 Dassault Aviation is also one of the founder members of the IAEG (International Aerospace Environmental Group) created in 2011. IAEG is a non-profit corporation comprised of a global group of aerospace companies, established to facilitate harmonization of compliance amongst aerospace companies and their supply chains with the existing and emerging laws and regulations protecting human health and the environment. IAEG will achieve that by promoting the development of voluntary consensus standards published by an independent standards organization harmonizing environmental requirements applicable to aerospace companies. IAEG aims to address such issues as chemical material declarations and reporting requirements, greenhouse gas reporting and management, and to create a forum for dialog and information exchange on industry optional approaches for implementation of environmental requirements. In 2013 , the main lines of work of the IAEG were focused on : -the monitoring of all chemicals throughout the supply chain -the determination of which chemical substances to be substituted as a priority -Greehouse Gas inventories. Besides, two other working groups are now preparing standard requests for REACH authorisations and suppliers’ environmental evaluation questionnaires. For further information, please follow these links http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/finance/publications http://www.dassault-aviation.com/en/dassault-aviation/group/environment Anti-corruption (principles10) Dassault Aviation follows a proactive policy against corruption. This is in compliance with the French law which, ever since 2000, has enacted and applied stringently numerous international conventions under the OECD, the UN and the European Union against foreign corruption practices. The Dassault Aviation policy is stated in its Chart of Ethics and is in accordance with Principle 10 of the Global Compact. In order to promote business ethics, Dassault Aviation has initiated within the AeroSpace and Defence Industries Association of Europe, ASD, a committee in charge of elaborating European business ethics standards. These” Common Industry Standards” have been approved by the Council of the ASD then chaired by Dassault Aviation CEO Charles Edelstenne and signed by Dassault Aviation. Within GIFAS, the French aerospace industries association, Dassault Aviation contributes to good governance standards through several committees. In March 2013, Dassault presented various compliance policy tools (due diligence, application forms, audit) set up against bribery. 5 In 2012, Dassault Aviation joined the international Forum of Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). It is now a member of the IFBEC Steering Committee. The purpose of IFBEC is to: promote and forster through “the Global Principles“, the development of global, industry-wide ethical standards for the companies that are active in the aerospace and defense business sector. organize opportunities for industry and relevant stakeholders to exchange information and best practices concerning ethical business challenges, practices and opportunities worldwide. The IFBEC organized its third international conference in Washington (15-16 October 2013) in association with the Aerospace and Defense Industries Association of Europe (ASD) and the Aerospace Industries of America (AIA). The purpose of this conference was to promote global cooperation to increase integrity in public procurements and bolster the public’s trust. The IFBEC has published in 2012 a “Public Accountability Report”. This Report provides both members and non-members with data on IFBEC members compliance with “the Global Principles” and best practices that align with “The Global Principles “. For more information, please click here: www.ifbec.info Dassault Aviation participated in building up the Global Principles or shared ethics principles between European and American industry professionals, which is under ratification. For the Dassault Aviation values, ethics, reports, please click: http://www.dassault-aviation.com Attached documents : -2013 annual report -Dassault Aviation Ethical Charter 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Contents 1 Vision 2 Strategy: interview with the CEO 5 Management committee 6 Pictures of the year 8 Key Group statistics 10 Highlights 12 Dynamic 20 Corporate social responsibility 30 Civil aircraft and military programs 42 Worldwide presence 44 Group organizational chart and shareholders 45 Annual financial report 199 Annual general meeting, May 15, 2014 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 1 VISION “Higher together”: every day, this desire becomes a reality. Each of our aircraft embodies our mastery of the most advanced technologies, put to the service of our clients. These technologies contribute to our customers’ independence and their management of time, space, decisions and actions, worldwide. Our longevity is founded on pragmatic technical and industrial choices that respect ethical, social and environmental imperatives. As a pivotal part of a high value-added strategic industry, our Group plays its part in the development of the activity of a wide range of high-flying companies, laboratories and teaching establishments. Thanks to the skills and experience of our teams, the know-how that we develop is unique in Europe, and shared with numerous French and international partners. Over Over 8,000 28 11,600 72% aircraft delivered million employees, of our aircraft worldwide hours of more than 9,000 produced over since 1945 flight time based in France the past 50 years have been exported A major contributor to national sovereignty and at the vanguard of the digital-industrial revolution, Dassault Aviation is the only corporate Group in the world to design, manufacture and support both combat aircraft (instruments of political independence) and business jets (tools for work and economic development). Our brands: Rafale, Falcon, nEUROn, and Mirage. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 2 STRATEGY Dassault Aviation is a company with a resolutely dual character, whose industrial organization is optimized around civil and military activities. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 3 Interview with Éric Trappier, Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation After a year at the head of Dassault Aviation, What is the situation in the Defense sector? what is your strategy? “In France, we have been able to comply with the broad “Dassault Aviation is an extremely proactive Company lines of the LPM (French military procurement plans) for built on solid foundations, with innovation and customer 2014-2019. The French Ministry of Defense has made satisfaction as its prime objectives. Although faced with several major commitments: maintaining a minimum powerful competition, we have always been able to take on production rate of eleven Rafales a year (implementation this challenge by proposing products that stand out for their modes being tied in with export successes); the launch performance and quality. Alongside Loïk Segalen, the Chief of the F3-R standard for the Rafale; the modernization Operating Officer, our permanent ambition is to develop the of the Atlantique 2 maritime patrol aircraft; and the Rafale civil and military expertise of this jewel in the crown of the Care support contract. [French Defense Minister] Jean-Yves aviation industry, while promoting major partnerships. In a Le Drian also announced that, ultimately, the Armed Forces word, Dassault Aviation remains a high-tech, fundamentally would be equipped with a homogeneous fleet of 225 export-driven Company that is open to the world and turned Rafales, which establishes the principle – fundamental for toward the future.” our aircraft – of a future ‘tranche 5’. The Rafale has once again demonstrated its exceptional In the civil domain, how would you sum up the operational capability, in Mali. It is, however, vital that we past year? finalize a Rafale export contract for India, or elsewhere. “In a particularly incident-packed year, one of the main Last but not least, the satisfaction of our military clients things that stands out for me is the arrival of a brand-new involves us reinforcing our support for aircraft already in aircraft: the Falcon 5X. Unveiled last October at the NBAA service, with the Rafale Care offering, a new service standard Convention in Las Vegas, it is the latest addition to our for the Armed Forces, for which an extension to the Mirage range. It has been extremely well received by our clients 2000 will be proposed.” and by industry experts, and has taken our competitors by surprise. It meets user needs, with the largest cabin on the market and so unrivaled onboard comfort, as the first Can you tell us where the negotiations with India wave of confirmed orders has proved. currently stand? “They are progressing well, in a spirit of mutual trust. Commercially, we are still facing recovering demand levels, It is taking a long time because it is a complex issue. on account of an uncertain macroeconomic environment. The negotiations relate to the sale of 18 aircraft and the We do however know that our products are highly appreciated. manufacturing under license of 108 more. This involves Our extended range – Falcon 2000S/2000LXS, Falcon coming to agreements with local companies, and in 900LX, Falcon 5X and Falcon 7X – should ensure that we particular with our main partner, Hindustan Aeronautics cater comprehensively to the market. Limited (HAL), on the work to be done in India. You have to The 77 Falcons delivered in 2013 have guaranteed sustained bear in mind just what the production of a combat aircraft industrial activity for our Company and its subcontractors. such as the Rafale entails: 30,000 parts, 25 kilometers of wiring, 300,000 fasteners, and so on. Over 500 French Lastly, the past year was marked by the 50th anniversary of companies are involved in the program. In India, we need the Falcon line. This offered the opportunity to reflect on the to look not necessarily for the same number of companies, fact that, in the aviation field, excellence is built on but for the same diversity of skills and capacities. We are experience.” confident, though, since it is a crucial industrial and operational challenge for the Indians, who have been faithful clients in the military domain for 60 years. Everything is in place and the teams all mobilized to finalize this major contract in 2014.” ••• 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 4 How do you see the future of Dassault Aviation in What are your 2014 objectives for your civil the field of UAVs? activities? “As has been proven by the excellent performance of the “For business aviation, I have set four main priorities for 2014: nEUROn European combat-drone demonstrator, for which — continuing the development of the Falcon 5X with the we are the prime contractor, we have developed strategic assembly of the first aircraft; skills in this field that should underpin our country and Europe’s sovereignty. On January 31, 2014, the French — pursuing our worldwide Falcon customer-support efforts; and British Ministries of Defense signed a letter of intent — preparing the future of the Falcon range; formalizing the launch of joint feasibility studies for combat drones (UCAS: Unmanned Combat Air Systems). This major — lastly, and above all, increasing our sales, even if the advance in Franco-British military aeronautics cooperation market – still convalescent – is difficult for all offers a new dimension to the joint research already manufacturers. Recovery continues to be modest in the undertaken within this framework. Dassault Aviation and BAE USA, which remains our principal market, accounting Systems, leading stakeholders in the project, have already for over 50% of the Falcons in service. We have to hope worked a great deal with their partners, Safran, Rolls-Royce, it will take off in 2014.” Thales and Selex, on the preparation of this UCAS initiative. Our Company therefore finds itself once again at the vanguard of the most cutting-edge aeronautical What are your main assets for reaching these technologies. It has always supported the respective objectives? governments’ efforts to launch an ambitious Franco-British “I would cite, among other things: the expertise of our program designed to lay the groundwork for future combat engineers, technicians and skilled workers; the stability aviation in Europe. of our shareholders, which enables us to plan long term; the flexibility and reactivity of our Company, which allows As for the MALE (Medium Altitude, Long Endurance) us to adapt extremely rapidly to economic vicissitudes; observation UAVs, we have joined forces with Airbus Group our lead with regard to digital-industrial processes through and Finmeccanica to propose the launch of a joint program our collaboration with Dassault Systèmes and our international to the French, German and Italian governments. Good experience (over the past 50 years 72% of our aircraft have progress is being made in our discussions with the states been sold for export). I would also cite Dassault Aviation’s concerned. Here again, what is at stake is European resolutely dual character. Our Falcons’ excellence benefits sovereignty in the field of military aviation.” from the experience of a design department, which through the work done in the military domain for nigh on a century, has built up a degree of know-how that is certainly unique on the world stage. Our industrial organization is optimized around these two activities: civil and military. The Company embodies a kind of dynamism and management at once daring and prudent, as was proved by the way we rode out the financial crisis, with positive results and no layoffs. After a year in charge of Dassault Aviation, I would like to pay homage to all my predecessors for bringing the Company to where it is now. With Loïk Segalen, the management committee and all our employees, engineers, technicians and skilled workers, we are preparing for the future proud of being ‘Dassault’.” Éric Trappier Chairman and CEO of Dassault Aviation 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 5 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Jean Sass Loïk Segalen Éric Trappier Benoît Berger Didier Gondoin Executive Vice-President, Chief Operating Chairman and CEO Executive Vice-President, Executive Information Systems Officer Industrial Operations, Vice-President, Procurement Engineering and Purchasing Alain Bonny Benoît Dussaugey Olivier Villa Gérald Maria Claude Defawe Senior ViceExecutive Senior Executive Vice-President, President, Vice-President, Vice-President, Vice-President, National and Military Customer International Civil Aircraft Total Quality Cooperative Military Sales Support Division Human Resources & Communication Jean-Jacques Cara Stéphane Fort Vice-President, Human Resources Vice-President, External Relations & Corporate Communication 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 6 PICTURES OF THE YEAR Falcon 5X: a new flight experience Offering the most spacious cabin on the market, this new twin-jet has higher performance, is more eco-efficient and more economical to run than its competitors. Rafale and Falcon 7X, 2000S and 900LX on patrol The Falcon 20’s 50th anniversary was the occasion to bring together in flight the jewels in the crown of our fleet. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 7 The Rafale: the first European fighter to be equipped with an active-antenna radar The technical upgrades to the Rafale are part of the continuous-improvement approach and address issues arising from user feedback. nEUROn unveiled to the general public at the Paris Air Show 2013 The success of this technological demonstrator paves the way for the launch of European UAV programs. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 8 Falcon orders Falcon deliveries Falcon backlog (in units) (in units) (in units) 80 77 80 130 70 70 118 64 63 66 120 58 60 60 110 97 100 50 50 80 40 40 36 60 30 30 40 20 20 10 10 20 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 Rafale orders Rafale deliveries Rafale backlog (in units) (in units) (in units) 80 80 80 76 70 70 70 65 60 60 60 54 50 50 50 40 40 40 30 30 30 20 20 20 10 11 11 11 10 10 0 0 0 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 12/31/2011 12/31/2012 12/31/2013 11 M&O seminars 10 user conferences worldwide dedicated for sharing feedback to Falcon maintenance concerning our military and operation aircraft since 2003 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 9 KEY GROUP STATISTICS Net sales Adjusted net income (1) Operating margin (in billion, €) (in million, €) (in percentage) 6 600 15% 512 13.9 14% 5 487 500 4.59 12% 420 11.4 10.9 3.94 4 400 10% 3.31 3 300 8% 6% 2 200 4% 1 100 2% 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 (1) Adjustments described in the Director’s Report. 71% of revenue 69% of revenue generated export-related by the Falcon range 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 10 HIGHLIGHTS [2] [1] JANUARY Falcon 7X certification nEUROn teams: Rafale: Operation for EASy II Icare International Serval in Mali [1] EASy II is the most sophisticated 2013 award Rafales were key components of the business-jet flight deck available. Prize awarded by the AJPAE, the operation, featuring in particular in one French Association for professional air raid covering over 6,000 kilometers and almost ten hours of flight time. APRIL aeronautics and aerospace journalists. FEBRUARY Certification for JUNE the Falcon 2000S Validation of nEUROn’s and 2000LXS Paris Air Show: stealth capacities First deliveries took place in April call for the launch of Successful testing at the DGA test and November. a European MALE center in Bruz, Brittany (France). Airbus Group and Finmeccanica MAY joined forces with Dassault Aviation to promote the launch of a European MARCH MALE (medium altitude, long Falcon: 50 years endurance) UCAV. Partnership with of success Swiss Space On May 4, 1963, the Mystère-Falcon 20 made its maiden flight in Systems (S3) [2] Bordeaux-Mérignac. Since then, SOAR suborbital small-satellite over 2,200 Falcons have been launcher-plane project. delivered to more than 80 countries. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 11 [3] [4] SEPTEMBER DECEMBER Delivery of the Delivery of a 500th Falcon 2000 Notification of the Falcon 50M Its six versions have totaled nearly Rafale F3-R contract Delivery to the DGA (French defense two million flight hours since F3-R is an upgraded version of procurement agency) on the first of four March 1993. the Rafale F3 standard. It ties in with new Falcon 50M maritime patrol aircraft. the continuous-improvement approach Inaugural flight adopted for the aircraft, based on lessons learned. OCTOBER of the first Indian Mirage 2000 Notification of the Atlantique 2 The first Indian Mirage 2000 Rafale Care contract modernization retrofitted by Dassault Aviation and Rafale Care is an inclusive operational Thales had its inaugural flight out of contract [3] the Istres base. Equipped with a new support solution. The French Ministry of Defense navigation and attack system, it can awarded a retrofitting contract for carry the Mica missile and benefits fifteen Atlantique 2 patrol aircraft to from upgraded self-protection Dassault Aviation and Thales. mechanisms. Launch of the Falcon 5X at the NBAA [4] With far lower fuel consumption than its competitors, this twin-jet features the most spacious cabin on the market, along with a brand-new wing design. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 12 DYNAMIC Mastering excellence The aeronautics business we are developing in France, and the numerous industrial joint ventures we lead internationally, are, above all, intended to serve the needs and expectations of our customers. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 13 Prioritizing customer satisfaction Two “onboard systems design” engineers test new configurations for the Falcon 7X in the Falcon simulator at Saint-Cloud (France). 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 14 Since 2011, a test and demonstration phase has been underway, for example Dual technologies on a V-shaped tail for reduced drag. in the service of In 2013, this approach culminated in customer needs an innovative cockpit initiative. We are also exploring new cabin-layout possibilities, of keen interest to our Our Company has a dual character. clients. The excellence of our civil aircraft is based on the experience of a design These projects are consistent with the department that, through its work on initiatives undertaken with our partners defense technologies, has built up (Clean Sky and CORAC, in particular), expertise that is unique in the world. and constitute a genuine master plan. Dassault Aviation is a single entity: which is our great strength. The new Stealthier, more versatile and collaborative approach based on the integrated fighter jets digital mockup – initiated with the The nEUROn UCAV program Falcon 7X and the Rafale – has since demonstrates that the future of been extended to the nEUROn military aviation can be constructed program. This enables rapid ROI, pragmatically in Europe. We have by responding efficiently to the cyclesuccessfully taken on the management and cost-reduction challenges. This role for this project. The program’s synergy is also to be found in the mission is to validate the acquisition different versions of the EASy flight of complex techniques that are deck, which benefit from the Rafale’s representative of all mission systems, control technologies. With EASy, such as high-level piloting and stealth; business aviation has entered the era real air-to-surface weapon firing of graphic avionics. from an internal bay; integration into a digitally networked environment; and innovative processes in industrial partnerships. Innovation laying Rising to the technical the groundwork challenges that herald the future of aerospace transport for the future In matters of space research, we are participating in the Swiss Space R&D is fundamental, that is why we Systems (S3) project as part of an devote a major share of our self-financing international joint venture bringing capacity to it. Being innovative enables together renowned expert partners: us to propose products offering levels the European Space Agency (ESA), of performance superior to those Von Karman Institute, Sonaca, Meggitt, of our competitors; to anticipate the and Stanford University. S3 benefits expectations and needs of our clients; from our expertise in the design of and remain at the vanguard of a aerospace vehicles and the integration constantly evolving sector. This policy of complex systems. Based on the Assessment of the stealth performance of the nEUROn is defined along three lines: upstream VEHRA airborne-launcher concept These tests were carried out in the SOLANGE research, aeronautical technologies, test facility at the DGA (French defense procurement developed by Dassault Aviation, and and production processes. agency) center of technical expertise. fitted with equipment from modern Safer, more economical and aircraft such as the Rafale and the more comfortable civil aircraft Falcon, the S3 project proposes a system that is robust, flexible and Research on the future Falcon and its safe. It continues our space activity innovative technologies is organized that dates back to the early 1960s. around two configurations: a fast aircraft with a high level of services, and an ecological and economical (“ECO/ECO”) aircraft with a reduced carbon footprint. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 15 Our DNA: high technology Our R&D policy is designed to anticipate the needs of our civil and military clients. Being among the first to master the most promising innovations in terms of economy and efficiency remains a key factor in our competitiveness. nEUROn: 2013, a successful year Unparalleled in Europe, this joint program managed by Dassault Aviation demonstrates the maturity of all the stealth technologies. More than 2,000 25 Group employees inventions working in R&D patented in 2013 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 16 Multiple joint ventures By linking up with leading experts, we strengthen our competences. By pooling our R&D efforts we are able to take on ambitious projects, while paying heed to economic constraints. Falcon 7X Around 30 international partners are involved in the program. 482 € million 67% of R&D self-financed R&D made up of joint ventures 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 17 together on seven research platforms, including those addressing onboard Scientific research: power management, the “more-electric” concrete projects aircraft and Ecodesign. The System@tic cluster is deployed in the field of digital design tools and manufacturing Dassault Aviation collaborates with a workshop simulation. Composite large number of research centers and materials and production procedure is a key player in projects supported are investigated at the Aerospace by the ANR (French National Research Valley cluster, while the Pégase cluster Agency). One example is the N-POEM focuses on test facilities. Resolutely project (nano-objects printed on future-oriented, these clusters also polymers for electromagnetism), for propose innovative training courses which we draw upon an internationally suited to the latest developments in renowned French nanotechnology hub. our business lines. Last but not least, Working jointly, principally with Thales ASTech and System@tic cultivate Optronique, the CNRS (French special links with similar clusters National Scientific Research Center) around the world, for example, in India. and the CEA (French Atomic Energy Since their launch, these clusters have and Alternative Energies Commission) generated 124 projects. in Grenoble, we have designed materials built on the nanometric scale with innovative electromagnetic properties. In the military domain, the objective is to develop electromagnetic “Green” aviation: stealth from these new materials; in civil aviation, they have de-icing Dassault mobilized benefits. The initial work makes Environmental protection is a global it possible to envisage genuine issue requiring a collective effort, technological breakthroughs for our and to which we actively contribute. future aircraft. Through various programs, priority is given to research involving the global reduction of aviation’s impact on the environment. In France, CORAC Competitiveness (Strategic Committee for Civil clusters: a strong Aerospace Research), in conjunction with GIFAS (French Aerospace commitment Industries Association), DGAC (French Civil Aviation Authority), airline Since 2005 we have worked with companies and airports, has defined the competitiveness clusters set up by technological demonstration platforms the French authorities in order to that coordinate stakeholders’ research encourage regional economic and innovation efforts. CORAC’s work Aerodynamic flow studies for the Falcon 5X development through research and is complementary and coherent with The latest technology in the service of eco-efficiency. innovation. These clusters support the work done under the auspices of R&D projects and bring together major the European Clean Sky and SESAR industrial corporations, local authorities, research programs. SMEs, service companies, research centers, universities and laboratories that work in our sector of activities. The mission of these clusters is to develop local and regional business and employment, while offering greater international visibility to our fields of excellence. Engaged within this framework on a large number of research projects, we continue to commit a significant amount of material and human resources to them. Within the ASTech cluster, Dassault Aviation, Safran, Airbus Group, Thales and a network of 800 SMEs are working 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 18 It is as much a matter of perfecting our efficiency as giving employees a Digital enterprise new way of working. The first stage pioneer focuses on improving the working conditions: layout, safety and ergonomics, requisite resources, By joining forces with Dassault component kits, and traffic flows. Systèmes to create PLM (Product This is followed by specific work Lifecycle Management), we have made organization, whereby tasks are our mark as pioneers of a new industrial optimized and distributed in a logical revolution. The 3D modeling of every way between the various skilled single component of an aircraft workers. In addition to the time has made it possible to replace the savings this affords, it also enables physical mockup with a digital one. the optimization of each operator’s The possibility of teams all working specific skills. All those involved, simultaneously on a virtual platform both on the shop floor and in support using the same database has radically services, are trained in ARP standards. changed design methods, resulting in Serving as true methodological unparalleled quality and more efficient references, these standards – when production. applied rigorously – are guarantors of PLM V6: a technological gameindividual and collective performance. changer for industrialization This is testified to by the network of correspondents at corporate level The industrialization of the Falcon 5X who all pool best practices. In terms using PLM V6 is far more than the of management, supervision is simple use of a new, more efficient also evolving. The idea of a shared PLM solution: it constitutes a standards base is central to this, breakthrough in working methods, with solutions being investigated and a new step on the path towards and developed on a pooled basis. becoming a digital business. With a Moving beyond hierarchy, they continuous information chain between become everyone’s business, designed products and the processes meaning every individual participates used on the shop floor, it is possible in the improvement of his or her to control at all times the progress of own working environment. industrialization and to manage any modifications with ease. Component lists, process sequences and instruction sheets are now all in 3D, which has become the universal Increasingly language of the design departments. PLM V6 capitalizes on our expertise integrated through the accumulation of our industrial channels specialist know-how. The possibility of simulating a large number of Here it is a matter of improving our manufacturing and assembly solutions skilled workers’ working conditions, guarantees that the most efficient while manufacturing more cleanly procedure possible is deployed from and more efficiently, by means of the very first production run. automated integrated production channels. The processes used include friction welding; cold forming of wing panels in a single run rather than 30, A culture of thanks in particular to greater precision of the presses; and finishing that uses industrial shot peening with the projection of excellence steel pellets to replace human panel beating, which can cause repetitive stress injuries. Falcon 7X in production at Mérignac (France) Since 2010 we have deployed a new “Improving Responsiveness in Production” (ARP) organizational principle to ensure optimizes working conditions and efficiency. more efficient production: ARP or “improving responsiveness in production”. This also involves a different way of managing teams. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 19 Manufacturing: better, cheaper, more ecological We devise proprietary production methods, and always with the same priorities: improved working conditions and greater safety for our employees, as well as enhanced quality and competitiveness for our Company. 100% of industrialization of our new products developed using PLM/CATIA digital platforms 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 20 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Higher together Ever since it was founded, our Group has striven for sustainability: of employment, of the French aeronautics industry. Our corporate social responsibility is the guarantor of our industry’s sustainable development. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 21 Our teams’ excellence Checking a flight controller at Argonay (France). 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 22 Diversity: Transmitting benefiting all know-how This is one of the major issues of our between human-resources policy. We confirm generations our commitment to the prevention of discrimination, and strive to promote The past year was marked by the equality of opportunity and of implementation of action plans treatment. relating to the “Generation Contract” in our Sogitec and Dassault Falcon Equality in the workplace Service subsidiaries, and by the There is a sense of continuity in the signing of an intergenerational principles developed with the agreement agreement at Dassault Aviation. on equality in the workplace, signed This approach ties in with our desire in 2011, and the action plans deployed to encourage lasting integration of in our subsidiaries. Employees, young people into the world of work regardless of their gender, have been by offering them access to permanent able to benefit from mechanisms work contracts; keeping older aimed at encouraging career employees in work; and transmitting development and access to positions know-how and skills. Several of responsibility (jobs, training, mechanisms are already deployed work-life balance measures). to this end in our Company: the Skills Conservatory, the Dassault Institute, In 2013, we continued to pursue and various integration, mobility and Management and Diversity training internship initiatives. to encourage diversity within the enterprise, resulting in almost 500 managers being trained in non-discrimination. Integration of the disabled An attractive pay We implement a policy of recruitment, policy retention, training and career Our pay policy rewards, motivates development for our disabled and strengthens the loyalty of our employees. Our actions include the employees, while adapting to the “protected” sector (i.e., reserved for economic situation in order to maintain the employment of disabled people). the Group’s competitiveness in a In 2013, we renewed our partnership competitive marketplace. The with the Hanvol Association, which individual pay policy of our Company promotes the integration of disabled and its French subsidiaries, Sogitec people into the aeronautics industry and Dassault Falcon Service, is through internships. In order to raise complemented by mechanisms staff awareness of the subject of that enable employees to benefit from disability, the Company took the the results of the Company. initiative to organize a campaign entitled, “I’ve got a disability, so what?” We also encourage employee savings (“J’ai un handicap, et alors?”). through a CCB (Locked-in Current This initiative also served to promote Account) and a PEE (Enterprise Dassault Aviation’s actions and Savings Plan), with a wide range of commitments on this issue, and to run investment possibilities. Furthermore, the rule over the existing mechanisms since 2008 the personnel of Dassault available to the employees concerned. Aviation has benefited from a collective retirement-savings plan (PERCO), with the Company matching Two skilled workers on the Falcon employees’ contributions, for assembly line in Poitiers (France) supplementary retirement-pension Diversity within our teams provisions. is a key factor of our success. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 23 Affirming our social model Our human-resources policy is founded on a respectful dialogue with our social partners as seen in numerous agreements, endorsements and action plans. It takes into account our values: professional self-fulfillment, team spirit and mutual respect. 717 961 new recruits managers trained in within the Group non-discrimination since 2012 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 24 Building the future The technical nature of our business lines requires training channels that prepare graduate profiles suited to our needs, as well as career-long training in order to develop skills and encourage innovation. Jobs forum at the Paris Air Show Dassault Aviation human-resources teams present our activities and the careers open to both men and women interested by our business. 787 197 interns taken Dassault Aviation employees on by the Group working alongside teachers and researchers 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 25 Preparing the skills Anticipating of tomorrow developments Cooperation with educational Hiring the best talent establishments In order to address future We continue to be particularly active developments and reinforce our in discussions underway with general, competitiveness, we are permanently vocational and higher-educational searching for new talent. We hire establishments about adapting employees with an extremely wide academic courses to identified needs variety of education and profiles. over time. This responsibility translates With the aim of guaranteeing ever into the involvement of our staff within more transparency and fairness institutional organizations and the in the treatment of job applications, governing bodies of eleven engineering in 2013 we acquired a new schools, university masters’ courses recruitment-management system. and university technology institutes. This platform improves traceability In 2013, some 200 Dassault Aviation and makes it possible to be more employees also worked alongside reactive to job applicants. teachers and researchers involved in vocational and higher education. Training our employees in order Our employees transmit their to maintain our technological know-how and their technical culture lead to pupils and students, in particular To maintain and develop our through their supervision of practical employees’ skills, the Group’s exercises, the management of companies have put in place support multidisciplinary projects, and their measures, in particular vocational participation on examination juries. training, mobility and work placements. In 2013, we focused We have also offered approximately training efforts on our main business 800 young trainees and interns the lines of design, production, quality, and chance to gain firsthand experience the operational support of our in our Group, in order to help them products. We also pursued our digitalmap out their professional future business initiatives in order to and to support their integration into strengthen our competitiveness and the world of industry, whether with us our lead over the competition. or with another company. Helping to promote careers Supporting change in aeronautics In 2013 we established industrial agreements to support the We also make a point of participating development of our organization. in all the major events organized by These make it easier for local GIFAS (French Aerospace Industries management to address new Association) and UIMM (French Union Teaching cooperation forum challenges, such as the ARP (improving of Metallurgical Industries and Trades). These operations enable us to present responsiveness in production) approach; our company to students. In 2013, this contribution was seen in the deployment of manufacturing our presence on certain legs of the under license, linked to the future “Industry Train” (“Train de l’industrie”). signing of export contracts; and the Lastly, our Company, in association integration of new programs. with its subsidiary, Dassault Falcon Service, was involved in the inaugural “Careers Plane” (“Avion des métiers”), which took place at the Paris Air Show and presented a variety of aeronautics trades. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 26 CustomerEconomic minded performance Customer satisfaction is both our We regard value creation as an essential philosophy and guiding principle. goal; it guarantees our profitability, Knowing how to listen to customers, financial stability and long-term future. understand their needs, be at their In a context of intense international service, and keep our word constitute competition, we are driven by the need the number-one priority for every to be more flexible, adaptable and employee at Dassault Aviation. responsive in dealings with our We offer our customers excellent customers, suppliers and partners. technical performance, confidentiality and customized follow-up, while optimizing cost-control and lead times. Openness to the world Human qualities In a spirit of partnership, we are engaged in long-term scientific, technological, People are the heart of the Group. technical, and industrial joint ventures, We promote team spirit, the sharing both in France and abroad. of knowledge and know-how, creative We play an active role within national initiative, and a sense of morality. and international aeronautical and We favor dialogue at all levels, mutual defense organizations. respect, the quest for professional Our internal and external communication self-fulfilment, and the sense of is both open and transparent. belonging to a group that remains human in scope. Strict ethical Technological business excellence standards and innovation We respect our contractual commitments (costs, deadlines Technological excellence and and performance). innovation are the basis of our spirit, our passion and our history. We act in compliance with all anti-corruption and export-control We ensure the quality, reliability legislation. Ethics and integrity are and safety of our aircraft through values that we espouse daily in a strategy of constant innovation, our procedures and in our behavior. our project-management capability, and our mastery of complex systems. Dassault Aviation is a signatory We care about managing and reducing to European and international the impact of our activities and commitments to loyal practices products on the environment. in international trade (CIS, Global Principles). Educational workshop at Argenteuil (France) The transmission of know-how between apprentices and experienced skilled workers is fundamental for retaining and developing our skills and expertise. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 27 Ethics: shared values In a context of economic globalization and strong international competition, we build on a powerful identity and a strict enterprise culture. Our ethical charter expresses the essential values that guide everything we do. Technological excellence and innovation at the heart of our business They guarantee the quality, reliability and safety of our airplanes. In 2003, Dassault Aviation signed up to the Global Compact established by the UN, and supports its ten principles relating to human rights, labor standards, environmental protection and anti-corruption measures. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 28 Acting for the environment We are proactive in reducing our products’ environmental impact. We take part in European research programs for eco-friendlier aviation. Falcon 7X and 2000S Whatever their size and performance characteristics, Falcons stand out for their reduced carbon footprint. 70% 20–40% of generated reduction in fuel use and CO2 waste recycled emissions with the Falcon or reused as compared to same-category competitors 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 29 Around a dozen onboard powermanagement-system architectures Lasting are currently undergoing testing. technological For airframes, the technologies are solutions halfway mature. They are aimed at reducing the use of chemical milling and increasing the use of organic Our environmental policy runs along materials. We are preparing three lines: continuous improvement demonstrators, the results of which of the ecological performance of our are expected in 2015. industrial sites and products; compliance with regulations; and prevention of the risks of environmental pollution and accidents. Major progress has been made: recycling or reuse Flight path and of 70% of generated waste; practical elimination of SO2 emissions, except fuel improvements for those linked to the aviation activity; more than 60% reduction in emissions SESAR of volatile organic compounds (VOC). In the framework of the SESAR air-traffic modernization program, we represent the European Business Aviation Association (EBAA). Clean Sky: towards We support technological proposals that minimize the environmental eco-friendly impact of aircraft: optimization of aviation cruising speed in order to reduce fuel consumption; continuous-descent approach and specific approach Since 2008, we have been involved procedures that reduce noise nuisance. in the Clean Sky research project and, more specifically, in two of the six Alfa-BIRD technological platforms: Smart FixedOur commitment to the Alfa-BIRD Wing Aircraft (SFWA) and Ecodesign. project is part of our research into Smart Fixed-Wing Aircraft: alternative fuels. A dozen or so optimizing fixed-wing aircraft research organizations, fuel producers (Shell, SASOL), aircraft manufacturers The past year marked the transition and aircraft-engine manufacturers to preparations for the technological (Snecma, Rolls-Royce) are looking demonstrations developed since into a wide variety of topics, including 2008. The results are expected prior the chemical analysis of the “best” fuel; to the 2016 launch of Clean Sky 2. improving the formulation of biofuels; These projects include the design new injection systems; and injection of laminar wings, along with validation and fuel modeling. Our priority field of mock-ups for the design of an of research is the compatibility of these afterbody that masks noise sources; new jet fuels with the fuel systems of the first demonstration on a Falcon 7X aircraft. of a method for vibration control that uses the flight-control surfaces; and wind-tunnel testing of innovative aircraft configurations. Ecodesign: sustainable development in action Ecodesign for Systems and Ecodesign for Airframes are the two main lines Wind-tunnel testing of the Falcon 5X of research in which we participate. With “flaperons” on its wings, the Falcon 5X A complete modeling platform has offers unrivaled performance. been assembled and deployed. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 30 CIVIL AIRCRAFT AND MILITARY PROGRAMS Satisfy our customers A union of the purest aerodynamics and technical choices that guarantee the most balanced performance: this is the style of Dassault aircraft. The most elegant solutions are often the most efficient. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 31 Patrol flight: Rafale, Falcon 7X, 2000S and 900LX Our aircraft’s high quality is based upon the experience of a design department that has built up unique expertise from its work on both military programs and civil aircraft. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 32 Falcon: performance, comfort and design With the launch of the 5X, the Falcon range has been extended with a new model that anticipates the needs of our clients: even more agile and versatile, even more comfortable, even better performance. 5X Our biggest investment 1.98 meter ceiling in a Falcon program height in the to date passenger cabin 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 33 More economical and better-performing engines Falcon 5X: a new The aircraft will be equipped with the flight experience latest-generation Silvercrest jet engines developed by Safran Snecma. We have Our latest business jet is a unique worked in close collaboration with aircraft boasting multiple innovative our historic partner on fighter jets in technologies. Using our design and order to optimize engine efficiency and production tools and systems, we have aircraft performance. This means that developed an aircraft with the largest the Falcon 5X will be able to cover cabin on the market, and one that 5,200 nautical miles (9,600 kilometers) is also the best-performing, most with eight passengers on board, eco-efficient and most economical to allowing direct flights from Los Angeles run (competitor planes in the same to London, São Paulo to Chicago, Paris category consume 30% more fuel). to Beijing, or Johannesburg to Geneva. The Silvercrest consumes less fuel than A cabin of meticulously other engines in equivalent categories, designed comfort while remaining remarkably quiet. Capable of accommodating Finally, its emissions are considerably sixteen passengers, the Falcon 5X’s less than those imposed by current cabin has been designed to optimize standards. the feeling of spaciousness and comfort. Benefiting from a ceiling Simplified and programmable height of 1.98 meters and offering a maintenance for optimized host of features and an avant-garde aircraft availability design, this cabin makes flying an The aircraft, and in particular its even more pleasant experience and engines, benefits from integrated reduces traveler fatigue. maintenance systems that are among the most sophisticated in the industry. More intuitive, more precise, These automated surveillance systems safer piloting signal, in real-time, maintenance and All the cutting-edge technology has repair requirements to specialized been integrated to guarantee the 5X teams. Any eventual repairs can be a maximum of precision, agility and anticipated even before the aircraft safety. The new digital flight-control lands. As for the engines, the ForeVision system includes, for the first time, all system from Snecma is capable of the flight-control surfaces, including planning their maintenance needs an extra one, named the flaperon, several flights or several hundred hours for making slow approaches at steep in advance, resulting in greater aircraft angles of descent even safer. The front availability and greater cost control. landing-gear steering controls guarantee greater safety when taxiing Production and maiden flight in the event of strong crosswinds or The production of the first Falcon 5X wet runways. Honeywell is providing is already underway. It is due to make a new generation of EASy flight deck, its maiden flight in 2015 and obtain along with the most powerful radar in its certification before the end of 2016. its class for detecting turbulence at long distances. The most modern head-up display (HUD) technology in the industry, provided by Elbit Systems, is part of the flight deck. For the first time, EVS (Enhanced Vision System) infrared vision and SVS (Synthetic Vision System) synthetic vision modes reproduce the outside environment as The extra-large cabin of the Falcon 5X faithfully as possible, even in zero It is designed to optimize comfort visibility. and the feeling of spaciousness. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 34 Optimizing flight Unique flexibility time for in operation passengers The Falcon has one great asset: being able to land on more runways than its Our clients’ activities mean that they competitors can. All our models are need to be able to work onboard as certified for steep approaches, if they were in their own office, providing them with access to airports particularly in terms of connectivity. in highly built-up areas, such as Our satellite transmission solutions London City Airport. Their shorter are fitted as standard on our various landing distance also allows them models (Satcom), with optional to operate out of airports such as features to satisfy specific needs, such La Môle-Saint-Tropez. They can also as high-speed Internet, receiving and combine, in the course of the same sending e-mails and text messages, mission, shorter legs and long-haul and in-flight phone calls. These stretches without having to refuel. systems sit alongside crew connections, offering an alternative for communication with air-traffic controllers and enabling data exchange (maps, weather bulletins, etc.). Clean, FalconCabinHD+ high-performance The FalconCabinHD+ (FCHD+) aircraft multimedia system, installed as standard on the entire range, also Thanks to the Falcons’ form, helps to make time spent onboard aerodynamics, and materials, as well efficient and pleasurable. Thanks as the work carried out in collaboration to FCHD+, our clients can organize with engine manufacturers, its fuel in-flight meetings, share working consumption and CO2 emissions are documents on-screen, as well as listen 20-40% less than that of its to music or watch a VOD film on the competitors. cabin screen or individual monitors. They can also control, from their iPad or iPhone, every aspect of the cabin environment (temperature, lighting, electric blinds). Among the latest Listening to our additions, HD cameras installed on clients in order the stabilizer and under the aircraft enable passengers to follow takeoff to improve our and landing. They can also track aircrafts’ efficiency individually the flight progress using interactive 2D or 3D maps overlaid Listening to our clients is a central with data about overfly zones. component of our continuousimprovement approach. The Operator Quality of the cabin environment Advisory Board unites a panel of The cabin environment is fundamental representative clients and formulates to the comfort of passengers, the expectations and recommendations particularly for flights that may last of operators the world over regarding ten to twelve hours. Electrically our products and services. M&O powered seats, an air-humidification seminars – dedicated to Falcon system, sound insulation: our teams maintenance and operations – also are constantly studying all the solutions provide the opportunity for exchanges likely to improve the quality of cabin and meetings between Dassault Falcon 7X, 2000S and 900LX comfort. experts, industrial partners and clients. “A beautiful aircraft is an aircraft that flies well.” In 2013, eleven regional seminars Marcel Dassault were held worldwide. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 35 Business jets for all types of client The design of Falcon jets, their agility, their versatility, their intuitive piloting and their revolutionary EASy flight deck are the legacy of our expertise in military aviation: technical solutions marrying safety, efficiency, robustness and ease of maintenance. 2,000 211 Falcons in service Falcon 7Xs delivered in some 89 countries since 2007 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 36 Fighter planes: a cutting-edge industry The fighter-jet program is one of the most complex in the industrial world. It demonstrates our mastery of 17 of the 22 most strategic technologies in terms of national sovereignty. It is also a significant jobs generator. 120,000 500 flight hours for the Rafale, French partner including 16,000 companies in the in operations Rafale program 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 37 The F3-R standard also comprises upgrades to the Rafale sensors and Rafale: a factor systems, ensuring total interoperability. in streamlining The launch of this standard guarantees that the French Armed Forces will the Armed Forces continue to have at their disposal a high-performance aircraft suited to The Rafale’s “omnirole” capability their needs. It also bolsters the Rafale’s meets the needs of countries that advantages in export-market wish, at a manageable cost, to deploy competitions and helps to ensure a versatile tool capable of fulfilling that the skills of the design department all kinds of missions more efficiently, of Dassault Aviation and its 500 while mobilizing the fewest resources. French industrial partners remain In France, 225 Rafale will replace among the best in the world. Lastly, it 700 previous-generation aircraft. underpins our continuous-improvement The open architecture of the aircraft, approach and opens the way to future designed from the start to cover developments, for France and for missions previously assigned to as our export clients. Validation of the many as seven different types of aircraft, F3-R standard is expected in 2018. enables upgrades of configurations and standards to maintain its operational Opening up new configurations lead. A true “force multiplier”, the In late 2013, the opening of hard Rafale is a factor in the streamlining point number 3, entirely self-financed, of Armed Forces. demonstrates our capacity and desire to invest in new configurations suited The F3-R standard to our export clients. The “four Mica, This upgrade to the F3 standard ties two Meteor, six AASM, three 2,000in, as part of the Rafale’s continuousliter tanks” configuration, has improvement approach, with progress unparalleled firepower and combines in technology and feedback from users. high autonomy and weapons-system versatility. In mid-2013, it became the first European fighter aircraft to be equipped as standard with the AESA (active electronically scanned array) version of the Thales RBE2 radar, Maintenance: it will soon also feature a variety of new equipment and weapons: innovative — MBDA’s European Meteor long-range solutions air-to-air missile, which demonstrates We develop innovative solutions that maximum efficiency in combination guarantee maximum fleet availability with the RBE2 AESA; for our clients at a managed cost. — Thales’ PDL-NG (New Generation The new Rafale Care contract sees Laser Designation Pod), principally Dassault Aviation managing some used for carrying out air-to-surface Armed Forces stocks and handling strikes, day and night. This pod the operational supply chain from further improves the Rafale’s end-to-end, with a commitment to extreme accuracy, as proved since results. its earliest missions; Through the use of 3D data from — the laser homing version of the digital mockups of our aircraft, the Sagem AASM (Modular we can offer our clients help concepts Air-to-Surface) with GPS guidance for troubleshooting and maintenance. and solid rocket booster, which For example, augmented reality has enabled the Rafale, during enabling “X-ray” visualization of the operations in Libya in particular, Rafale in combat systems and equipment localization, to reach targets several tens of The Rafale has proved its worth in Afghanistan, is a tool that offers new prospects for Libya, Mali, and the Central African Republic. kilometers away to within an training and support for our aircraft. accuracy of one meter. The laser homing version is particularly suited to mobile targets. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 38 Our know-how The nEUROn in terms of program: a modernization European success Renovation and retrofitting The past year confirmed the success projects for our aircraft are of the nEUROn and of our ability fundamental for the consolidation to manage successfully a European of our aeronautical know-how. cooperation program. Without a European equivalent, the nEUROn French ATL2 is the first European UCAV to The modernization of the mission demonstrate maturity of all its stealth systems of fifteen ATL2s reinforces our technologies. Tests have now validated expertise in matters of systems design the electromagnetic-signature and integration. This important measurements, a key stage of the technological building block in program. With 17 flights in 2013, maintaining skill levels will improve the opening up the flight envelope capabilities of the ATL2 for dealing continues to progress. The first armed with modern threats in all weathers, test flight is scheduled for 2014. particularly in ensuring submarine protection. The refitted aircraft could fly up to 2030 and beyond. Indian Mirage 2000 UCAV and MALE: The Indian Mirage 2000 contract the future of the consists in bringing the planes up to the I/TI standard, with the installation military of a new navigation and attack system, aeronautics payload capacity for the Mica missile and upgraded self-protection. After industry 20 months of work by our teams, The nEUROn is a technological the first flight took place successfully demonstrator. Although it constitutes on October 5, 2013. an important stage in preparing for Transformation of the Falcon the future, the key issue continues 50B into the Falcon M to be the launch of European UAV programs. With the UCAV project On September 11, 2013, we delivered proposed by Dassault Aviation and a Falcon 50M maritime patrol jet to BAE Systems, within the framework the DGA (French defense procurement of the Lancaster House agreements, agency). This aircraft is the first of a and in the light of the proposal made series of four governmental Falcon to the French, Italian and German 50Bs to be transformed into maritime governments for a MALE 2020 in patrol aircraft. To fulfill its main missions cooperation with Airbus Group and (search and rescue at sea, controlling Finmeccanica, we are working on fishing zones and combating illicit the emergence of an autonomous trafficking), it is now equipped with European UAV industry. All these observation ports and a mission system programs address the needs of the supplied by Thales. The delivery of the Armed Forces, and contribute to a remaining Falcon 50Ms will take place skills-maintenance approach that is progressively through early 2015. vital for the fighter-aircraft business. OPERA: mission-preparation system with an innovative multitouch interface Pilots prepare their mission on an interactive screen. This system can also be used on tablets, touchscreen tables, desktop PCs and laptops. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 39 nEUROn in flight Flight tests have validated the maturity of all the stealth technologies. 17 test flights 1,000 Dassault Aviation in 2013 military jets in service in 21 countries 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 40 Civil aircraft Falcon 7X Falcon 5X Falcon 900LX First business jet to be equipped First flight scheduled in 2015 500 aircraft manufactured with digital flight controls New wings, new Silvercrest engine, Equipped as standard, as is the entire Autonomy* largest cabin on the market Falcon range, with the EASy II flight deck 5,950 nm (11,020 km) Autonomy* Autonomy* Zurich ≥ San Francisco 5,200 nm (9,630 km) 4,750 nm (8,800 km) Paris ≥ Hong Kong Geneva ≥ Johannesburg Shanghai ≥ Moscow Beijing ≥ Zurich Moscow ≥ New York Mumbai ≥ London City Airport Beijing ≥ Seattle Chicago ≥ Zurich Falcon 2000LXS Falcon 2000S More than 500 aircraft in service Best performance in its category Ideal compromise between long-range Autonomy* use and capacity on short runways 3,350 nm (6,200 km) Autonomy* New York ≥ Zurich 4,000 nm (7,400 km) Beijing ≥ Singapore Paris ≥ Dubai Zurich ≥ Mumbai Dubai ≥ London City Airport New York ≥ Rome * Autonomy is the distance that can be covered at Mach 0.80 with 8 passengers on board, 3 crew members, NBAA IFR reserves, ISA conditions, full fuel tank. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 41 Military aircraft Rafale Air Rafale Air Rafale Marine Rafale C (single-seater) Rafale B (two-seater) Wingspan: 10.9 m Wingspan: 10.9 m Wingspan: 10.9 m Length: 15.3 m Length: 15.3 m Length: 15.3 m Height: 5.3 m Height: 5.3 m Height: 5.3 m Unladen weight: ≃ 10.5 t Unladen weight: ≃ 10 t Unladen weight: ≃ 10 t Max. weight on takeoff: 24.5 t Max. weight on takeoff: 24.5 t Max. weight on takeoff: 24.5 t Capacity of external hard points: 9.5 t Capacity of external hard points: 9.5 t Capacity of external hard points: 9.5 t Mirage 2000-5 (single-seater) Mirage 2000-D (two-seater) Mirage 2000-9 Wingspan: 9.1 m Wingspan: 9.1 m Wingspan: 9.1 m Length: 14.3 m Length: 14.3 m Length: 14.3 m Height: 5.2 m Height: 5.2 m Height: 5.2 m Unladen weight: 8 t Unladen weight: 8 t Unladen weight: 8 t Max. weight on takeoff: 17.5 t Max. weight on takeoff: 16.5 t Max. weight on takeoff: 17.5 t Capacity of external hard points: 6.2 t Capacity of external hard points: 5.2 t Capacity of external hard points: 6.2 t nEUROn MALE Wingspan: 10 m Max. weight on takeoff: 7 t Length: 12.5 m Height: 2.5 m Unladen weight: 5 t 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 42 WORLDWIDE PRESENCE Countries with Dassault Aviation aircraft, sites or offices Countries with Dassault Aviation aircraft(1) ● Falcon customer support ● Falcon technical center ● Dassault Falcon service stations(2) ● Distribution centers for Falcon spare parts (1) For Falcon, countries in which the aircrafts are based (source: Siebel). (2) Or approved by Dassault Falcon. 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 43 DASSAULT AVIATION SITES AND MAIN SUBSIDIARIES Dassault Aviation Main subsidiaries sites in France in France and abroad SECLIN AERO PRECISION REPAIR AND OVERHAUL INC. ARGENTEUIL SURESNES LE BOURGET Deerfield Beach SAINT-CLOUD Repair and overhaul of all Falcon models BRUZ DASSAULT AIRCRAFT SERVICES POITIERS Wilmington, Reno Promotion of aviation maintenance ARGONAY and service sales MARTIGNAS MÉRIGNAC DASSAULT FALCON BUSINESS SERVICES (BEIJING) CO. LTD ● Dassault Aviation BIARRITZ ISTRES Beijing ● Main subsidiaries Sales promotion, Falcon technical assistance in China ARGENTEUIL DASSAULT FALCON JET Aircraft sub-unit assembly and military DO BRASIL LTDA aircraft fuselage fitting, primary parts, Sorocaba small and medium-sized machined Aircraft sales and customer support sheet metal, piping, pyrotechnics, in Brazil development center for industrial DASSAULT FALCON JET CORP. processes Teterboro Dassault Falcon Jet head office, ARGONAY coordination of sales activities and Mechanical, hydraulic, electric and customer support electronic equipment for flight controls Little Rock BIARRITZ Falcon customization: interior fittings Falcon fuselage splicing and sub-unit and livery assembly, composite parts, airframe DASSAULT FALCON component and equipment JET – WILMINGTON repairs/revisions Wilmington ISTRES Aviation maintenance and services Systems integration and validation, DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE flight tests Le Bourget MARTIGNAS Rental of business jets; maintenance Wing assembly, industrial robotics center MÉRIGNAC DASSAULT PROCUREMENT Final aircraft assembly, production SERVICES aircraft tests/acceptance, Falcon interior Teterboro fittings, multirole aircraft, servicing, Procurement of aviation equipment retrofitting for Falcon jets POITIERS MIDWAY AIRCRAFT All our contact details can be found at www.dassault-aviation.com, in the Group section. Canopies, pyrotechnics, aircraft parts INSTRUMENTS COMPANY and subassemblies Monroe Repair and overhaul of aircraft SAINT-CLOUD instruments and accessories General headquarters, research, systems development, quality control, SOGITEC INDUSTRIES aerospace division Suresnes, Mérignac, Bruz Simulation, training and SECLIN documentation systems Large machined parts 2013 ANNUAL REPORT DASSAULT AVIATION 44 GROUP ORGANIZATIONAL CHART AND (1) SHAREHOLDERS Dassault Aviation shareholders(2) DASSAULT Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault: 50.55% AVIATION 100% EADS France: 46.32% Parent Company Public: 3.13% 26% THALES (France) Non-consolidated companies 87% 100% DASSAULT DASSAULT FALCON JET RAFALE EIG INTERNATIONAL INC. (USA) (USA) (France) 13% 60% DASSAULT ASSURANCES COURTAGE DASSAULT AIRCRAFT DASSAULT SERVICES PROCUREMENT SERVICES 100% (France) (USA) 100% (USA) 100% DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL DASSAULT FALCON JET SOGITEC INDUSTRIES (France) WILMINGTON 100% (USA) (France) 100% 100% DASSAULT RÉASSURANCE AERO PRECISION DASSAULT FALCON REPAIR AND OVERHAUL SERVICE 100% (France) (USA) 50% (France) 100% SECBAT DASSAULT FALCON JET 36% (France) LEASING (USA) 50% 100% CORSE COMPOSITES FALCON AÉRONAUTIQUES TRAINING CENTER DASSAULT FALCON JET (France) 25% (France) DO BRASIL (Brazil) 100% EUROTRADIA INTERNATIONAL DASSAULT FALCON 16% (France) BUSINESS SERVICES (China) 100% SOFEMA 7% (France) MIDWAY 25% (USA) ODAS 75% (France) 6% (1) Detailed information of the main Group companies is given in paragraph 1.7 of the Directors’ report. The list of consolidated entities is presented in Note 2 “Scope of consolidation” of the appendix to the consolidated financial statements. (2) Additional information about the capital structure of the Group is presented in paragraph 2.5.1 “Capital structure” of the Directors’ report. 2013 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Contents GENERAL INFORMATION CHAIRMAN'S REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND INTERNAL Declaration of the person responsible 48 for the report AUDITING Board of Directors / Management 49 Committee 1 Corporate governance 107 1.1 Composition of the Board of Directors 1.2 Conditions of preparation and organization of DIRECTORS’ REPORT the work of the Board 1.3 Operation of the Executive Management 1 DASSAULT AVIATION Group 51 1.4 Powers of the Chairman and Chief 1.1 Consolidated key figures Executive Officer 1.2 Comments on the 2013 performance in 1.5 Powers of the Chief Operating Officer adjusted data 1.6 Executive Committee 1.3 Financial structure 1.7 Principles and rules to determine 1.4 Related-party transactions compensation and benefits in kind granted to corporate officers 1.5 Risk factors and management 1.8 Annual General Meeting 1.6 Group Activities 1.7 Group Structure 2 Internal auditing and risk 113 1.8 Research and development management procedures 1.9 New techniques of manufacturing and 2.1 Internal auditing objectives industrial management 2.2 General internal auditing organization 1.10 Production facilities and environment 1.11 Total Quality 2.3 Risk management procedures 2.4 Internal control procedures for financial and 2 DASSAULT AVIATION, Parent Company 62 accounting purposes 2.1 Activity 2.5 2013 Actions 2.2 Key figures 2.6 2014 Action Plan 2.3 Risk management 3 Information mentioned in Article 117 2.4 Terms of payment L. 225-100-3 of the French 2.5 Shareholder information Commercial Code 2.6 Operation of the Executive Management 2.7 Changes to the Executive Management from the start of 2013 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL 2.8 Other offices held and duties performed STATEMENTS by Dassault Aviation executive and non executive directors during fiscal year Financial statements 119 2013 2.9 Executive officer compensation in 2013 Auditors report 160 3 Social, environmental, and 77 corporate responsibility information COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 3.1 Social information Financial statements 163 3.2 Environmental information 3.3 Corporate responsibility information Auditors reports 192 4 Proposed resolutions 90 5 Conclusion and outlook 93 47 Declaration of the person responsible for the report I hereby certify that, to my knowledge, the financial presents a fair view of the development of the statements have been prepared in accordance with business, performance and financial situation of the the applicable accounting standards and give a true company and of all the other companies included in and fair view of the assets and liabilities, financial the scope of consolidation, together with a position and income or loss of the company and all description of the main risks and uncertainties to the other entities included in the scope of which they are exposed. consolidation, and that the enclosed directors' report Paris, March 12, 2014 Éric TRAPPIER Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 48 Board of Directors Honorary Chairmen Serge DASSAULT Charles EDELSTENNE Chairman of the Board of Directors Eric TRAPPIER Directors Pierre de BAUSSET Serge DASSAULT Nicole DASSAULT Olivier DASSAULT Charles EDELSTENNE Alain GARCIA Denis KESSLER Henri PROGLIO Executive Management CEO Chief Operating Officer Eric TRAPPIER Loïk SEGALEN Management committee Chairman of the Committee Eric TRAPPIER Chairman and CEO Loïk SEGALEN Chief Operating Officer Benoit BERGER Executive Vice-President, Industrial Operations, Procurement and Purchasing Alain BONNY Senior Vice-President, Military Customer Support Division Claude DEFAWE Vice-President, National and Cooperative Military Sales Benoît DUSSAUGEY Executive Vice-President, International Didier GONDOIN Executive Vice-President, Engineering Gérald MARIA Executive Vice-President, Total Quality Jean SASS Executive Vice-President, Information Systems Olivier VILLA Senior Vice-President, Civil Aircraft GOVERNMENT COMMISSIONER Mr. Marc GATIN, French Armed Forces General Inspector Auditors Mazars S.A., represented by Mrs. Manuela BAUDOIN-REVERT, partner Deloitte & Associés S.A., represented by Mr. Jean-François VIAT, partner 49 50 Directors’ report Ladies and Gentlemen, to development and In-Service Support. They were up 58% compared to 2012. The increase is Before submitting the annual and consolidated principally due to orders from France for the F3-R financial statements for the year ended December standard of the RAFALE and for the ATLANTIQUE 31, 2013 for your approval and deciding the 2 retrofitting. proposed appropriation of net income for the year, we would like to take this opportunity to 1.1.2 Net sales present the consolidated key figures, the activities of DASSAULT AVIATION Group, the activities and Consolidated net sales for 2013 came to financial statements of the Parent Company, EUR 4,593 million compared to EUR 3,941 during the past year, their future prospects and million in 2012, up by 17%. other information required by law. Consolidated sales trends over the last five years are as follows, in EUR millions: 1. DASSAULT AVIATION Group Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export 1.1 CONSOLIDATED KEY FIGURES 2009 739 242 2,440 3,421 74% 2010 723 236 3,228 4,187 80% 1.1.1 Orders 2011 714 176 2,415 3,305 74% Consolidated orders in 2013 totaled EUR 2012 936 208 2,797 3,941 75% 4,165 million, compared with EUR 3,325 million 2013 1,225 179 3,189 4,593 71% in 2012, an increase of 25%. The proportion of orders for export amounted to 71%. FALCON programs: Orders booked by the Group over the last five FALCON net sales were up by 14% compared to years are as follows, in EUR millions: 2012. 77 new aircraft were delivered in 2013 (compared to 66 in 2012). Defense % Year Falcon Total France Export Export The FALCON book to bill ratio below 1 (0.83) 2009 2,276 253 3,851 1,322 N/A reflects the convalescence of the business aviation market. Obtaining an excess of orders over 2010 606 186 474 1,266 43% deliveries is one of the challenges for 2014. 2011 424 507 1,932 2,863 83% 2012 634 159 2,532 3,325 78% DEFENSE programs: 2013 1,043 213 2,909 4,165 71% 11 RAFALE were delivered to the French The orders consist exclusively of firm orders. Government in 2013, the same figure as the previous year. Net sales for DEFENSE were up FALCON programs: 23% over the year before; this increase was chiefly from the nEUROn program. Orders for new aircraft, minus cancellations, stood at 64 FALCON in 2013 (compared to 58 FALCON 1.1.3 Backlog in 2012). The consolidated backlog on December 31, 2013 DEFENSE programs: was EUR 7,379 million compared to EUR 7,991 million on December 31, 2012, a decrease of 8%. DEFENSE orders amounted to EUR 1,256 million in 2013 compared to EUR 793 million in 2012, and mainly correspond 51 Directors’ report 1.2 COMMENTS ON THE 2013 PERFORMANCE IN ADJUSTED DATA 1.2.1 Preamble To reflect the actual economic performance of the Group, and to enable its monitoring and comparability, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group has since 2012 prepared an adjusted income statement. The consolidated income statement of the Group is therefore adjusted: by neutralizing the amortization of the THALES purchase price allocation (PPA), by neutralizing change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments not eligible to hedge accounting. As from this year, the Group incorporates in its financial reporting, its share of the THALES income based on the adjusted income of THALES. The adjusted 2012 statements have been corrected to reflect this change. This change allows the adjustments made by THALES in its financial reporting to be taken into account, thereby ensuring consistency in the presentation. 1.2.2 The key 2013 data as adjusted data The following table presents the key 2012 and 2013 data by detailing the adjusted aggregates: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 (*) Net sales 4,592,966 3,941,234 Operating Income 498,499 546,986 Adjusted financial income 14,937 15,743 Adjusted share of income/loss of equity affiliates 153,528 146,467 Adjusted corporate income tax charge -179,551 -197,155 Adjusted net income 487,413 512,041 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 487,382 511,997 Attributable to minority interests 31 44 (*) Restated to take into account the 1st application of the revised IAS 19 1.2.3 Reconciliation of consolidated income with adjusted income The impact in 2013 of the change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments adjustment, the amortization of the THALES PPA and the recognition of the adjusted income of THALES (for its share) in the Group's consolidated income statement is presented below: Reconciliation Change in fair 2013 THALES PPA of net income value of (EUR 000) 2013 Consolidated amortization with adjusted derivative Adjusted data data (1) income of exchange THALES instruments (2) Net financial income/(expense) 87,565 -72,628 14,937 Share of income/loss of equity 77,945 57,333 18,250 153,528 affiliates Corporate income tax charge -204,557 25,006 -179,551 Net income 459,452 57,333 18,250 -47,622 487,413 (1) neutralization of the amortization of the THALES purchase price allocation (PPA), net of income tax. (2) neutralization of the changes in fair value, net of income tax, of derivative exchange instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . 52 DASSAULT AVIATION The impact in 2012 of the change in fair value of derivative exchange instruments adjustment, the amortization of the THALES PPA and the recognition of the adjusted income of THALES (for its share) in the Group's consolidated income statement is presented below: Reconciliation Change in fair 2012 THALES PPA of net income value of (EUR 000) 2012 Consolidated amortization with adjusted derivative Adjusted data data (1) income of exchange THALES instruments (2) Net financial income/(expense) 97,897 -82,154 15,743 Share of income/loss of equity 82,581 67,967 -4,081 146,467 affiliates Corporate income tax charge -225,441 28,286 -197,155 Net income 502,023 67,967 -4,081 -53,868 512,041 (1) neutralization of the amortization of the THALES purchase price allocation (PPA), net of income tax. (2) neutralization of the changes in fair value, net of income tax, of derivative exchange instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . Note that only the consolidated financial statements are subject to audit by the Statutory Auditors. The adjusted financial data are subject to verification in the context of the global reading of the information provided in the Annual Report. 1.2.4 1st application of revised IAS 19 Notably, in 2013 the Group obtained a profit of standard on employee benefits EUR 10 million on the sale of available-for-sale marketable securities compared with a profit of The Group applies revised IAS 19; this standard EUR 12 million in 2012. became mandatory as of January 1, 2013. 1.2.7 Adjusted net income Given the accounting policies previously applied, investment characteristics and assumptions used, The adjusted net income amounted to EUR the Group's income has not been seriously affected 487 million in 2013 compared to EUR 512 million by the application of this new standard. in 2012, down by 5%. The adjusted net margin therefore stood at 10.6%, compared to 13.0% in 1.2.5 Operating Income 2012. 2013 consolidated operating income The contribution from the adjusted income of amounted to EUR 498 million compared to EUR THALES, before amortization of the Purchase Price 547 million in 2012, down by 9%. Allocation, to the net income of the Group amounted to EUR 153 million in 2013, compared to The operating margin stood at 10.9% compared EUR 146 million in 2012. to 13.9% in 2012. 2013 Consolidated net income stood at EUR 459 This deterioration is mainly due to increased selfmillion, compared to EUR 502 million in 2012. financing costs and a less favorable foreign exchange hedging rate (1.26 $/€ against 1.24 $/€ 1.2.8 Financial reporting in 2012). The IFRS 8 operational sectors standard requires 1.2.6 Adjusted financial income the presentation of information per segment according to internal management criteria. In 2013, the adjusted financial income stood at EUR 15 million, compared to EUR 16 million in The entire activity of the DASSAULT AVIATION 2012. Group relates to the aviation and aerospace field. 53 Directors’ report The internal reporting made to the Chairman and 1.4 RELATED-PARTY TRANSACTIONS CEO, and to the Chief Operating Officer, as used for the strategy and decision-making, includes no The 2013 related parties are identical to those performance analysis, under the terms of IFRS 8, identified in 2012. Certain subsidiaries are related at a level subsidiary to this field. with the Parent Company via development and hardware supply, along with software and associated services contracts. 1.3 FINANCIAL STRUCTURE 2013 transactions are specified under Note 27 in 1.3.1 Cash the appendix to the consolidated financial statements. The Group has defined a specific indicator, Available cash , which reflects the Group’s total liquidities minus borrowings. It covers the 1.5 RISK FACTORS AND following balance sheet headings: MANAGEMENT cash and cash equivalents, The Group is exposed to the following main risks available-for-sale marketable securities (at and uncertainties. market value), 1.5.1 Program risks borrowings. Aerospace cycle The Consolidated Available cash amounts to EUR 3,708 million at December 31, 2013 The nature of the activity of DASSAULT AVIATION compared with EUR 3,760 million at December 31, exposes it to a sector risk. Its clients have all been 2012, a decrease of EUR 52 million. hit by the economic crisis: This slight decrease is mainly due to the increase government customers, who are constrained in working capital requirement (EUR 397 million), by increasingly drastic budget policies dividends paid out (EUR 94 million), investments (EUR 66 million), partially offset by the cash business aviation customers, who are being resulting from operating activities for the year (+ forced to postpone their investment decisions EUR 508 million). because of the slow recovery from the crisis. Moreover, in this context, competition is becoming 1.3.2 Balance sheet ever more aggressive, both in terms of commercial The Group share of equity amounted to EUR 5,112 and price policies, and as regards technological million at December 31, 2013 compared with EUR innovation. This pressure could eventually threaten 4,747 million at December 31, 2012 (restated). the revenue and profitability of DASSAULT AVIATION. To address this threat, we are The Group has no bank debt. The financial continuing our policy of streamlining our liabilities shown on the consolidated balance sheet production cycle, innovation and expansion of our relate to locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. FALCON range by increasing our self-funded research and development outlay. As at December 31, 2013, inventories and work-inprogress amounted to EUR 2,687 million. Customer advances and progress payments on work-inprogress amounted to EUR 2,294 million. Post-employment benefits provision amounted to EUR 382 million at December 31, 2013, against EUR 407 million at December 31, 2012. This change is mainly due to the increase in the discount rates. 54 DASSAULT AVIATION Control of programs The Group is not significantly exposed to fluctuations in the price or availability of raw materials Given the implementation of complex technologies and energy. and the overlapping of FALCON and DEFENSE programs, we must ensure that we have instituted 1.5.3 Risks related to the information the resources necessary to meet our commitments system to our customers, both in regard to technical issues and production deadlines. A failure of our information systems could result in data loss, errors and/or delays that would be detrimental to the smooth running of the Company. We may be forced to change the scheduling for We have put in place mechanisms for ensuring the production and delivery, which would affect our reliability, confidentiality and availability of our ability to achieve revenues. data. As industrial architect and integrator, we must manage a multitude of associates, partners and Our disaster recovery plan in the event of system suppliers while observing technical and financial shutdown is tested annually to ensure the sustainconstraints. ability of our operations. Our technical choices must match customer 1.5.4 Risks related to regulatory expectations. Our investment in Research and changes Development must take account of technological developments and lead us to fully-mastered We face changes to many regulations in aeroinnovations. nautics at national and European level including health and safety at work, environmental site laws Adjustment of industrial capacity (REACh in particular), airworthiness of products, etc. We have to adapt our production capacity to economic cycles, which exposes us to the risk of 1.5.5 Risks related to employees mismatch between our capital expenditures and our workload. Aviation technology is complex and evolving, and we must be careful to maintain our expertise in all Competition areas of aircraft and equipment. Our Company faces aggressive competition in all 1.5.6 Financial risk management markets. The current euro/dollar exchange rate is a handicap in terms of competitiveness. Cash and liquidity risks Moreover, in the military field, we have to take into The Group investment portfolio mainly comprises account the political aspect in the customer's money market investments with no significant risk choice. of impairment. Reduced military spending in many countries inMost of the fixed-income and diversified creases the aggressiveness of our competitors, investments (according to the AMF classification) particularly the U.S. of the Group were backed by guarantees on December 31, 2013. 1.5.2 Risks related to the Supply Chain The Group can therefore meet its commitments We need to manage the risks in procurement without any liquidity risk due to its cash resources (analysis and selection process for suppliers, moniand its portfolio of available-for-sale marketable toring of critical suppliers, timely delivery) to avoid securities. a disruption in our production lines. We are vigilant regarding the risks of failure of our suppliers. The breakdown of the Group's investment portfolio is shown in Note 24.3 Cash and Liquidity Risks of the consolidated financial statements. 55 Directors’ report Credit and counterparty risk EMBRAER shares: The Group performs its cash and foreign exchange The Group’s parent company owns EMBRAER transactions with recognized financial institutions shares. EMBRAER is listed on the Brazilian stock and places its investments and has bank accounts market. It is stated in the Group’s financial with these various institutions. statements, based on market value at the balance sheet closing date, in Brazilian reals converted into The Group limits counterparty risk by performing euros. The value of the shares may therefore most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the fluctuate according to the exchange rate of these granted loans are secured by export insurance two currencies. guarantees (COFACE) or collateral. Guarantees are also underwritten with export insurance firms for Other market risks the manufacturing risk relating to major military export contracts. The Group is exposed to a pricing risk relating to price fluctuations of the EMBRAER shares. A The Group has identified no risk with regard to the sensitivity analysis is available in Note 24.3.2, percentage of outstanding receivables. EMBRAER shares. Additional information is available in Notes 7 trade 1.5.8 Environmental risk management and other receivables and 24.2 credit and counterparty risk in the consolidated financial Risk management procedure statements. In terms of environmental risk management, in 1.5.7 Market risks recent years our industrial sites have made significant progress, by putting into place: Foreign exchange risks risks analysis with modeling, Hedging portfolio: plans to reduce risks at source , The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk measures and means of prevention and protecthrough the parent company with regard to tion, FALCON sales that are virtually all denominated in emergency response plans, US dollars. periodic accident simulation exercises. The Parent Company partially hedges this risk by using foreign exchange forward contracts and In addition, as provided in our contractual clauses, foreign exchange options. suppliers whose industrial process could have a significant environmental impact undergo EnviIt partially hedges its cash flows that are ronment audits. considered highly probable. The Parent Company ensures that the initial future cash flows will be Damage caused to the environment sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted No court has ever sanctioned the DASSAULT according to the variability in the timing of AVIATION Group for pollution or ordered it to pay expected net cash flows. compensation to repair damage caused to the environment. A sensitivity analysis of the hedge portfolio may be found in Note 24.3 Foreign exchange risks The Biarritz site was subject to a prefectural order element. in 2006 calling for an impact analysis and a treatment study for past groundwater pollution (chrome and halogenated solvents). The treatment facility was installed in accordance with the management plan. We responded to the supplemental prefectural order of July 2012, asking us to study the improvement of our facility. 56 DASSAULT AVIATION Provisions and financial guarantees 1.6 GROUP ACTIVITIES Subsequent to Decree No. 2012-633 of May 3, 1.6.1 Program developments 2012 which imposes the establishment of financial guarantees on sites that are subject to ICPE (EnviFALCON programs ronment Protection Classified Installations) legislation, the Parent Company is subject to the obligaHighlights of fiscal year 2013 were as follows: tion of financial guarantees for five of its sites. These financial guarantees were established in the launch at NBAA (US National Business accordance with the regulatory deadlines. Aviation Association exhibition) of the FALCON 5X (previously called SMS), In addition to its General Operations Civil Liability insurance policy (EUR 1.5 million for environmental the certification of the new models FALCON damage risks), the Parent Company has subscribed 2000S and FALCON 2000LXS, followed by the to Environmental Impairment Liability insurance first deliveries, cover for EUR 11 million, EUR 3 million of which covers natural protected species and habitats. the certification and roll-out on FALCONs in Since January 1st, 2012, this environmental damproduction and service of the new EASy II ages guarantee, as defined by European Directive cockpit, 2004/35/CE, has been extended to include damage celebration of the 50th anniversary of the caused to wildlife and ecological damage. FALCON range, accompanied by a media campaign stressing the importance for Lastly, in the framework of the said insurance conFALCONs of technological innovation fueled by tract and as part of a constant risk prevention our dual military and civil role, approach, the insurers carry out regular risk reviews of the sites and draft analysis reports that the launch of the expansion and modernization serve as the basis for the implementation of action work of the Little Rock (USA) site of DASSAULT plans. FALCON JET. The Parent Company did not need to recognize DEFENSE programs any environmental liabilities. Concerning the RAFALE, 2013 was marked by: 1.5.9 Other risks the delivery of 11 aircraft to the French govIn late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, ernment, bringing the total number of RAFALEs including DASSAULT AVIATION, was collectively delivered to 126. The last 6 RAFALEs represent issued with a request for arbitration from a comthe first deliveries of the 4th production series mon client claiming a sum which, according to the and include in particular the active array radar plaintiff, would amount to no less than USD 260 (RBE2 EASA) and the latest developments in million, and for which the group of manufacturers equipment for this production series. The may have joint obligation with regard to the plainRAFALE is the first European aircraft whose tiff. This request related to the execution of old standard production includes an active array contracts implemented by these manufacturers. In radar, the framework of an agreement signed between the parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its the development in 2013 of the first series of action. the F3-R standard and the notification at the end of December 2013 of the full contract enIn November 2012, the latter gave notification of a visaging qualification for 2018. This standard new request for arbitration based on similar includes in particular the METEOR long-range grounds to the 2002 action, for a total now air-to-air missile, the new-generation laser desamounting to EUR 226 million. The manufacturers ignator pod and the laser version of the AASM strongly deny this request and to date, it is not Air-to-Ground Modular Weapon, possible to assess the potential financial risk; accordingly, DASSAULT AVIATION has not made any provision. This procedure is still ongoing. 57 Directors’ report the upgrading to the F3 standard of the of intent confirming the launch of a FCAS (FuRAFALE Simulation Centers of Saint-Dizier and ture Combat Air System) combat drone demonLandivisiau and the launch of a new Atelier strator. DASSAULT AVIATION and BAE Mermoz series (for on-base maintenance of SYSTEMS are the leaders on this project, electronic equipment) the delivery to the DGA and the German and the continuation of exclusive negotiations with Italian Ministries of Defense, in cooperation the Indian authorities and Indian industrial with AIRBUS DEFENCE AND SPACE and partners to finalize the contract for the FINMECCANICA/ALENIA of a proposal for a presale/license 126 RAFALEs, liminary design of a MALE (Medium Altitude Long Endurance) drone system the continued advocacy and canvassing in other countries, in the space business, the continuation of our work on the demonstration Intermediate Exthe participation in various major air shows in perimental Vehicle (IXV) atmospheric reentry France and abroad. project to be launched in the second half of 2014 and SWISS SPACE SYSTEMS' SubOrbital Other programs included: Aircraft Reusable (SOAR) project on which DASSAULT AVIATION as consultant aircraft continued work to upgrade the Indian MIRAGE manufacturer. 2000 H/TH to MIRAGE 2000-5 ITI including the completion of development projects on both 1.6.2 After-Sales aircraft and the start of integration testing on bench and aircraft In 2013, the Group: the transformation of two ATLANTIQUE 2 to with regard to FALCON support: equip them, as an urgent operational requirement , with high-performance electro-optical established a DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE cameras, subsidiary in Moscow the notification by the French Minister of Deinstituted a new capability in Los Angeles, fense on October 4, 2013 of the award of the started retrofitting the EASy II cockpit on the contract to renovate the ATLANTIC 2 combat FALCON fleet in service. system which is to develop and integrate a new core system and new sensors (including the with regard to military support: THALES Searchmaster radar). DASSAULT AVIATION is responsible for the development of signed a contract amendment with the French the core system including the Loti-NG software Ministry of Defense changing the RAFALE developed by DCNS and the overall integration CARE In-Service Support Package to increase of all subsystems, flat-rate services especially on logistics, the delivery in September 2013 to the DGA restored to flight condition two additional (Direction Générale de l’Armement French Deaircraft in the framework of the revision fense Procurement Agency) of the first four contract for the Peruvian Mirage 2000s, modified FALCON SURMAR. Work on the other bringing the number of aircraft revised up to aircraft continues at Mérignac, eight. successful resumption of demonstration flights of nEUROn unmanned combat aircraft at Istres in October 2013, after the radar signature measurement campaign by the DGA/MI in the first half-year; this program, under the control of DASSAULT AVIATION, involves five European industrial partners, the signature by the British and French Ministers of Defense on January 31, 2014 of a letter 58 DASSAULT AVIATION 1.7 GROUP STRUCTURE DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE (France) based at Le Bourget airport, contributes to DASSAULT AVIATION, Parent Company, has a FALCON after-sales activities in the following preponderant weight in the Group structure. two areas: service center dedicated to FALCON aircraft 1.7.1 Consolidated subsidiaries and for maintenance operations, companies leasing and management of FALCON aircraft DASSAULT FALCON JET (USA) markets our as part of civil transport activities. FALCONs and is responsible for their interior fittings. The company is headquartered in The principal subsidiary DASSAULT FALCON Teterboro, New Jersey, while industrial SERVICE (DFS), the FALCON TRAINING activities are located in Little Rock, Arkansas. CENTER (FTC, owned 50/50 with FLIGHT SAFETY INTERNATIONAL) at Le Bourget airport, The main subsidiaries of DASSAULT FALCON provides training to FALCON pilots. JET are: DFS also has an establishment at Luton Airport DASSAULT FALCON JET (UK). In 2013 it has also set up a FALCON WILMINGTON, aviation maintenance and aircraft maintenance subsidiary at Moscowservices company Vnukovo Airport (Russia). DASSAULT AIRCRAFT SERVICES, responsible for promoting aviation Dassault International Incorporated maintenance and service sales in the United (USA) represents DASSAULT AVIATION in the States, United States and provides after-sales services for FALCON business aircraft. AERO PRECISION REPAIR AND OVERHAUL (APRO) (owned 50/50 with DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES MESSIER-SERVICES INC.), responsible for (USA) is the central purchasing hub in the the repair and maintenance of landing gear United States for FALCON aviation equipment. and flight controls, SOGITEC INDUSTRIES (France) operates in MIDWAY (USA) providing repair and the simulation and documentation sectors. overhaul of civil aircraft equipment for French manufacturers, THALES (France): the THALES group operates in aviation and aerospace, defense DASSAULT FALCON JET DO BRAZIL, and security contracting. Its activities are aviation maintenance and services company described in its Registration Document. DASSAULT FALCON BUSINESS SERVICES (BEIJING) Co. Ltd, responsible Additional information on consolidated subsidiaries for FALCON promotion and after-sales in the and companies is provided in Note 2 Scope of People's Republic of China. consolidation of the consolidated financial statements. In 2013, DFJ created a subsidiary in the United States, called DASSAULT FALCON JET 1.7.2 Non-consolidated subsidiaries and LEASING, serving as host for financing holdings structures on new or used FALCON aircraft. The main holdings of the Group are: CORSE COMPOSITES AÉRONAUTIQUES (France), specialized in the production of aviation parts made from composite materials, in particular for its corporate shareholders (AIRBUS, LATECOERE, SNECMA and DASSAULT AVIATION), 59 Directors’ report SECBAT (France), responsible for cooperation (DEDIRA) as well as work on predictive behavior on the ATLANTIC maritime surveillance modeling to lightning applied to the RAFALE. program. For the future systems, special effort is dedicated The Group is present in India through DASSAULT to the development of open and modular mission AIRCRAFT SERVICES INDIA PRIVATE Ltd., in software in the framework of the European Comcharge of promotion in India. mon Operating System (ECOS) study undertaken in collaboration with the British aerospace industry. The ground demonstration of the operation of a 1.8 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT functional chain based on ECOS components took place during the first half of 2013. The last phase Most of our research and development effort is of the work which has just been notified by the focused on the FALCON 5X, the RAFALE F3-R DGA should enable us to achieve the level of mastandard and nEUROn flight tests. turity required by 2015. Apart from these major programs, we continue In UCAVs, in 2013 we obtained a Future Combat with the self-financed plan Futur FALCON à TechAir System Development Program Preparation nologies Innovantes ( FALCON Future with InnoPhase and the notification of the award a Bridgvative Technologies ). Some of these studies have ing Phase contract in late 2013. either national aid for civil aviation or from the European Clean Sky Joint Technology Initiative. Work with Germany and Italy to define a future European MALE drone should get under way in Of particular note are: 2014. experiments with extended modular avionics foreshadowing future FALCON systems, 1.9 NEW TECHNIQUES OF preparation of a demonstration panel for a MANUFACTURING AND small composite wing-box INDUSTRIAL MANAGEMENT continued work on protection by anodic We are pursuing the development of composites: oxidation of sulfur as part of the Chrome VI substitution plan. as part of the actions initiated by CORAC, we are studying a demonstrator for a composite We are preparing our participation in the next wing box for business aircraft, Horizon 20120 European Framework Programme we use fiber placement for the industrialization for Research, including Clean Sky 2 project. and manufacturing of composite parts for our new FALCON 5X aircraft, given the advantages We are reinforcing our participation in the three of this method in terms of performance. demonstration platforms initiated by the Conseil pour la Recherche Aéronautique Civile (CORAC, In metallic materials, we continue to automate Strategic Committee for Aviation Research) and machined panel forming with a view to using low proposed under the second phase of the Future density aluminum alloys. Investment Programme. We have returned to the Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile (DGA, the French Civil Aviation Authority) a support request for a research dossier for 2014. The DGA notified us at the beginning of the year of the award of the conditional tranche of an Upstream Research Plan on the establishment of airto-air stealth tactical situation then the last phase of work on the stealth Rafale demonstrator 60 DASSAULT AVIATION Robotization of assemblies is being pursued both 1.10 PRODUCTION FACILITIES for wings and for fuselages, including the implementation of the friction-stir welding process In 2013, we continued: (FSW) for FALCON 5X skins. the implementation of the main industrial auIn regard to primary parts, as part of our effort to tomated production facilities and building conimprove environmental impact: versions related to the 5X FALCON program, we are replacing chemical-based methods by the deployment of digital resources on the mechanical machining processes, workstation, We are developing and qualifying new chromethe development of workshop refitting as part free surface treatment processes in order to of Improving Responsiveness in Production satisfy in advance the future requirements of (IRP). European REACh regulations. In 2013 these adaptations resulted in the commisIn all our production establishments, we continue sioning: the deployment of IRP (Improving Responsiveness of equipped robot cells for airfoil assembly and in Production) projects, which aim to improve coatings working conditions (especially work environment stress reduction), as well as quality and flexibility, of an automated positioning system for machinwhile significantly reducing our work cycles and ing FALCON root airfoils, costs. of an RTM (Resin Transfer Molding) hot press for composites, We are pursuing the generalization of the extended digital enterprise and of Product Lifecycle of an NC machining center for hard metals, Management (PLM), thereby keeping us of digital equipment at the workstation: connecttechnologically ahead of the game as well as ed worktables, Radio Frequency IDentification offering ourselves a significant competitive edge. (RFID) control panels, digital control panels and tablets, To achieve this: of the complete installation of the Technology we are using new collaborative processes enaDepartment materials laboratory in a refurbished bling the coordination of all program stakebuilding, holders (both inside and outside the company) of showroom models and a scale 1 FALCON 5X we are industrializing the FALCON 5X with the model. new PLM V6 version of DASSAULT SYSTEMES we are developing production-line processes 1.11 TOTAL QUALITY placing the line or control operative in an environment that meets their needs. The Total Quality policy continues to be pursued, based on the Company's four major strategies: Finally, to ensure the control and efficiency of our supply chain, we are enhancing exchanges with prioritize customer satisfaction, our suppliers by extending the rollout of our stay one step ahead of competitors in terms of supplier portal, while improving our production cost and quality, management system. promote human development, respect the environment. The latter two fundamental reflect our commitment to supporting fundamental social and environmental values, in accordance with the UN Global Compact initiative. 61 Directors’ report As part of its Integrated Management System, in Defense 2012 DASSAULT AVIATION renewed its EN 9100 Year Falcon Total France Export certification, a standard specific to the aerospace industry, and its ISO 14001 environmental 2009 2,271 230 3,524 1,023 certification. 2010 599 181 199 979 DASSAULT AVIATION has also established a Health 2011 420 502 1,402 2,324 and Safety at Work management system meeting 2012 473 152 2,063 2,688 the requirements of the OHSAS 18001 standard (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment 2013 1,031 211 2,313 3,555 Series). The orders consist exclusively of firm orders. We also ensure pursuance of our certifications for the design, production and maintenance of civil FALCON programs: aircraft, along with the official acknowledgment of our capability to design military aircraft. Orders for new aircraft, minus cancellations, amounted to 65 FALCON in 2013. This compares Lastly, we continue to implement our program, to 59 FALCONs in 2012. product, process, environment and health & safety at work risk management measures in all Group entities, departments and sites. DEFENSE programs: The Defense orders booked totaled EUR 1,242 million in 2013 against EUR 625 million in 2012 and correspond to development and to the In-Service Support Package. They were up by 99% compared to 2012. The increase is principally due to orders from France for the F3-R standard of the RAFALE and for the ATLANTIQUE 2 retrofitting. 2. DASSAULT AVIATION, Parent Company 2.2.2 Net sales 2.1 ACTIVITY Parent company 2013 net sales amounted to EUR 3,966 million, up by 19% compared to The activities of the parent company, DASSAULT 2012. AVIATION, in particular as regards program developments, R&D and production, are presented Sales for the last five years are as follows, in EUR together with the activities of the Group. millions: Defense 2.2 KEY FIGURES Year Falcon Total France Export 2.2.1 Orders 2009 722 219 1,807 2,748 2010 707 226 2,619 3,552 The total orders booked by the Parent Company in 2013 amounted to EUR 3,555 2011 707 167 2,040 2,914 million compared with EUR 2,688 million in 2012, 2012 929 165 2,248 3,342 an increase of 32%. The proportion of orders for export amounted to 66%. Orders booked by the 2013 1,223 166 2,577 3,966 Group over the last five years are as follows, in EUR millions: 62 DASSAULT AVIATION 2.2.3 Net income 2.2.5 Five year results summary 2013 net income amounted to The DASSAULT AVIATION five-year summary is EUR 360 million, compared to EUR 283 million in shown in Note 34 to the financial statements. 2012, up by 27%. Group employees will receive a total of EUR 2.2.6 Tax consolidation 109 million under the profit-sharing and The Company elected for tax consolidation in incentive schemes, divided up as follows: 1999. As from January 1st, 2012, the tax Profit-sharing: EUR 89 million consolidation scope of the Group includes Incentive: EUR 20 million DASSAULT AVIATION, DASSAULT AÉRO SERVICE and DASSAULT AVIATION PARTICIPATIONS. A tax These sums represent 25% of the payroll in consolidation agreement, tacitly renewable for 52013, compared to the legal minimum of year periods, was signed with each of these 2%. companies. 2.2.4 Dividends (appropriation of net income) 2.3 RISK MANAGEMENT Given the increase in self-financed spending on The risks and uncertainties to which the Company R&D and market uncertainties, the Board of is exposed are the same as those outlined in this Directors decided to propose to the General Group management report, since the Parent Meeting of Shareholders the distribution for 2014 Company plays a predominant role within the of a dividend of EUR 8.90/share (EUR 90 million) Group. compared with EUR 9.30/share paid in 2013 (EUR 94 million). 2.4 TERMS OF PAYMENT Subject to your approval of the 2013 financial statements, we propose that the net income for the year of EUR 360,328,290.06 plus retained Pursuant to French law, DASSAULT AVIATION has earnings of EUR 2,937,478,632.02, giving a total of introduced procedures required to ensure that its EUR 3,297,806,922.08, be divided up as follows: suppliers are paid 45 days from the end of the month when the invoice was issued. dividend distribution of: EUR 90,120,483.30 The breakdown of trade payables by due date as of December 31 is as follows (in EUR millions): with the remaining balance to retained earnings: EUR 3,207,686,438.78 Due-date 2012 2013 Due at year end 5.6 15.6 Dividends paid in respect of the last three years As of mid-January 70.8 78.7 are as follows: As of end of January 0.1 Net dividend As of mid-February 4.7 2.5 Fiscal year Allowances (*) distributed (in euros) As of end of February 2010 10.70 40% Other (fixed assets) 4.7 2.1 2011 8.50 40% TOTAL 85.8 99.0 2012 9.30 40% (*) allowance for individuals 63 Directors’ report 2.5 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION a right of first refusal and a right of first offer in favor of the French State in the event that 2.5.1 Equity structure EADS France should plan to sell all or part of its shares in the capital of DASSAULT AVIATION. The share capital of the Company is EUR 81,007,176. This is divided into 10,125,897 This shareholders’ agreement has no impact shares, each with a par value of EUR 8. The shares on the Company's governance, as GIMD, third are listed on the regulated Euronext Paris market party to the said agreements entered into between of NYSE EURONEXT Compartment A AIRBUS GROUP NV, EADS France and the French International Securities Identification Numbers State, owns the majority of the capital and voting (ISIN Code): FR0000121725. They are eligible for rights of DASSAULT AVIATION. deferred settlement. Direct or indirect shareholdings in the Company of The principal DASSAULT AVIATION shareholders which it is aware pursuant to Articles L. 233-7 and as of December 31, 2013 are as follows: L. 233-12 of the French Commercial Code are set forth in the table above. The Company does not Number % interest and hold any treasury shares. Shareholders of shares voting rights GIMD 5,118,240 50.55% No shareholder has special control rights. In EADS France 4,690,307 46.32% particular, there is no shareholding system offering employees specific control. Free-float (1) 317,350 3.13% TOTAL 10,125,897 100.00% 2.5.3 Board of Directors (1) including one share held by the French State Rules governing appointment and replacement of members of the Board of Directors and 2.5.2 Information about Shareholders amendments to the bylaws are based on and voting rights applicable legislation. As of December 31, 2013, 5,455 shares (i.e., The Board of Directors has the powers provided 0.05% of the share capital) were held by a for under applicable legislation. corporate investment fund, whose members consist of current and former Company employees. 2.5.4 Agreements entered into by the The Company’s bylaws do not include any Company restrictions on the exercise of voting rights or the The Company did not enter into any major transfer of shares. agreement that would be amended or There is no statutory obligation to provide automatically terminated in the event of a change information on the crossing of ownership in control of the Company. thresholds. However, in such a case, the National Defense GIMD and EADS France are not linked by a contracts entered into with the French State would shareholders’ agreement. be re-examined by the French Ministry of Defense, which may require that all or some of these But in accordance with Article L. 233-11 of the contracts be transferred to another French French Commercial Code, the Company was company for reasons of national interest. informed by the French Commissioner of State Holdings that on June 21, 2013 the French State There is no agreement offering compensation for: signed a shareholders' agreement with AIRBUS GROUP NV and EADS France constituting a concert party vis-à-vis DASSAULT AVIATION. This agreement to last 90 years provides for: EADS France exercising its voting rights in the General Assembly after consultation with the French State, 64 DASSAULT AVIATION members of the Board of Directors or AVIATION with effect from January 8, 2013. employees, should they resign or be dismissed, On his proposal and with the agreement of Serge DASSAULT and the Board of Directors, he was employees, should they resign or be dismissed replaced by Eric TRAPPIER who became, as from unjustifiably and without proper cause or January 9, 2013, Chairman and Chief Executive should their employment contract be Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, assisted by Loïk terminated due to a takeover, over and above SEGALEN, who was appointed Chief Operating the provisions of the collective bargaining Officer. agreement. Charles EDELSTENNE, appointed CEO of Groupe 2.5.5 Miscellaneous information Industriel Marcel Dassault (GIMD) with effect from 8 January 2013, remains Director of the Company In 2013 the Company did not carry out any and has joined the Audit Committee. transactions in its own shares under a share buyback program. 2.8 OTHER OFFICES HELD AND DUTIES PERFORMED BY It has not established any stock option scheme or DASSAULT AVIATION EXECUTIVE any bonus share scheme. AND NON EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS DURING FISCAL YEAR 2013 The Shareholders Meeting has not agreed to delegate any authority or powers to the Board of 2.8.1 Honorary Presidents and Directors Directors as regards capital increases. Serge DASSAULT In 2013, Eric TRAPPIER acquired his Age: 89 years 25 shares as required of a Director which are Nationality: French entered in the registered shares account. This Date of first appointment: 06/27/1967 transaction was reported to the AMF and the Start and end of current term: AGM 2009 AGM Company, in accordance with the provisions of 2015 Article L. 621-18-2 of the French Monetary and DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Financial Code and Articles 223-22 et seq. of the General Regulations of the AMF. Other corporate offices and duties: Chairman: 2.6 OPERATION OF THE EXECUTIVE Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS MANAGEMENT Groupe Figaro SAS Rond-Point Holding SAS The Ordinary and Extraordinary AGM of April 25, Rond-Point Immobilier SAS 2002 brought the bylaws of the Company into Société du Figaro SAS conformity with the Act of May 15, 2001 concerning the New Economic Regulations. The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Board of Directors, which met after this meeting, Dassault Medias SA decided that the Chairman of the Board of Directors would be responsible for the Company’s Chairman of the Board of Directors: Executive Management, an option that it deemed Dassault Belgique Aviation SA best suited to the specific features of the Company. Chief Executive Officer: Chateau Dassault SAS 2.7 CHANGES TO THE EXECUTIVE Director: MANAGEMENT FROM THE START Dassault Systèmes SA OF 2013 Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) Charles EDELSTENNE, having reached the Member of the Strategy Committee: statutory age limit, quit his functions as Chairman Dassault Développement SAS and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT General Manager: 65 Directors’ report Rond-Point Investissements SARL 12/18/2012 (cooptation) AGM 2015 Société Civile Immobilière de Maison Rouge Start and end of the term of Chairman-CEO: SCI des Hautes Bruyères 09/01/2013 – AGM 2015 DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Charles EDELSTENNE Age: 76 years Other corporate offices and duties: Nationality: French Date of first appointment: 01/27/1989 Director-General Manager: Start and end of current term as Director GIE Rafale International AGM 2009 AGM 2015 Member of the Audit Committee General Manager: DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Dassault International SARL Other corporate offices and duties: Director: Thales SA Chief Executive Officer: Sogitec Industries SA (since 04/26/2013) Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS (since 01/08/2013) Permanent representative of DASSAULT AVIATION (until 01/14/2013) on the Board of Chairman of the Board of Directors: Directors of: Dassault Systèmes SA SOFRESA SA ODAS SA Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: SOFEMA SA DASSAULT AVIATION (until 01/08/2013) Eurotradia International SA Member of the Supervisory Board: Chairman: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) (since 09/01/2013) Director: THALES SA Director and President : Carrefour SA Dassault International Inc. (USA) (since Sogitec Industries SA 04/30/2013) SABCA (Belgium) Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) 2.8.3 Directors Chairman: Nicole DASSAULT Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) ( until Age: 83 years 01/08/2013) Nationality: French Date of first appointment: 05/19/2010 President: Start and end of current term: AGM 2010 – AGM Dassault International Inc. (USA) (until April 29, 2016 2013) DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 General Manager: Other corporate offices and duties: Sociétés Civiles ARIE, ARIE 2 Sociétés Civiles NILI, NILI 2 Member of the Supervisory Board: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS 2.8.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Vice-Chairman and Member of the Supervisory Officer Board: Éric TRAPPIER Immobilière Dassault SA Age: 53 years Chief Operating Officer: Nationality: French Date of first appointment as Director: 18/12/2012 Rond-Point Immobilier SAS Start and end of current term as Director 66 DASSAULT AVIATION Director: Start and end of current term: AGM 2009 AGM Groupe Figaro SAS 2015 Dassault Medias SA Member of the Audit Committee Dassault Systèmes SA DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Artcurial SA Other corporate offices and duties: Olivier DASSAULT Age: 62 years Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Nationality: French SCOR SE Date of first appointment: 04/17/1996 Start and end of current term: AGM 2009 AGM Director: 2015 SCOR Canada Reinsurance Company (Canada) DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 BNP Paribas SA Bollore SA (until 06/05/2013) Other corporate offices and duties: Invesco Ltd (USA) Strategic Investment Fund (until 07/12/2013) Vice-Chairman: Valmonde et Cie SA Chairman: SCOR Global Life SE Director: SCOR Global P&C SE Dassault Medias SA SCOR Global Life Re Insurance Company of Groupe Figaro SAS Texas (USA) Valmonde et Cie SA SCOR Global Life Americas Reinsurance RASEC International SAS Company (USA) SCOR Reinsurance Company (USA) Chairman of the Supervisory Board: SCOR U.S. Corporation (USA) Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS SCOR Holding (Switzerland) AG (Switzerland) Particulier et Finances Editions SA SCOR Services Switzerland AG (Switzerland) SCOR Switzerland AG (Switzerland) Member of the Supervisory Board: SCOR Perestrakhovaniye (Russia) Rubis SA Chairman of the Supervisory Board: General Manager: SCOR Global Investments SE HR Finance SAS SCI Rod Spontini Member of the Supervisory Board: LBO Invest D YAM INVEST N.V. (Netherlands) Henri PROGLIO, Non-executive Director Alain GARCIA, Non-executive Director Age: 64 years Age: 71 years Nationality: French Nationality: French Date of first appointment: 04/23/2008 Date of first appointment: 03/18/2009 Start and end of current term: AGM 2008 AGM Start and end of current term: AGM 2010 AGM 2014 2016 Chairman of Audit Committee DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 Other corporate offices and duties: Other corporate offices and duties: General Manager: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Novation Aero Consulting SARL EDF SA Denis KESSLER, Non-executive Director Chairman of the Board of Directors: Age: 62 years EDISON SpA (Italy) Nationality: French Date of first appointment: 22/05/2003 67 Directors’ report Director: 2.9 EXECUTIVE OFFICER CNP Assurances SA (until 07/25/2013) COMPENSATION IN 2013 EDF Energies Nouvelles SA EDF Energy Holdings Ltd (UK) 2.9.1 Compensation paid to Serge EDF International SAS NATIXIS SA DASSAULT, Honorary Chairman EDISON SpA (Italy) In respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT FCC SA (Spain) AVIATION: South Stream Transport BV (Netherlands) South Stream Transport AG (Switzerland) Serge DASSAULT received a gross annual compensation of EUR 600,000 and directors’ Pierre de BAUSSET fees of EUR 25,667. He has a company car Age: 53 years (benefit in kind valued at EUR 3,153). Nationality: French Date of first appointment: 05/19/2010 In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: Start and end of current term: AGM 2010 AGM 2016 Serge DASSAULT, Director, received DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: 25 EUR 22,000 in directors' fees from the Board of Directors and EUR 9,148 gross annual Other corporate offices and duties: compensation for advisory services. Director: He had the use of a chauffeur when performing EADS France SAS these advisory services. Vigeo SA Expenses incurred by him when carrying out 2.8.4 Chief Operating Officer such activities and in the interests of the Company were also reimbursed. Loïk SEGALEN Age: 54 years In respect of French and foreign companies Nationality: French controlled by DASSAULT AVIATION within the Date of first appointment as Chief Operating meaning of Article L. 233-16 of the French Officer: 09/01/2013 Commercial Code (i.e., companies included in Start and end of current term as Director the scope of consolidation): 12/18/2012 (cooptation) AGM 2015 Serge DASSAULT received USD 38,572 in Start and end of the current term: 09/01/2013 – directors' fees from the Board of Directors of AGM 2015 DASSAULT FALCON JET. DASSAULT AVIATION shares held: none Other corporate offices and duties: 2.9.2 Compensation paid to Charles Director: EDELSTENNE, Honorary President Thales SA Sogitec Industries SA In respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT Dassault Falcon Jet Corporation (USA) AVIATION : Dassault International Inc. (USA) Charles EDELSTENNE received EUR 196,115.12 Dassault Procurement Services (USA) as Chief Executive Officer since 01/08/2013 and Midway Aircraft Instrument Corporation (USA) EUR 21,000 for attendance on the Supervisory Dassault Belgique Aviation SA Board. SABCA and SABCA Limburg (Belgium) He had the use of a chauffeur-driven company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 9,030) and all expenses incurred in the course of his duties were reimbursed on an actual-cost basis. 68 DASSAULT AVIATION In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION has now come to an end, Charles EDELSTENNE received a gross compensation of EUR 10,798 for the period he no longer exercises within DASSAULT from 01/01/2013 to 08/01/2013 during which AVIATION any activity giving rise to the he was Chairman and CEO. payment of salaried remuneration or the like, In addition, he received directors’ fees of the payment of this allowance is not EUR 28,467. subject to the condition that its beneficiary effectively draw on his retirement benefits, In respect of the Audit Committee, Charles EDELSTENNE received an additional EUR 4,500 the Board has decided to pay, in 2013, to in attendance fees. Charles EDELSTENNE, his contractual retirement allowance, amounting to EUR Consequences of the end of term of office as 460,833. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Charles EDELSTENNE In respect of other French and foreign Supplementary pension: companies in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: Charles EDELSTENNE received USD 38,572 in DASSAULT AVIATION has undertaken to pay a directors' fees from the Board of Directors of supplementary pension to Charles DASSAULT FALCON JET and EUR 36,500 in EDELSTENNE. This represents a sum of directors' fees from the THALES Board of EUR 308,660 per annum. DASSAULT AVIATION Directors. has provisioned this sum in its accounts, for payment that should have begun in 2013. 2.9.3 Compensation paid to the However, at the end of his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Chairman and CEO DASSAULT AVIATION, Charles EDELSTENNE In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: has not ceased his professional activity on account of his terms of office with DASSAULT Eric TRAPPIER received gross annual SYSTÈMES and GIMD. He cannot therefore compensation of EUR 1,295,644 in his capacity draw on his statutory pension. as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. Consequently, DASSAULT AVIATION, despite its His compensation in 2013 does not include any commitment, has had to defer the payment of variable part or exceptional compensation. this pension. He has not been allocated any stock options or Retirement allowance: performance shares. In 2009, the employment contract of Charles He did not receive compensation related to his EDELSTENNE was terminated at the initiative of taking office of CEO. DASSAULT AVIATION on account of his retirement. He does not benefit as an executive officer from any compensation linked to the cessation Since Charles EDELSTENNE was pursuing at the of his term of office. time the exercise of his term of office as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of He had the use of a chauffeur-driven company DASSAULT AVIATION, the Board had linked the car (benefit in kind valued at EUR 8,001) and payment of this allowance to the end of his last all expenses incurred in the course of his duties term of office. were reimbursed on an actual-cost basis. Whereas: In addition, he received directors’ fees of EUR 33,526 (double the standard amount). his term of office as Chairman and Chief 69 Directors’ report On January 9, 2013, the date of his appointyears of age, and whose salary is greater than ment as CEO, the employment contract of Mr. four-times the French annual Social Security ceiling Eric TRAPPIER was suspended due to: (EUR 148 K in 2013). his length of service of 28 years in the ComThe pension paid is capped at 10 times the Annual pany on the date of his appointment as CEO Social Security Ceiling (EUR 370,000 in 2013) and in January 2013, allows a tapered replacement rate, taken over all the desire of the Company to use internal pension plans, depending on compensation of promotion in the appointment of Executive between 41% and 35%. Directors entrusting these responsibilities to experienced executives with deep 2.9.4 Compensation paid to the Chief knowledge of the industry and the aviation Operating Officer sector. In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: The decision to suspend his contract of emLoïk SEGALEN received gross annual ployment is consistent with the position of the compensation as Chief Operating Officer of EUR AMF in its reports (2012 and 2013) on corpo1,146,133. rate governance in regard to the employment contracts of Executive corporate officers. His compensation in 2013 includes no variable or exceptional compensation. On the reinstatement of his employment contract, Eric TRAPPIER will have the severance He has not been allocated any stock options or and supplementary pension benefits(*) applicaperformance shares. ble to employees of his category, according to the rules of our Company. He did not receive compensation related to his The Board of Directors decided on March 12, taking office as Chief Operating Officer. 2014 that Eric TRAPPIER will continue to benefit from the supplementary pension plan(*) apHe does not benefit as an executive officer plicable to senior executives of the Company. from any compensation linked to the cessation of his term of office. The pension paid shall be calculated according to the average gross annual compensation for He had the use of a chauffeur-driven company his last three years as an executive officer. car as needed (benefit in kind valued at EUR On the basis of his compensation in 2013, the 7,917), and all expenses incurred in the course supplementary scheme will pay an annual penof his duties were reimbursed on an actual-cost sion of EUR 333,000, representing 26% of Eric basis. TRAPPIER's salary as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. On January 9, 2013, the date of his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, the employment conDuring his term of office, the Chairman and tract of Loïk SEGALEN was suspended due to: Chief Executive Officer also benefits from health his length of service of 27 years with the Comand welfare plans applicable to all management pany on the date of his appointment as Chief employees of the Company. Operating Officer in January 2013, In respect of other French and foreign the desire of the Company to use internal procompanies in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: motion in the appointment of Executive Directors entrusting these responsibilities to experiEric TRAPPIER received directors’ fees of enced executives with deep knowledge of the EUR 35,250 from the Board of Directors of industry and the aviation sector. THALES. The decision to suspend his contract of employ(*) The supplementary pension plan is meant for ment is consistent with the position of the AMF in Company executives with at least 10 years of serits reports (2012 and 2013) on corporate governvice, who are still employed by the Company at ance in regard to the employment contracts of the time of taking retirement, who are at least 60 Executive Corporate Officer. 70 DASSAULT AVIATION On the reinstatement of his employment contract, 2.9.5 Compensation paid to Directors Loïk SEGALEN will have the severance and supplementary pension benefits(*) applicable to emIn respect of GIMD, which controls DASSAULT ployees of his category, according to the rules of AVIATION: our Company. Olivier DASSAULT received a gross annual compensation of EUR 180,000 in his capacity as The Board of Directors decided on March 12, 2014 Chairman of the Supervisory Board, and a gross that, like Eric TRAPPIER, Loïk SEGALEN will continannual salary of EUR 148,572. He received a ue to benefit from the supplementary pension company car (benefit in kind valued at EUR plan(*) applicable to senior executives of the Com3,329.37) and was paid EUR 25,666.67 in pany. The pension paid shall be calculated accorddirector's fees. ing to the average gross annual compensation for his last three years as an executive officer. Nicole Dassault received EUR 25,666.67 in directors' fees. On the basis of his compensation in 2013, the supplementary scheme will pay an annual pension In respect of DASSAULT AVIATION: of EUR 274,000, representing 24% of Loïk Nicole DASSAULT, Olivier DASSAULT, Pierre de SEGALEN's compensation as Chief Operating OfBAUSSET, Alain GARCIA, Denis KESSLER and ficer. Henri PROGLIO each received EUR 22,000 in directors' fees from the Board of Directors. During his term of office, the Chief Operating OfPhilippe HUSTACHE received EUR 4,430. ficer also benefits from health and welfare plans applicable to all management employees of the In respect of the Audit Committee, Denis Company. KESSLER received EUR 6,000 in additional directors' fees and Henri PROGLIO received In respect of other French and foreign EUR 10,000 in additional directors' fees companies in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: (including EUR 4,000 in his capacity as Loïk SEGALEN received USD 38,572 in directors' Chairman of said Committee). fees from the Board of Directors of DASSAULT FALCON JET and EUR 37,750 in directors' fees In respect of other French and foreign from the THALES Board of Directors. companies in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: (*) The Directors referred to in Section 1 of the The supplementary pension plan is meant for paragraph above did not receive any Company executives with at least 10 years of sercompensation, directors’ fees or benefits in vice, who are still employed by the Company at kind. the time of taking retirement, who are at least 60 years of age, and whose salary is greater than four-times the French annual Social Security ceiling (EUR 148 K in 2013). The pension paid is capped at 10 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (EUR 370,000 in 2013) and allows a tapered replacement rate, taken over all pension plans, depending on compensation of between 41% and 35%. 71 Directors’ report 2.9.6 Summary tables of compensation (AMF Nomenclature) Table 1 Summary table of compensation due and options and shares granted to each Executive corporate officer (in EUR) 2012 2013 Charles EDELSTENNE Chairman and Chief Operating Officer until 01/08/2013 Compensation payable during the fiscal year (breakdown in table 2) 806,870 43,765 Value of year-on-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of stock options granted during the year Value of free shares granted during the year TOTAL 806,870 43,765 Eric TRAPPIER, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer as of 01/09/2013 Compensation payable during the fiscal year (breakdown in table 2) 1,337,171 Value of year-on-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of stock options granted during the year Value of free shares granted during the year TOTAL 1,337,171 Loïk SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer with effect from 01/09/2013 Compensation payable during the fiscal year (breakdown in table 2) 1,154,050 Value of year-on-year variable compensation granted during the year Value of stock options granted during the year Value of free shares granted during the year TOTAL 1,154,050 72 DASSAULT AVIATION Table 2 Summary table of compensation paid to each Executive corporate officer (in EUR) 2012 amounts 2013 amounts Payable Paid Payable paid Charles EDELSTENNE, Chairman and CEO until 01/08/2013 Fixed compensation 753,840 753,840 10,798 10,798 Annual variable compensation Year-on-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Directors’ fees (1) 44,000 44,000 32,967 32,967 Benefits in kind 9,030 9,030 TOTAL 806,870 806,870 43,765 43,765 Eric TRAPPIER, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer with effect from 01/09/2013 Fixed compensation 1,295,644 1,295,644 Annual variable compensation Year-on-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Directors' fees (2) 33,526 33,526 Benefits in kind 8,001 8,001 TOTAL 1,337,171 1,337,171 Loïk SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer with effect from 09/01/2013 Fixed compensation 1,146,133 1,146,133 Annual variable compensation Year-on-year variable compensation Exceptional compensation Directors' fees (3) Benefits in kind 7,917 7,917 TOTAL 1,154,050 1,154,050 (1) Charles EDELSTENNE also received EUR 196,115.12 as Chief Executive Office of GIMD, EUR 21,000 in directors' fees from the Supervisory Board of GIMD, USD 38,572 in directors' fees from the Board of Directors of DASSAULT FALCON JET and EUR 36,500 in directors' fees from the THALES Board of Directors. (2) Eric TRAPPIER received directors’ fees of EUR 35,250 from the THALES Board of Directors (3) Loïk SEGALEN received USD 38,572 in directors' fees from the Board of Directors of DASSAULT FALCON JET and EUR 37,750 in directors' fees from the THALES Board of Directors. 73 Directors’ report Table 3 Table of directors' fees and other compensation paid to non-executive directors (in EUR) Amounts paid in 2012 Amounts paid in 2013 Non-executive directors (Gross) (Gross) Serge DASSAULT Directors' fees 22,000 22,000 Other compensation Charles EDELSTENNE (1) Directors' fees 44,000 32,967 Other compensation Nicole DASSAULT Directors' fees 22,000 22,000 Other compensation Olivier DASSAULT Directors' fees 22,000 22,000 Other compensation Pierre de BAUSSET Directors' fees 22,000 22,000 Other compensation Alain GARCIA Directors' fees 22,000 22,000 Other compensation Philippe HUSTACHE (2) Directors' fees 28,000 4,430 Other compensation Denis KESSLER (2) (2) Directors' fees 28,000 28,000 Other compensation Henri PROGLIO (3) (3) Directors' fees 32,000 32,000 Other compensation TOTAL 242,000 207,397 (1) including EUR 4,500 in respect of the Audit Committee (2) including EUR 6,000 in respect of the Audit Committee (3) including EUR 10,000 in respect of the Audit Committee 74 DASSAULT AVIATION Table 4 options to subscribe for or purchase shares granted during the year to each executive officer by the issuer or any Group company. N/A Table 5 options to subscribe for or purchase shares exercised during the year by each executive officer. N/A Table 6 performance shares granted during the year to each executive officer by the issuer or any Group company. N/A Table 7 performance shares that became available during the year for each executive officer. N/A Table 8 Previous grants of stock options or purchase of shares Information on subscription or purchase options. N/A Table 9 options to subscribe for or purchase shares granted to the ten non-executive employees granted options and exercised by them. N/A Table 10 previous allocations of performance shares Information on performance shares. N/A 75 Directors’ report Table 11 Other information on Executive Corporate Officers Compensation or benefits payable Compensation for Employment Pension plan Executive directors or likely to be payable on terminon-compete contract supplementary nation or change of office agreement Eric TRAPPIER Chairman and Chief Executive (1) (2) (2) yes yes no no Officer start of term: 01/09/2013 end of term: AGM 2015 Loïk SEGALEN (1) (2) (2) Chief Operating Officer yes yes no no start of term: 01/09/2013 end of term: ditto Chairman-CEO (1) employment contract suspended as of January 9, 2013 (2) at the end of their term of office, corporate officers receive retirement allowances and supplementary pensions according to the rules applicable to employees in their category. The Board of Directors decided on March 12, 2014 that the reference compensation for the calculation of supplementary pension will be the average gross annual compensation for their last three years as executive officer. 76 DASSAULT AVIATION 3. Social, environmental and 3.1 SOCIAL INFORMATION corporate responsibility 3.1.1 Staff Policy information The fundamental principles governing the staff policy of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group are: The DASSAULT AVIATION Group actively pursues a policy of corporate environmental and social attentive job management, designed to preresponsibility (CSR) and promotes six strategic serve our skills in a continually evolving envidevelopment themes: ronment, developing innovative products and processes an attractive pay policy, to reduce environmental impact, a permanent staff dialog, manifested via: developing the human potential of the Group, o the search for collective agreement, striving for excellence in employee safety and protection, o the smooth functioning of the staff representative institutions, adopting a wage policy that involves employees in the results, combating all forms of discrimination by: achieving a responsible approach towards its o the implementation of corporate agreements partners and suppliers, or action plans, in particular with regard to making an active contribution to local economic job equality between men and women, and and social life. the employment and retention in employment of disabled people, and the integration These themes are reflected in the ethical commitand retention in employment of young and ments of DASSAULT AVIATION Group to unite all older people, Group employees around them. o informing and training employees and managers on these topics. CSR policy is based on the different departments of Dassault Aviation and its subsidiaries. It is well the professional and career development of integrated with the strategy of DASSAULT each employee, based in particular on: AVIATION. o Jobs and Skills Forecast Management, making tools available to all employees of the Information developed and presented below are Parent Company for managing their career part of this dynamic. They relate to the DASSAULT paths, AVIATION Group, comprising the Parent Company and its subsidiaries. o training, in particular via the DASSAULT Institute for the development of our managers Most of the indicators used take account of the and the Skills Conservatory for the preservaregulatory requirements and of the principles of tion of our skills and know-how, the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). A correo internal mobility: all employees of the Parent spondence table between our indicators and these Company have access to internal vacancies, principles is included in appendix 2 of the present report. preventive health & safety actions carried out in coordination with the medical network and the Quality Instructions formalize the reporting rules, Health & Safety and Working Conditions netand periodic checks are now carried out by our work, in order to ensure the well-being of emindependent third-party auditor. ployees, both physically and psychologically. However, as detailed in the methodological note included in appendix 1 to this report, certain indicators cannot be consolidated on account of regulatory differences between countries. 77 Directors’ report 3.1.2 Recruitment for passing on their skills and taking part in actions run at company level, or at local level by our esOn December 31, 2013, the total number of tablishments. DASSAULT AVIATION Group employees remained stable and amounted to 11,614 people (compared These upstream recruitment efforts are backed by with 11,582 in 2012 on the same basis). an internship policy designed to facilitate entry into working life. In this way, in 2013, the Parent ComWorkforce on pany was able to receive 361 interns. Entity December 31, 2013 In 2013, 685 employees left DASSAULT AVIATION Group, compared with 596 in 2012, an increase of DASSAULT AVIATION nearly 15%. Individual dismissals represent 11% 8,061 Parent Company of all these departures, stable compared to the previous year. This variation reflects the change in DASSAULT FALCON JET 2,522 the definition of the indicator (see methodological note in Appendix 1 to this report). DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE 580 3.1.3 Pay policy SOGITEC INDUSTRIES 423 The DASSAULT AVIATION Group pursues a pay DASSAULT PROCUREMENT policy whose objectives are to reward, motivate 28 SERVICES and inspire loyalty among its employees, while Total : 11,614 adapting to its situation and its economic environment. The workforce of DASSAULT AVIATION Group At December 31, 2013, the average annual comconsists of 9,641 men and 1,973 women, accordpensation of employees of the Group was EUR ing to the following breakdown: 50,473. The average annual compensation in the Parent Company, including profit-sharing and incentives, amounted to EUR 65,288. Distribution by age Up to 35 years 23% The Parent Company also encourages employee 36 to 50 40% savings. Company employees can use the EnterOver 51 years 37% prise Savings Plan (PEE Plan d’Epargne Entreprise), with a wide range of investment posThe employees of DASSAULT AVIATION Group are sibilities, along with the Collective Retirement Savdistributed as: 78% in France and 22% in the ings Plan (PERCO Plan d’Epargne pour la Retraite United States; this is identical to 2012. COllectif), with the company matching the employee's contributions. As at December 31, 2013, 409 employees of DASSAULT AVIATION Group were employed on a Furthermore, the Parent Company channeled part-time basis, an increase of 5% compared to EUR 21.7 million into the Works' Committees to 2012. fund social and cultural activities, representing 5% of the payroll. In 2013, DASSAULT AVIATION continued its recruitment policy by hiring 717 people, an increase 3.1.4 Employee relations of 4%. The DASSAULT AVIATION Group implements an To prepare for its future recruitment needs, the active employee relations policy. Regular negotiaParent Company is pursuing its cooperation with tions take place with the staff representatives, educational institutions and establishments. giving rise to a staff dialog based on the quest for collective agreement. In order to promote our company and help stuIn 2013, 11 agreements and amendments were dents to construct their career plans, company signed on topics as varied as profit-sharing, incenemployees are officially assigned as ambassadors tives, employment and retention in employment of 78 DASSAULT AVIATION people with disabilities, the union intranet, youth In order to raise the awareness of all managers and older employment, etc. This information is about the issues of diversity, and to integrate theavailable on the intranet of the Parent Company. se more efficiently into the job of management, the Parent Company continued training in 2013 on This regular staff dialog helps to maintain a climate the theme: Management and diversity . 475 manpropitious to the smooth running of the company. agers were trained in 2013, with a total of 961 It operates at several levels, involving: managers receiving training since 2012. staff representative bodies: In 2013, the Parent Company reaffirmed its policy with regard to job equality for men and women by Works' Committees, implementing an agreement signed in late 2011, reinforcing the provisions of the previous agreeHealth & Safety and Working Conditions ment dating from 2007. Committees, Staff Delegates, Furthermore, DASSAULT AVIATION is pursuing its policy to develop diversity within the Company, Specialized committees (economic, training, particularly in technical and industrial trades. This employment, prevention of psychosocial desire to encourage the employment of women is risks, etc.), manifested through recruitment targets and through the deployment of communication camCentral Works Council, paigns in educational establishments in order to get women students to learn more about the techunion organizations: nical professions. Particular attention is paid to the local union delegates and central union deltraining and career development of women, notaegates, bly through encouraging their access to the management training of the DASSAULT Institute. Representative of the union sections, The subsidiaries SOGITEC INDUSTRIES and the Board of Directors: the Central Works DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE have also begun Council is represented on the Board of Direcmeasures to promote access to training and the tors. reconciliation of work and private life. An agreement of the Parent Company on the role, In its continued commitment to encourage recapabilities and career of staff representatives, cruitment, retention in employment and career signed in 2010, facilitates the functioning of trade development of disabled employees, in 2013 the unions and staff representative bodies by providing Parent Company signed with all the unions an many additional resources to those provided by amendment to the 2010 agreement on the emlaw (time off for trade union duties, budgetary ployment of disabled people. allocations for the unions, material resources, career-monitoring facility for staff representatives). In this respect, the Company has organized an information campaign about disability titled « j’ai un handicap, et alors ?» ( I'm disabled – so 3.1.5 Diversity what? ). Introduced in all of the Company's nine The DASSAULT AVIATION Group adheres to the facilities, the aims of the event were to raise staff principles of non-discrimination and promotes its awareness on disability issues, to enhance the desire to encourage diversity, considered a key actions and commitments of DASSAULT AVIATION factor in its Human Resources policy. This desire is in this area, to fight against certain stereotypes, manifested in the signing of corporate agreements and also to serve as a reminder about existing and the implementation of action plans in the arearrangements made available to the employees as of job equality between men and women, the concerned. employment of disabled people and the integration This event has also been completed throughout and retention in employment of young and older the year by local actions implemented at the instiemployees. gation of local Cap Avenir committees. 79 Directors’ report The Parent Company also works upstream on to meet with managers and discuss the issues training disabled people in the aerospace profesand challenges affecting the Company, sions. For example, the company has renewed its partnership with the Hanvol Association, created in professional mobility, a crucial tool for assuring 2010 with the support of GIFAS (the Association of vitality, allows the Company to satisfy its huFrench Aeronautical and Space Industries), and man resources needs while catering to the aspiother aerospace companies, to promote the trainrations of employees, ing and integration of disabled people through the the transfer of operational know-how through establishment of work-study training. the Skills Conservatory (the range of training courses continues to develop) is deployed on all The commitments of the Parent Company with sites, regard to the employment of disabled people have been manifested through a hiring rate greater than an overhaul of the DASSAULT Institute manthe legal minimum of 6%. At the end of 2013, agement programs is laying the groundwork for DASSAULT AVIATION Group employed 608 disathe future by developing the skills of managers bled workers, compared with 633 in 2012. To this and improving the performance of our organimay be added initiatives in favor of the protected zation within an ever-changing environment. In sector (i.e.: for the employment of disabled peothis context, an additional arrangement, the ple) and the induction of disabled interns. Industrial Agreements , has been introduced for the first-level managers of production faciliLastly, through an intergenerational agreement ties to support the industrial developments of signed in 2013, the Parent Company is committed the Parent Company, to promote the sustainable integration of young people in employment by giving them access to our investments in professional training meet permanent contracts, hiring and retaining older the operational needs of the company and its workers in employment, but also to ensure the employees. They represent 224,927 hours of transmission of knowledge and skills. Similarly, training for the DASSAULT AVIATION Group or, SOGITEC INDUSTRIES and DASSAULT FALCON on a comparable basis against 2012, a decrease SERVICE are committed to action plans on these of 10%, issues. our work/study policy, centered on our core Coordinators are appointed to lead and monitor businesses, continues to develop. the initiatives provided for in the agreements signed by the Parent Company. 3.1.7 Health and Safety at Work Health and safety at work are priorities in 3.1.6 Human Resources development DASSAULT AVIATION policy. In the Group, the actions undertaken in 2013 underpinned the maintenance and development of In 2013, DASSAULT AVIATION paid particular atemployee skills levels, taking into account both tention to leading improvement initiatives that in individual and collective aspirations, on the one the following areas have resulted in: hand, and the social and economic climate of the our continued effort in the prevention of psyCompany, on the other. chosocial risks by implementing improvement action plans both centrally and in each facility. In the Parent Company, several arrangements Furthermore, the training initiatives for the continue to bear fruit. These include: management teams, initiated in 2008, continThe high degree of technicality of our activities ued to be pursued in 2013. A joint committee leads us to develop special relations with the meets twice a year to monitor the implementaworld of education, thereby helping to ensure tion of our agreement, the suitability and quality of the training of our the reduction in exposure to key factors of work future recruits, stress by strengthening collective and individual the integration of new employees: ENVOL protection from chemical risks, noise reduction days bring together newly hired executive staff at source and the layout of workstations based on ergonomic studies, 80 DASSAULT AVIATION the introduction of risk prevention sheets for 3.2 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION the employees concerned, 3.2.1 General framework the continued action of substitution of hazardous chemicals in favor of new methods entailA policy of environmental improvement has been ing lower risk. observed for more than 10 years in the DASSAULT AVIATION Group. This policy is based on a manAt the Parent Company, the following initiatives agement system deployed by stages: have been introduced to improve working conditions and enhance risk management: ISO 14001 certification of the Little Rock site of DASSAULT FALCON JET in the United States the launch of action plans to reduce absentee(2002), ism and work accidents, ISO 14001 certification of the industrial sites of ATEX (Explosive Atmosphere) technical risk the Parent Company (2002-2006), assessment, overall certification of the Parent Company from inception to After-Sales (2007), the provision of a Company catalog of personal protective equipment, integration of Quality and Environment certifications for the Parent Company (2009), the establishment of a central organization for the study and analysis of new chemical prodcontinued work for compliance with ISO 14001 ucts, for DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE on its Le Bourget site. technical validation of new methods to reduce chromate exposure, This approach has significantly contributed to: the improvement of working conditions in the the significant reduction of the environmental design of new workstations using Immersive impacts of our activities (see Section 3.2.7), Reality Center technology and the provision of the reduction and improved management of ergonomics resources, our environmental risks (see Section 1.5.8), defining standards of prevention of chemical improved responsiveness to regulatory changrisk in aircraft operations, es. preparation of an electrical safety handbook suited to activities of the Parent Company. For the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, absenteeism at 31 December 2013 amounted to 84,104 days of absence from all causes, except for maternity and parental leave. The number of work-related accidents with work stoppage amounted to 202 in 2013 compared with 189 in 2012 for a total number of days of absence of 6,033 against 7,852 in 2012. The frequency rate rose slightly from 10.21 to 10.97 and the severity rate decreased from 0.42 to 0.33. Finally, in the Group in 2013, 24 cases of occupational illnesses were identified by the various competent authorities, against 23 in 2012. For the Parent Company, this mainly involved repetitive strain injuries. 81 Directors’ report 3.2.2 Environmental commitment our water consumption by 70%, Since 2008, the Parent Company has been a our VOC emissions by 50%, member of the Council for Civil Aeronautical research (CORAC) set up following the Grenelle de our consumption of heavy fuel oil by 100%. l’Environnement conference for defining and implementing technological research and innovation 3.2.4 Eco-approach actions. Its purpose is to achieve the environmental objectives set at European level for 2020 and to In 2011, based on these objectives, the Parent reinforce the competitiveness of the sector. Company has constructed an Eco-approach 2021 plan grounded on two key points: eco-design The Parent Company is also one of the founding (green aircraft) and eco-production (green factomembers of the IAEG (International Aerospace ry). Environmental Group), created in 2011, whose objectives are to promote and facilitate the inteOn the green aircraft aspect, the Parent Compagration of environmental concerns in the world ny: aerospace industry. DASSAULT FALCON JET and is participating in studies on the aircraft of the DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES signed up to future, particularly in the context of the Eurothe IAEG in 2012. pean project CLEANSKY, In 2013, the main lines of work of the IAEG were relies on the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) analfocused on: ysis method to assess the environmental impact of aircraft and its activities. the monitoring of all chemicals throughout the supply chain, In regard to green factory , whether for regulatothe determination of which chemical substances ry reasons or as part of the development of more to be substituted as a priority, environmentally friendly technologies, the Parent Company is conducting numerous projects: Greenhouse Gas inventories. for the development of cleaner processes, 3.2.3 Environmental objectives for the replacement of substances of concern such as chromates and cadmium. Over the past 40 years, technological progress with regard to engine efficiency, aerodynamics and weight saving have made it possible to reduce 3.2.5 Employee awareness considerably the fuel consumption, CO2 emissions In the DASSAULT AVIATION Group environmental and noise nuisance from our aircraft. matters are the responsibility of a central team coordinating the environmental initiatives of the DASSAULT AVIATION intends to pursue this path facilities, departments and subsidiaries. and has therefore subscribed to the objectives defined by the Advisory Council for Aeronautics Each of the Parent Company's facilities has an Research in Europe (ACARE): Environment team and a network of Environment 50% reduction of noise levels on the ground, officers. Each subsidiary has at least one Environment officer. 50% reduction of CO2 emissions, The Environment teams and Environment officers reducing the environmental impact created by undergo regular awareness training on environthe production and withdrawal from service of mental issues, for example, for the Parent Compaaircraft. ny, through specific seminars on the topic. On the industrial side, we continue our goal of reducing the environmental impact of our facilities. Thus, since the beginning of the process, we have reduced: 82 DASSAULT AVIATION The staff has been made conscious of good envi2012 2013 ronmental practices including measures for rein Gigajoules Parent ConsoliParent ConsoliCompany dated Company dated source saving, waste sorting, the use of chemicals, Energy exetc cluding kero612,854 895,618 619,626 931,580 sene For activities that have a significant impact on the (ENE001) environment, specific training is implemented, Kerosene 234,093 498,889 257,948 539,749 such as REACh, international regulation, chemical (ENE002) hazard, asbestos hazard, etc. Total 846,947 1,394,507 877,574 1,471,329 Workers from outside companies are made aware by means of prevention plans and other siteWith the exception of the kerosene consumed by specific documents. the aircraft, the main energy sources are electricity and gas. 3.2.6 Administrative regimes 2012 2013 in Gigajoules Parent ConsoliParent ConsoliThe French industrial sites are subject to ICPE Company dated Company dated (Environment Protection Classified Installations) Electricity 343,374 512,268 340,575 518,547 legislation, and as such possess all the recent (ENE001-a) administrative authorizations. Natural gas 266,397 378,218 273,196 403,086 (ENE001-b) The Poitiers site, the only DASSAULT AVIATION LPG 178 178 107 107 (ENE001-c) Group site to be classified as low threshold under Domestic the Seveso Directive, is being reclassified following fuel oil 2,904 4,953 5,748 9,840 the replacement of the chemical machining of tita(ENE001-d) nium (Super Plastic Forming Diffusion Bonding) Heavy fuel 0 0 0 by a more environmentally friendly manufacturing oil 0 (ENE001-e) process. Total (ENE001) 612,853 895,617 619,626 931,580 The Martignas and Saint-Cloud sites are subject to the Declaration regime, while the other estabElectricity consumption remained stable in 2013 lishments of the Parent Company and the despite the increased size of working premises. DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE site at Le Bourget Gas consumption by the Parent Company is inare subject to the Authorization regime. creasing, due to adverse weather conditions in the first quarter. The SOGITEC INDUSTRIES sites are not classified. In 2013, an energy pre-diagnosis was performed The industrial sites of foreign subsidiaries are monon all Parent Company sites. This resulted in a itored in accordance with the regulations of their mapping of energy consumption, to identify potencountry. tial actions for improvement. 3.2.7 Environmental performance Water consumption The water used comes from public supply netEnergy consumption works, or from pumped groundwater. Energy is in the main consumed in the framework of the industrial activity of the production sites, in cubic me2012 2013 Parent ConsoliParent Consoliand the aviation activity. ters Company dated Company dated Mains water 112,875 160,583 113,872 158,767 (EAU001-a) Groundwater 35,839 35,839 36,424 37,016 (EAU001-b) Total 148,714 196,422 150,296 195,783 (EAU001) 83 Directors’ report The increase in consumption between 2012 and Atmospheric discharges 2013 does not negate the significant reduction in Greenhouse gas emissions water consumption of about 55% in 10 years, which is the result of actions taken on: The first inventories on emissions of Greenhouse supply network renovation, Gases (GHG) of the Parent Company and of DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE were published in the elimination of open-circuit installations, 2012 for reference year 2011, in accordance with changes to production processes, Article 75 of the Grenelle 2 Act. the recycling of industrial wastewater, The inventory was made for direct emissions restricting the watering of green spaces, (scope 1) and indirect emissions from electricity consumption (scope 2). the recovery of rainwater or industrial water. in tonnes of 2012 2013 Parent ConsoliParent ConsoliRaw materials and other products CO2 Company dated Company dated The aircraft structures mainly consist of aluminum, Scope 1 33,890 (*)60,016 35,883 64,716 (AIR001-S1) 80% of which comes from recycled raw materials. Scope 2 5,722 28,045 5,676 28,024 (AIR001-S2) 2012 2013 Total 1 + 2 in tonnes Parent ConsoliParent Consoli39,612 88,061 41,559 92,740 (AIR001) Company dated Company dated (*) excluding emissions linked to refrigeration processes in the Aluminum 4,214 4,235 5,668 5,692 (MAT001) US subsidiaries. Titanium 101 101 78 78 (MAT002) GHG emissions derive essentially from combustion Composites 106 145 111 150 installations (boilers and backup generators) and (MAT003) aviation activity (scope 1). Steel 161 ND 123 123 (MAT005) The Parent Company has taken action to reduce GHG emissions. Note in particular the setting up of The increase in aluminum consumption is linked to platforms for the distribution of raw materials the growth of our business and the launch of new which reduce significantly the emissions linked to programs. road transport. After machining, more than 80% of the aluminum The results of the 2013 energy pre-diagnosis consumed is reinjected into the metals recycling helped identify future areas of potential CO 2 footcircuit (R4 channel). print reduction for the Company. The modernization of the machines pool and the As it does every year, the Parent Company proprocess changes have enabled significant reducduced a CO2 declaration for its aviation activity in tions in the consumption of the chemical products the framework of the Emissions Trading Scheme used, such as solvents, cleaning products and cutregulations. ting fluids. Current actions on more environmentally friendly production processes will in the long time contribute to reducing the consumption of materials (Ecoapproach 2021 plan). In 2013, initiatives to substitute substances of concern and reduce chemical risks were stepped up, especially in processes using mixtures containing hexavalent chromium. 84 DASSAULT AVIATION Emission of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) Sites situated over water tables have instituted monitoring of the water quality (piezometer) when in tonnes of 2012 2013 their activities so require. Parent ConsoliParent ConsoliVOC Company dated Company dated Waste Total quan61 151 66 153 tity (AIR004) The waste generated is divided into NonHazardous Waste (paper, cardboard, metals, etc.) The increase in emission of VOCs between 2012 and Hazardous Waste (contaminated packaging, and 2013 does not negate the significant reduction oils, metal hydroxide sludge, solvents, etc.). achieved for 10 years through: 2012 2013 the reduction of chemical machining processes, in tonnes Parent ConsoliParent ConsoliCompany dated Company dated the almost total elimination of trichloroethylene, Non-hazardous 6,325 7,896 6,612 8,121 (DEC001-a) the replacement of methyl ethyl ketone. Hazardous 1,554 2,086 1,520 2,125 (DEC001-b) Since 1993, VOC emissions from aircraft have been Total 7,879 9,982 8,132 10,246 (DEC001) reduced by 79% on the DASSAULT FALCON JET Recycling % 80.4 N/A 84.8 N/A site at Little Rock. (DEC002) The use of halogenated solvents has also been Three main channels are used for the recycling significantly reduced (over 90% in 10 years). and reuse of our waste: Halting the chemical machining of titanium process recycling of metals, (SPFDB) in 2013 will further improve the environenergy recovery, mental performance in VOCs of the Parent Company. the reuse of non-metallic materials. Other atmospheric discharges Each facility has a specific collection area, fitted to prevent accidental pollution. Phasing out the heavy fuel oil boilers restricted SO2 emissions exclusively to the discharges from aviaConditions of ground use tion activity (kerosene). Excluding the historic Saint-Cloud and Argenteuil sites, which are located in urban zones, the sites of Wastewater the DASSAULT AVIATION Group have been laid The production sites likely to generate industrial out with a view to preserving green spaces. wastewater are equipped with detoxification stations or wastewater treatment installations of the The average proportion of sealed surfaces (develzero liquid discharge type. oped land and roads) amounted to 48% in 2013 for the Parent Company (SOL001 indicator), and was in This equipment gives us heavy metal discharge the order of 56% for the subsidiaries. rates lower than the value limits set by the regulations. Noise and vibrations In the production facilities, noisy equipment is On all institutions involved in the monitoring of the isolated geographically or physically, and devices Release of Hazardous Substances in Water, only likely to generate vibrations are set up on the Mérignac site requires permanent monitoring. antivibration mountings. In order to prevent accidental pollution, the sites are equipped with hydrocarbon separators, stripping areas and containment basins for fireextinguishing water. 85 Directors’ report Noise level measurements have not revealed any 3.2.8 Resources committed to the significant noise pollution for the vicinity. environment Ground tests and flight operations are conducted Every year the DASSAULT AVIATION Group carries in compliance with applicable regulations. out actions of improvement for the preservation of the environment and reduction of its carbon footTransport print. As examples, in 2013: Travel by DASSAULT AVIATION Group employees the replacement of air conditioners running on has been minimized by the implementation of colR22 (refrigerant with high global warming polaborative tools, videoconferencing or business tential) and the gradual withdrawal of smoke centers/lounges. detectors using ionization chambers, the establishment of centralized technical enerThe industrial streamlining carried out by the Pargy management at Istres, ent Company has provided the opportunity to optimize inter-site transport for persons and goods. the installation of solar heating at Martignas, the replacement of part of the fleet with electric The arrangements for ferrying personnel by bus vehicles, have been optimized in terms of circuits and capacity in order to match actual needs. the extension of the rainwater recovery circuit at Argenteuil, Three facilities (Saint-Cloud, Istres and Argenteuil) the reuse of decontaminated water for cooling are involved in the development of a Company facilities at Biarritz, Travel Plan restricting the use of private cars. In this regard the following have been conducted: the recovery of bio-waste, awareness campaigns for a Company Travel the replacement of heating, ventilation and air Plan or the use of electric vehicles, conditioning (DASSAULT FALCON JET), encouragement to carpool through the provithe acquisition of a solvent regenerator sion of a matchmaking noticeboard, (DASSAULT FALCON JET), promotion of electric bikes and the conversion the dismantling of surface treatments of specific parking areas. (DASSAULT FALCON JET), using recycled plastic pallets instead of wooden In 2013, the establishment of DASSAULT FALCON pallets (DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES). SERVICE at Le Bourget voluntarily committed to the process of an Inter-Company Travel Plan by signing the PRO'MOBILITE LE BOURGET Charter 3.2.9 Environmental risk management aimed at optimizing the transport in the airport The management of environmental risk is disarea. cussed in paragraph 1.5.8. Finally, the implementation of distribution platforms for chemicals and materials contributes to the reduction of transport flows. Biodiversity The activities of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group have no known impact on biodiversity. Our facilities are situated within dedicated industrial or airport zones. Only the sites at Istres, Biarritz (Parent Company) and Reno (Dassault Falcon Jet) are close to outstanding natural areas (BIO001 Indicator). 86 DASSAULT AVIATION 3.3 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY support are governed by specific regulations that INFORMATION apply to operators. The necessary reactivity, whether employed pre3.3.1 Company commitments in favor of ventively or in an emergency in the event of a sustainable development breakdown, has led us, via our subsidiaries and DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE and DASSAULT A policy of sustainability FALCON JET to develop close links with local inBecause of the peculiarities of its activities, the dustry whose proximity is a guarantee of efficacy DASSAULT AVIATION Group remains committed to and safety. a policy of sustainability, both in the choice of its partners and in its purchasing policy. Corporate commitment for industrial and purchasing activities The service life of our aircraft requires us to anticiIn the framework of its industrial and purchasing pate the constraints relating to their life cycle from activities, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group: the time of their design. To achieve this, the DASSAULT AVIATION Group is constantly innovatprocures, purchases, manufactures and inteing, supported in this by efficient digital industrial grates all the elements making up its aircraft, processes such as PLM. All the Group's suppliers then carries out the internal fittings according are involved in this process. to the requirements of its customers, disassembles, repairs and reinstalls these same We optimize our production to increase efficiency elements while the aircraft is in service, while improving the working conditions of our employees. To this effect, we have launched an acensures control over its supply chain, directly or tion plan for Improving Responsiveness in Producthrough its subsidiary DASSAULT tion (IRP) and we are developing the digital facPROCUREMENT SERVICES in the case of North tory concept placing line or control operatives in American suppliers, an environment that meets their needs. informs of any procurement instabilities in order to ensure long-term respect of its commitments Similarly, our Group's approach, with its commiton the production of aircraft and throughout ment to ecology (via eco-design), the use of new the aircraft service cycle. materials and the definition of new clean processes, makes a strong contribution to the optimization All these activities have a strong territorial, ecoof our products and stands us in good stead in the nomic and social impact. The DASSAULT face of future regulations. AVIATION Group demonstrates its commitment to social responsibility, in particular, in major issues A culture of safety and performance related to its Supply Chain and in the constructive dialogue conducted with all stakeholders involved The markets on which our Group operates are in these processes: users, suppliers, staff, authorihighly competitive. In order to satisfy our clients ties, auditing agencies, local authorities, profesand meet their expectations with regard to high sional associations, the academic community, ... technology, performance and innovation, we are obliged to constantly optimize the features of our Importance of purchasing aircraft, the on-board services and the associated ground services. In 2013, the purchasing commitments of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group represented approxiAs part of our security policy and performance, we mately EUR 2 billion and cover numerous areas of work closely with the French and international expertise: airworthiness authorities, both civil and military. raw materials, engines, equipment and finishing We are regularly audited by these authorities to represent three quarters of all purchasing. ensure that we strictly adhere to the regulations About 60% takes place with French suppliers, on design, manufacture and testing, maintenance, and security management. aerostructures purchases (structural elements of the aircraft) represent about EUR 430 million In the same way, aircraft operations and logistics involving 250 suppliers. 87 Directors’ report Segmentation of our suppliers Our corporate approach is passed on to our suppliers by way of our technical and industrial specificaStrategic partners 20% tions, our Quality/Environment purchasing clauses Production subcontractors 60% and our contractual requirements. managed locally Production support 20% We require our Supply Chain to have the same commitment. Over 60% of these suppliers are managed locally by the establishments of the DASSAULT AVIATION We control the risks represented by our suppliers Parent Company, underlining the importance employing a formal and systematic approach and placed on local industry. As part of our research we require them to undergo an accreditation proand testing activities we work with about 80 supcess before placing orders. pliers. We permanently carry out actions to assess and The purchases made by DASSAULT FALCON JET audit our suppliers, taking into account compliance for executing its missions (distribution of aircraft with Quality and Environment requirements. We and spare parts, internal fittings, maintenance) ask them to improve by means of progress plans represent EUR 300 million. that we monitor through to successful completion. Purchases made by DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE For non-aerostructure purchases, more than represented approximately EUR 45 million over the 1,200 suppliers have been evaluated. Of these, year. French suppliers are responsible for 90% of around 100 account for approximately 80% of our these purchases. purchases, and they are subject to specific monitoring. Purchases made by SOGITEC INDUSTRIES represent approximately EUR 25 million. French suppliFor aerostructure purchases, 200 suppliers have ers are responsible for 75% of these purchases. been certified, and 50 of them are subject to specific monitoring. Our purchasing policy and the securing of our Supply Chain We also carry out training initiatives with our buyThe guiding principles of our purchasing policy ers, and with our suppliers for the establishment of lead us to integrate, as far as possible, our supplibest practices. ers in the industrial and logistical processes, in the quest for: Lastly, we make sure that these initiatives do not constitute an inordinate burden for our suppliers reactivity, by pooling our requests with the other contracting long-lasting relationship, clients in the aeronautical sector. To this end, we participate actively in the QUALIFAS and SPACE cost control, (Supply Chain Progress towards Aerospace Comoptimization of the consumption of resources, munity Excellence) initiatives run by the profession. inventory reduction. Our commitment to the quality of the relationship with our suppliers has been rewarded. A survey conducted in 2013 on the practices of principals vis-à-vis SMEs ranks DASSAULT AVIATION in 3rd place nationally, and 1st in the aeronautical sector. Territorial influence The DASSAULT AVIATION Group has an extensive territorial spread: 88 DASSAULT AVIATION DASSAULT AVIATION possesses 9 sites in needs identified in the medium or long-term aeroFrance and manages locally a large number of nautical industries. suppliers, We encourage our personnel to: DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE is located in the supervise technical projects, airport platforms of Le Bourget, London-Luton teach classes, and Moscow-Vnukovo, participate on examination juries. SOGITEC INDUSTRIES is based on 3 sites in France, We take part in business gatherings (forums, comDASSAULT FALCON JET has 6 sites in the USA. pany presentations, etc.) and organize visits to our sites for pupils, students and their opinion formers In addition to our relationship with national author(teachers, career advisors, headmasters, etc.). ities to which we are accountable on regulatory compliance, our facilities also have many relationWe have actively participated in the Trades Airships with local authorities: prefectures, Regional plane event during the Le Bourget Trade Fair of Directorates of Environment, Planning and Hous2013. ing, Regional Pensions and Safety at Work Offices (CARSAT), Nuclear Safety Authority, Regional DiWe also provide these various populations with the rectorates for Enterprise, Competition, Consumer opportunity to get to know better our technologies, Affairs, Labor and Employment, Customs, etc. our professions, our values and our products through internships, VIEs and work-study periods. We participate actively on territorial bodies: ChamThe number of apprentices that we take is greater bers of Commerce & Industry, Territorial Economic than the minimum required by law. & Social Councils, Environment Committees and the Franco-American Chamber of Commerce,… Raising employee awareness about responsible behavior We also participate actively in clusters or regional professional organizations: including Aerospace DASSAULT AVIATION Group encourages staff to Valley (Midi-Pyrénées & Aquitaine) Pegase (Prodemonstrate responsible behavior through Compavence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur), BAAS (Bordeaux Aquiny or local campaigns, at the initiative of the mantaine Aerospace) Club for Partners in Sustainable agers of our sites. Development of Le Bourget Airport, development agencies in Arkansas, Delaware, New Jersey, ... We therefore urge employees to pool their means of transport; we have organized road accident We are a member of the Conservatoire de prevention days; installed remote communication l’Aéronautique et de l’Espace. tools (such as videoconferencing systems), made available to employees in order to keep their travel Relations with the world of Education to a minimum. We have organized conferences on the themes of Health & Safety in the workplace, We place high emphasis on the training of future addiction prevention, stress, etc. generations of specialists. Charitable actions The high degree of technicality of our activities leads us to develop locally special relations with The DASSAULT AVIATION Group is actively inthe world of education, thereby helping to ensure volved in many charities. the suitability and quality of the training of our future recruits. We participate in the discussions held in the framework of professional organizations GIFAS (the Association of French Aeronautical and Space Industries), etc., or with teaching bodies and institutions (engineering schools, universities, vocational schools) to adapt the curriculum to the 89 Directors’ report For example, we support the Course du Cœur DASSAULT AVIATION, which subscribed in 2003 to ( Race for the Heart ) initiative in aid of organ the UN Global Compact, adopted the latter's 10 donation; Rêves de Gosse ( A Child's Dream ), principles including the principle dedicated to reoffering disabled children the opportunity to fly in specting human rights, as featuring in its general a plane for the first time; Technowest , for the purchasing conditions integration of young people into the world of employment; Humaquitaine , for the renovation of (see also, above [3.1], the social information for state schools in Senegal, etc. We have developed a details of the commitments relating to employee partnership with the Mercure Association (gifts of rights, and the website: www.dassaultmaterials for the restoration of aircraft by the aviation.com, Ethics section). members, all aviation enthusiasts) and events for the Les Vieilles Racines ( Old Roots ) Association (former employees of aerospace companies). 4. Proposed resolutions 3.3.2 Loyal practices The resolutions submitted for your approval cover The DASSAULT AVIATION Group asserts, via its the following points: Ethical Charter, the values serving as the basis of the action of all its employees. Ordinary resolutions: This Charter sets out a code of conduct towards Approval of the annual and consolidated customers, partners and suppliers. financial statements: Observing a strict code of ethics, we act in accordYou are asked to approve the annual ance with the Convention of the Organization for statements of the Parent Company (resolution Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), 1) and the consolidated statements (resolution the United Nations Convention (UN) and national 2) for the year ended December 31, 2013. legislation on the fight against corruption. These financial statements were approved by The DASSAULT AVIATION Group conducts an acthe Board of Directors on March 12, 2014 after tive policy for the prevention of corruption, in parprior examination by the Audit Committee, and ticular by way of strict internal procedures and the were the subject of the reports of the Statutory training of its employees. DASSAULT AVIATION is, Auditors, featuring in the 2013 Annual Financial moreover, signatory to numerous international Report. undertakings on the prevention of corruption: Global Compact, Common Industry Standards, Approval of a related party transaction for Global Principles (see website: www.dassaulta real estate lease granted by GIMD: aviation.com, Ethics section). The Special Auditors' Report included in the Annual Financial Report 2013 refers to related 3.3.3 Human Rights party transactions or commitments approved in The DASSAULT AVIATION Group, whose main prior years which continued to be implemented in 2013. It also reports a new transaction sites are located in France and the USA, complies with all the national and international laws and authorized by the Board of Directors on March 13, 2013 laying down the conditions of the regulations relating to Human Rights protection. It acts in conformity with the Universal Declaration of lease granted by GIMD to DASSAULT AVIATION Human Rights and the texts of the OECD and the on an office building already occupied by DASSAULT AVIATION, which GIMD has just International Labor Organization relating to Human Rights. The Ethical Charter reflects this commitacquired. You are asked to approve the terms of this lease (resolution 3). ment. 90 DASSAULT AVIATION Approval of a related party transaction on report and in the Auditors' special report for the continued benefit from the Loïk SEGALEN in his capacity as Chief Operating supplementary pension applicable to Officer (resolution 5). senior executives of the Company in favor of the Chairman and Chief Executive Advisory vote on the compensation Officer: package of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: On reinstatement of his employment contract (contract suspended), Eric TRAPPIER will It is recommended that the compensation paid benefit from the collective supplementary to Executive Directors should be submitted to defined benefits pension plan for senior an advisory vote by the shareholders. It is executives of the Company. In its meeting of therefore proposed to the Meeting (resolution March 12, 2014 the Board of Directors 6) that an opinion be issued on the authorized the continuation of the compensation package payable and allocated supplementary pension for Eric TRAPPIER in his for 2013 to Eric TRAPPIER, Chairman and Chief capacity as Executive Officer, calculated on the Executive Officer, as detailed in paragraphs basis of his average gross annual compensation 2.9.3 Compensation of the Chairman and CEO in his last three years as corporate officer. and 2.9.6 Summary Tables of Compensation (Tables 1, 2 and 11). This supplementary pension plan, based on his compensation in 2013, would pay him an Advisory vote on the compensation annual pension of EUR 333,000, representing package of the Chief Operating Officer: 26% of his compensation. It is recommended that the compensation paid to Executive Directors should be submitted to You are asked to approve the continuation of an advisory vote by the shareholders. It is the plan described in paragraph 2.9.3 of this therefore proposed to the Meeting (resolution report and in the Auditors' special report for #7) that an opinion be issued on the Eric TRAPPIER in his capacity as Chairman and compensation package payable and allocated Chief Executive Officer (resolution 4). for 2013 to Loïk SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer, as detailed in paragraphs 2.9.4 Approval of a related party transaction on Compensation of the Chief Operating Officer the continued benefit from the and 2.9.6 Summary Tables of Compensation supplementary pension applicable to (Tables 1, 2 and 11). senior executives of the Company in favor of the Chief Operating Officer: Discharge of Directors from any liability On reinstatement of his employment contract arising from their management of the (contract suspended), Loïk SEGALEN will Company: benefit from the collective supplementary We propose that you discharge the Directors defined benefits pension plan for senior from any liability in the execution of their terms executives of the Company. In its meeting of of office during 2013 (resolution 8). March 12, 2014 the Board of Directors authorized the continuation of the Appropriation and distribution of the net supplementary pension plan for Loïk SEGALEN income of the Parent Company: in his capacity as Executive Officer, the pension being calculated on the basis of his average We propose to you that the net income for the gross annual compensation in his last three year, plus retained earnings of previous years, years as corporate officer. for a total attributable of EUR 3,297,806,922.08 for the year 2013, be subject to a distribution This supplementary pension plan, based on his of a dividend per share of EUR 8.90, falling due compensation in 2013, would pay him an for payment on May 26, 2014, with the annual pension of EUR 274,000, representing remaining balance to retained earnings 24% of his compensation. (resolution 9). You are asked to approve the continuation of the scheme described in paragraph 2.9.4 of this 91 Directors’ report Extraordinary resolutions: Harmonization of paragraphs 18.1 and 24.3 of the Bylaws with the current Amendment of the 2nd paragraph of wording of Article L. 225-29 of the French Article 13 of the Bylaws concerning the Commercial Code : term of office of Directors: Given the repeal of 2nd paragraph of Article L. With a view to better governance, it is 225-39 of the French Commercial Code by Act proposed that the term of office of Directors be No. 2011-525 of May 15, 2011, it is proposed to reduced from 6 years to 4 years. For current delete accordingly the 3rd section of paragraph terms of office, this change will apply when 18.1 and the 2nd sentence of paragraph 24.3 these terms expire (resolution 10). of the Bylaws, relating to transactions relating to current operations entered into under normal Addition of a 4th paragraph to Article 13 conditions (resolution 15). of the Bylaws to incorporate the terms of appointment of a Director representing Ordinary resolutions: the employees: Reappointment of a Director: In accordance with the Act of June 14, 2013 on the protection of jobs, As the term of office of Mr. Henri PROGLIO employee participation on the Board of expires at the end of the Meeting, it is Directors has become mandatory. The number proposed to renew it for 4 years (resolution of Directors representing employees with voting 16). rights must be at least 1 when the number of Directors is less than or equal to 12 and at least Appointment of a new Director: 2 when the number of Directors is more than In public listed companies, the proportion of 12. women may not be less than 20% at the end of the AGM of 2014. As our Board has only 9 members, one Director representing the employees must be appointed. We therefore propose the appointment of Mrs. Marie-Hélène HABERT-DASSAULT as Director The method of appointment of the Director for a term of 4 years (resolution #17). Marierepresenting the employees must be subject to Hélène HABERT-DASSAULT is: an amendment of the Company Bylaws to be incorporated into them. Member of the Supervisory Board: Groupe Industriel Marcel Dassault SAS It is therefore proposed to include in the Bylaws the method of appointment that has been Director: chosen, namely appointment by the union Biomerieux SA totalizing the most votes in the local works Artcurial SA council elections of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries with headquarters on General Manager: French territory, after consultation and H. Investissements SARL favorable opinion from the Central Works SCI Duquesne Council (resolution 11). HDH (Société civile). Corresponding adjustments to Articles 14, Increase in the total annual amount of 15 and 32 of the Bylaws: fees paid to Directors: As a result of the foregoing amendment, it is The annual amount of EUR 247,730 authorized necessary to make a number of adjustments to by the Shareholders' Meeting is fully utilized. the Bylaws (resolution 12, 13 and 14). 92 DASSAULT AVIATION Given the appointment of Marie-Hélène Notification of the award of the F3-R standard to HABERT-DASSAULT and the forthcoming enhance the RAFALE with new capabilities that appointment of a Director representing the respond to the feedback expressed by operational employees, the total number of members of the staff and the order for the upgrading of ATL2 have Board of Directors will be increased from 9 to contributed to the good level of Defense orders. 11. Negotiations in India for a contract for 126 aircraft In addition, the Company has introduced a RAFALEs progressed well, especially in regard to variable portion in the amount of Directors' the industrial aspects. fees, which could lead to an increase, depending on the number of Board of Directors Canvassing for RAFALE customers continued in and Audit Committee meetings. other countries. We propose to increase the total annual Testing of the nEUROn UCAV demonstrator took amount of directors' fees from place to the satisfaction of the DGA and pave the EUR 247,730 to EUR 444,000, given the way for the future of combat aircraft in Europe. increase in the number of Directors and the new variable system on the assumption of four In the field of civil aviation, 2013, the fiftieth anniBoard of Directors and 3 Audit Committee versary of FALCON, our range of business aircraft, meetings per year (resolution 18). was marked by: Reappointment of Statutory and Alternate the launch of FALCON 5X last November at Auditors: NBAA. This aircraft will expand our FALCON range, The term of appointment of Statutory Auditors DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS and MAZARS SA, as EASA and FAA certification of the FALCON well as their respective alternates, expires at 2000S and 2000LXS, the end of the AGM. It is proposed that you renew the appointment of the Statutory and however, the numbers of FALCONs delivered realternate Auditors for 6 years (resolutions 19 to mained higher than orders, reflecting a market 22). that is slow to recover. Powers to execute formalities: For 2014, a number of major challenges should be highlighted. This resolution (23) is designed to determine the customary powers for the legal formalities In the defense field, the following key challenges to be carried out after the AGM. lie ahead: for the RAFALE, to finalize the Indian contract, and get into action on other important export 5. Conclusion and outlook prospects, to prepare for the future in the areas of combat 2013 was marked by the launch of FALCON 5X, an drones and surveillance with European partimportant addition to the Falcon range, and the ners, consolidation of the RAFALE base in France. to complete the development of F3-R, the upRAFALE and FALCON deliveries took place at the grade of ATL2 and deliver the retrofitted pace we were committed to; despite some difficulFALCON 50 SURMAR. ties, the most unpredictable of which was the US shutdown . The Minister of Defense announced that, ultimately, the Armed Forces would be equipped with a homogeneous fleet of 225 RAFALE, in line with the conclusions of the White Paper, which establishes the principle of a future tranche 5 for our aircraft. 93 Directors’ report In the civil field, our main priorities are: to replenish our backlog by increasing sales, to continue the development of the FALCON 5X and complete the assembly of the first aircraft, to pursue our After Sales efforts for FALCON customers to prepare for the future by thinking ahead to the future FALCON. Innovation and cost control while maintaining high standards of quality are imperative to increase our sales. Pursuing the implementation of new PLM/ERP processes, industrial organization and the development of strategic sectors, the dual nature of our business should allow us to confront the Company's commercial and industrial challenges. The Group expects to deliver approximately 70 FALCONs in 2014, subject to the recovery in the market of business aviation, and 11 RAFALEs. 2014 net sales should be higher than in 2013. The Board would like to take this opportunity to thank all DASSAULT employees for the efficiency and skill they have demonstrated in helping the Company carry through its projects. The Board of Directors 94 DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 1 to the Directors’ dation in respect of both social and environmental aspects. report Control and consolidation Reporting methodology for indicaEach published indicator is subject to a reporting tors protocol detailing the definition of the indicator, the scope and the calculation methodology. The Pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French indicators are calculated on the basis of a calendar Commercial Code as amended by Article 225 of Act year (from January 1st to December 31). 2010-788 of July 12, 2010 ( Grenelle 2 ), and Decree No. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012, in the Taking into account the mode of data gathering Directors' report we publish: and the locations of the subsidiaries, the reporting scope may vary according to the indicators. Certain social information, indicators cannot be consolidated on account of the differences in regulations between the counenvironmental information, tries. corporate governance information. In the framework of ISO 14001 certification, reporting procedures for environmental indicators The published social and environmental inforare applied by the Parent Company. mation reflects for the most part the 3rdgeneration guidelines relating to management and Social and Human Resources data reporting in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This concerns an initiative co-managed by the The social data in this report are based on descripUnited Nations Environment Program, designed to tive and methodological data sheets, which constiharmonize the consolidation of data on sustainable tute the basis of the Grenelle 2 social data reportdevelopment. The guidelines propose principles to ing repository of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group, be followed in order to help organizations to proin force in 2013. The defined indicators are in vide a balanced and reasonable presentation of compliance with national regulations. their economic, environmental and labor-relations performance. The following details are given for the following indicators: The published indicators that follow the principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) are stated absenteeism: the causes of absences taken into in the correspondence table in Appendix 2. account for the absenteeism indicator are sickness, stoppages for work-related accidents and Scope of consolidation accidents when traveling to/from work, and unpaid absences. The indicated number of days For 2013, the scope of the report comprises are normal working days, DASSAULT AVIATION Parent Company (including departures and dismissals: the number of disall of its sites) and its 100%-subsidiaries. missals does not include the number of contractual terminations, Note, however, that compared to 2012: Group pay: the average annual salary is a gross Dassault Falcon Jet Do Brasil Ltda (100%salary taking into account the last basic salary, owned subsidiary of Dassault Falcon Jet) the 13th month and the seniority bonus and Dassault Falcon Business Services Beijing excluding other bonuses. (100%-owned subsidiary of Dassault Falcon Jet) and DFS Moscow company (100%-owned Parent Company pay: the average annual salary subsidiary of Dassault Falcon service) are inis a gross salary taking into account the last cluded regarding the social aspect but not envibasic salary, the 13th month and the seniority ronment. bonus, excluding other bonuses, plus profitsharing and incentive payments. the subsidiary Midway Aircraft Instruments Corp. was removed from the scope of consoli95 Directors’ report hours of training: for France, they include both last months of the year which is not available is chargeable and non-chargeable training hours. estimated by analogy with the equivalent months of the previous year, or based on the average for Environmental data the same month during the last three years. The environmental reporting mechanism for 2013 Corporate governance data has been perfected and enhanced through the introduction of new indicators, linked in particular The corporate governance information meets the to the greenhouse gas emissions inventory. requirements of the French Government Decree of April 24, 2012. The statistical data featuring in the The environmental indicators and the associated Industrial and Purchasing section are qualitative, generation methods are subject to descriptive and provided for illustrative purposes only. methodological procedures both for the Parent Company and for its French and American subsidiExternal checking aries. The data generated in this report as well as the These procedures are included in the documentacollection and validation procedures have been tion repository of the Parent Company and distribsubject to an external audit by Deloitte & Associés; uted to the various entities contributing to the the corporate governance information has also generation of these indicators. been checked on a qualitative basis. The balances are produced per calendar year and consolidated, when the data so allows, against invoices and meter readings for the period from January to December. Information relating to the last months of the year which is not available is estimated by analogy with the equivalent months of the previous year, or based on the average for the preceding months of the same year. The consumption of kerosene for maintenance activities is calculated on the basis of the purchased, non-reinvoiced fuel. The consumption of kerosene for production activities includes both civil and military aircraft. The US entities are excluded from the scope of consolidation for refrigerant fluids consumption for this year. The raw materials taken into account are exclusively the raw materials per se and not the manufactured items. The environmental indicators and the associated generation methods are subject to descriptive methodological procedures both for the Parent Company and for its French and American subsidiaries. The balances are produced per calendar year and consolidated, when the data so allows, against invoices and meter readings for the period from January to December. Information relating to the 96 DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 2 to the Directors’ report Table of correspondence between the Dassault Aviation indicators and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Link with the GRI Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (version 3.1) EMP01: Total workforce LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP02: Employee distribution by ployment, work contract and geographgender ical zone LA13: Composition of management bodies and distribution of employees by EMP03: Employee distribution by age gender, age group, appurtenance to a minority group and other diversity indicators LA1: Total workforce per type of emEMP04: Employee distribution by geployment, work contract and geographographical zone ical zone Recruitment EMP05: Hiring LA2: Staff turnover in number of employees and percentage per age group, EMP06: Departures and dismissals gender and geographical zone EC1: Direct economic value created and distributed, including revenues, operational costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investEMP07: Pay ments, retained earning, and payments to capital providers and governments EC5: Range of ratios of standard entry level salary compared to local minimum on the main operating sites LA1: Total workforce per type of emORG01: Working time organization ployment, work contract and geographWork ical zone Organization LA7: Rate (…) of absenteeism(…) per ORG02: Absenteeism geographical zone REL01: Organization of the labor relations dialog, procedures for informing LA4: Percentage of employees covered and consulting personnel and for neby a collective bargaining agreement Social gotiations relations LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regardREL02: Collective bargaining agreeing significant organizational changes, ments including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement 97 Directors’ report Link with the GRI Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (version 3.1) LA6: Percentage of the total workforce represented on formal joint management-worker health & safety committees, for monitoring and issuing statements on the health & safety in the workplace programs S&S01: Conditions of health & safety in the workplace LA8: Programs for risk education, training, consulting, prevention and management put in place in order to help employees, their families or the members of their local communities in the Health and event of serious illness Safety S&S02: Agreements signed with the LA9: Questions of health & safety covUnion Organizations or staff repreered by formal agreements with the sentatives with regard to health & unions safety in the workplace S&S03: Work-related accidents S&S04: Frequency rate of workLA7: Rate of work-related accidents, related accidents occupational illnesses, (...) number of S&S05: Severity rate of work-related days lost and total number of fatal workaccidents related accidents, per geographical zone S&S06: Occupational illnesses LA11: Lifelong skills and training develFOR01: Policies implemented with opment programs, designed to guaranregard to training tee employability Training LA10: Average number of training hours FOR02: Total number of training per year, per employee and per profeshours sional category EGA01: Measures taken in favor of LA14: Basic pay ratio between men and gender equality women per professional category EGA02: Measures taken in favor of LA13: Composition of management bodEquality of the employment and integration of ies and distribution of employees by treatment disabled people gender, age group, appurtenance to a minority group and other diversity indiEGA03: Anti-discrimination policy cators Promoting reHR5: Identified activities in the course of spect for the OIT01: Respect for freedom of assowhich the right to union freedom and stipulations of ciation and the right to collective collective bargaining risks being threatthe basic conbargaining ened; measures taken to ensure this ventions of the right is maintained 98 DASSAULT AVIATION Link with the GRI Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (version 3.1) International LA4: Percentage of employees covered Labor Organizaby a collective bargaining agreement tion LA5: Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant organizational changes, including whether it is specified in a collective bargaining agreement HR4: Total number of discrimination incidents and measures taken LA13: Composition of management bodies and distribution of employees by OIT02: Eliminating employment and gender, age group, appurtenance to a professional discrimination minority group and other diversity indicators LA14: Basic pay ratio between men and women per professional category HR7: Activities identified as presenting a serious risk of incidents involving forced OIT03: Elimination of forced or comor compulsory labor; measures taken to pulsory labor contribute to the prohibition of this type of labor HR6: Activities identified as presenting a OIT04: Effective abolition of child serious risk of incidents involving child labor labor; measures taken to contribute to the prohibition of this type of labor MAT001: aluminum consumption EN1: EN1: materials consumption in MAT002: titanium consumption weight or in volume Consumption of MAT003: composites consumption raw materials EN2: EN2: percentage of consumed MAT005: steel consumption materials derived from recycled materials ENE001: energy consumption excludEN3: direct energy consumption distribing kerosene and mobile sources uted according to primary energy source Energy EN4: indirect energy consumption disENE002: kerosene consumption tributed according to primary energy source Water EAU001: global consumption (per EN8: total volume of water used per consumption source) source EN11: location and surface area of land BIO001: number and location of outowned, rented or managed or within the Biodiversity standing natural areas present within vicinity of protected areas and in zones a 500 m radius of the sites rich in biodiversity outside of these protected areas 99 Directors’ report Link with the GRI Themes Dassault Aviation Indicators Indicators & Protocols: Social (version 3.1) Conditions of SOL001: proportion of sealed surfacground use es EN16: total (direct or indirect) greenAIR001: greenhouse gas emissions house gas emissions, by weight (teq (scope 1 and scope 2) CO2) Atmospheric discharges EN20: NOx, SOx and other significant AIR004: emissions of Volatile Organic atmospheric emissions, per type and per Compounds (VOC) weight DEC001: total production of hazardEN22: total mass of waste, per type and Waste ous and non-hazardous waste per treatment mode DEC002: proportion of recycled waste 100 DASSAULT AVIATION Appendix 3 to the Directors’ report Concordance table of information relating to Decree No. 2012-557 of April 24, 2012 (social, environmental and corporate governance information) THEME TYPE OF INFORMATION Paragraph Social information a) Employment The total number and distribution of employ3.1.2 ees by sex, age and geographical area Recruitment and dismissals 3.1.2 Pay and changes in pay 3.1.3 b) Work organization Working time organization 3.1.2 Absenteeism 3.1.7 c) Social relations The organization of employee relations, includ3.1.4 ing procedures for staff information, consultation and negotiation Collective bargaining agreements 3.1.4 d) Health & Safety Conditions of health & safety in the workplace 3.1.7 Agreements signed with the unions or staff representatives with regard to health & safety in the workplace 3.1.7 Work-related accidents, including their frequency and severity, as well as occupational illnesses 3.1.7 e) Training The policies implemented with regard to train3.1.6 ing Total number of training hours 3.1.6 f) Equality of treatment Measures taken in favor of gender equality 3.1.5 Measures taken in favor of the employment and integration of disabled people Anti-discrimination policy 3.1.5 3.1.5 g) Promoting respect for the stipulaRespect for freedom of association and the 3.3.3 tions of the basic conventions of right to collective bargaining the International Labor OrganizaEliminating employment in professional dis3.3.3 tion in regard to: crimination Eliminating forced or compulsory labor 3.3.3 The effective abolition of child labor 3.3.3 101 Directors’ report Environmental information The organization of Company to take into account a) General environmental policy environmental issues and, where appropriate, steps 3.2.1 taken for assessment or environmental certifications The training and information of employees conducted on environmental protection The resources devoted to the prevention of envi3.2.5 ronmental risks and pollution The amount of provisions and guarantees for environmental risks (provided that such information is 3.2.8 not likely to cause serious harm to the Company in any pending litigation) 1.5.8 Measures for the prevention, reduction or remedyb) Pollution and Waste Manage3.2.7 ing of discharges into air, water and soil seriously ment affecting the environment Measures for the prevention, recycling and disposal of waste 3.2.7 Taking into account noise and other forms of pollution specific to an activity 3.2.7 Water consumption and water supply according to c) Sustainable use of resources 3.2.7 local constraints Consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve efficient use 3.2.7 Energy consumption, measures taken to improve energy efficiency and use of renewable energy Land use 3.2.7 3.2.7 Greenhouse gas emissions d) Climate change 3.2.7 Adaptation to the consequences of climate change 3.2.4 Measures taken to preserve or develop diversity e) Protection of Diversity 3.2.7 Information on social commitments for sustainable development Regarding employment and regional development a) Territorial, economic and so3.3.1 on the neighboring and local residents cial impact of the company's business 102 DASSAULT AVIATION The conditions for dialog with those persons or orb) Relationships with persons or 3.3.1 ganizations organizations interested in the 3.3.1 Partnership or sponsorship initiatives. activities of the company (including integration associations, educational institutions, environmental protection associations, consumer associations and local residents) The consideration of social and environmental isc) Outsourcing and suppliers 3.3.1 sues in purchasing policy The importance of outsourcing and in relations with suppliers and subcontractors the consideration of their social and environmental responsibility 3.3.1 Actions taken to prevent corruption d) Loyal practices 3.3.2 Measures taken for the health and safety of consumers 3.2.2 Other actions in favor of human rights 3.3.3 103 Directors’ report REPORT BY ONE OF THE AUDITORS, Responsibility of the Statutory auditor DESIGNATED AN INDEPENDENT It is our responsibility, on the basis of our work: THIRD-PARTY ORGANIZATION, ON THE CONSOLIDATED SOCIAL, to certify that the requisite CSR ENVIRONMENTAL AND CORPORATE information is present in the Directors' RESPONSIBILITY INFORMATION report or is subject, in the event of PRESENTED IN THE DIRECTORS' omission, to an explanation in application REPORT of article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Certification of the Year ended December 31, 2013 presence of CSR information); Dear Shareholders, to express a moderately-assured conclusion that the CSR information, taken In our capacity as a statutory auditor of Dassault as a whole, is presented in all its Aviation, and designated an independent thirdsignificant aspects, in a sincere fashion, in party organization, for which the admissibility of accordance with the Reference standards our accreditation request has been accepted by (reasoned opinion concerning the sincerity COFRAC, we hereby present to you our report on of the CSR information). the consolidated social, environmental and corporate governance ( corporate social Our work was carried out by a team of five responsibility ) information presented in the persons between October 2013 and February directors' report (hereinafter called the CSR 2014, for a duration of approximately 11 weeks. In information ), drawn up for the year ended December 31, 2013, in application of the order to assist us in conducting our work, we provisions of Article L.225-102-1 of the French called upon our CSR experts. Commercial Code. We carried out the work described hereinafter in Responsibility of the Company accordance with the standards of professional practice applicable in France, and the Order of May It is the responsibility of the Board of Directors to 13, 2013 determining the manner whereby an prepare a directors' report containing the CSR independent third-party organization conducts its information set forth in article R.225-105-1 of the mission, and concerning the opinion on sincerity French Commercial Code, in accordance with the with international standard ISAE 300011. internal measurement and reporting protocols used by the company (hereinafter called the Reference standards ) and available from the Total Quality Management Department, on the one hand, and CERTIFICATION OF PRESENCE from the Human Resources Department, on the other. We learned, on the basis of interviews with the Independence and quality control managers of the departments concerned, about the orientations with regard to sustainable Our independence is defined by the rule of law, the development, vis-à-vis the social and professional code of ethics and the provisions set environmental consequences linked to the forth in article L.822-11 of the French Commercial activities of the company and its corporate Code. Furthermore, we have put in place a quality governance commitments and, where applicable, control system which comprises documented policies and procedures aimed at ensuring the actions or programs arising out of this. compliance with the rules of professional ethics, the standards of professional practice and the applicable laws and regulations. 1 ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information 104 DASSAULT AVIATION We compared the CSR information presented in We determined the nature and extent of our tests the Directors' report with the list set forth in article and inspections according to the nature and R.225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code. importance of the CSR information, vis-à-vis the characteristics of the company, the social and In the event of the absence of certain consolidated environmental contingencies of its activities, its information, we checked that the explanations orientations in matters of sustainable development were supplied in accordance with the provisions of and the best practices in the sector. article R.225-105 paragraph 3 of the French Commercial Code. Regarding the CSR information that we considered to be the most important2: We checked that the CSR information covered the scope of consolidation, i.e.: the company and its For the consolidating entity, we consulted subsidiaries as per article L.233-1 and the the documentation sources and carried out companies it controls as per article L.233-3 of the interviews in order to corroborate the French Commercial Code. qualitative information (organization, On the basis of this work, we can certify the policies, actions). We carried out analytical presence in the Directors' report of the requisite procedures on the quantitative information CSR information. and verified, based on samples, the calculations and the data consolidation, and we checked their coherence and REASONED OPINION ON THE concordance with the other information SINCERITY OF THE CSR INFORMATION featuring in the Directors' report. Nature and extent of the work For a representative sample of entities that We conducted ten interviews with the persons we selected3 according to their activity, responsible for preparing the CSR information from their contribution to the consolidated the departments responsible for the information indicators, their location and a risk collection processes and, where applicable, those analysis, we carried out interviews in order in charge of the internal auditing and risk to verify the correct application of management procedures, in order: procedures and conducted detailed tests 2 to assess the appropriate character of the Quantitative environmental information: ISO 14001Reference standards with regard to their certified sites; Emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC); Emissions of greenhouse gases (GHG), scope 1 pertinence, exhaustiveness, reliability, and scope 2; Generated waste: Hazardous waste, Nonneutrality and comprehensibility, while hazardous waste, Recycling percentage; Total water taking into account, where applicable, the consumption; Consumption of raw materials (aluminum, best practices in the sector; titanium and composites); Energy consumption excluding kerosene; Kerosene consumption; Sites in proximity to zones of outstanding natural beauty. to verify the implementation of a Quantitative social information: Total headcount, collection, compilation, processing and breakdown by gender and age class; Number of people auditing process aimed at ensuring the joining the company; Number of people leaving the exhaustiveness and coherence of the CSR company including number of individual layoffs; Average information, and taking account of the annual pay; Number of part-time employees; Total number of days of absence; Number of disabled internal auditing and risk management workers; Number of hours of training; Number of procedures relating to the generation of occupational illnesses identified by the competent CSR information. authorities; Number of work-related accidents with stoppage; Number of days lost through work-related accidents. Qualitative corporate government information: Loyal practices; Sales volumes; Sales policy. 3 Dassault Aviation SA: Mérignac and Biarritz sites; Dassault Falcon Jet; Dassault Falcon Services. 105 Directors’ report on the sampling base, consisting in We deem that the sampling methods and sample verifying the calculations made and sizes that we used in exercising our professional checking the data against the supporting judgment enable us to formulate a moderatelydocumentation. The sample thus selected assured conclusion; a higher-level conclusion represents on average 62% of the would have required more extensive verification work. Due to our recourse to the use of sampling environmental information and 96% of the techniques and other limits inherent in the social and safety information. operation of any information and internal auditing system, the risk of non-detection of a significant For the other consolidated CSR information, we anomaly in the CSR information may not be totally assessed its coherence vis-à-vis our knowledge of excluded. the company. Lastly, we assessed the pertinence of the CONCLUSION explanations relating, where applicable, to the total or partial absence of certain information. Based on our work, we detected no material misstatement likely to call into question the fact that the CSR information, taken as a whole, is presented sincerely, in accordance with the Reference standards. Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 12, 2014 One of the Statutory Auditors Deloitte & Associés Jean-François Viat 106 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing Ladies and Gentlemen, Eric TRAPPIER, Serge DASSAULT, Charles EDELSTENNE, Nicole DASSAULT, Olivier This report is intended to inform you of the comDASSAULT, Pierre de BAUSSET, Alain GARCIA, position of the Board of Directors of the Company Denis KESSLER and Henri PROGLIO. and of the conditions for preparing and organizing its work, along with the internal auditing and risk The aforementioned Directors are all of French management procedures put in place by the nationality. The average age is 68, as of March Company. 12, 2014, the date of approval of the present report by the Board of Directors. This report, drawn up in application of article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, is preThe term of office of the Directors is 6 years, but sented to you in conjunction with the Directors' the proposal to reduce this to 4 years will be prereport. The Financial Department, the Legal Afsented to the AGM on May 15, 2014. The current fairs and Insurance Department and the Internal terms of office shall however go to full term. Auditing Department carried out preparatory checks on the drafting of said report, which was Three Directors (Alain GARCIA, Denis KESSLER then reviewed by the Audit Committee and apand Henri PROGLIO) are considered to be indeproved by the Board of Directors on March 12, pendent according to the criteria of the 2014. AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code. Considering the structure of its shareholdings These criteria are based on the principle that in(majority shares held by GIMD belonging to the dependent Directors must not find themselves in Dassault family), and the low public float of its a position likely to alter their freedom of judgment shares, DASSAULT AVIATION considers that the or place them in a situation of real or potential AFEP/MEDEF (French corporate associations) conflict of interests. Code does not constitute, taken as a whole, its The proportion of independent Directors is onestandard of reference in matters of corporate third, the recommended percentage in companies governance. Nevertheless, DASSAULT AVIATION with a controlling shareholder. applies principles with reference to the aforesaid Code, in regard to the independence of the DirecConcerning the presence of women on the Board, tors and the compensation of the corporate officit should be noted that the AGM of May 19, 2010 ers. appointed Ms Nicole DASSAULT as a Director. Furthermore, on March 12, 2014 the Board of The AGM of May 15, 2014 shall rule on the nomiDirectors also decided, with reference to these nation of Ms Marie-Hélène HABERT-DASSAULT as principles, to reduce from 6 to 4 years the term of a Director (information about her is given in paraoffice of Directors, and to modify the directors' graph 4 of the Directors' report relating to draft fees system in order to introduce a preponderant resolutions). variable part, dependent on presence. The proportion of women on the Board will therefore be 20%, in accordance with the legal provi1. Corporate governance: sions. In application of the Act of June 14, 2013, a Di1.1 Composition of the Board rector representing the employees shall be desigof Directors nated in 2014. It is envisaged that the bylaws of the Company will be amended by the AGM of May The Board of Directors has 9 members with the 15, 2014 in order to specify how this Director is to experience and expertise required to hold office. be designated. 107 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing The duration of the current terms of office of the Directors, along with their terms of office and functions in other companies, are detailed in paragraph 2.8 of the Directors' report. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON 31/12/2013 Name Term of office Age Independent Participation on Start of End of current Years on Director the Audit Com1st term term of office the Board mittee of office Eric TRAPPIER Chairman and 53 French nationality Chief Execu2013 tive Officer Director 2012 2015 1 Serge DASSAULT Honorary 89 French nationality Chairman Director 1967 2015 47 Charles EDELSTENNE Honorary 76 French nationality Chairman Director x 1989 2015 25 Nicole DASSAULT Director 83 2010 2016 3 French nationality Olivier DASSAULT Director 62 1996 2015 18 French nationality Alain GARCIA Director 71 x 2009 2016 5 French nationality Denis KESSLER Director 62 x x 2003 2015 11 French nationality Henri PROGLIO Director 64 x x 2008 2014 6 French nationality Pierre de BAUSSET Director 53 2010 2016 4 French nationality 108 DASSAULT AVIATION 1.2 Conditions of preparation and orcalled the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 15, 2013, ganization of the work of the Board approved the financial statements for the halfyear ended June 30, 2013, 1.2.1 Director information reviewed forecast management documents in To ensure the attendance of Directors at Board March and July 2013, meetings, the Board of Directors’ meeting held to renewed the annual authorization conferred on approve the half-yearly financial statements deterthe Chairman and Chief Executive Officer to mines the Board’s meeting schedule for the followgrant guarantees and deposits, ing year. approved a related-party transaction, The notices of Board meetings specifying the agenanalyzed the consequences of the end of the da are sent to the Directors, the Statutory Auditors term of office of Mr Charles EDELSTENNE, and the Government Commissioner at least one ruled on the professional and pay-scale equality week in advance. policy, Prior to each Board meeting, I, as Chairman, enapproved the contents of financial press releassure that the relevant documents are addressed to es, each Director in good time. reminded the Directors of their obligation to refrain from dealings in the shares of the ComThe Statutory Auditors and the Government Company in periods of financial statement approval missioner receive the same documents as the Dior financial communication, and their obligation rectors. to declare to the AMF their transactions and the registration of their shares. 1.2.2 Board’s work in 2013 In 2013, the Board of Directors met on March 13 1.2.3 Audit Committee and July 24. The average attendance rate was Pursuant to the December 8, 2008 decree, which 94%. transposed Directive 2006/43/EC of May 17, 2006 on statutory audits of company and consolidated The Board of Directors supervised the implementafinancial statements, on July 22, 2009 the Board of tion of the Company’s business strategy and inDirectors established an Audit Committee. spected its general operations. In particular, the Board of Directors: DASSAULT AVIATION draws on the working group analyzed order entry, the order book and sales, report on the Audit Committee of June 14, 2010, in accordance with the recommendations of the AMF reviewed the internally-financed technology (French Financial Markets Authority). budget and the capital expenditure budget, analyzed the current and forecast workload This Committee is composed of Messrs Henri compared to manufacturing capacity, the proPROGLIO, Chairman of the Audit Committee, gress of the civil and military programs and imCharles EDELSTENNE and Denis KESSLER. They plementation of the staff policy, were appointed on account of their skills resulting and set the medium-term challenges in the civil from their academic training, their experience in the and military domains. financial and accounting fields with listed companies, and their executive management functions. All In addition, the Board of Directors: three are non-executive Directors. approved the fiscal year 2012 company and consolidated financial statements, 109 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing These members satisfy the requirements of the 1.2.4 Internal Regulations aforementioned decree. The Board of Directors The Board meeting of July 25, 2012 approved the considered that Messrs KESSLER and PROGLIO Regulations of the Board of Directors which allows meet the recommended independence criteria set Directors to take part in meetings (debate and forth in paragraph 1.1 above. vote) by means of telecommunications that are in compliance with the regulations in force. The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring: 1.2.5 Preventing insider dealing procedures for preparing financial information, In accordance with the recommendations formulatthe quality of the risk management and internal ed in the AMF guide of November 3, 2010, the auditing systems, company has put in place a closed seasons mechthe auditing of the company and consolidated anism (periods during which dealings in the shares financial statements by the Statutory Auditors, issued by the company are prohibited) and which begin at least 30 days prior to the publication of the the independence of the statutory auditors. annual and half-yearly financial statements, and 15 days prior to the publication of the quarterly stateIt convened on March 8, 2013 for the financial ments (Q1 and Q3). Since the financial statements statements of 2012 and on July 23, 2013 for those are in general published by the company before the of the first half-year of 2013. opening of the stock market, the date of publication is included in the prohibited period. In the course of these meetings, the Audit CommitThe Directors are informed by letter in December of tee, in particular: the calendar of closed seasons for the following examined the consolidated financial statements year. and those of the Parent Company, the main events of the year or half-year concerned, and The financial calendar is put online on the website of the company at the start of each year. the draft financial reports, took note of the management report of the Board of Directors and of the half-yearly activity 1.3 Operation of the Executive Manreport, agement reviewed the Chairman's report on internal auditing and risk management, In accordance with the provisions of the New Economic Regulations Act, the possibility of separating noted the conclusions of the internal audit and the duties of the Chairman of the Board of Directors observed that the 2012 audit plan had been and those of the Chief Executive Officer was introcarried out in accordance with forecasts, duced into the Company’s bylaws during the Sharemet with the Statutory Auditors, without the holders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. General Management being present, after examining the conclusions of their work and their On April 25, 2002, the Board of Directors decided declaration of independence, that the Chairman of the Board of Directors would be responsible for the executive management of analyzed the proposals made by the Statutory the Company. Auditors with a view to submitting their renewal to the AGM, This was because the Board of Directors had chosen the Executive Management option that it reported back on its work to the Board of Direcdeemed best suited to the Company’s specific feators. tures. The decision was therefore made not to separate the duties of Chairman of the Board of Directors and of the Chief Executive Officer. 110 DASSAULT AVIATION Shareholders and third parties are fully informed of 1.7 Principles and rules to determine this decision in the director’s report. compensation and benefits in kind granted to corporate officers The Chairman-Chief Executive Officer has been assisted since January 9, 2013 by a Chief Operating 1.7.1 Compensation of corporate officers Officer. The compensation of the Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and of the Chief Operating Officer, along 1.4 Powers of the Chairman and Chief with their benefits in kind, have been determined Executive Officer by the Board of Directors with reference to the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF code. They The powers of the Chairman Chief Executive Ofare in accordance with the annual report of the ficer are not limited by the Company’s bylaws or AMF on corporate governance and the compensathe Board of Directors. tion of the executives of listed companies. As Chairman of the Board, he organizes and directs The compensation of the Chairman-Chief Executive the work of said Board, reporting back on this to Officer and of the Chief Operating Officer consists the AGM. He executes the decisions of the Board. exclusively of a fixed part (cf. paragraphs 2.9.3 and He oversees the smooth running of the Company 2.9.4 of the Directors' report). bodies and ensures that the Directors are capable of fulfilling their duties. This compensation, paid over 13 months, is increased annually in line with the pay rises of the As Chief Executive Officer, he is invested with the company executives, unless decided otherwise by most extensive powers to act in all circumstances the Board of Directors. on behalf of the Company. He therefore exercises his powers with no other limits than those set forth The Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and the Chief by the current regulations concerning the powers Operating Officer have not benefited: attributed expressly by law to AGMs and to the from any variable or exceptional compensation, Board of Directors. from stock options or performance shares, from private unemployment insurance, 1.5 Powers of the Chief Operating from severance packages, Officer from specific supplementary pensions linked to The Chief Operating Officer assists the Chairmantheir term of office. Chief Executive Officer. Vis-à-vis third parties, he has the same powers as the Chief Executive Officer. Their contract of employment has been suspended (cf. paragraphs 2.9.3 and 2.9.4 of the Directors' report). Upon the effective reinstatement of the 1.6 Executive committee contract, they would recover the rights of salaried senior executives in their category, according to the Presided over by the Chairman-Chief Executive Company rules. Officer, this committee comprises the persons in charge of the Company’s various departments (cf. The Board of Directors meeting of March 12, 2014 annual financial report). This Committee covers all decided that they will continue to benefit from the subjects concerning the running and the various supplementary pension plan applicable to the senior aspects of the Company’s operations. It meets once executives of the Company, calculated with respect a week. to the average gross annual compensation for the 111 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing last three years of their term of office (cf. para1.8 Annual General Meeting graphs 2.9.3 and 2.9.4 of the Directors' report). 1.8.1 Specific conditions governing share1.7.2 Directors' fees holders’ attendance at the AGM The overall annual amount of Directors’ fees was 1.8.1.1 Admission determined by the Annual General Meeting as The conditions governing shareholders’ attendance standing at EUR 247,730 at Annual General Meetings are set forth in Articles 29 and 31 of the bylaws. The Board of Directors distributed this overall amount equally among the Directors, who therefore These conditions are as follows: received EUR 22,000 per year and per director apart from the Chairman who received double this the right to attend shareholders’ meetings is standard amount. subject to: o for holders of registered shares, registration The Board of Directors granted additional directors’ in the registered shareholder accounts held fees of EUR 6000 per year to each member of the by the Company, Audit Committee, and a further EUR 4000 for the Committee Chairman, payable quarterly in equal o for holders of bearer shares, registration in amounts, in arrears. the bearer shareholder accounts held by the authorized intermediary (i.e.: a bank, The Board of Directors meeting of March 12, 2014 financial institution or investment service decided to modify as follows the system of granting provider) and production of a participation Directors' fees: certificate issued by the intermediary, for the Board of Directors: the period during which these formalities must be completed expires three working days prior o creation of annual fixed part of EUR 10,000 to the date of the AGM, (double for the Chairman of the Board), the Board of Directors retains the right to aco creation of a variable part of EUR 6000 per cept the participation certificate after the above meeting (double for the Chairman of the deadline, Board), with payment dependent on presence at the meetings, shareholders may be represented by proxy according to the legal and regulatory condifor the Audit Committee: variable part only, tions. dependent on presence at the meetings, of EUR 3000 per meeting (double for the Chairman The notification of the designation and revocation of the Committee). of the proxy agent may be made either on paper or by electronic means. In the latter case, the shareConsidering the increase in the number of Directors holder's signature may constitute in practice a relifrom 9 to 11 (including the Director representing able process of identification guaranteeing his/her the employees), it is to be proposed at the AGM to link to the associated document, and may in particincrease the global amount of annual Directors' fees ular consist of a login and password. from EUR 247,730 to EUR 444,000 on the basis of 4 Board meetings and 3 Audit Committee meetings These conditions are reiterated in the preliminary per year. notice and the final notice of the AGM that are published in the BALO (French official announcements If we were to be called upon to hold more than 4 bulletin) and online at the Company’s website. Board meetings and 3 Audit Committee meetings per year, the fixed part would be reduced in order to remain within the above global envelope. 112 DASSAULT AVIATION 1.8.1.2 Voting rights 2. Internal auditing and risk Subject to special circumstances set forth by law, management procedures all members present at the AGM have as many votes, without limitation, as the number of fully paid-up shares they own or represent. 2.1 Internal auditing objectives The Company’s internal auditing procedures are Voting is performed by the raising of hands and/or intended to: voting slips. ensure that operations and management acts A secret ballot may be requested by either the as well as staff conduct fall within the frameBoard of Directors, or shareholders representing at work defined by Senior Management, applicable least one-quarter of the share capital, subject to laws and regulations, and the Company’s interthe submission of written notification to the Board nal values and rules, of Directors or the authority convening the meeting, verify that the information provided and comno later than three days prior to the date of the munications addressed to the Board of DirecAGM. tors and to the AGMs are reliable and give a true and fair view of the Company’s activity. Shareholders may also vote by correspondence in accordance with the legal conditions. One of the main purposes of the internal auditing system is to anticipate and manage the risks result1.8.2 Convening of Annual General Meeting from the Company’s activity and risks of error ings or fraud, particularly with respect to finance and Annual General Meetings are convened by the accounting. However, as with any control system, it Board of Directors according to the legal and regucannot provide absolute assurance that these have latory provisions. All shareholders, however many been totally eliminated. shares they possess, may take part. The date of the AGM is communicated on the Company website DASSAULT AVIATION draws on the reference approximately 6 months in advance. framework of the AMF of July 22, 2010. No later than 21 days before the AGM, the documentation may be consulted on the aforementioned site (www.dassault-aviation.com) section Finance / 2.2 General internal auditing organiGeneral Meetings. zation and environment The results of the voting for the resolutions and the Internal auditing reference documents minutes of the AGM are also placed online within 15 days of the meeting taking place. The Company’s internal auditing is based on the following reference documents: the Ethical Charter, which defines our values and code of conduct, the Quality Manual, which describes the Company processes, the Organization Manual, which describes the tasks and organization of each department, for financial or accounting activities, the economic and financial data management procedure defined in the Quality Manual. 113 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing Internal auditing bodies: agement. It draws on the Program Managers of the functional departments. The main internal auditing bodies in DASSAULT AVIATION are as follows: Financial Department via Management Auditing Management auditing, with respect to both Executive Committee structure and programs , ensures the control The composition and the role of this Committee of the budgetary process. are detailed in paragraph 1.6 above. Each Committee member is responsible for the interIt comprises a network of management auditors nal auditing of his or her department. in all Company departments. Monthly and quarterly budget reviews are produced, particularly The actions and recommendations decided upon for the purpose of reporting to Senior Manageby the Committee are assigned to one or more ment. of its members, and a manager is designated to ensure coordination. At each meeting, the Control of subsidiaries Committee secretary monitors the progress of these actions through to their effective compleThe DASSAULT AVIATION strategy is to exercise tion. majority control over its subsidiaries or significant influence as in the case of THALES. Total Quality Management Department The Company maintains an effective presence on o through the Risk Management Department: the Boards of Directors and management bodies of This Department ensures the smooth running of its subsidiaries. the risk management process relating to aircraft programs and products. It identifies the critical The Company is also represented on the Executive risks and notifies Executive Management (the Committee of DASSAULT FALCON JET. Chairman-Chief Executive Officer and, as from January 9, 2013, the Chief Operating Officer alPeriodic management reports are prepared by each so). subsidiary for the parent company, which decides o through the Quality Management System on the appropriate measures to be taken. (QMS): The QMS is coordinated by the Total Quality Management Department and draws on the plants’ Quality Control managers and the Quality Representatives of the functional departments. The system uses a structured documentary database, comprising process descriptions, and quality procedures and instructions. The QMS is monitored through a program of internal audits, quality assessments and management reviews. Program Departments through Program Management Program Management is coordinated by each Program Director, reporting back to Senior Man114 DASSAULT AVIATION Internal auditing audit confirmed that our QMS and our EMS were compliant with the requirements of the standards. The Internal Auditing Department, which reports back to Senior Management, is assigned with evaluating the risk management and internal auditing 2.3 Risk management procedures processes. The risk management mechanism, detailed in ChapThe Internal Audit Director reports to Senior Manter 1.5 of the Directors' report, is based on risksagement on the results of the audits and the recmapping that is updated by each of the major comommendations implemented. He also submits for pany departments for the activities concerning the latter's approval the internal audit plan prior to them. its implementation. The risks identified in this mapping, whatever their The Audit Committee meets with the Internal Audit nature, have been assessed according to their seriDirector and takes note of the audit plan and of the ousness and their frequency of occurrence. The conclusions of the audits. procedures for treating major risks are also recorded in this mapping. External auditing factors More particularly, risk management at DASSAULT The Company operates in a particular external auAVIATION is based on the following approach: diting environment due to of its French government identifying critical risks per program, contracts and aerospace activity: risk analysis (assessment and prioritization), the calculation of our cost factors (i.e.: hourly rates, procurement and non-production expenstreatment of risks. es) and the costs of activities relating to French government contracts are audited by the French Risks are primarily identified through regular critical Defense Procurement Agency (DGA), risk reviews held in conjunction with program management, operational management and site manthe DGA monitors our products and grants us agement. our design organization approval in the military aviation field, Risks are monitored at the various stages in a the Company, in the field of civil aviation, posproduct’s life cycle based on various reviews. sesses design, production and maintenance certifications. These certifications are subject to The purpose of these reviews is to identify new permanent monitoring by the airworthiness aucritical risks and monitor and reduce existing risks. thorities that have issued them: o Direction Générale de l'Aviation Civile The Risk Management Department notifies Execu(DGAC), tive Management by transmitting the list of critical risks identified. o European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), o Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). The risk management procedures are defined and applied by the various Departments of the CompaIn the framework of our proactive approach, the ny. Company is certified EN 9100, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001. Its Quality Management System (QMS) and For the supply chain risks, the DGIA (Industrial its Environment Management System (EMS) were Operations and Purchasing Department) has put in subject in March 2013 to a joint audit of renewal by place a reference system for reducing the risk of an outside body (Bureau Veritas Certification). This shortages on the production line and supplier defaulting. 115 Chairman's report on corporate governance and internal auditing With regard to information systems, the Group has 2.4 Internal control procedures for put in place procedures designed to ensure the financial and accounting purposes security of the IT systems and the integrity of data. Organization of the financial and accountThe social risk of maintaining skills levels is subject ing function: to joint management between each operational department and the Human Resources department. This function, described in the Quality Manual, is managed by the Financial Department for both the Concerning financial risks, their management is parent company and Group consolidation. This detailed in the Directors' report, in paragraph 1.5.6. function consists in: Environmental risk management: validating and auditing the Company's centralized financial and accounting information syscovers compliance and control of the environtem, implemented by the Information Systems mental impact of the sites and products, Management Department, is performed based on the Group’s Environmenupdating the consolidation software used by the tal Management System (cf. paragraph 1.5.8 of parent company, its subsidiaries or subsidiary the Directors' report). sub-groups. Lastly, in 2011 the Company created a Risks ComGeneral references: mittee. Its mission, based on the risks-mapping and any other relevant factors, is to: The financial statements are prepared in accordvalidate the identified risks, their classification ance with: and the risk-reduction actions carried out, the accounting standards applicable to French ensure that new risks are identified, taken into companies: account and their financial impacts measured. o the Order of June 22, 1999 approving French Accounting Standards Committee To this end, the Committee conducts interviews Regulations 99-03 of April 29, 1999, and with those in charge of the Company processes, subsequent applicable regulations, responsible for updating the risks map. o subsequent notices and recommendations of It also ensures that the risk management mechathe French National Accounting Board nism is taken into account in the subsidiaries. (CNC). It is presided over by the Executive Vice-President the international valuation and presentation for Total Quality, and reports back to Executive standards for IFRS financial reporting in force as Management. of December 31, 2013, as adopted by the European Union and mandatorily applicable for fiscal years open as from January 1, 2013, for the consolidated accounts, the operating and control procedures described in the Economic and financial data management process, supplemented by the specific procedures for the approval of the Parent Company and Group consolidated half-yearly and annual financial statements. These procedures and the IT applications used by the finance and accounting department are regularly reviewed 116 DASSAULT AVIATION by the statutory auditors in connection with their 3. Information mentioned in Arannual certification of the financial statements. ticle L. 225-100-3 of the Financial and accounting information proFrench Commercial Code cess: The information set forth in this Article is stated in In 2013, the Financial Department centralized the paragraph 2.5 of the accompanying Directors' reaccounting data and produced the financial stateport, to which is appended this report. Both these ments for the Parent Company and the Group. reports are included in the 2013 Annual Financial Report that has been published electronically and It distributed a schedule with the tasks and controls filed with the AMF by our distributor, HUGIN AS, to be performed at each period-end to the relevant part of NASDAQ OMX . They are published online persons in the Parent Company and subsidiaries. on our Company website in the FiThis schedule indicated the start date for the Statunance/publications section. tory Auditors' certification procedures at approximately four weeks prior to the Board meeting at which the financial statements are submitted for approval. Chairman of the Board of Directors In parallel, the financial reports and statements are reviewed by a review committee independent of the teams participating in the drafting of these documents. 2.5 2013 Actions The Internal Auditing Department and the Total Quality Management Department continued to monitor the internal auditing procedures for all relevant persons by using the risk-mapping updated during the year. The aforementioned departments conferred in order to decide on the breakdown of the audits. They performed audits in order to verify the proper application of the internal control procedures. 2.6 2014 Action Plan For 2014, I have entrusted the Internal Auditing Department and the Total Quality Management Department with the task of conducting audits in order to monitor the internal auditing and risks management mechanism and verify the proper application of the procedures. 117 118 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 119 Consolidated financial statements ASSETS 31.12.2012 01.01.2012 (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2013 (1) (1) Goodwill 3 14,366 14,366 14,366 Intangible assets 4 29,241 38,612 44,181 Property, plant and equipment 4 384,231 405,563 426,105 Equity affiliates (1) 5 1,676,178 1,647,695 1,654,084 Available-for-sale securities 5 3,126,501 3,262,814 3,185,517 Other financial assets 5 34,682 34,359 32,325 Deferred tax assets 20 192,132 197,896 203,345 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 5,457,331 5,601,305 5,559,923 Inventories and work-in-progress 6 2,686,520 2,916,905 2,799,090 Trade and other receivables 7 550,732 489,955 535,800 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 78,839 184,868 154,447 Derivative financial instruments 24 311,558 247,894 179,129 Cash and cash equivalents 8 983,230 950,416 921,808 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 4,610,879 4,790,038 4,590,274 TOTAL ASSETS 10,068,210 10,391,343 10,150,197 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 31.12.2012 01.01.2012 (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2013 (1) (1) Share capital 9 81,007 81,007 81,007 Reserves and consolidated retained earnings (1) 5,140,617 4,714,301 4,393,240 Foreign exchange differences -109,874 -48,107 -38,475 TOTAL ATTRIBUTABLE TO THE OWNERS OF THE 5,111,750 4,747,201 4,435,772 PARENT COMPANY Non-controlling interests 339 308 264 TOTAL EQUITY 5,112,089 4,747,509 4,436,036 Long-term borrowings 11 205,288 263,539 276,915 Deferred tax liabilities 20 0 0 0 TOTAL NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 205,288 263,539 276,915 Trade and other payables 13 825,912 768,168 729,061 Tax and employee-related liabilities 13 262,102 242,492 208,937 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in14 2,293,925 3,043,088 2,897,612 progress Short-term borrowings 11 62,896 58,240 437,094 Current provisions 12 1,305,998 1,268,307 1,164,542 TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES 4,750,833 5,380,295 5,437,246 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,068,210 10,391,343 10,150,197 (1) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. 120 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP INCOME STATEMENT (EUR 000) NOTES 2013 2012 (1) NET SALES 15 4,592,966 3,941,234 Other revenue 16 39,473 43,470 Changes in inventories of finished goods and work-in-progress -147,041 -30,101 External purchases -2,622,730 -2,221,606 Payroll and related charges (2) -1,079,246 -1,077,350 Taxes and social security contributions -64,550 -65,059 Depreciation and amortization 4 -75,847 -72,250 Charges to provisions 12 -997,672 -726,489 Reversals of provisions 12 859,781 749,681 Other operating income and expenses 17 -6,635 5,456 OPERATING INCOME 498,499 546,986 Income from cash and cash equivalents 8,510 8,690 Cost of gross financial debt -6,988 -12,437 Financial income and expenses 86,043 101,644 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 19 87,565 97,897 Share of income/loss of equity affiliates (1) 5 77,945 82,581 Income tax 20 -204,557 -225,441 NET INCOME (1) 459,452 502,023 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company (1) 459,421 501,979 Attributable to non-controlling interests 31 44 Basic earnings per share (in EUR) (1) 21 45.4 49.6 Diluted earnings per share (in EUR) (1) 21 45.4 49.6 (1) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. (2) Employee costs include incentive schemes and profit-sharing (EUR 111,777 thousand in 2013 and EUR 112,330 thousand in 2012) along with the contributions paid into State plans, comparable to the defined contribution plans (EUR 80,978 thousand in 2013 and EUR 77,953 thousand in 2013), along with the positive effect of the tax credits for competitiveness and employment (Crédits d'Impôts Compétitivité Emploi) (EUR 5,549 thousand in 2013). 121 Consolidated financial statements STATEMENT OF RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE (EUR 000) NOTES 2013 2012 (1) NET INCOME (1) 459,452 502,023 Net change in fair value measurement of financial instruments:  Available-for-sale financial assets 5 4,503 27,135  Hedging instruments (2) 24 -8,964 -13,253 Corresponding deferred taxes 20 2,239 -3,854 Foreign exchange differences -25,638 -11,133 Equity affiliates items to be recycled to income, net (1) 5 -24,159 13,867 Items to be recycled to income -52,019 12,762 Actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations 12 39,325 -69,137 Corresponding deferred taxes 20 -9,982 13,757 Equity affiliates items not recycled to income, net (1) 5 -8,325 -64,090 Items not recycled to income 21,018 -119,470 INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED DIRECTLY THROUGH EQUITY (1) -31,001 -106,708 RECOGNIZED INCOME AND EXPENSE (1) 428,451 395,315 Attributable to the owners of the Parent Company (1) 428,420 395,271 Attributable to non-controlling interests 31 44 (1) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. (2) The amounts stated represent the change in the market value for the period of the instruments which qualify for hedge accounting. They are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. 122 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Changes in equity are detailed in the table below, where: The heading share capital represents the share capital of the parent company, DASSAULT AVIATION. The heading Additional paid-in capital, consolidated retained earnings and other reserves includes capital reserves (i.e.: additional paid-in capital), legal reserves, the net income for the year and the net actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations. The heading Hedging instruments and available-for-sale securities covers post-tax changes in the fair value of available-for-sale financial assets and hedging instruments which qualify for hedge accounting. The heading Foreign exchange differences records the exchange differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of subsidiaries outside the euro zone. Reserves and consolidated retained earnings Total Additional attributable paid-in Hedging Foreign nonShare to the (EUR 000) exchange controlling Total capital capital (1), instruments owners of the consolidated and differences interests Parent retained availableCompany earnings for-sale and other securities reserves 31.12.2011 published 81,007 3,668,094 751,101 -38,475 4,461,727 264 4,461,991 IAS 19 R restated -25,955 -25,955 -25,955 01.01.2012 restated (2) 81,007 3,642,139 751,101 -38,475 4,435,772 264 4,436,036 Net income for the year 501,979 501,979 44 502,023 Total income and expense recognized directly through -119,470 22,394 -9,632 -106,708 -106,708 equity Total recognized income and 382,509 22,394 -9,632 395,271 44 395,315 expense Dividends paid -86,070 -86,070 -86,070 Other movements (3) 2,228 2,228 2,228 31.12.2012 restated (2) 81,007 3,940,806 773,495 -48,107 4,747,201 308 4,747,509 Net income for the year 459,421 459,421 31 459,452 Total income and expense recognized directly through 21,018 9,748 -61,767 -31,001 -31,001 equity Total recognized income and 480,439 9,748 -61,767 428,420 31 428,451 expense Dividends paid -94,171 -94,171 -94,171 Other movements (3) 30,300 30,300 30,300 As of 31.12.2013 81,007 4,357,374 783,243 -109,874 5,111 750 339 5,112,089 (1) additional paid-in capital: EUR 19,579 thousand. (2) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. (3) This largely consists of changes in treasury shares, employee share issues and THALES share-based payments. 123 Consolidated financial statements CASH FLOW STATEMENT (EUR 000) NOTES 2013 2012 (1) I NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME (1) 459,452 502,023 Elimination of net income of equity affiliates, net of dividends received (1) 5.1 -30,667 -41,606 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets 591 190 Changes in the fair value of hedging instruments 24.3 -72,628 -82,018 Income tax (including deferred taxes) 20 204,557 225,441 Net charges to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 4, 12.1 155,741 100,287 (excluding those relating to working capital) Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes and 717,046 704,317 taxes Income taxes paid 20 -208,989 -204,501 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) 6 230,385 -117,815 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers 106,029 -30,421 Change in trade and other receivables (net) 7 -60,777 45,845 Change in customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 14 -749,163 145,476 Change in trade and other payables 13 57,744 39,107 Change in tax and employee-related liabilities 13 19,610 33,555 Consolidation reclassifications and restatements -402 -6,849 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital -396,574 108,898 Total I 111,483 608,714 II NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 4 -63,507 -60,462 Purchases of investments -2,264 -5,892 Disposals of or reductions in fixed assets 14,015 20,692 Net cash from acquisitions and sales of subsidiaries 0 0 Total II -51,756 -45,662 III NET CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net change in available-for-sale marketable securities (at cost) 5.2 139,481 -45,653 Capital increase 0 0 Change in equity items 0 0 Increase in borrowings 11 99,840 94,846 Repayments of borrowings 11 -153,435 -487,076 Dividends paid 22 -94,171 -86,070 Total III -8,285 -523,953 IV Exchange rate fluctuations Total IV -18,628 -10,491 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (I+II+III+IV) 32,814 28,608 Opening net cash and cash equivalents 950,416 921,808 Closing net cash and cash equivalents 983,230 950,416 (1) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. 124 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OVERVIEW 13 Operating payables 1 Accounting principles 14 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 2 Scope of consolidation 2.1 Scope of consolidation as at December INCOME STATEMENT 31, 2013 2.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 15 Net sales 2013 16 Other revenue ASSETS 17 Other operating income and expenses 3 Goodwill 4 Intangible assets and property, 18 Research and development costs plant and equipment 4.1 Geographical breakdown 19 Net financial income/(expense) 4.2 Intangible assets 4.3 Property, plant and equipment 20 Tax position 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income 5 Non-current financial assets 20.2 Net effect of taxes on income and expense recognized directly through equity fully 5.1 Equity affiliates consolidated companies 5.2 Available-for-sale securities 20.3 Reconciliation of the theoretical and actual tax 5.3 Other financial assets charge 20.4 Deferred tax sources 6 Inventories and work-in-progress 20.5 Tax losses carried forward 7 Trade and other receivables 21 Earnings per share 7.1 Details 7.2 Maturity gross value ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 7.3 Receivables relating to financial lease contracts 22 Dividends paid and proposed 8 Cash and cash equivalents 23 Financial instruments 8.1 Net cash 8.2 Available cash 24 Financial risk management LIABILITIES AND EQUITY 25 Off-balance sheet commitments 9 Share capital and capital management 26 Contingent liabilities 10 Identity of the consolidating parent company 27 Related-party transactions 11 Borrowings 28 Average number of employees 12 Current provisions 29 Environmental information 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and losses and for impairment 30 Statutory auditors' fees 12.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses 12.3 Provisions for retirement severance payments 31 Subsequent events 125 Consolidated financial statements Note 1 Accounting principles Hence, under liabilities, the Reserves , Other income and expense recognized directly through equity and Income for the year attributable to A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES the owners of the Parent Company headings are now brought together under the heading On March 12, 2014, the Board of Directors Reserves and consolidated retained earnings . approved and authorized the publication of the consolidated financial statements of DASSAULT In the changes of equity statement, the items AVIATION of December 31, 2013. These have been grouped together in order to identify consolidated financial statements shall be the share of income and expense recognized submitted for approval from the shareholders at directly through equity, subsequently recyclable as the Annual General Meeting on May 15, 2014. income. A1 Reference standards Standards, amendments and interpretations for mandatory application post-2013 A1-1 Basis for the preparation of the financial reporting The standards, amendments and interpretations that were not mandatory on January 1st, 2013 are The consolidated financial statements of the not applied in advance by the Group. DASSAULT AVIATION Group are prepared in accordance with the international (IAS/IFRS) The texts applicable to DASSAULT AVIATION as standards and interpretations as adopted by the from January 1st, 2014: European Union and applicable as of the balance IFRS 10 standard: Consolidated financial sheet date. statements , IFRS 11 standard: Partnerships , A1-2 Changes in 2013 to the accounting IFRS 12 standard: Disclosure of interests in standards applicable to Dassault Aviation other entities , revised IFRS 27 standard: Individual financial Standards, amendments and interpretations statements , for mandatory application in 2013 revised IAS 28 standard: Investment in On January 1, 2013, the Group applied for the associates and joint ventures , first time the following standards, amendments IAS 32 revised: Financial instruments: and interpretations: presentation . IAS 19 revised: Employee benefits , The Group does not anticipate any significant IFRS 13: Fair value measurement , impact of these texts on the consolidated financial IFRS 7 amendment: Financial instruments: statements. disclosures , IAS 1 amendment: Presentation of financial The standards, amendments or interpretations statements , published by the IASB and not yet adopted by the 2009-2011 improvements made to standards. European Union have not been applied in advance by the Group for the preparation of its The effects of the revised IAS 19 standard are consolidated financial statements when this detailed in paragraph A1-3 First application of the possibility was available. These texts mainly revised IAS 19 standard. concern IFRS 9 standard: Financial instruments . The other standards, amendments and The effects of this standard on the financial interpretations applicable to fiscal years beginning situation of the Group are currently being on or after January 1, 2013 have no significant assessed. effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. The Group took advantage of the application of the amendments to IAS 1 to reorganize the presentation of its equity under liabilities and the changes in equity statement. 126 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP A1-3 First application of the revised IAS 19 accounting for administrative costs only, standard relating to management of assets with deduction of their actual yield. The revised IAS 19 standard sets forth: Taking into account the accounting rules and recognition of all actuarial adjustments as methods applied previously, the investment other income and expense recognized directly characteristics and the chosen assumptions, the through equity, Group is very little affected by the application of immediate recognition of past service costs, this new standard. The impacts on the fully alignment of expected return on plan assets consolidated entities are insignificant. The only with the discount rates, incidence recorded results from the consolidation of THALES under the equity method. The impact on the Group balance sheet as at January 1, 2012 is as follows: 01.01.2012 01.01.2012 (EUR 000) Difference Restated Published Equity affiliates 1,654,084 1,680,039 -25,955 Total Assets 10,150,197 10,176,152 -25,955 Reserves and consolidated retained earnings 4,393,240 4,419,195 -25,955 Total Liabilities 10,150,197 10,176,152 -25,955 The impact on the income statement of 2012 is as follows: 2012 2012 (EUR 000) Difference Restated Published Share of income/loss of equity affiliates 82,581 90,436 -7,855 Net income 502,023 509,878 -7,855 In 2012, the restated earnings per share is EUR 49.6 per share (compared to EUR 50.3 published). The impact on the Group balance sheet as at December 31, 2012 is as follows: 31.12.2012 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Difference Restated Published Equity affiliates 1,647,695 1,641,590 6,105 Total Assets 10,391,343 10,385,238 6,105 Reserves and consolidated retained earnings 4,714,301 4,708,196 6,105 Total Liabilities 10,391,343 10,385,238 6,105 A2 Accounting choices and management These estimates concern, in particular, the results estimates of contracts in progress and provisions. To prepare the Group financial statements, These estimates are calculated by taking into management is required to make estimates and account past experience, elements known at the issue assumptions that are likely to have an impact balance sheet date and reasonable change on the amounts entered in the balance sheet and assumptions. Subsequent results may therefore the income statement. differ from such estimates. 127 Consolidated financial statements A3 Presentation of the consolidated financial B1-3 Investments in joint ventures statements Companies in which DASSAULT AVIATION exercises joint control and which are considered Consolidated balance sheet items are presented as material are proportionately consolidated. Current/Non-current. The Group's activities have long operating cycles. Consequently, the assets In 2012 and 2013, the Group did not have any (liabilities) generally realized (settled) in the material investments of this type. framework of the operating cycle (inventories and work-in-progress, receivables, advances and B1-4 Consolidation thresholds progress payments received from clients, etc.) are To apply the concept of relative importance, presented in the consolidated balance sheet as companies which are controlled or over which the current assets and liabilities, with no distinction Group exercises a notable influence are included in between the amount due within one year and the the scope of consolidation when all the following amount due within more than one year. conditions are satisfied: total assets and liabilities exceed 2% of the Consolidated income statement items are equivalent Group totals, presented by nature. total revenue exceeds 2% of the equivalent Net operating income includes all the income and Group total, expenses not arising from financial activities, equity exceeds 3% of the equivalent Group equity-accounted companies, discontinued total. operations or operations in the process of being sold, and taxes. B1-5 Elimination of inter-company transactions All material inter-company transactions, and A4 Segment reporting unrealized internal gains and losses included in non-current assets, are eliminated in the IFRS 8, Operating Segments , requires the inventories and work-in-progress of consolidated presentation of information according to internal companies. management criteria. The activity of the DASSAULT AVIATION Group relates entirely to the B2 Closure dates aerospace field. The internal reporting made to the All the companies included in the consolidation Chairman-CEO and the Chief Operating Officer, as have a December 31 year-end. used for the strategy and decision-making, presents no performance analysis (in the IFRS 8 B3 Translation of the financial statements of sense) at a level beneath this field. non-euro zone subsidiaries B/ CONSOLIDATION POLICIES The currency used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements is the euro. B1 Consolidation scope and methods The financial statements of non-euro zone B1-1 Investments in subsidiaries subsidiaries are translated as follows: balance sheet items are translated in euros at Companies over which DASSAULT AVIATION the year-end rate, exercises exclusive control, directly or indirectly, income statement items are translated at the and which are considered material are fully average rate. consolidated. Foreign exchange differences are recognized B1-2 Investments in equity affiliates directly in equity and therefore do not impact the income statement. Companies over which DASSAULT AVIATION exercises significant influence, directly or indirectly, and which are considered material are accounted for under the equity method. 128 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP C/ MEASUREMENT METHODS C2 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment C1 Goodwill and business combinations C2-1 Principles for recognition and appreciation or C1-1 Business combinations since January 1 , st amortization 2010 Intangible assets and property, plant and There have been no business combinations since equipment are recognized at acquisition or January 1st, 2010. production cost, less any accumulated depreciation or amortization and any accumulated impairment C1-2 Business combinations prior to January 1st, losses. 2010 Each identified component of an intangible asset Business combinations prior to January 1st, 2010 or item of property, plant and equipment is are recognized according to the acquisition method recognized and depreciated or amortized as defined in standard IFRS 3. separately. The identified assets and liabilities are recognized Depreciation and amortization are calculated using at their fair value on the date of acquisition. the straight-line method. No residual value is taken into account, except for aircraft. The difference between the acquisition cost of the shares and the Group's share in the restated net Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets constitutes the goodwill. assets are depreciated and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at Accounting for goodwill: each year-end for material non-current assets. if negative, goodwill is recognized in net income, The initial useful life of an asset is extended or if positive, goodwill is recognized in balance reduced depending on the conditions in which the sheet assets under the following headings: asset is used. goodwill if the purchased company is In accordance with IAS 38 Intangible assets fully or proportionately consolidated, concerning development costs, the Group equity affiliates if the purchased determines the development phase of its programs company is consolidated under the that satisfies the criteria for capitalization. equity method. Development costs are capitalized to the extent Goodwill can be adjusted within the twelve months that they satisfy the following three decisive following the acquisition date to take account of criteria: the final fair value estimates of the purchased The technical criterion is satisfied when the assets and liabilities. period for the validation of results after the maiden flight has elapsed without the project In accordance with standard IFRS 3, goodwill is no being called into question longer amortized. It is subject to an impairment The economic and commercial criterion is test at each year-end, or if an indication of validated by the orders or options obtained on impairment has been detected (see C3 Loss in the date when the technical criterion is value and recoverable value). deemed to be satisfied. the financial information reliability criterion is C1-3 Reminder of first adoption rules for IFRS satisfied for significant programs as the DASSAULT AVIATION has elected not to restate information system is designed to differentiate goodwill recognized prior to January 1st, 2004. between research and development phases. If Goodwill is recognized as of this date, net of any such a distinction cannot be made, as may be previously recognized amortization. the case for minor developments (e.g.: modification, improvement, etc.), the expenditure is not capitalized. The asset should be likely to generate clearly identifiable future economic benefits attributable to a specific product. 129 Consolidated financial statements The capitalized development costs are measured The impairment tests consist in ensuring that the at production cost. Capitalized development costs recoverable values of the tangible assets, are amortized according to the number of aircraft intangible assets and cash-generating units to delivered during the year, divided by an estimated which the goodwill is assigned are at least equal to number of aircraft to be delivered under the their net book value. Otherwise, impairment is program (including those for the year). recognized in net income and the net book value of the asset is written down to its recoverable C2-2 Useful lives value. Useful lives are as follows: The recoverable value of a tangible or intangible asset is the highest value between its fair value, Software 3-4 years less the costs of disposal, and its value in use. Development costs according to the number of units to be produced The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit Industrial buildings 25-30 years corresponds to its value in use. Each consolidated Office buildings 25-35 years company represents a cash-generating unit, i.e.: Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years the smallest identifiable group of assets that Plant, equipment generates cash inflows and outflows. and machinery 3-15 years Aircraft 4-10 years The value in use is calculated using the discounted Rolling stock 3-4 years future cash flow method, with a post-tax discount Other property, plant and equipment 3-8 ans rate of 8.8% (compared to 8.7% as of 31.12.2012) Second-hand goods on a case-by-case basis and a 2% long-term growth rate (same as of 31.12.2012). C2-3 Derecognition The discount rate includes the rates prevailing in Any gain or loss arising from the derecognition of the aviation industry and was calculated using the an item of property, plant and equipment or same method as in 2012. Post-tax cash flows are intangible asset (difference between the net projected over a period not exceeding 5 years and disposal gain and the net carrying amount) is the method takes into account a terminal value. included in the income statement in the year of its These future cash flows result from the economic derecognition. assumptions and forecast operating conditions adopted by the Group's Executive Management. C3 Loss in value and recoverable value of intangible assets, plant, property and When a cash-generating unit needs to be equipment, and goodwill impaired, the impairment is first of all applied to the goodwill then, if appropriate, to the other In accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets , assets of the cash-generating unit proportionate to all long-term assets (tangible and intangible) and their net book value. Impairments may be goodwill undergo an impairment test upon reversed except those relating to goodwill. detection of an indication of impairment and at least once a year, on December 31, for goodwill and for intangible assets with an indefinite service life. Indications of impairment derive from significant adverse changes of a permanent nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions or objectives adopted by the Group. 130 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP C4 Securities and other non-current financial Once such assets are sold or their value is assets permanently impaired, any cumulative gains or losses brought forward from prior years under These fall into three categories. equity are posted to financial income or expense in respect of marketable securities, or to operating C4-1 Investments in equity affiliates income in respect of non-consolidated Investments in equity affiliates undergo an investments. impairment test once there are objective indications of long-term loss in value. In the event of a partial disposal of securities, the first-in, first-out method is used to determine the Impairment is recognized if the recoverable value disposal gain or loss transferred from equity. is lower than the carrying amount, with the recoverable value being equivalent to the value in C4-3 Other financial assets use, as defined in paragraph C3, or the fair value Other financial assets mainly comprise guarantee net of transaction costs, whichever is the higher. and loan deposits granted to employees with Concerning the equity investment in THALES, respect to housing loans. when an impairment test is carried out, the Loans are recognized at cost less repayments. operational and financial hypotheses used derive Other assets are stated at cost. directly from data provided by THALES. C5 Inventories and work-in-progress Impairment may be reversed if the recoverable value once again exceeds the carrying amount. Incoming raw material, semi-finished and finished goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost C4-2 Available-for-sale securities for items purchased and production cost for items These mainly comprise short-term investments in produced. Outgoing inventories are measured at the form of marketable securities and nonweighted average cost, except for used aircraft consolidated investments that the Group does not which are stated at acquisition cost. Work-inintend to sell in the short term. progress is stated at production cost. They are recognized at their fair value. Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired when their net realizable value is lower than their For listed assets (marketable securities and noncarrying amount. consolidated investments), fair value corresponds to the market price prevailing at the balance sheet Net realizable value is the estimated selling price in date. These items are classified as level 1 (as per the ordinary course of business less the estimated IFRS 13). costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. For non-listed investments, in the absence of any external valuation elements, fair value represents C6 Receivables the Group’s share of net assets plus any unrealized Trade and other receivables are presented capital gains. Fair value is calculated based on the separately in the balance sheet. They are most recent financial statements available at the systematically classified as current assets. year-end. These items are classified as level 3 (as per IFRS 13). Receivables resulting from financial leasing Capital gains or latent losses net of applicable contracts are presented under Trade and other deferred tax are posted to Other income and receivables . They correspond to the discounted expense recognized directly through equity with amount of the expected lease revenue, increased the exception of capital gains that are considered by the residual value of the aircraft at the end of definitive. the financial leasing contract. 131 Consolidated financial statements A provision for impairment is recorded when the These obligations may be distinguished between: recoverable value is lower than the carrying standard warranty: repairing defective amount. equipment during the contractual warranty period, processing hardware or software The recoverable amount of a receivable is malfunctions identified by the user following estimated by taking into account the type of qualification and handover to the user, etc. customer and the history of settlements. regulatory warranty: handling by the In the event of a risk of default, the receivable is manufacturer of any changes to the written-down up to the amount of the estimated regulatory framework determined by the risk for the portion not hedged by credit insurance regulatory authorities are of any regulatory (export insurance guarantees (COFACE) or nonconformity identified by the collateral). manufacturer or a user following delivery of the delivered materials or products. Non written-down receivables are recent receivables and/or receivables with no material Determining the amount of the warranty provisions credit risk. is mainly done as follows: for the standard equipment warranty: based Foreign currency receivables, translated by each on feedback about the observed costs, as subsidiary into their local currency at the day's per the warranty options covered rate, are reevaluated at each year-end on the contractually and the models of aircraft basis of the year-end rate. The observed concerned, reevaluation differential is recognized in operating for the processing of malfunctions or income. upgrades and regulatory nonconformities: based on quotations drawn up by specialists C7 Cash and cash equivalents from the business lines that are concerned by the corrective actions to be implemented Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash at bank (these actions having been detailed in and in hand, demand deposits and cash technical files). equivalents. C8-2 Retirement severance payments The cash equivalents satisfy the criteria set forth in IAS 7 Statement of cash flows : short-term, Retirement severance payments are accrued in highly liquid investments that are readily full. Provisions cover all employees and are convertible to known amounts of cash and which estimated based on vested rights and a projection are not subject to a material risk of changes in of current salaries, after taking into account value. mortality rates, employee turnover, and a discounting assumption. The rates have been They are initially recognized at acquisition cost, determined based on the yield for top-ranking and subsequently at fair value, corresponding, for corporate long-term bonds, with equivalent these listed securities, to the market rate maturity to the duration of the calculated liabilities. prevailing at the year-end. The Group applies the revised IAS 19 standard The changes in fair value and the net disposal which stipulates: gains or losses are posted to income from cash recognition of all actuarial adjustments as other and cash equivalents under net financial income. income and expense recognized directly through equity, C8 Provisions for contingencies and losses immediate recognition of past service costs, alignment of expected return on plan assets C8-1 Provisions for warranties: with the discount rates, accounting for administrative costs only, In the framework of our sales or procurement relating to management of assets with contracts, we have formal obligations with regard deduction of their actual yield. to guaranteeing the equipment, products and/or services (software developers, systems integration, etc.) delivered. 132 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP The provision that features on the balance sheet The Group applies hedge accounting for the corresponds to the total net commitments of the operations concerned in accordance with the plan assets. The impacts on the income statement criteria set forth in IAS 39 Financial instruments : are fully recognized in the operating income. the changes in fair value of hedging instruments are posted, net of tax, to other C9 Borrowings and payables income and expense recognized through Foreign currency borrowings and payables, equity, except for changes corresponding to translated by each subsidiary into their local the ineffective amount of the hedge, if any, currency at the day's rate, are reevaluated at each which are posted to operating income in year-end on the basis of the year-end rate. The respect of foreign exchange derivatives and to observed reevaluation differential is recognized in net financial income in respect of interest rate operating income. derivatives. where the cash flow is received, the gain or Loans taken out by the Group are initially recorded loss on the hedging instrument is recognized in at the amount received net of transaction costs, operating income, and subsequently at cost less repayments, calculated using the effective interest rate. at each interest payment date for hedged borrowings, the gain or loss on the interest C10 Discounting of receivables, payables rate hedge is posted to net financial income or and provisions expense in respect of the relevant period. The receivables and payables are recognized for When a derivative instrument chosen for its their discounted amounts when their term of hedging effectiveness by the Group does not settlement is more than one year and the effects satisfy the requirements for hedge accounting, the of the discounting are significant. changes in fair value are recognized in net financial income or expense. The provision for retirement severance payments and similar benefits is discounted in accordance C12 Net sales and income with IAS 19 Employee benefits . C12-1 Recognition of revenue and operating Other provisions are stated at present value. income or loss In accordance with IFRS standards, deferred tax Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when assets and liabilities are not discounted. the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. This normally represents the transfer C11 Derivative financial instruments of ownership for the Group. The Group uses derivatives to hedge against Financial lease contracts are recognized as credit foreign exchange risks relating to its operations sales in application of IAS 17: Leases . and against interest rate risks. Services are recognized under the percentage of These risks mainly arise from US dollar completion method according to the milestones set denominated sales. The corresponding future cash forth in contracts. Income or loss is recognized at flows are partially hedged using forward exchange each stage of completion if it can be reliably contracts and foreign exchange options. measured. On initial recognition, derivatives are carried at Losses on completion are recognized as soon as acquisition cost in the balance sheet under they are known. Hedging instruments . C12-2 Tax credits for competitiveness and They are subsequently stated at fair value based employment and Tax credits for research on the market price disclosed by the relevant The amounts acquired as Tax credits for financial institutions and the market parameters competitiveness and employment by the French observed on the closure date, taking into account companies of the Group are deducted from the any counterparty risks. The evaluation of financial some of payroll and related charges. instruments comes under level 2 as per IFRS 13. 133 Consolidated financial statements The Research-based Tax Credits of the Group's C13 Deferred taxation French companies are recognized in operating income, under other revenue . Deferred taxes linked to temporary differences are calculated per company. C12-3 Net financial income or expense In accordance with the requirements of IAS 12 Net financial income or expense mainly comprises: Income taxes , deferred tax assets are only unrealized capital gains or losses on cash recognized, for each company, insofar as equivalents, estimated future taxable profits are sufficient to cover these assets and their maturity does not gains on disposal of marketable securities, exceed ten years. dividends from non-consolidated companies recognized when the Group – as shareholder Provisions are set up for tax on dividends proposed is entitled to receive payment, by subsidiaries. financial expense, which largely relates to Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at contracted borrowings and employee profit the tax rates that are expected to apply to the sharing current accounts. period when the asset is realized or the liability is variations in value of hedging instruments not settled, based on local tax rates (and tax laws) satisfying the conditions required by the that have been enacted by the year-end. standard for hedge accounting, Taxes related to items charged or credited directly financial income obtained from financial lease through equity are charged or credited to equity. operations. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset by entities for presentation in the balance sheet. 134 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 2 Scope of consolidation 2.1 Scope of consolidation as at December 31, 2013 The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of DASSAULT AVIATION and the following subsidiaries and affiliates: % interest (1) Name Country 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Consolidation method (2) Parent Parent DASSAULT AVIATION (3) France company company DASSAULT FALCON JET USA 100 100 FC DASSAULT FALCON JET WILMINGTON USA 100 100 DASSAULT AIRCRAFT SERVICES USA 100 100 DASSAULT FALCON JET LEASING USA 100 AERO PRECISION USA 50 50 MIDWAY USA 25 25 DASSAULT FALCON JET DO BRAZIL Brazil 100 100 DASSAULT FALCON BUSINESS SERVICES China 100 100 DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE France 100 100 FC FALCON TRAINING CENTER France 50 50 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES USA 100 100 FC MIDWAY USA 75 75 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES France 100 100 FC DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. USA 100 100 MEQ THALES France 26 26 MEQ (1) The equity interest percentages are identical to the percentages of effective control for all Group companies except for THALES, for which the Group holds a 25.53% equity interest, 25.85% of the interest entitlements and 29.31% of the voting rights as of December 31, 2013. (2) FC: fully consolidated, MEQ: equity method. (3) Identity of the parent company: Société Anonyme (French limited liability company) with share capital of EUR 81,007,176, listed and registered in France, 712 042 456 RCS PARIS 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées-Marcel Dassault 75008 PARIS. 2.2 Changes in the scope of consolidation 2013 In 2013 DFJ created a subsidiary in the USA called DASSAULT FALCON JET LEASING, the activity of which is to finance the sale of Falcon aircraft via financial lease contracts. 135 Consolidated financial statements Note 3 Goodwill (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Acquisitions Disposals Other 31.12.2013 DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE 3,702 0 0 0 3,702 DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES 5,887 0 0 0 5,887 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES 4,777 0 0 0 4,777 TOTAL 14,366 0 0 0 14,366 As the tests performed in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of assets did not indicate any impairment loss, no provision for goodwill impairment was recognized. A 10% variation of the discount rate and of the long-term growth rate does not affect the absence of goodwill impairment. Pursuant to the IFRS standards, the goodwill for THALES, which is consolidated under the equity method, is included under Equity affiliates (see Note 5). Note 4 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 4.1 Geographical breakdown (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Net value France 278,778 306,929 USA 134,694 137,246 TOTAL 413,472 444,175 Intangible assets 29,241 38,612 Property, plant and equipment 384,231 405,563 4.2 Intangible assets Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Gross value Development costs (1) 143,250 59 0 0 143,309 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 102,327 6,994 -9,926 1,532 100,927 Intangible assets in the course of development; 1,624 2,193 0 -1,624 2,193 advances and progress payments 247,201 9,246 -9,926 -92 246,429 Amortization Development costs (1) -116,250 -11,312 0 0 -127,562 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -92,339 -7,334 9,926 121 -89,626 -208,589 -18,646 9,926 121 -217,188 Net value Development costs (1) 27,000 15,747 Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 9,988 11,301 Intangible assets in the course of development; 1,624 2,193 advances and progress payments TOTAL 38,612 -9,400 0 29 29,241 (1) cf. paragraph C2-1 of the accounting principles. 136 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 4.3 Property, plant and equipment Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other (1) 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Gross value Land 27,081 322 -38 17 27,382 Buildings 431,664 8,055 -1,924 -3,808 433,987 Plant, equipment and machinery 535,112 25,709 -47,812 2,621 515,630 Other property, plant and equipment 275,092 7,314 -38,072 -2,912 241,422 Construction in progress; advances and 9,529 12,861 -2,212 -7,053 13,125 progress payments 1,278,478 54,261 -90,058 -11,135 1,231,546 Amortization Land -5,556 -453 19 0 -5,990 Buildings -234,554 -17,540 1,592 1,903 -248,599 Plant, equipment and machinery -456,332 -27,374 47,266 1,158 -435,282 Other property, plant and equipment -174,962 -11,834 28,029 1,974 -156,793 -871,404 -57,201 76,906 5,035 -846,664 Impairment (2) Other property, plant and equipment -1,511 -651 1,511 0 -651 -1,511 -651 1,511 0 -651 Net value Land 21,525 21,392 Buildings 197,110 185,388 Plant, equipment and machinery 78,780 80,348 Other property, plant and equipment 98,619 83,978 Construction in progress; advances and 9,529 13,125 progress payments TOTAL 405,563 -3,591 -11,641 -6,100 384,231 (1) This involves essentially foreign exchange differences. (2) Impairment tests of property, plant and equipment (cf. Note C3 Accounting policies ): The impairment tests carried out for cash-generating units did not highlight any other impairment to be recognized as of 31.12.2013. The provision for depreciation of capitalized used business jets was revised to EUR 651 thousand on December 31, 2013, compared to EUR 1,511 thousand on December 31, 2012. Note 5 Non-current financial assets 5.1 Equity affiliates This concerns, on the one hand, the THALES participation for which, as of December 31, 2013, DASSAULT AVIATION possesses 29.31% of the voting rights and 25.85% of the interest entitlements. Consequently, DASSAULT AVIATION has a significant influence over THALES, which as such is consolidated under the equity method in the Group financial statements. The Group also fully owns DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. This is a holding company that has a 12.5% stake in DASSAULT FALCON JET (DFJ). It is consolidated using the equity method, since its assets and liabilities, other than the DFJ investment, are negligible. 137 Consolidated financial statements 5.1.1 Group share of net assets and net income of equity affiliates % equity interest at year Net assets at year end (2) Net income (2) end (1) (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2013 2013 2012 (3) (3) DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC. 100 100 4,873 5,042 50 60 THALES (3)(4) 25.85 26.33 1,671 305 1,642,653 77,895 82,521 TOTAL 1,676,178 1,647,695 77,945 82,581 (1) % interest entitlements. (2) Group share after consolidation adjustments. (3) the 2012 data have been restated to take into account the first application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The effects are described in Note 1.A1-3. (4) The share value includes goodwill amounting to EUR 1,101,297 thousand. The Group share of the THALES income after consolidation adjustments is detailed in Note 5.1.3. 5.1.2 Growth of investments in equity affiliates (EUR 000) 2013 2012 (1) On January 1 (1) 1,647,695 1,654,084 Group share of net income (after consolidation adjustments) (1) 77,945 82,581 Elimination of dividends paid by THALES (2) -47,278 -40,975 Total income and expense recognized directly through equity Net change in fair value measurement of available-for-sale financial assets -13 132 Net change in fair value measurement of hedging instruments (3) 18,611 20,379 Actuarial adjustments on defined benefit obligations (1) -5,481 -84,756 Corresponding deferred taxes (1) -9,472 12,521 Foreign exchange differences -36,129 1,501 Share of income and expense recognized directly through equity relating to -32,484 -50,223 equity affiliates (1) Other movements (4) 30,300 2,228 On December 31 1,676,178 1,647,695 (1) cf. Note 1.A1-3 on the application of the revised IAS 19 standard. (2) In 2013, the Group received EUR 33,095 thousand in THALES dividends for 2012 and EUR 14,183 thousand in interim dividends for 2013. In 2012, the Group received EUR 40,975 thousand in THALES dividends, comprising EUR 27,842 thousand for 2011 and EUR 13,133 thousand in interim dividends for 2012. (3) The totals stated correspond to the change in the portfolio’s market value for the period. They are not representative of the actual gains/losses when the hedges are exercised. (4) This largely consists of changes in treasury shares, employee share issues and THALES share-based payments. 138 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 5.1.3 THALES summary financial statements (100%) and share of net income of equity affiliates by DASSAULT AVIATION (EUR 000) 2013 2012 (1) Total assets 21,494 800 21,317,700 Equity attributable to the owners of the Parent Company 3,911 000 3,541,100 Net sales 14,194 100 14,158,100 Net income attributable to the owners of Parent Company (1) 573,400 585,500 (1) cf. Note 1.A1-3 on the application of the revised IAS 19 standard. The breakdown between the Group share of THALES’ attributable net gain/loss and that applied by DASSAULT AVIATION is given in the table below: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 (1) THALES net income (100%) (1) 573,400 585,500 THALES net income DASSAULT AVIATION share (1) 148,224 154,162 Post-tax amortization of the purchase price allocation (2) -57,333 -67,967 Other consolidation adjustments run-off of the hedging instruments included in THALES equity on the -3,102 -2,370 acquisition date corresponding deferred tax 1,068 856 dilution impact -10,962 -2,160 Consolidation adjustments subtotal -70,329 -71,641 Value applied by DASSAULT AVIATION (1) 77,895 82,521 (1) cf. Note 1.A1-3 on the application of the revised IAS 19 standard. (2) depreciation of identified assets for which the modes and periods of depreciation are identical to those used for the year ended December 31, 2012. 5.1.4 Market price of THALES shares and impairment test Based on the market price of THALES shares on December 31, 2013 of EUR 46.80 per share, DASSAULT AVIATION’s investment in THALES is valued at EUR 2,458 million. In the absence of any objective indication of impairment, the THALES investments were not subject to an impairment test on December 31, 2013. 139 Consolidated financial statements 5.2 Available-for-sale securities Available-for-sale securities are recognized at their fair value. They comprise in particular short-term Group investments in the form of marketable securities. It should be noted that other marketable securities are classified under cash equivalents (cf. Note 8). The analysis of risks relating to all the Group’s available-for-sale securities is presented in Note 24 of the Appendix. Fair value (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Acquisitions Disposals Other 31.12.2013 variation Marketable securities (listed) 3,131,652 0 -139,481 1,008 0 2,993,179 (1)(2) Unlisted securities 95,506 1,092 -606 466 -1,821 94,637 Shares (EMBRAER) 35,656 0 0 3,029 0 38,685 Available-for-sale securities 3,262,814 1,092 -140,087 4,503 -1,821 3,126,501 (1) The amount of EUR -139,481 thousand corresponds to the net change in available-for-sale marketable securities (at cost). (2) The variation of EUR 1,008 thousand corresponds to the increase in fair value of the listed marketable securities amounting to EUR 11,324 thousand offset by a loss on sale amounting to EUR -10,316 thousand (included in the net financial income). 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Capital Capital Historical Consolidated Historical Consolidated gain / loss gain / loss value cost value cost (1) (1) Marketable securities (listed) (2) 2,012,989 980,190 2,993,179 2,152,470 979,182 3,131,652 Unlisted securities 68,893 25,744 94,637 70,228 25,278 95,506 Shares (EMBRAER) 32,120 6,565 38,685 32,120 3,536 35,656 Available-for-sale securities 2,114,002 1,012,499 3,126,501 2,254,818 1,007,996 3,262,814 (1) The observed capital gain is posted to Other income and expense recognized directly through equity . (2) An exhaustive analysis of the performance of available-for-sale securities is carried out at each period-end. The investment portfolio does not present, line-by-line, any objective indication of impairment as of 31.12.2013 (as was also the case on 31.12.2012). 5.3 Other financial assets Additions / Disposals / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Gross value Advance lease payments 32,188 939 -483 0 32,644 Housing loans and other 2,477 233 -364 -7 2,339 TOTAL (1) 34,665 1,172 -847 -7 34,983 Provision -306 -2 0 7 -301 NET VALUE 34,359 1,170 -847 0 34,682 (1) maturing within more than one year: EUR 34,212 thousand as of 31.12.2013 and EUR 33,898 thousand as of 31.12.2012. 140 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 6 Inventories and work-in-progress 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Raw materials 183,846 -75,306 108,540 109,126 Work-in-progress 2,077,947 -31,824 2,046,123 2,228,382 Semi-finished and finished goods 867,698 -335,841 531,857 579,397 TOTAL 3,129,491 -442,971 2,686,520 2,916,905 Note 7 Trade and other receivables 7.1 Details 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Trade receivables (1) 491,871 -85,144 406,727 367,513 Corporate income tax receivables 54,333 0 54,333 26,355 Other receivables 76,870 0 76,870 84,193 Prepayments and accrued income 12,802 0 12,802 11,894 TOTAL 635,876 -85,144 550,732 489,955 (1) see Note 7.3 for receivables relating to financial lease contracts. The percentage of outstanding receivables not written-down at the year-end is subject to regular individual monitoring. 7.2 Maturity gross value 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Within 1 More than Within 1 More than Total Total year 1 year year 1 year Trade receivables (1) 491,871 272,643 219,228 457,200 314,901 142,299 Corporate income tax receivables 54,333 54,333 0 26,355 26,355 0 Other receivables 76,870 76,870 0 84,193 84,193 0 Prepayments and accrued income 12,802 12,802 0 11,894 11,894 0 TOTAL 635,876 416,648 219,228 579,642 437,343 142,299 (1) see Note 7.3 for receivables relating to financial lease contracts. 141 Consolidated financial statements 7.3 Receivables relating to financial lease contracts (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Receivables for minimum lease payment income 49,033 0 Unearned financial income -5,416 0 Provisions for impairment and write-down 0 0 Net value 43,617 0 The amount due within one year of minimum lease payment income is EUR 8,387 thousand. Note 8 Cash and cash equivalents 8.1 Net cash 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Cash equivalents (1) 920,610 0 920,610 725,840 Cash at bank and in hand 62,620 0 62,620 224,576 Cash and cash equivalents in the balance sheet 983,230 0 983,230 950,416 Bank loans and credit balance bank accounts 0 0 0 0 Net cash in the cash flow statement 983,230 0 983,230 950,416 (1) mainly time deposits and cash equivalent marketable securities. The corresponding risk analysis is described in Note 24 to the consolidated financial statements. 8.2 Available cash The Group has defined a specific indicator, Available cash , which reflects the Group’s total liquidities minus borrowings. It is calculated as follows: (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Available-for-sale marketable securities (market value) (1) 2,993,179 3,131,652 Cash equivalents (market value) 983,230 950,416 Sub-total 3,976,409 4,082,068 Borrowings (2) -268,184 -321,779 Available cash 3,708,225 3,760,289 (1) See Note 5. At the Group’s initiative, the available-for-sale marketable securities may be sold in the very near future, given their liquidity. (2) See Note 11. 142 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 9 Share capital and capital management Share capital amounted to EUR 81,007 thousand, comprising 10,125,897 fully paid-up issued ordinary shares, each with a par value of EUR 8. The number and par value of the shares did not change during the year. The Group does not hold any treasury shares and did not grant any stock option plans to its employees and senior executives. Furthermore, the Group regularly distributes dividends. Note 10 Identity of the consolidating Parent Company % control (1) GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT (G.I.M.D.) 9, Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées Marcel Dassault 50.55% 75008 Paris (1) identical to the consolidation percentage. Note 11 Borrowings Amount due in more than 1 year Amount due Of which: Total on Total due (EUR 000) within > than 1 More than 5 31.12.2013 within more 1 year year and < years than 1 year than 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 96 25 71 54 17 Other borrowings (2) 268,088 62,871 205,217 205,217 0 TOTAL 268,184 62,896 205,288 205,271 17 Amount due in more than 1 year Amount due Total on Of which: (EUR 000) within Total due 31.12.2012 > than 1 More than 5 1 year within more year and < years than 1 year than 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 56 17 39 39 0 Other borrowings (2) 321,723 58,223 263,500 262,773 727 TOTAL 321,779 58,240 263,539 262,812 727 (1) No short-term bank credit on 31.12.2013 and on 31.12.2012. (2) On 31.12.2013 and on 31.12.2012, the other borrowings mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. Employee profit-sharing corresponds to other long-term benefits , and should be evaluated and discounted according to the principles of the revised IAS 19 standard. However, in view of the low historical differences between remuneration rate and discount rate, we consider that the evaluation method by cost less repayments constitutes a satisfactory approximation of the profit-sharing liability. 143 Consolidated financial statements Note 12 Provisions 12.1 Provisions for contingencies and losses and for impairment Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other (1) 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Provisions for contingencies and losses Operational 1,268,307 465,062 -384,310 -43,061 1,305,998 Financial 0 0 0 0 0 1,268,307 465,062 -384,310 -43,061 1,305,998 Provisions for impairment and write-down Financial 306 2 0 -7 301 Property, plant and equipment 1,511 651 -1,511 0 651 Inventories and work-in-progress 386,212 447,982 -385,481 -5,742 442,971 Trade receivables 89,687 83,977 -88,479 -41 85,144 477,716 532,612 -475,471 -5,790 529,067 TOTAL 1,746,023 997,674 -859,781 -48,851 1,835,065 (1) Including foreign exchange differences and actuarial adjustments posted to other income and expense recognized directly through equity. 12.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other (1) 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Warranties (2) 658,788 296,101 -221,322 -1,571 731,996 Services and work to be performed 195,178 129,484 -134,334 -1,942 188,386 Retirement severance payments 407,058 38,917 -24,918 -39,492 381,565 French companies 386,599 28,820 -16,993 -17,742 380,684 US companies 20,459 10,097 -7,925 -21,750 881 Miscellaneous (3) 7,283 560 -3,736 -56 4,051 Operating – current 1,268,307 465,062 -384,310 -43,061 1,305,998 Financial 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 1,268,307 465,062 -384,310 -43,061 1,305,998 (1) Including foreign exchange differences and actuarial adjustments posted to other income and expense recognized directly through equity. The actuarial adjustments contributed to the reduction in provisions for retirement severance payments amounting to EUR -39,325 thousand. These may be broken down, excluding exchange differences, as follows: French companies -17,742 US companies -21,583 Total actuarial adjustments -39,325 (2) Warranty provisions are updated to reflect the fleet in service and contracts delivered. Cf. accounting principles C8-1. (3) As of December 31, 2013, the other long-term benefits relating to long-service awards amounted to EUR 2,685 thousand, compared to EUR 2,699 thousand at the end of 2012. 144 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 12.3 Provisions for retirement severance payments 12.3.1 Calculation methods (defined benefit plans) Retirement severance payment commitments are calculated for all Group employees using the projected unit credit method and are accrued in full. Employment projections are weighted using French Insurance Code mortality rates and the DASSAULT AVIATION employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligation is estimated pro-rata according to employee length of service at the period-end in relation to their total career expectancy. Note that no Group companies have commitments in respect of medical insurance plans. 12.3.2 Assumptions used French companies US companies 2013 2012 2013 2012 Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% 2.25% 3.00% Discount rate 2.50% 2.30% 5.10% 4.45% Weighted average salary increase rate 3.90% 3.90% 3.40% 4.18% The discount rates were based on the yield for top-ranking corporate long-term bonds (noted AA) corresponding to money markets and the future dates when the payments will be made. 12.3.3 History of commitments (EUR 000) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Total commitment 556,649 579,783 485,241 419,381 382,715 Plan assets 175,084 172,725 155,432 138,786 116,075 Unfunded status (1) 381,565 407,058 329,809 280,595 266,640 (1) fully provisioned in the Group accounts. A reduction in the discount rate of 0.50 points would increase the total commitment by EUR 38,313 thousand in 2013. 12.3.4 French companies The movements in this provision over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 As of January 1 386,599 318,698 Current service cost 19,679 15,630 Interest cost 9,141 12,549 Benefits paid -16,993 -10,128 Actuarial adjustments -17,742 49,850 As of December 31 380,684 386,599 The periodic cost for defined benefit obligations breaks down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Current service cost 19,679 15,630 Interest cost 9,141 12,549 Periodic cost for defined benefit obligations 28,820 28,179 145 Consolidated financial statements 12.3.5 US companies In the US, defined benefit retirement commitments are financed externally. Commitments not covered by the plan assets are provisioned. The movements in this provision over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 As of January 1 193,184 166,543 Current service cost 9,179 8,424 Interest cost 8,298 8,349 Benefits paid -5,252 -4,737 Actuarial adjustments -21,420 18,629 Foreign exchange differences -8,024 -4,024 As of December 31 175,965 193,184 Changes in investments held for the plans over the year break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Fair value of the plan as of January 1 172,725 155,432 Expected return on plan assets 7,380 8,098 Actuarial adjustments 163 -658 Employer contributions 7,925 18,141 Benefits paid -5,252 -4,737 Foreign exchange differences -7,857 -3,551 Fair value of the plan as of December 31 175,084 172,725 The value of the fund amounted to USD 241 million as of 31.12.2013, compared to USD 228 million as of 31.12.2012. The periodic cost for defined benefit obligations breaks down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Current service cost 9,179 8,424 Interest cost 8,298 8,349 Expected return on plan assets -7,380 -8,098 Periodic cost for defined benefit obligations 10,097 8,675 The composition of the plan assets is as follows: 2013 2012 Bonds and debt securities 73% 68% Shares 27% 30% Liquidities 0% 2% Total 100% 100% The fund invests largely in bonds with a minimum guaranteed annual yield. 146 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 13 Operating payables 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Within 1 More than 1 Within 1 More than 1 Total Total year year year year Trade payables 613,000 613,000 0 536,606 536,606 0 Other miscellaneous payables 117,570 117,570 0 118,974 118,974 0 Prepayments and accrued income 95,342 64,873 30,469 112,588 73,713 38,875 Trade and other payables 825,912 795,443 30,469 768,168 729,293 38,875 Current corporate income tax payables 22,522 22,522 0 5,472 5,472 0 Other tax and social security payables 239,580 239,580 0 237,020 237,020 0 Tax and employee-related 262,102 262,102 0 242,492 242,492 0 liabilities Note 14 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Within More than Within More than Total Total 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Customer advances and progress 2,293,925 1,287,155 1,006,770 3,043,088 2,244,170 798,918 payments on work-in-progress TOTAL 2,293,925 1,287,155 1,006,770 3,043,088 2,244,170 798,918 Note 15 Net sales (EUR 000) 2013 2012 France (1) 1,327,090 997,341 Export 3,265,876 2,943,893 TOTAL 4,592,966 3,941,234 (1) principally the French government. One single customer, the French government, accounts for over 10% of the net sales of the Group in 2012 and 2013. (EUR 000) 2013 2012 First quarter 662,379 950,103 Second quarter 1,164,074 978,988 Third quarter 761,363 591,913 Fourth quarter 2,005,150 1,420,230 TOTAL 4,592,966 3,941,234 The net sales break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Finished goods 3,558 671 3,180,800 Services 1,034 295 760,434 TOTAL 4,592 966 3,941,234 147 Consolidated financial statements Note 15 Net sales (cont'd) By origin, net sales break down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 France (1) 2,893,047 2,562,426 United States (2) 1,699,919 1,378,808 TOTAL 4,592,966 3,941,234 (1) DASSAULT AVIATION, DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE and SOGITEC INDUSTRIES. (2) DASSAULT FALCON JET and DASSAULT PROCUREMENT SERVICES. Note 16 Other revenue (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Research-based tax credits 33,398 32,552 Financial revenue from operations (1) 750 796 Capitalized production (2) 59 4,257 Other operating grants 91 243 Other operating income 5,175 5,622 TOTAL 39,473 43,470 (1) interest in arrears. (2) including capitalized development costs: EUR 59 thousand in 2013 and EUR 4,220 thousand in 2012. Note 17 Other operating income and expenses (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Losses from disposals of non-current assets -591 -190 Foreign exchange gains or losses from business transactions (1) -7,400 8,206 Income/(loss) from non-capital transactions 302 -127 Other operating expenses -498 -3,987 Share of income of joint ventures 1,552 1,554 TOTAL -6,635 5,456 (1) Particularly foreign exchange gains and losses on trade receivables and payables. Foreign exchange gains and losses relating to hedging transactions are recognized in net sales. Note 18 Research and development costs Non-capitalized research and development costs are recognized in expenses for the year in which they are incurred and represent: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Research and development costs -481,560 -387,457 The Group’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the directors’ report. 148 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 19 Net financial income / (expense) (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Interest generated by cash and cash equivalents 8,387 8,081 Disposal gains and change in fair value of cash equivalents 123 609 Income from cash and cash equivalents 8,510 8,690 Interest charges on financing operations -6,988 -12,437 Cost of gross financial debt -6,988 -12,437 COST OF NET FINANCIAL DEBT 1,522 -3,747 Dividends and other investment income 1,003 2,856 Interest income and gains/losses on disposal of other financial assets 14,424 15,470 (excluding cash and cash equivalents) Foreign exchange gain/loss (1) 72,801 83,318 Other financial expenses -2,185 0 Financial income and expenses 86,043 101,644 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 87,565 97,897 (1) The stated totals correspond mainly to the variation in the value of hedging instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . They are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. Note 20 Tax position 20.1 Net effect of taxes on net income (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Current tax expense -208,989 -204,501 Deferred tax gain / expense 4,432 -20,940 Tax gain / expense on net income -204,557 -225,441 20.2 Net effect of taxes on income and expense recognized directly through equity fully consolidated companies (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Hedging instruments 3,086 4,566 Available-for-sale securities -847 -8,420 Actuarial adjustments -9,982 13,757 Tax charge recognized directly through equity -7,743 9,903 149 Consolidated financial statements Note 20 Tax position (cont'd) 20.3 Reconciliation of the theoretical and actual tax charge (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Net income 459,452 502,023 Cancellation of the tax charge 204,557 225,441 Cancellation of the Group share of net income of equity affiliates -77,945 -82,581 Income before tax 586,064 644,883 Theoretical tax expenses calculated at the current standard -222,704 -232,803 tax rate (1) Effect of tax credits (2) 14,800 11,751 Differences in tax rate 3,425 -1,685 Other -78 -2,704 Effective Tax Expense -204,557 -225,441 (1) Following the 2014 Finance Act, a rate of 38.00% applies for the years 2013 and 2014 to the Parent Company of the Group. (2) CIR (research based tax credit) in 2012, CIR and CICE (tax credit for competitiveness and employment) in 2013. 20.4 Deferred tax sources Consolidated balance Consolidated income (EUR 000) sheet statement 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 2013 2012 Temporary differences on provisions (profit-sharing, retirement, etc.) 242,545 219,717 34,841 72 Available-for-sale securities and cash equivalents -11,129 -10,603 -81 583 Hedging instruments -107,269 -85,349 -25,006 -28,284 Other temporary differences 67,985 74,131 -5,322 6,689 Deferred tax gain /expense 4,432 -20,940 Net deferred tax (1) 192,132 197,896 Deferred tax assets 192,132 197,896 Deferred tax liabilities 0 0 (1) The schedule for the payment of deferred taxes was not determined as certain deferred tax bases may not be accurately broken down by year. The deferred tax bases for which a reversal is expected with certainty in 2013 and 2014 have been subject to tax at 38%. The other bases are subject to tax at 34.43%. 20.5 Tax losses carried forward (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Deferred tax assets not recognized in the balance sheet 81,659 84,975 This concerns temporary differences with a maturity in excess of 10 years. 150 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 21 – Earnings per share Basic earnings per share 2013 2012 Net income attributable to shareholders (EUR 000) (1) 459,421 501,979 Weighted average number of outstanding ordinary shares 10,125,897 10,125,897 Basic earnings per share (in EUR) 45.4 49.6 (1) Net income is fully attributable to income from continuing operations (no discontinued operations). Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing net income attributable to shareholders by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. As the Group does not hold any treasury shares and does not have any share option plans, diluted earnings per share is identical to basic earnings per share. Note 22 Dividends paid and proposed DIVIDENDS ON ORDINARY SHARES 2013 2012 Decided and paid during the year (in EUR 000) 94,171 86,070 Net income per share (EUR) 9.30 8.50 Submitted to the AGM for approval, not recognized as a liability as of 90,120 December 31 (in EUR 000) Net income per share (EUR) 8.90 Note 23 Financial instruments The valuation mode on the balance sheet (cost or fair value) of financial instruments assets or liabilities is detailed in the table below. The Group used the following hierarchy for the fair-value evaluation of the financial assets and liabilities: Level 1: Quoted prices in active markets, Level 2: Valuation techniques based on observable market data, Level 3: Valuation techniques based on non-observable market data. 151 Consolidated financial statements 23.1 Financial instruments assets Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2013 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current assets Listed investments 38,685 38,685 Non-listed investments 94,637 94,637 Available-for-sale marketable securities 2,993,179 2,993,179 Other financial assets 34,682 34,682 Current assets Trade and other receivables 550,732 550,732 Derivative Financial instruments 141,232 170,326 311,558 Cash equivalents 920,610 920,610 Total financial instruments (assets) 585,414 1,061,842 3,296,827 4,944 083 Level 1 (2) 920,610 3,031,864 Level 2 141,232 170,326 Level 3 0 94,637 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments assets recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) including time deposits as of 31.12.2013: EUR 686,827 thousand On December 31, 2012, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2012 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current assets Listed investments 35,656 35,656 Non-listed investments 95,506 95,506 Available-for-sale marketable securities 3,131,652 3,131,652 Other financial assets 34,359 34,359 Current assets Trade and other receivables 489,955 489,955 Derivative Financial instruments 68,604 179,290 247,894 Cash equivalents 725,840 725,840 Total financial instruments (assets) 524,314 794,444 3,442,104 4,760,862 Level 1 (2) 725,840 3,167,308 Level 2 68,604 179,290 Level 3 0 95,506 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments assets recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) including time deposits as of 31.12.2012: EUR 469,471 thousand. 152 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 23.2 Financial instruments (liabilities) Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2013 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 71 71 Other borrowings (2) 205,217 205,217 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 25 25 Other borrowings (2) 62,871 62,871 Trade and other payables 825,912 825,912 Total financial instruments liabilities 1,094,096 0 0 1,094,096 On December 31, 2012, the data were as follows: Balance sheet value as of 31.12.2012 Fair value (EUR 000) Cost or cost less Total repayments (1) Impact on net Impact on income equity Non-current liabilities Bank borrowings 39 39 Other borrowings (2) 263,500 263,500 Current liabilities Bank borrowings 17 17 Other borrowings (2) 58,223 58,223 Trade and other payables 768,168 768,168 Total financial instruments liabilities 1,089,947 0 0 1,089,947 (1) The carrying amount of the financial instruments liabilities recognized at cost or cost less repayments corresponds to a reasonable approximation of the fair value. (2) mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds (cf. Note 11). 153 Consolidated financial statements Note 24 Financial risk management 24.1 Cash and liquidity risks The Group investment portfolio mainly comprises money market investments with no significant risk of impairment. 31.12.2013 (EUR 000) Consolidated Historical cost Capital gain As % value Cash at bank and in hand, money market investments, 2,173,166 354,273 2,527,439 63% demand deposits Bonds (1) 257,553 164,440 421,993 11% Diversified investments (1) 562,423 464,554 1,026,977 26% Total 2,993,142 983,267 3,976,409 100% (1) Investments in bonds and diversified investments are in most cases backed by guarantees, which limits the risk of impairment. The Group can therefore meet its commitments without any liquidity risk due to its cash resources and its portfolio of available-for-sale marketable securities. The Group is not faced with restrictions with regard to the availability of its cash and of its marketable securities portfolio. Fair values classification: 31.12.2013 (EUR 000) Impact on net Impact on Total income equity Cash at bank and in hand, money market investments, demand 983,230 1,544,209 2,527,439 deposits Investments in bonds 421,993 421,993 Diversified investments 1,026,977 1,026,977 Total 983,230 2,993,179 3,976,409 24.2 Credit and counterparty risks The Group spreads its investments and performs its cash and foreign exchange transactions with recognized financial institutions The Group had no investments or accounts with financial institutions that went bankrupt in 2013. The Group limits counterparty risk by performing most of its sales in cash and ensuring that the granted loans are secured by export insurance guarantees (COFACE) or collateral. Guarantees are also underwritten with export insurance firms for the manufacturing risk relating to major military export contracts. The amounts of export insurance guarantees and collateral obtained and not exercised at the year-end are recorded in offbalance sheet commitments (cf. Note 25). The share of contingent receivables is written-down, and the share of outstanding receivables not written-down is subject to regular individual monitoring (paragraph C6 of the accounting principles). 154 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP 24.3 Foreign exchange risks 24.3.1 Hedging portfolio The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through the parent company with regard to Falcon sales that are virtually all denominated in US dollars. This risk is partially hedged by using forward exchange contracts and foreign exchange options. The Group partially hedges its cash flows that are considered highly probable. It ensures that the initial future cash flows will be sufficient to use the foreign exchange hedges in place. The hedged amount may be adjusted according to the variability in the timing of expected net cash flows. The derivative financial instruments used by the Group (foreign currency hedges) along with their recognition under hedge accounting as defined by IAS 39 Financial instruments are defined in section C11 of the accounting principles. The fair value of the foreign exchange derivatives presented in the balance sheet is a net amount. The fair value of the financial instrument derivatives before and after compensation of the negative positions is presented in the following tables: (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Positive market values 312,344 263,182 Negative market values -786 -15,288 Market values of foreign exchange derivatives 311,558 247,894 The counterparty risk for foreign exchange derivatives (CVA/DVA) is calculated based on the current exposure method, and using the historical default probabilities per rating class communicated by the rating agencies. On December 31, 2013, this counterparty risk is insignificant. The breakdown of the fair value of the financial instrument derivatives per band of maturity is as follows: Within 1 Between 1 More than 3 (EUR 000) Total year and 3 years years Derivative financial instruments 109,992 131,546 70,020 311,558 The foreign exchange derivatives used by the Group do not all qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . Their breakdown is presented in the table below. Market value Market value (EUR 000) as of as of 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Instruments which qualify for hedge accounting 170,326 179,290 Instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting 141,232 68,604 Derivative financial instruments 311,558 247,894 155 Consolidated financial statements The impact on net income and equity for the period of the changes in fair value is as follows: Impact in Impact in (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 financial 31.12.2013 equity (1) income (2) Derivative financial instruments 247,894 -8,964 72,628 311,558 (1) posted as income and expense recognized directly through equity, fully consolidated companies. (2) change in fair value of foreign exchange hedging instruments which do not qualify for hedge accounting under the terms of IAS 39 Financial instruments . A sensitivity analysis was performed in order to determine the impact of a 10 cent increase or decrease in the US dollar/euro exchange rate. (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Net balance sheet position 311,558 247,894 Closing US dollar/euro exchange rate 1 EUR = 1.3791 USD 1 EUR = 1.3194 USD Closing dollar /euro exchange rate +/10 cents 1.4791 USD 1.2791 USD 1.4194 USD 1.2194 USD Change in net balance sheet position (1) + 99,167 173,885 + 172,046 -226,561 Impact on net income + 12,161 73,275 +24,933 -55,319 Impact on equity + 87,006 100,610 +147,113 -171,242 (1) Data calculated based on existing market conditions on the balance sheet dates. The data are not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. 24.3.2 EMBRAER shares The Group is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through its investment in EMBRAER, denominated in Brazilian reals. On December 31, 2013, the EMBRAER shares were valued at EUR 38,685 thousand (cf. Note 5.2). A 10% upward or downward variation of the exchange rate would have no significant impact on the Group's financial statements. 24.4.3 Other market risks The Group is exposed to a pricing risk relating to price fluctuations of EMBRAER shares. A 10% upward or downward variation of the share price would have no significant impact on the Group's financial statements. 156 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 25 Off-balance sheet commitments The off-balance sheet commitments of the Group relate essentially to its operational activities and break down as follows: (EUR 000) COMMITMENTS GIVEN 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Future payments to subcontractors or suppliers 1,654 852 2,093,642 Fixed asset orders 66,000 18,000 Guarantees and deposits 54,766 16,054 TOTAL 1,775 618 2,127,696 COMMITMENTS RECEIVED 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Future billings to customers 7,378 729 7,991,200 Export insurance guarantees 56,627 59,449 Collateral 111,331 51,309 TOTAL 7,567 558 8,101,958 SECURED PAYABLES AND RECEIVABLES 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 461,849 456,988 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 5,893 5,070 TOTAL 467,742 462,058 OPERATING LEASES TOTAL Within 1 year More than 1 year Minimum future non-cancelable lease payments 262,041 38,403 223,638 (not discounted) The Group’s main operating leases concern industrial office buildings. Note 26 Contingent liabilities In late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, including Dassault Aviation, was collectively issued with a request for arbitration from a common client claiming a sum which, according to the plaintiff, would amount to no less than USD 260 million, and for which the group of manufacturers may have joint obligation with regard to the plaintiff. This request related to the execution of old contracts implemented by these manufacturers. In the framework of an agreement signed between the parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its action. In November 2012, the latter gave notification of a new request for arbitration based on similar grounds to to the 2002 action, for a total now amounting to EUR 226 million. The parties firmly contest this request and, to date, it has not been possible to evaluate the possible financial risk. Consequently, Dassault Aviation has not established a reserve. This procedure is still ongoing. 157 Consolidated financial statements Note 27 Related-party transactions The Group’s related parties are: GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT, and its subsidiaries, THALES Group and its subsidiaries, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DASSAULT AVIATION, Directors of DASSAULT AVIATION. Terms and conditions of related-party transactions Sales and purchases are made at market price. Balances outstanding at the year-end are not guaranteed and payments are made in cash. No guarantees were provided or received for related-party receivables. For 2013, the Group did not recognize any provisions for bad debts relating to amounts receivable from related parties. The need for provisions is assessed each year by examining the financial position of the related parties and the market in which they operate. 27.1 Details of transactions (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Sales 48,267 10,171 Purchases 164,408 126,421 Trade receivables 31,318 31,908 Advances and deposits received 20,520 32,353 Trade payables 83,966 47,724 Advances and deposits paid 28,542 26,377 27.2 Compensation of senior executives and benefits in kind The compensation and benefits in kind paid by the DASSAULT AVIATION Group to the executive officers may be broken down as follows: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Fixed compensation 2,453 754 Directors' fees 328 302 Benefits in kind 16 9 Other 9 9 TOTAL 2,806 1,074 158 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP Note 28 Average number of employees EUR 000 2013 2012 Engineers and management and executive grades 5,351 5,245 Supervisory and technical grades 2,313 2,337 Administrative employees 1,198 1,228 Production employees 2,728 2,742 TOTAL 11,590 11,552 Note 29 Environmental information DASSAULT AVIATION Group recorded environmental capital expenditure amounting to EUR 1,438 thousand and income statement expense of around EUR 1,530 thousand in 2013 relating to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses. Note 30 Statutory auditors' fees The statutory auditors' fees posted to expenses for 2013 and 2012 are as follows: DELOITTE & ASSOCIES MAZARS EUR 000 2013 2012 2013 2012 Statutory audit, certification, review of individual and consolidated financial statements (1) DASSAULT AVIATION 210 210 210 210 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 0 0 334 349 Other statutory audit engagements (2) DASSAULT AVIATION 75 44 49 29 Fully consolidated subsidiaries 0 0 16 26 TOTAL 285 254 609 614 (1) These fees primarily include the review and certification of the Group’s consolidated financial statements, certification of the financial statements of the parent company DASSAULT AVIATION S.A. and its subsidiaries and compliance with local regulations. (2) These fees involve services normally rendered as an extension to the statutory auditors’ engagement (drafting of specific attestations, notices and opinions relating to accounting standards, etc.). In addition, the fees paid by fully consolidated subsidiaries to statutory auditors other than DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS and MAZARS need to be added to the above amounts: EUR 71 thousand in 2013 and EUR 46 thousand in 2012. Note 31 Subsequent events No events likely to have a material impact on the financial statements occurred between December 31, 2013 and the date of the financial statements being approved by the Board of Directors. 159 Consolidated financial statements AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE the amendments to the revised IAS 19 standard: CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL Employee benefits . STATEMENTS JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS Year ended December 31, 2013 In application of the provisions of Article L. 823-9 Dear Shareholders, of the French Commercial Code, we have In accordance with our appointment as auditors by conducted our own assessments, which we bring your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to to your attention. you for the year ended December 31, 2013 on: the audit of the accompanying consolidated Evaluation of the THALES investment financial statements of DASSAULT AVIATION, the justification of our assessments, Notes 1-C4-1 and 5.1.4 of the appendix to the the specific procedures and disclosures required consolidated financial statements describe the by law. methods for implementing, where applicable, an The consolidated financial statements have been impairment test of the investment stake in approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to THALES. We have verified the appropriate nature express an opinion on these financial statements, of the accounting methods cited above, and we based on our audit. can express our assurance that they are correctly applied. OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED Provisions for contingencies and losses FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our work consisted in particular in assessing the We conducted our audit in accordance with the data and assumptions used to determine the professional standards applicable in France. These estimated provisions for contingencies and losses, standards require that we plan and perform the as described in Note 1-C8 and Note 12 of the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the appendix to the consolidated statements, consolidated financial statements are free of reviewing the calculations performed by the material misstatement. An audit includes checking, Company, and examining the procedures adopted using sample testing techniques or other selection by Management to approve such estimates. On methods, evidence supporting the amounts and this basis, we assessed the reasonableness of disclosures in the consolidated financial these estimates. statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant Multi-annual agreements estimates made, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that For multi-annual agreements, the Company’s the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient income relating to service provisions is calculated and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. according to the completion method, as described in Note 1-C12-1 of the appendix to the In our opinion, the year's consolidated financial consolidated statements. On the basis of data statements give a true and fair view of the available to date, our work consisted in assessing financial position and the assets and liabilities of the data and the assumptions made by the Group as of December 31, 2013 and the Management and on which they based their results of its operations for the year then ended in estimates of the profit/loss on completion of those accordance with IFRS as adopted in the European contracts and their trends, reviewing the Union. calculations made, and comparing the estimates made in previous years with the actual profits and losses. Without qualifying our opinion expressed above, we draw your attention to Note 1-A1-3: First application of the revised IAS 19 standard of the appendix to the consolidated financial statements which details the change of accounting method relating to the application on January 1, 2013, of 160 DASSAULT AVIATION GROUP These assessments were made as part of our audit SPECIFIC PROCEDURES approach for the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole and contributed to our opinion as In accordance with professional standards expressed in the first part of this report. applicable in France, we have also performed the other specific testing required by law of the information on the Group given in the Directors’ Report. We have no comment to make as to the fair presentation of this information or its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 12, 2014 The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Jean-François Viat 161 162 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2013 163 Company financial statements ASSETS 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) NOTE Depreciation, Gross amortization and Net Net provisions Intangible assets 2 90,758 -78,000 12,758 10,861 Property, plant and equipment 2 921,886 -692,692 229,194 249,097 Long-term investments 3 2,218,910 -314 2,218,596 2,218,175 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 3,231,554 -771,006 2,460,548 2,478,133 Inventories and work-in-progress 4 2,585,719 -290,116 2,295,603 2,546,392 Advances and progress payments to 85,984 0 85,984 196,499 suppliers Trade receivables 6 492,082 -76,106 415,976 385,082 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued 6 484,135 0 484,135 461,478 income Marketable securities and cash instruments 9 2,173,288 0 2,173,288 2,313,074 Cash at bank and in hand 224,079 0 224,079 214,374 TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS 6,045,287 -366,222 5,679,065 6,116,899 TOTAL ASSETS 9,276,841 -1,137,228 8,139 613 8,595,032 164 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (EUR 000) NOTE 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Share capital 10 81,007 81,007 Additional paid-in capital 19,579 19,579 Reserves 12 3,021,217 2,832,730 Net income for the year 360,328 282,658 Tax provisions 14 234,474 276,449 TOTAL EQUITY 13 3,716,605 3,492,423 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES 14 1,196,004 1,140,644 Borrowings (1) 15 266,337 319,710 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 2,059,010 2,799,193 Trade payables 16 522,025 457,306 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 17 379,632 385,756 TOTAL LIABILITIES 3,227,004 3,961,965 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 8,139,613 8,595,032 (1) of which short-term banking facilities : 0 0 165 Company financial statements INCOME STATEMENT NOTES (EUR 000) 2013 2012 NET SALES 20 3,965,672 3,341,778 Capitalized production 0 37 Change in work-in-progress -211,679 -59,548 Reversals of provisions and depreciation and amortization, 654,724 458,308 expense reclassifications Other revenue 3,374 5,835 OPERATING REVENUES 4,412,091 3,746,410 External purchases -2,082,603 -1,671,745 Payroll and related charges (1) -686,075 -676,480 Other operating expenses -295,066 -298,880 Taxes and social security contributions -57,866 -57,022 Depreciation and amortization 2 -49,705 -49,899 Charges to provisions 14 -727,705 -549,100 OPERATING EXPENSES -3,899,020 -3,303,126 NET OPERATING INCOME BEFORE FINANCIAL ITEMS 513,071 443,284 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 22 47,030 61,854 NET INCOME FROM ORDINARY ACTIVITIES BEFORE TAX 560,101 505,138 Non-recurring items 23 42,309 27,225 Employee profit-sharing -108,936 -108,219 Corporate income tax charge 24 -133,146 -141,486 NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 360,328 282,658 (1) incl. tax credit for competitiveness and employment (cf. Note 7): 5115 0 166 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY CASH FLOW STATEMENT (EUR 000) 2013 2012 I NET CASH FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR 360,328 282,658 Elimination of gains and losses from disposals of non-current assets -28 -308 Elimination of investment grants added to net income 0 0 Net charges to and reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions 63,249 100,912 (excluding those relating to working capital) Net cash from operating activities before working capital changes 423,549 383,262 Change in inventories and work-in-progress (net) 250,789 -54,914 Change in advances and progress payments to suppliers 110,515 2,473 Change in trade and other receivables (net) -30,894 -21,140 Change in other receivables, prepayments and accrued income -22,657 71,448 Change in customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress -740,183 172,915 Change in trade payables 64,719 8,135 Change in other payables, accruals and deferred income -6,124 24,774 Increase (-) or decrease (+) in working capital -373,835 203,691 Total I 49,714 586,953 II NET CASH FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchases of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment -44,179 -44,966 Purchases of investments -1,954 -5,848 Disposals of or reductions in fixed assets 13,882 6,926 Total II -32,251 -43,888 III NET CASH FLOW USED IN FINANCING ACTIVITIES Capital increase 0 0 Change in equity items 0 0 Increase in borrowings 98,738 94,564 Repayments of borrowings (1) -152,111 -486,642 Dividends paid -94,171 -86,070 Total III -147,544 -478,148 CHANGE IN NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS ( I + II +III) -130,081 64,917 Opening net cash and cash equivalents (2) 2,527,448 2,462,531 Closing net cash and cash equivalents (2) 2,397,367 2,527,448 (1) In 2012, the Company repaid the loan taken out with a credit establishment. (2) Cash and cash equivalents comprise the following balance sheet headings: [cash at bank and in hand] + [marketable securities and cash instruments] [bank facilities and bank balances in credit] 167 Company financial statements NOTES TO THE PARENT COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 15 Borrowings OVERVIEW 16 Maturity of borrowings 1 Accounting policies 17 Other payables, accruals and deferred BALANCE SHEET income 2 Intangible assets and property, 18 Accrued expenses plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets 19 Notes on related companies and affiliates 2.2 Property, plant and equipment INCOME STATEMENT 3 Long-term investments 20 Net sales 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 21 Research and development costs 5 Interest on current assets 22 Net financial income/(expense) 6 Trade and other receivables 23 Non-recurring items 6.1 Details 6.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables ADDITIONAL INFORMATION gross value 7 Accrued income 24 Analysis of corporate income tax 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred 25 Off-balance sheet commitments income 26 Payables and receivables secured by bank 9 Difference in measurement of guarantees marketable securities 27 Contingent liabilities 10 Breakdown of share capital 28 Financial instruments: US dollar foreign 11 Identity of the consolidating exchange transaction portfolio parent company 29 Impact of accelerated tax valuations 12 Reserves 12.1 Reserves 30 Increase and reductions in future tax charges 12.2 Revaluation reserves 13 Statement of changes in equity 31 Compensation of corporate officers 14 Provisions 32 Average number of employees 14.1 Provisions 14.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses 33 Environmental information 34 Five-year summary 168 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY DASSAULT AVIATION B/ MEASUREMENT METHODS 9, ROND-POINT DES CHAMPS-ÉLYSÉESB1 Intangible assets and property, plant and MARCEL DASSAULT75008 PARIS equipment Société Anonyme (French limited liability Intangible assets and property, plant and company) with share capital of EUR 81,007,176, equipment are recognized at acquisition or listed and registered in France production cost, less any accumulated depreciation Registered with the Paris Trade Registry under the or amortization and any accumulated impairment number 712 042 456 losses. As an exception to the rule, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment acquired prior to December 31, 1976 were revalued. Note 1 Accounting policies Interest expense is not capitalized. Each identified component of an intangible asset or item of A/ GENERAL PRINCIPLES property, plant and equipment is recognized and depreciated or amortized separately. The financial statements of the Parent Company as Depreciation and amortization are calculated using of December 31, 2013 were approved at the the straight-line method. No residual value is taken meeting of the Board of Directors held on March 12, into account, except for aircraft. 2014, and will be submitted for approval to the Annual General Meeting to take place on May 15, Property, plant and equipment and intangible 2014. assets are depreciated and amortized over their estimated useful lives. Useful lives are reviewed at The individual financial statements have been each year-end for material non-current assets. prepared in accordance with French Accounting Standards Committee Regulation 99-03 approved by Initial useful lives are extended or reduced the Order of June 22, 1999 and subsequent notices depending on the conditions in which the asset is and recommendations of the French Accounting used. Standards Authority (ANC). Useful lives are as follows: The methods used to present the financial statements are comparable year-on-year. Software 3-4 years Industrial buildings 25-30 years The general accounting conventions have been Office buildings 25-35 years applied, in compliance with the principle of Fixtures and fittings 7-15 years prudence, and in line with the basic assumptions of: Plant, equipment 3-15 ans and machinery continuity of operations, Aircraft 4-10 years permanence of the accounting methods from Rolling stock 3-4 years one year to the next, Other property, plant and equipment 3-8 years independence between years, Second-hand goods on a case-by-case basis and in line with the general rules for the establishment and presentation of financial B2 Impairment of assets statements. The Company carries out an impairment test if an The individual financial statements have been indication of impairment has been detected. prepared on a historical cost basis. Indications of impairment derive from significant adverse changes of a permanent nature, affecting the economic environment or the assumptions or objectives adopted by the Company. 169 Company financial statements Intangible assets and property, plant and Inventories and work-in-progress are impaired equipment are impaired by the Company when when their net realizable value is lower than their their net carrying amount exceeds their present carrying amount. Net realizable value is the value. The amount of impairment recognized in estimated selling price in the ordinary course of income is equal to the difference between the net business less the estimated costs of completion carrying amount and present value. and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale. The present value of an asset is the higher of its fair value (less costs to sell) and its value in use. B5 Receivables The value in use of an asset is calculated using the Receivables are stated at nominal value. A discounted future cash flow method, with a postprovision for impairment is recorded when the tax discount rate of 8.8% (compared to 8.7% as of recoverable value is lower than the carrying 31.12.12) and a 2% growth rate (same as of amount. 31.12.12). The discount rate includes the rates prevailing in the aviation industry and was B6 Borrowings calculated using the same method as in 2012. Posttax cash flows are projected over a period not Borrowings are recorded at the amount received. exceeding 5 years and the method takes into Transaction costs are posted to expenses for the account a terminal value. These future cash flows year. result from the economic assumptions and forecast operating conditions adopted by the Group's B7 Statutory provisions Executive Management. Concerning the equity investment in THALES, when These include: an impairment test is carried out, the operational Provisions for investments, and financial hypotheses used derive directly from Provisions for price increases, data provided by THALES. Provisions for medium-term export credit B3 Equity investments, other investments risk, Accelerated depreciation. and marketable securities The gross value of such assets is their purchase B8 Provisions for contingencies and losses price excluding incidental costs, except in the case B8-1 Provisions for warranties of assets subject to the 1976 legal revaluation. A provision for impairment is recorded when the book In the framework of our sales or procurement value is lower than the gross value. The fair value is contracts, we have formal obligations with regard the higher of its market value and its value in use. to guaranteeing the equipment, products and/or services (software developments, systems B4 Inventories and work-in-progress integration, etc.) delivered. Incoming raw material, semi-finished and finished These obligations may be distinguished between: goods inventories are measured at acquisition cost standard warranty: repairing defective for items purchased and production cost for items equipment during the contractual warranty produced. Outgoing inventories are measured at period, processing hardware or software weighted average cost, except for used aircraft malfunctions identified by the user which are stated at acquisition cost. following qualification and handover to the The work-in-progress is measured at production user, etc. cost and does not include interest expense. regulatory warranty: handling by the manufacturer of any changes to the regulatory framework determined by the regulatory authorities or of any regulatory nonconformity identified by the manufacturer or a user following delivery of the delivered materials or products. 170 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Determining the amount of the warranty provisions B10 Operations in foreign currencies is mainly done as follows: for the standard equipment warranty: based Income statement items denominated in foreign on feedback about the observed costs, as per currencies are translated into euros at the the warranty options covered contractually exchange rate prevailing at the date of payment or and the models of aircraft concerned, receipt, with the exception of flows covered by hedging arrangements which are recorded at the for the processing of malfunctions or hedge rate for the year. upgrades and regulatory nonconformities: based on quotations drawn up by specialists Receivables and payables outstanding at the yearfrom the business lines that are concerned by end are translated into euros at the closing rate of the corrective actions to be implemented exchange. Differences arising on the translation of (these actions having been detailed in opening balances at closing exchange rates are technical files). taken to balance sheet suspense accounts as follows: B8-2 Retirement severance payments and related benefits unrealized translation losses to assets, unrealized translation gains to liabilities. A Retirement severance payment and related benefits provision is recorded in respect of unrealized (e.g., long-service award) commitments are losses. provisioned in full. Provisions cover all employees and are estimated based on vested rights and a Translation gains and losses arising on cash at projection of current salaries, after taking into bank and in hand as of December 31 are taken to account mortality rates, employee turnover, and a the income statement. discounting assumption. The rates have been determined based on the yield for top-ranking B11 Net sales and income corporate long-term bonds, with equivalent Revenue from sales of goods is recognized when maturity to the duration of the calculated liabilities. the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer. This normally represents the transfer Actuarial gains or losses or gains and losses of ownership for the Company. analyzed as such are fully recognized in income in the period during which they are incurred. Services are recognized under the percentage of completion method according to the milestones set B9 Foreign exchange hedging forth in contracts. The Company uses derivative financial instruments Income or loss is recognized at each stage of to hedge against foreign exchange risks relating to completion if it can be reliably measured. Losses its operations. on completion are recognized as soon as they are These risks mainly arise from US dollar-denominated known. sales. The corresponding future cash flows are B12 Unrealized capital gains on marketable partially hedged using forward exchange contracts and foreign exchange options. securities Premiums paid or received on the purchase or sale Unrealized capital gains on marketable securities of put options are recognized in the income are not recognized in the income statement until statement on maturity of these options, with the effectively realized. exception of those relating to zero premium hedging strategies, which are recognized immediately in the income statement to avoid temporary timing differences. 171 Company financial statements The tax charge relating to unrealized gains on marketable securities is recorded within prepayments until recognition of the capital gains within financial income. This method, which constitutes a departure from the general principle of full recognition of deferred tax, has been adopted to provide a fairer presentation of the results of the Company. C/ TAX CONSOLIDATION With effect from January 1, 1999, DASSAULT AVIATION, 9 Rond-Point des Champs-Élysées Marcel Dassault 75008 PARIS, formed a tax consolidation group pursuant to Article 223A et seq. of the French General Tax Code. This tax consolidation arrangement is tacitly renewable per period of five fiscal years. By agreement, it does not have an impact on member company net income, as tax charges are borne by the tax group companies as if no such election had been made. 172 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 2 Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment 2.1 Intangible assets Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Gross value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 90,226 6,612 -9,892 1,619 88,565 Construction in progress; advances and 1,619 2,193 0 -1,619 2,193 progress payments 91,845 8,805 -9,892 0 90,758 Amortization Software, patents, licenses and similar assets -80,984 -6,908 9,892 0 -78,000 -80,984 -6,908 9,892 0 -78,000 Net value Software, patents, licenses and similar assets 9,242 10,565 Construction in progress; advances and 1,619 2,193 progress payments TOTAL 10,861 1,897 0 0 12,758 173 Company financial statements 2.2 Property, plant and equipment Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Gross value Land 26,821 322 -38 14 27,119 Buildings 282,784 5,833 -515 182 288,284 Plant, equipment and machinery 486,253 19,984 -44,774 3,766 465,229 Other property, plant and equipment 166,113 4,486 -34,674 462 136,387 Construction in progress; advances and 6,753 4,749 -2,211 -4,424 4,867 progress payments 968,724 35,374 -82,212 0 921,886 Amortization Land -5,556 -452 18 0 -5,990 Buildings -173,438 -11,747 329 0 -184,856 Plant, equipment and machinery -419,509 -23,445 44,596 0 -398,358 Other property, plant and equipment -121,124 -7,153 24,789 0 -103,488 -719,627 -42,797 69,732 0 -692,692 Impairment (1) Other property, plant and equipment 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Net value Land 21,265 21,129 Buildings 109,346 103,428 Plant, equipment and machinery 66,744 66,871 Other property, plant and equipment 44,989 32,899 Construction in progress; advances and 6,753 4,867 progress payments TOTAL 249,097 -7,423 -12,480 0 229,194 (1) Impairment tests of property, plant and equipment (cf. paragraph B2 of the Accounting policies): the impairment tests carried out on property, plant and equipment did not bring to light any other impairment to be recognized as of 31.12.2013. 174 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 3 Long-term investments Additions Disposals (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Equity investments (1) 2,179,097 791 0 -32,119 2,147,769 Other investment securities 5,894 0 -606 32,119 37,407 Loans 2,325 233 -364 0 2,194 Other long-term investments 31,013 930 -403 0 31,540 TOTAL 2,218,329 1,954 -1,373 0 2,218,910 Provisions -154 -160 0 0 -314 NET VALUE 2,218,175 1,794 -1,373 0 2,218,596 (1) of which THALES: EUR 1,984,272 thousand. Market price of THALES shares and impairment test: Based on the market price of THALES shares as at December 31, 2013 of EUR 46.80 per share, DASSAULT AVIATION’s investment in THALES is valued at EUR 2,458 million. In the absence of any objective indication of impairment, the THALES investments were not subject to an impairment test on December 31, 2013. Maturity of long-term investments Within More than (EUR 000) Total 1 year 1 year Loans 2,194 307 1,887 Other long-term investments 31,540 0 31,540 TOTAL 33,734 307 33,427 175 Company financial statements Note 3 Long-term investments (cont'd) A. List of subsidiaries and affiliates whose gross value exceeds 1% of the Company’s share capital and in which the Company holds at least 10% of shares Carrying amount of shares Outstandi Net Dividends held ng loans income received Companies or groups Guarante Net sales of Equity other % and (+)/ loss by the Share es given the most of companies than share sharehold advances (-) of the Company capital by the recent fiscal (in EUR 000) capital ing Gross Net granted Company year most during by the recent the fiscal company fiscal year year 1. SUBSIDIARIES (more than 50% shareholding) a. French subsidiaries DASSAULT FALCON SERVICE 3,680 67,261 99.99 59,453 59,453 0 0 146,676 3,405 0 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL 1,529 18,811 99.63 19,236 19,236 0 0 1,739 67 0 DASSAULTREASSURANCE 10,459 8,326 99.99 10,133 10,133 0 0 2,397 454 0 DASSAULT-AVIATION PARTICIPATION 4,037 -39 100.00 4,037 4,037 0 0 0 -11 0 SOGITEC INDUSTRIES 4,578 118,418 99.80 25,446 25,446 0 0 69,178 8,896 0 Total 118,305 118,305 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries DASSAULT FALCON JET (1) 10,189 529,839 87.47 7,767 7,767 0 54,766 1,751 782 37,225 0 DASSAULT INTERNATIONAL INC 3,662 45,918 100.00 3,727 3,727 0 0 1,111 3,122 0 (USA) DASSAULT PROCUREMENT 73 43,481 100.00 28,965 28,965 0 0 308,196 1,352 0 SERVICES INC (USA) Total 40,459 40,459 0 54,766 0 Total 158,764 158,764 0 54,766 0 SUBSIDIARIES 2. AFFILIATES (between 10 and 50% shareholding) a. French affiliates CORSE COMPOSITES AERONAUTIQUES 1,707 5,005 24.81 996 996 0 0 38,295 929 0 EUROTRADIA INTERNATIONAL (2) 3,000 31,741 16.20 3,099 3,099 0 0 45,249 1,990 324 THALES (3) 617,200 4,844 100 25.53 1,984,272 1,984,272 0 0 205,900 400,600 47,278 Total 1,988,367 1,988,367 0 0 47,602 b. Foreign affiliates Total 0 0 0 0 0 Total AFFILIATES 1,988,367 1,988,367 0 0 47,602 (1) This is a direct holding; the remaining 12.53% of the shares are held by Dassault International Inc. (United States), which in turn is a wholly-owned subsidiary of DASSAULT AVIATION. (2) 2012 fiscal year information (3) parent company financial statements 176 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 3 Long-term investments (cont'd) B. Other subsidiaries and affiliates Carrying amount of shares Outstanding Dividends Guarantees General information held loans and received by the given advances Company (EUR 000) by the Gross Net granted by the during the Company company fiscal year 1. SUBSIDIARIES a. French subsidiaries 567 567 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries 0 0 0 0 0 Total 567 567 0 0 0 2. AFFILIATES a. French affiliates 5,307 5,147 0 0 1,028 b. Foreign affiliates 32,171 32,171 0 0 452 Total 37,478 37,318 0 0 1,480 C. General information on securities (A+B) Carrying amount of shares Outstanding Dividends Guarantees General information held loans and received by the given advances Company (EUR 000) by the Gross Net granted by the during the Company company fiscal year 1. SUBSIDIARIES a. French subsidiaries 118,872 118,872 0 0 0 b. Foreign subsidiaries 40,459 40,459 0 54,766 0 Total 159,331 159,331 0 54,766 0 2. AFFILIATES a. French affiliates 1,993,674 1,993,514 0 0 48,630 b. Foreign affiliates 32,171 32,171 0 0 452 Total 2,025,845 2,025,685 0 0 49,082 GRAND TOTAL 2,185,176 2,185,016 0 54,766 49,082 177 Company financial statements Note 4 Inventories and work-in-progress 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Raw materials 179,028 -73,236 105,792 105,802 Work-in-progress 1,799,170 0 1,799,170 2,010,849 Semi-finished and finished goods 607,521 -216,880 390,641 429,741 TOTAL 2,585,719 -290,116 2,295,603 2,546,392 Note 5 Interest on current assets No interest is included in the balance sheet value of inventories and work-in-progress. Note 6 Trade and other receivables 6.1 Details 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Gross Provision Net Net Trade receivables Trade receivables 492,082 -76,106 415,976 385,082 492,082 -76,106 415,976 385,082 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income Other receivables 115,578 0 115,578 101,632 Prepaid expenses 355,394 0 355,394 353,819 Prepayments and accrued income 13,163 0 13,163 6,027 484,135 0 484,135 461,478 TOTAL 976,217 -76,106 900,111 846,560 The percentage of outstanding receivables not written-down at the year-end is subject to regular individual monitoring. 6.2 Maturity of trade and other receivables gross value 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Within More than Within More than Total Total 1 year 1 year 1 year 1 year Trade receivables (1) 492,082 310,850 181,232 463,095 330,804 132,291 Other receivables 115,578 115,578 0 101,632 101,632 0 Prepaid expenses 355,394 355,394 0 353,819 353,819 0 Prepayments and accrued 13,163 13,163 0 6,027 6,027 0 income TOTAL 976,217 794,985 181,232 924,573 792,282 132,291 (1) of which receivables and payables represented by commercial paper: EUR 56,089 thousand on December 31, 2013 and EUR 78,635 thousand on December 31, 2012. 178 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 7 Accrued income Accrued income is included in the following balance sheet accounts 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Trade receivables 188,597 151,187 Other receivables, prepayments and accrued income (1) 5,155 0 Marketable securities 17 345 Cash at bank and in hand 28 250 TOTAL 193,797 151 ,782 (1) Incl. tax credit for competitiveness and employment (CICE): EUR 5,115 thousand in 2013. On the income statement, it is recorded as deduction of payroll and related charges. It is used for improving the production and sales tools through the acquisition and replacement of equipment, in particular in the framework of the implementation of Improving Responsiveness in Production projects. Note 8 Prepaid expenses and deferred income (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Operating income 59,230 70,315 Operating expenses (1) 355,394 353,819 (1) income tax on unrealized capital gains 346,753 346,351 Note 9 Difference in measurement of marketable securities MARKETABLE SECURITIES AND CASH INSTRUMENTS (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Book value 2,173,288 2,313,074 Market value 3,153,476 3,292,255 179 Company financial statements Note 10 Breakdown of share capital Number of shares Par value Share capital at the beginning of the year 10,125,897 EUR 8 Share capital at the end of the year 10,125,897 EUR 8 Note 11 Identity of the consolidating parent company % consolidation GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL DASSAULT (G.I.M.D) 9, Rond-Point des Champs Élysées Marcel Dassault 50.55 % 75008 PARIS Note 12Reserves 12.1 Reserves (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Revaluation difference 4,305 4,305 Legal reserve 8,101 8,101 Other reserves 71,332 71,332 Retained earnings 2,937,479 2,748,992 TOTAL 3,021,217 2,832,730 12.2 Revaluation reserves Movements in the revaluation reserve (EUR 000) 2013 MOVEMENTS Decreases due to 31.12.2012 Other changes 31.12.2013 disposals Land 3,784 0 0 3,784 Investments 521 0 0 521 TOTAL 4,305 0 0 4,305 Revaluation reserve (1976) 4,305 0 0 4,305 180 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 13 Statement of changes in equity 1/ INCOME FOR THE YEAR 2013 2012 ACCOUNTING INCOME EUR 000 360,328 282,658 In EUR per share 35.58 27.91 CHANGE IN EQUITY EXCLUDING NET INCOME FOR THE YEAR EUR 000 -41,975 -26,941 In EUR per share -4.15 -2.66 DIVIDENDS EUR 000 90,120 (1) 94,171 In EUR per share 8.90 (1) 9.30 (1) proposed at the Annual General Meeting 2/ STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY EXCLUDING INCOME FOR THE YEAR (EUR 000) Prior to After appropriation appropriation of 2012 net of 2012 net income as of income as of 31.12.2013 31.12.2013 A1. 2012 closing equity excluding net income for the year 3,209,765 3,209,765 2. 2012 net income prior to appropriation 282,658 3. Appropriation of 2012 net income to net equity by the AGM 188,487 4. 2013 opening equity 3,492,423 3,398,252 B Additional paid-in capital with retroactive effect to 2013 0 opening equity 1. Change in share capital 0 2. Change in other items 0 C (= A4 + B) 2013 opening equity 3,398,252 D Changes during the year excluding 2013 net income -41,975 1. Change in share capital 0 2. Change in additional paid-in capital, reserves 0 3. Change in equity provisions 0 4. Revaluation offsetting entries Reserve 0 5. Change in tax provisions and equipment grants -41,975 6. Other changes 0 E 2013 CLOSING EQUITY EXCLUDING 2013 NET INCOME PRIOR 3,356,277 TO THE AGM (= C + D) F TOTAL 2013 CHANGE IN EQUITY EXCLUDING 2013 NET -41,975 INCOME (= E C) 3/ FUTURE TAX PAYABLE (EUR 000) Statutory provisions excluding provisions for investments: 120,655 x 38 % = 45,849 181 Company financial statements Note 14 Provisions 14.1 Provisions Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Tax provisions Investments 143,660 0 (3) -29,841 (3) 0 113,819 Price increases 56,157 10,227 (3) -9,554 (3) 0 56,830 Accelerated tax depreciation 72,437 13,385 (3) -23,894 (3) 0 61,928 Medium-term export credit 4,177 0 (3) -2,298 (3) 0 1,879 Capital gains rolled over 18 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 18 276,449 23,612 -65,587 0 234,474 Provisions for contingencies and losses Operating 1,134,617 361,483 (1) -313,259 (1) 0 1,182,841 Financial 6,027 13,163 (2) -6,027 (2) 0 13,163 Non-recurring 0 0 (3) 0 (3) 0 0 1,140,644 374,646 -319,286 0 1,196,004 Provisions for impairment and write-down Intangible assets 0 0 (1) 0 (1) 0 0 Property, plant and equipment 0 0 (1) 0 (1) 0 0 Financial 154 160 (2) 0 (2) 0 314 Inventories and work-in-progress 263,452 290,116 (1) -263,452 (1) 0 290,116 Trade receivables 78,013 76,106 (1) -78,013 (1) 0 76,106 341,619 366,382 -341,465 0 366,536 TOTAL 1,758,712 764,640 -726,338 0 1,797,014 { Operating 727,705 (1) -654,724 (1) Provision increases and reversals { Financial 13,323 (2) -6,027 (2) and expense reclassifications { Non-recurring 23,612 (3) -65,587 (3) 764,640 -726,338 182 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY 14.2 Provisions for contingencies and losses Increases / Decreases / (EUR 000) 31.12.2012 Other 31.12.2013 Charges Reversals Operating Retirement severance payments and 371,500 14,381 -19,881 0 366,000 long-service awards (1) Warranties (2) 614,400 264,500 -199,300 0 679,600 Services and work to be performed 148,717 82,602 -94,078 0 137,241 1,134,617 361,483 -313,259 0 1,182,841 Financial Forex losses 6,027 13,163 -6,027 0 13,163 6,027 13,163 -6,027 0 13,163 Non-recurring Miscellaneous 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL PROVISIONS FOR 1,140,644 374,646 -319,286 0 1,196,004 CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES (1) Provisions for retirement severance payments and long-service awards: Retirement severance payment and long service award commitments are calculated for all employees using the projected unit credit method and are accrued in full. Employment projections are weighted using French Insurance Code mortality rates and the DASSAULT AVIATION employee turnover rate (this may vary according to age). The obligation is estimated pro rata on the employee’s length of service at the period-end in relation to his total career expectancy. The calculation factors take into account a wage increase assumption of 3.9% per annum, a discount rate of 2.5% and an annual inflation rate of 2%. (2) Warranty provisions: warranty provisions are updated to reflect the fleet in service and contracts delivered (cf. accounting principles B8-1). 183 Company financial statements Note 15 Borrowings (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Bank borrowings (1) 96 56 Other borrowings (2) 266,241 319,654 TOTAL 266,337 319,710 (1) of which short-term bank credit: zero as of 31.12.2013 and as of 31.12.2012. (2) on 31.12.2013 and on 31.12.2012, the other borrowings mainly include locked-in employee profit-sharing funds. There are no participating loans. Note 16 Maturity of borrowings Within Between 1 More than (EUR 000) Total 1 year and 5 years 5 years Bank borrowings (1) 96 25 54 17 Other borrowings (2) 266,241 62,435 203,806 0 Trade payables (3) 522,025 522,025 0 0 Tax and employee-related liabilities 201,034 201,034 0 0 Amounts payable in respect of PP&E and related accounts 2,082 2,082 0 0 Other payables 111,536 111,536 0 0 TOTAL 1,103,014 899,137 203,860 17 (1) see Note 15. (2) see Note 15. (3) of which payables represented by commercial paper: EUR 56,089 thousand. Note 17 Other payables, accruals and deferred income (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Tax and employee-related liabilities 201,034 194,178 Amounts payable in respect of PP&E and related accounts 2,082 4,673 Other payables 111,536 111,216 Deferred income 59,230 70,315 Accruals and deferred income 5,750 5,374 TOTAL 379,632 385,756 184 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 18 Accrued expenses Accrued expenses are included in the following balance sheet accounts 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 (EUR 000) Borrowings (1) 4,227 6,448 Trade payables 425,076 376,153 Other payables, accruals and deferred income 238,921 234,260 TOTAL 668,224 616,861 (1) of which bank borrowings: zero as of 31.12.13 and 31.12.12. Note 19 Notes on related companies and affiliates Notes on companies in which the (EUR 000) which are related Company holds an investment Investments 159,331 1,988,438 Loans and other long-term investments 31,085 0 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 26,417 26,924 Trade receivables 106,430 120 Miscellaneous receivables 0 0 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 252,175 13,860 Trade payables 101,207 47,171 Other miscellaneous payables 0 0 Financial expenses 0 0 Note 20 – Net sales (EUR 000) 2013 2012 A) ANALYSIS BY CLASS OF GOODS OR SERVICES: Finished goods 2,994,813 2,644,563 Services 970,859 697,215 TOTAL 3,965,672 3,341,778 B) ANALYSIS BY GEOGRAPHICAL AREA: France 1,331,938 989,033 Export 2,633,734 2,352,745 TOTAL 3,965,672 3,341,778 C) ANALYSIS BY QUARTER: First quarter 647,758 881,388 Second quarter 1,026,022 750,706 Third quarter 682,238 502,646 Fourth quarter 1,609,654 1,207,038 TOTAL 3,965,672 3,341,778 185 Company financial statements Note 21 Research and development costs Research and development costs are recognized in expenses as incurred and represent: (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Research and development costs -442,108 -359,756 The Company’s research and development strategy and initiatives are described in the directors’ report. Note 22 Net financial income/(expense) (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Investment income (1) 48,054 41,578 Income from other long-term loans and assets 1,081 611 Other interest and similar income 4,065 4,082 Reversals of provisions for Forex losses 6,027 19,668 Reversals of provisions for equity investments 0 2,000 Foreign exchange gains 0 0 Net gains on sale of marketable securities 10,316 12,416 FINANCIAL INCOME 69,543 80,355 Net charges to provisions for Forex losses -13,163 -6,027 Net charges to provisions for equity investments -160 0 Net charges to provisions for loans 0 0 Interest and similar expenses -9,065 -12,425 Foreign exchange losses -125 -49 Net losses on sale of marketable securities 0 0 TOTAL FINANCIAL EXPENSE -22,513 -18,501 NET FINANCIAL INCOME/(EXPENSE) 47,030 61,854 (1) of which THALES dividends: EUR 47,278 thousand in 2013 and EUR 40,975 thousand in 2012. 186 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 23 – Non-recurring items (EUR 000) 2013 2012 Gains on sales of assets Property, plant and equipment 10,299 4,287 Long-term investments 605 0 10,904 4,287 Other non-recurring income 384 19 Reversals of provisions Investments 29,841 22,699 Price increases 9,554 7,999 Medium-term export credit 2,298 1,621 Accelerated tax depreciation 23,894 17,788 Capital gains rolled over 0 0 65,587 50,107 NON-RECURRING INCOME 76,875 54,413 Non-recurring expenses on operating activities -13 0 Carrying amount of assets disposed: Intangible assets 0 0 Property, plant and equipment -10,270 -3,979 Long-term investments -606 0 -10,876 -3,979 Other non-recurring expenses -65 -43 Charges to tax provisions Price increases -10,227 -11,434 Medium-term export credit 0 0 Accelerated tax depreciation -13,385 -11,732 -23,612 -23,166 Other non-recurring provisions 0 0 NON-RECURRING EXPENSES -34,566 -27,188 NON-RECURRING ITEMS 42,309 27,225 187 Company financial statements Note 24 Analysis of corporate income tax Long-term Income before Corporate Income after (EUR 000) capital gains tax income tax tax tax Net recurring income before tax 560,101 -171,810 0 388,291 Non-recurring items (including profit-sharing and -66,627 38,664 0 -27,963 incentive schemes) Accounting income 493,474 -133,146 0 360,328 -133,146 Note 25 Off-balance sheet financial commitments COMMITMENTS GIVEN (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Future payments to subcontractors or suppliers 1,571,052 1,979,886 Fixed asset orders 15,062 12,483 Guarantees given in respect of: subsidiaries 54,766 16,054 equity investments 0 0 other 0 0 TOTAL 1,640,880 2,008,423 COMMITMENTS RECEIVED (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Future billings to customers 6,640,700 7,219,300 Export insurance guarantees 56,627 59,449 Collateral (e.g. mortgages, pledges) 111,331 51,309 TOTAL 6,808,658 7,330,058 Note 26 Payables and receivables secured by bank guarantees (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Customer advances and progress payments on work-in-progress 461,849 456,988 Advances and progress payments to suppliers 5,893 5,070 TOTAL 467,742 462,058 Note 27 Contingent liabilities In late 2002, a group of French manufacturers, including Dassault Aviation, was collectively issued with a request for arbitration from a common client claiming a sum which, according to the plaintiff, would amount to no less than USD 260 million, and for which the group of manufacturers may have joint obligation with regard to the plaintiff. This request related to the execution of old contracts implemented by these manufacturers. In the framework of an agreement signed between the parties in June 2003, the plaintiff withdrew its action. In November 2012, the latter gave notification of a new request for arbitration based on similar grounds to to the 2002 action, for a total now amounting to EUR 226 million. The parties firmly contest this request and, to date, it has not been possible to evaluate the possible financial risk. Consequently, Dassault Aviation has not established a reserve. This procedure is still ongoing. 188 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 28 Financial instruments: US dollar foreign exchange transaction portfolio DASSAULT AVIATION is exposed to a foreign exchange risk through FALCON sales that are virtually all denominated in US dollars. This risk is partially hedged by using forward exchange contracts and Forex options. The financial instruments held by DASSAULT AVIATION are stated below at market value. Market values represent the equivalent in euros translated at closing dollar exchange rates of amounts payable or receivable in the event of liquidation of the entire portfolio. This is not representative of the actual gain/loss when the hedges are exercised. The portfolio market value is therefore provided for illustration only. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 MARKET VALUE USD 000 EUR 000 USD 000 EUR 000 Forex options 195,857 142,017 59,634 45,198 Futures 234,896 170,326 267,722 202,912 TOTAL 430,753 312,343 327,356 248,110 Note 29 Impact of accelerated tax valuations (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Net income for the year 360,328 282,658 Corporate income tax charge 133,146 141,486 NET INCOME BEFORE TAX 493,474 424,144 Accelerated tax depreciation -10,509 -6,056 Provision for price increases 673 3,435 Provision for capital gains rolled over 0 0 Provision for medium-term export credit -2,298 -1,621 INCREASE IN TAX PROVISIONS -12,134 -4,242 NET INCOME EXCLUDING TAX VALUATIONS ACCELERATED DEPRECIATION (BEFORE TAX) 481,340 419,902 189 Company financial statements Note 30 Increases and reductions in future tax charges (EUR 000) 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 Tax provisions: Price increases 56,830 56,157 Medium-term export credit 1,879 4,177 Accelerated tax depreciation 61,928 72,437 TOTAL 120,637 132,771 INCREASES IN FUTURE TAX CHARGES 45,842 47,930 Items not deductible in the current year: Employee profit-sharing 88,936 94,219 Retirement severance payments and long-service awards 366,000 371,500 Other partly non-deductible items (trade receivables, 516,240 491,001 inventories, warranties, other) TOTAL 971,176 956,720 REDUCTIONS IN FUTURE TAX CHARGES 369,047 345,376 Long-term capital losses 0 0 Note 31 Compensation of corporate officers Total compensation received by corporate officers, as broken down in the directors' report, amounted to EUR 2,718,564 for 2013. It should be noted that Mr Charles EDELSTENNE received his contractual retirement allowance of EUR 460,833 euros (cf. paragraph 2.9.2 of the Directors' report). Note 32 Average number of employees (EUR 000) Company employees Seconded to the Company Engineers and management and executive grades 4,491 Supervisory and technical grades 2,006 Administrative employees 471 45 Production employees 1,114 177 TOTAL 2013 8,082 222 TOTAL 2012 8,097 194 190 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Note 33 Environmental information DASSAULT AVIATION recognized environmental capital expenditure amounting to EUR 1,438 thousand and posted around EUR 1,114 thousand to 2013 expenses relating to risk, impact and regulatory compliance analyses. The Company did not have to recognize any environmental liabilities. Note 34 Five-year summary Nature of indications (EUR 000 except per share data 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 in point 3 stated in EUR/share) 1/ FINANCIAL POSITION AT YEAR-END a. Share capital 81,007 81,007 81,007 81,007 81,007 b. Number of shares outstanding 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 10,125,897 2/ SUMMARY OF OPERATING RESULTS a. Net sales 2,748,219 3,551,695 2,914,346 3,341,778 3,965,672 b. Income before tax, depreciation, amortization 473,545 769,467 409,810 522,253 581,481 and provisions c. Corporate income tax 63,335 167,441 104,766 141,486 133,146 d. Income after tax, depreciation, amortization 265,969 325,815 259,279 282,658 360,328 and provisions e. Dividends paid 89,108 108,347 86,070 94,171 90,120 (1) 3/ PER SHARE DATA (EUR) a. Income after tax, but before depreciation, 40.5 59.5 30.1 37.6 44.3 amortization and provisions b. Income after tax, depreciation, amortization 26.3 32.2 25.6 27.9 35.6 and provisions c. Dividends paid 8.8 10.7 8.5 9.3 8.9 (1) 4/ PERSONNEL a. Average number of employees during the year 8,362 8,138 8,059 8,097 8,082 b. Total payroll charges excluding taxes 415,659 414,240 417,578 430,604 441,956 c. Total payroll taxes and social security charges 208,945 221,369 222,600 245,876 244,119 5/ EMPLOYEE PROFIT-SHARING 86,712 106,451 86,426 94,219 88,936 6/ INCENTIVE PAYMENTS 14,000 14,000 14,000 14,000 20,000 (1) proposed to the Annual General Meeting. 191 Company financial statements AUDITORS’ REPORT ON THE JUSTIFICATION OF ASSESSMENTS COMPANY FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In application of the provisions of Article L. 823-9 of the French Commercial Code relating to the Year ended Tuesday, December 31, 2013 justification of our assessments, we have conducted our own assessments, which we bring to your attention. Dear Shareholders, In accordance with our appointment as auditors by Equity investments your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to Notes 1-B2, 1-B3 and 3 to the financial statements you for the year ended December 31, 2013 on: describe the evaluation principles for equity the audit of the accompanying financial investments, and the estimations and assumptions statements of Dassault Aviation, that your company is led to make concerning the methods for implementing, where applicable, an the justification of our assessments, impairment test of the investment stake in the specific procedures and disclosures THALES. required by law. We have checked the appropriate character of the These financial statements have been approved by accounting methods cited above, and we can the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an express our assurance that they are correctly opinion on these financial statements, based on applied. our audit. Provisions for contingencies and losses OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Our work consisted in particular in assessing the data and assumptions used to determine the We conducted our audit in accordance with the estimated provisions for contingencies and losses, professional standards applicable in France. These as described in Note 1-B8 and in Note 14 of the standards require that we plan and perform the appendix to the annual statements, reviewing the audit to obtain reasonable assurance that the calculations performed by the Company, and financial statements are free of material examining the procedures adopted by misstatement. An audit includes examining, using Management to approve such estimates. On this sample testing techniques or other selection basis, we assessed the reasonableness of these methods, evidence supporting the amounts and estimates. disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made, as well as Multi-annual agreements evaluating the overall financial statement For multi-annual contracts, the Company’s income presentation. We believe that the audit evidence relating to service provisions is calculated we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to according to the completion method, as described provide a basis for our opinion. in Note 1-B11 of the appendix to the annual In our opinion, the financial statements give a true statements. On the basis of data available to date, and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the our work consisted in assessing the data and the financial position of the Company as at December assumptions drawn up by Management and on 31, 2012 and of the results of its operations for the which they based their estimates of the profit/loss year then ended in accordance with French on completion of those contracts and their trends, accounting regulations. reviewing the calculations made, and comparing the estimates made in previous years with the actual profits and losses. 192 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY These assessments were made as part of our audit Code, regarding the compensation and benefits approach for the financial statements taken as a paid to corporate officers and any commitments whole and contributed to our opinion as expressed undertaken in their favor, we have verified the in the first part of this report. consistency of this information with the financial statements and with the data used in drawing up SPECIFIC PROCEDURES AND the financial statements and, where applicable, the DISCLOSURES data obtained by the Company from the companies controlling the Company or which the We have also performed the other specific Company controls. On the basis of this work, we procedures required by law, in accordance with hereby certify the accuracy and fairness of this professional standards applicable in France. information. We have no comment to make as to the fair Pursuant to the law, we have verified that the presentation and consistency with the financial Directors’ Report contains the appropriate statements of the information given in the disclosures relating to the identity of shareholders Directors’ Report and in the documents addressed and holders of voting rights. to shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 12, 2014 As regards the information provided, pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Jean-François Viat 193 Company financial statements AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN Information concerning internal auditing ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L. 225and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial 235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL and accounting information CODE ON THE REPORT OF THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF Professional standards require that we implement DIRECTORS procedures in order to obtain reasonable assurance that information concerning the internal Year ended December 31, 2013 auditing and risk management procedures for the preparation and processing of financial and Dear Shareholders, accounting information, as set out in the report of the Chairman, is free of material misstatement. In our capacity as auditors of Dassault Aviation, These procedures consist in particular in: and in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the taking note of the internal auditing and risk French Commercial Code, we hereby report to you management procedures for the preparation on the report prepared by the Chairman of your and processing of financial and accounting Company in accordance with Article L.225-37 of information underlying the information the French Commercial Code for the year ended presented in the Chairman's report, and of the December 31, 2013. existing documentation; taking note of the work involved in preparing It is the responsibility of the Chairman to prepare this information and the existing and submit for the approval of the Board of documentation; Directors a report on the internal auditing and risk determining whether the major internal management procedures implemented in the auditing deficiencies relating to the preparation Company and containing the other information and processing of financial and accounting required by Article L. 225-37 of the French information that we identified during our Commercial Code, relating in particular to assignment are appropriately disclosed in the corporate governance. Chairman’s report. It is our job to: On the basis of our work, we have no comment to communicate to you our observations on the make on the information concerning the internal information contained in the Chairman's report auditing and risk management procedures for the concerning the internal auditing and risk preparation and processing of financial and management procedures for the preparation accounting information, set out in the report of the and processing of financial and accounting Chairman of the Board of Directors, prepared in information, and accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French to certify that the report contains the other Commercial Code. information required by Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, while specifying that it is not incumbent upon us to check the sincerity of this other information. We have carried out our work based on the professional standards applicable in France. 194 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Other information We certify that the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors contains the other information required under Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 12, 2014 The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Jean-François Viat 195 Company financial statements AUDITORS’ REPORT ON RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND COMMITMENTS PARTY TRANSACTIONS AND SUBMITTED FOR THE APPROVAL OF THE COMMITMENTS AGM Transactions and commitments authorized Year ended December 31, 2013 over the past fiscal year In application of Article L. 225-40 of the French Dear Shareholders, Commercial Code, we have been advised of the following transactions and commitments, which In accordance with our appointment as Auditors were previously authorized by your Board of of the Company, we hereby report on related-party Directors. transactions and commitments. With the company GROUPE INDUSTRIEL MARCEL The terms of our engagement require us to DASSAULT (GIMD), majority shareholder of communicate to you, based on information DASSAULT AVIATION provided to us, the principal terms and conditions of those transactions and commitments brought to Persons concerned: Serge DASSAULT (Director), our attention, or which have come to our attention also Chairman of GIMD, and Charles EDELSTENNE in the course of our work, without having to (Director), also Managing Director of GIMD. express an opinion on their usefulness and appropriateness, or to seek the existence of other Nature and purpose: Lease of an office building transactions and commitments. It is your already occupied by DASSAULT AVIATION responsibility, pursuant to Article R. 225-31 of the French Commercial Code, to assess the interest Conditions: On July 10, 2013 GIMD acquired attached to the conclusion of these transactions from LA MONDIALE an office building that was and commitments prior to their approval. already leased by DASSAULT AVIATION. Moreover, it is our duty, if necessary, to provide At its meeting of March 13, 2013 the Board of you with the information specified in Article R. Directors authorized the signing of a new lease 225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to granted to DASSAULT AVIATION by GIMD under the performance during the year of transactions the following conditions: and commitments already approved by the General Term of lease: 12 years, Meeting. Annual rent: EUR 1,614,233.00 excl. taxes (EUR 300,000 less than the rent paid to LA We conducted our procedures in accordance with MONDIALE) professional standards recommended by the Guarantee deposit: three months rent excl. National Accountants Order and applicable in taxes France. Those standards require that we check the Rent indexation: to follow the INSEE Costconcordance of the information provided to us with of-Construction index. the relevant source documents. The rental expense under this new lease that entered into force on July 10, 2013 represented in 2013 the amount of EUR 910,301.37 excl. taxes. The amount of deposit under this new lease is EUR 403,558.00. 196 DASSAULT AVIATION PARENT COMPANY Transactions and commitments authorized Loïk SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer since year-end Nature and purpose: Continued benefit from supplementary pension plan for Company We have been advised of the following executives in favor of the Chief Operating Officer transactions and commitments authorized since the end of the last financial year, which have been Conditions: On reinstatement of his employment subject to prior authorization from the Board of contract (contract suspended), Loïk SEGALEN will Directors. benefit from the collective supplementary defined benefits pension plan applicable to senior With Eric TRAPPIER, Chairman and CEO executives of the Company. Nature and purpose: Continued benefit from This supplementary pension plan is meant for supplementary pension for Company senior executives of the Company with at least 10 years executives in favor of the Chairman and Chief of service still working for the Company at the time Executive Officer of retirement, aged at least 60 and whose salary exceeds 4 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling Conditions: On reinstatement of his employment (EUR 148,000 in 2013). It provides eligible contract (contract suspended), Eric TRAPPIER will individuals with a tapered replacement rate, taken benefit from the collective supplementary defined over all pension plans, depending on benefits pension plan applicable to senior compensation (41% to 35%, provided that there is executives of the Company. no change in the pensions paid by the State plans). The supplementary annual pension paid is This supplementary pension plan is meant for capped at 10 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (i.e., EUR 370,000 in 2013). executives of your Company with at least 10 years of service still working for your Company at the In its meeting of March 12, 2014 the Board of time of retirement, aged at least 60 and whose Directors authorized the maintenance of the salary exceeds 4 times the Annual Social Security supplementary pension plan for Loïk SEGALEN in Ceiling (EUR 148,000 in 2013). It provides eligible his capacity as Executive Director, the pension individuals with a tapered replacement rate, taken being calculated on the basis of his average gross over all pension plans, depending on compensation annual compensation for his last three years as (41% to 35%, provided that there is no change in executive officer. the pensions paid by the State plans). The supplementary annual pension paid is capped at 10 times the Annual Social Security Ceiling (i.e., This supplementary pension plan, based on his EUR 370,000 in 2013). compensation in 2013, would pay him, if all conditions are met, an annual pension of EUR In its meeting of March 12, 2014 the Board of Directors authorized the continuation of the 274,000, representing 24% of his compensation. supplementary pension for Eric TRAPPIER in his capacity as Executive Director, the pension being TRANSACTIONS AND COMMITMENTS calculated on the basis of his average gross annual ALREADY APPROVED BY THE AGM compensation for his last three years as executive officer. Transactions and commitments approved in previous years with continuing effect over This supplementary pension plan, based on his compensation in 2013, would pay him, if all the past fiscal year conditions are met, an annual pension of EUR In application of Article R. 225-30 of the French 333,000, representing 26% of his remuneration. Commercial Code, we were informed that the performance of the following transactions and commitments, already approved by the AGM in previous years, continued during the year. 197 Company financial statements WITH THE COMPANY GROUPE INDUSTRIEL WITH ALL THE DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE MARCEL DASSAULT (GIMD), MAJORITY OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY AND ITS SHAREHOLDER OF DASSAULT AVIATION SUBSIDIARIES: DASSAULT AVIATION has continued to rent a A Directors and Corporate Officers Liability number of premises, land and industrial facilities insurance policy was taken out with AXA GLOBAL from GIMD under leases that entered into force on RISKS, now called AXA CORPORATE SOLUTIONS, January 1, 2009. with effect from July 1st, 1999. The rental expenses under these leases in 2013 amounted to a total of EUR 34,011,387.48 excl. This policy covers all directors and corporate taxes. A supplemental guarantee deposit of officers of the Company and its subsidiaries for the EUR 446,813.67 was also paid to GIMD in fiscal year 2013 up to an annual limit of indemnity of year 2013 under these leases. EUR 25 million. The directors concerned are: Serge DASSAULT The annual insurance premium amounted to (Director), also Chairman of GIMD, and Charles EUR 102,209.30 incl. VAT in 2013. EDELSTENNE (Director), also Managing Director of GIMD. Courbevoie and Neuilly-sur-Seine, March 12, 2014 WITH THE COMPANY DASSAULT FALCON JET (USA), 100% SUBSIDIARY OF DASSAULT AVIATION At the request of DASSAULT FALCON JET, DASSAULT AVIATION undertook to refund amounts paid on account by DASSAULT FALCON JET customers, should DASSAULT FALCON JET fail to meet its contractual obligations. These guarantees remain in force until delivery of the aircraft ordered. As of December 31, 2013, the guarantees amounted to EUR 54,765,842.22. The directors concerned are: Serge DASSAULT (Director), Charles EDELSTENNE (Director) and Loïk SEGALEN (Chief Operating Officer) also Directors of DASSAULT FALCON JET, and Eric TRAPPIER (Chairman and CEO), also Chairman of DASSAULT FALCON JET. The Auditors Mazars Deloitte & Associés Manuela Baudoin-Revert Jean-François Viat 198 ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING OF SHAREHOLDERS OF MAY 15, 2014 200 Resolutions ORDINARY AND EXTRAORDINARY Third resolution ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING OF MAY 15, 2014 DRAFT Approval of a related party transaction for a real estate lease granted by GIMD RESOLUTIONS The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to RESOLUTIONS FALLING WITHIN THE ordinary general meetings, having taken due COMPETENCE OF THE ORDINARY AGM note of the report of the Board of Directors, and of the Auditors' report on related party First resolution agreements and commitments governed by Articles L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Approval of the 2013 annual financial Code, hereby approve the conditions of the statements lease granted by GIMD to DASSAULT AVIATION (terms authorized by the Board of The shareholders, acting in accordance with the Directors meeting of March 13, 2013) on a office rules as to quorum and majority applicable to building located in Saint-Cloud, already ordinary general meetings, having taken due occupied by DASSAULT AVIATION, which has note of the report of the Board of Directors, of been acquired by GIMD. the Chairman's report governed by section 6 of Article L. 225-37 of the French Commercial Code, Fourth resolution the Auditors’ Report and their own report, as governed by section 5 of Article L. 225-235 of the Approval of a related party transaction on French Commercial Code, hereby approve, in the continued benefit from the full and without reservation, the financial supplementary pension plan applicable to statements for the financial year 2013 as senior executives of the company in favor presented and showing a net income of of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer EUR 360,328,290.06, together with all transactions presented therein or summarized in The shareholders, acting in accordance with the these reports. rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, having taken due Second resolution note of the report of the Board of Directors, and of the Auditors' report on related party Approval of the 2013 consolidated financial agreements and commitments governed by statements Articles L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Code, hereby approve the related party The shareholders, acting in accordance with the agreement authorized by the Board of Directors rules as to quorum and majority applicable to on March 12, 2014 on the continued benefit ordinary general meetings, having taken due from the supplementary pension described note that the report on Group activities is in paragraph 2.9.3 of the Directors' report and included in the Directors’ Report and having read the aforementioned special Auditor's report for the Auditors’ Report on the consolidated financial Éric TRAPPIER, in his capacity as Chairman statements, hereby approve, in full and without and Chief Executive Officer, calculated on reservation, the consolidated financial statements the basis of his average gross annual for financial year 2013 as presented and showing compensation for the last three years as consolidated net income before minority executive officer. interests of EUR 459,452 thousand (including EUR 459,421 thousand attributable to the owners of the Parent Company), together with all transactions presented therein or summarized in these reports. 201 Resolutions Fifth resolution The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to Approval of a related party transaction on ordinary general meetings, having reviewed the the continued benefit from the Directors' report, hereby issue a favorable supplementary pension applicable to senior opinion on the compensation package executives of the company in favor of the payable and allocated for 2013 to Loïk Chief Operating Officer SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer, as detailed in the Directors' report in paragraphs The shareholders, acting in accordance with the 2.9.4 Compensation paid to the Chief Operating rules as to quorum and majority applicable to Officer and 2.9.6 Summary Tables of ordinary general meetings, having taken due Compensation (Tables 1, 2 and 11). note of the report of the Board of Directors, and of the Auditors' report on related party Eighth resolution agreements and commitments governed by Articles L. 225-38 of the French Commercial Discharge of Directors from liability Code, hereby approve the related party agreement authorized by the Board of Directors The shareholders, acting in accordance with the on March 12, 2014 on the continued benefit rules as to quorum and majority applicable to from the supplementary pension described ordinary general meetings, hereby discharge in paragraph 2.9.4 of the Directors' report and the Directors, fully and finally and without the aforementioned special Auditors' report for reservation, from any liability arising from their Loïk SEGALEN, in his capacity as Chief management of the Company during the year Operating Officer, calculated on the basis ended December 31, 2013. of his average gross annual compensation for the last three years as executive officer. Ninth resolution Sixth resolution Appropriation and distribution of the net income of the Parent Company Opinion on the compensation package payable and allocated for 2013 to Eric The shareholders, acting in accordance with the TRAPPIER Chairman and Chief rules as to quorum and majority applicable to Executive Officer ordinary general meetings, hereby resolve, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, that the The shareholders, acting in accordance with the net income of: rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, having reviewed the EUR 360,328,290.06 Directors' report, hereby issue a favorable plus retained earnings from prior years: opinion on the compensation package EUR 2,937,478,632.02 payable and allocated for 2013 to Eric that is, a total of: TRAPPIER, Chairman and Chief Executive EUR 3,297,806,922.08 Officer, as detailed in the Directors' report in paragraphs 2.9.3 Compensation paid to the Be appropriated as follows: Chairman and CEO and 2.9.6 Summary Tables of Compensation (Tables 1, 2 and 11). dividend distribution of: EUR 90,120,483.30 Seventh resolution with the remaining balance to retained earnings: Opinion on the compensation package EUR 3,207,686,438.78. payable and allocated for 2013 to Loïk SEGALEN, Chief Operating Officer 202 DASSAULT AVIATION As a result of the above appropriation, a extraordinary general meetings, having taken dividend per share of EUR 8.90 shall be due note of the Directors' report and of the distributed. favorable opinion of the Central Works Council, hereby resolve to add the following 4th The dividend shall fall due for payment in euros paragraph to Article 13 of the Bylaws, Board of on May 26, 2014, and be paid directly for Directors for the purpose of incorporating the registered shares, and via authorized terms of appointment of a Director intermediaries for administrated or bearer shares. representing the employees: Net dividends per share distributed in respect of In accordance with statutory provisions, where the last three years and the corresponding tax the number of Directors is less than or equal to credits or allowances are as follows: twelve, a Director representing the employees is appointed for a term of four years by the union Net dividend totalizing the most votes in the local works Fiscal Tax allowance distributed (in council elections of the Company and its direct year (1) euros) and indirect subsidiaries with headquarters on 2010 10.70 40% French territory. 2011 8.50 40% The Director representing the employees has 2012 9.30 40% voting rights. He is not taken into account for (1) allowance for individuals determining the minimum number and the maximum number of Directors referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. » RESOLUTIONS WITHIN THE COMPETENCE OF THE Twelfth resolution EXTRAORDINARY GENERAL MEETING Amendment of paragraph 1 of Article 14 of Tenth resolution the Bylaws and addition of a 4th paragraph in that article to specify how a vacant seat Amendment of the 2nd paragraph of Article as Director representing the employees is 13 of the Bylaws concerning the term of filled office of Directors The shareholders, acting in accordance with the The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to rules as to quorum and majority applicable to extraordinary general meetings, having taken extraordinary general meetings, having taken due note of the report of the Board of Directors, due note of the Directors' report, hereby resolve hereby resolve to amend Article 14 of the Bylaws to reduce the term of office of Directors as follows: from six to four years and to replace the 2nd paragraph of Article 13 of the Bylaws by Their in the 1st paragraph, after In the event of term of office is four years. As an exception, vacancy by death or resignation of one or offices whose initial term was set at six years will more Directors... : specify appointed by the continue until their expiry date. Ordinary General Meeting , addition of the following 4th paragraph: In Eleventh resolution the event of the vacancy of the seat of the Director representing the Addition of a 4th paragraph to Article 13 of employees, this vacancy is to be filled in the Bylaws to incorporate the terms of accordance with the provisions of Article appointment of a Director representing the L. 225-34 of the French Commercial employees in accordance with the Act of Code. June 14, 2013 relating to job security The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to 203 Resolutions Thirteenth resolution extraordinary general meetings, having taken due note of the report of the Board of Directors, Amendment of the 1st paragraph of Article hereby resolve to remove the 3rd section of 15 of the Bylaws to stipulate that under the paragraph 18.1 and the second sentence of aforementioned Act of June 14, 2013, the paragraph 24.3 of the Bylaws, relating to Director representing the employees will transactions relating to current operations not be required to hold any Director's entered into under normal conditions. shares The shareholders, acting in accordance with the RESOLUTION FALLING WITHIN THE rules as to quorum and majority applicable to COMPETENCE OF THE ORDINARY AGM extraordinary general meetings, having taken due note of the report of the Board of Directors, Sixteenth resolution hereby resolve to amend the 1st paragraph of Article 15 of the Bylaws, Directors' Shares : Reappointment of a Director Each Director, with the exception of the Director representing the employees, must The shareholders, acting in accordance with the own at least 25 shares, for the duration of his rules as to quorum and majority applicable to term of office. (the 2nd paragraph remains ordinary general meetings, and noting that the unchanged.) term of office of Mr. Henri PROGLIO expires at the end of this Meeting, hereby resolve, on the Fourteenth resolution proposal of the Board, to renew said term of office for four years, that is, until the end of Amendment of the 6th paragraph of Article the General Meeting convened to approve the 32 of the Bylaws to reflect the methods of accounts for the year 2017. appointment and dismissal of the Director representing the employees Seventeenth resolution The shareholders, acting in accordance with the Appointment of a new Director rules as to quorum and majority applicable to extraordinary general meetings, having taken The shareholders, acting in accordance with the due note of the report of the Board of Directors, rules as to quorum and majority applicable to hereby resolve to add in the list of powers of ordinary general meetings, hereby resolve, on the Ordinary General Meeting contained in the proposal of the Board, to appoint Mrs the 6th paragraph of Article 32 of the Bylaws Marie-Hélène HABERT-DASSAULT as new after to appoint or dismiss Directors the director for four years, that is, until the end of following parenthesis (with the exception of the General Meeting convened to approve the the Director representing the employees, accounts for the year 2017. who is appointed under the provisions of Article 13 hereof and removed from office in accordance Eighteenth resolution with the provisions of Article L. 225-32 of the French Commercial Code). Increase in the total annual amount of directors' fees Fifteenth resolution The shareholders, acting in accordance with the Harmonization of paragraphs 18.1 and 24.3 rules as to quorum and majority applicable to of the Bylaws with the current wording of ordinary general meetings, hereby resolve, on Article L. 225-39 of the French Commercial the proposal of the Board of Directors, to Code increase the total annual amount of fees granted to Directors from EUR 247,730 to The shareholders, acting in accordance with the EUR 444,000 from the current financial year rules as to quorum and majority applicable to 2014 until further decision of the AGM. 204 DASSAULT AVIATION Nineteenth resolution Twenty-second resolution Reappointment of DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS Reappointment of Mr. Philippe CASTAGNAC SA as Statutory Auditors as Alternate Auditor (alternate for MAZARS SA) The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to The shareholders, acting in accordance with the ordinary general meetings, having noted that the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to term of appointment of the Statutory Auditor ordinary general meetings, having noted that the DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS SA expires at the end of term of appointment of the Alternate Auditor Mr. this meeting, hereby resolve, on the proposal of Philippe CASTAGNAC expires at the end of this the Board of Directors, to renew DELOITTE & meeting, hereby resolve, on the proposal of the ASSOCIÉS SA as Statutory Auditors for six Board of Directors, to reappoint Mr. Philippe years, until the end of the General Meeting CASTAGNAC, partner of MAZARS SA, as convened to approve the accounts for the year Alternate Auditor for the company MAZARS SA 2019. for the for the duration of the appointment of the latter. Twentieth resolution Twenty-third resolution Reappointment of MAZARS SA as Statutory Auditors Powers to execute formalities The shareholders, acting in accordance with the The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, having noted that the ordinary general meetings, hereby confer full term of appointment of the Statutory Auditor powers on the bearer of copies of or extracts MAZARS SA expires at the end of this meeting, from the minutes of this meeting in order to hereby resolve, on the proposal of the Board of comply with all legal, publication or other Directors, to renew MAZARS SA as Statutory formalities. Auditors for six years, until the end of the General Meeting convened to approve the accounts for the year 2019. Twenty-first resolution Reappointment of Mr. Alain Pons as Alternate Auditor (alternate for DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS SA) The shareholders, acting in accordance with the rules as to quorum and majority applicable to ordinary general meetings, having noted that the term of appointment of the Alternate Auditor Mr. Alain PONS expires at the end of this meeting, hereby resolve, on the proposal of the Board of Directors, to reappoint Mr. Alain Pons, partner of DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS SA, as Alternate Auditor for the company DELOITTE & ASSOCIÉS SA for the duration of the appointment of the latter. 205 DASSAULT AVIATION Bylaws Amendments Proposed to the Ordinary and Extraordinary Annual General Meeting of May 15, 2014 Current version New version ARTICLE 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS ARTICLE 13 BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is managed by a Board of Directors The Company is managed by a Board of Directors composed of at least three members and at most composed of at least three members and at most twelve members chosen from among the twelve members chosen from among the shareholders and appointed by the Ordinary shareholders and appointed by the Ordinary General Meeting. General Meeting. Their term of office is six years. Their term of office is four years. As an exception, offices whose initial term was set at six years will continue until their expiry date. At no time may the number of Directors in office At no time may the number of Directors in office who have reached the age of 70 be more than half who have reached the age of 70 be more than half of the total number of Directors in office. Should of the total number of Directors in office. Should this limit of half be exceeded, the oldest of the this limit of half be exceeded, the oldest of the Directors over the age of 70 will be considered Directors over the age of 70 will be considered automatically to have resigned. automatically to have resigned. In accordance with statutory provisions, where the number of Directors is less than or equal to twelve, a Director representing the employees is appointed for a term of four years by the union totalizing the most votes in the local works council elections of the Company and its direct and indirect subsidiaries with headquarters on French territory. The Director representing the employees has voting rights. He is not taken into account for determining the minimum number and the maximum number referred to in paragraph 1 of this article. Directors may be reappointed. Directors may be reappointed. 206 DASSAULT AVIATION Current version New version ARTICLE 14 VACANCY OF ONE OR ARTICLE 14 VACANCIES OF ONE OR MORE MORE SEATS ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS SEATS ON THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS In the event of vacancy by death or resignation of In the event of vacancy by death or resignation of one or more Directors, the Board of Directors may one or more Directors appointed by the make provisional appointments between two Ordinary General Meeting, the Board of General Assemblies. These appointments are Directors may make provisional appointments subject to ratification by the next OGM. between two General Assemblies. These appointments are subject to ratification by the next OGM. The Director appointed to replace another shall only The Director appointed to replace another shall remain in office for the unexpired term of his only remain in office for the unexpired term of his predecessor. predecessor. If the number of Directors falls below the legal If the number of Directors falls below the legal minimum, the remaining Directors must minimum, the remaining Directors must immediately convene an Ordinary General Meeting immediately convene the Ordinary General Meeting to make up the members on the Board. to make up the members on the Board. In the event of the vacancy of the seat of the Director representing the employees, this vacancy is to be filled in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-34 of the French Commercial Code. ARTICLE 15 DIRECTORS' SHARES ARTICLE 15 DIRECTORS' SHARES Each Director must own at least 25 shares, for the Each Director, with the exception of the duration of his term of office. Director representing the employees, must own at least 25 shares, for the duration of his term of office. If on the date of his appointment, a Director does If on the date of his appointment, a Director does not own the required number of shares, or if during not own the required number of shares, or if during his term he should cease to own them, he shall be his term he should cease to own them, he shall be considered to have automatically resigned unless he considered to have automatically resigned unless has rectified the situation within three months. he has rectified the situation within three months. 207 DASSAULT AVIATION Bylaws Current version New version ARTICLE 18 COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD ARTICLE 18 COMMITTEE OF THE BOARD 18.1 Chairman: 18.1 Chairman: The Board of Directors shall appoint from The Board of Directors shall appoint from among its members, for the period that it shall among its members, for the period that it shall determine, a Chairman who must be a natural determine, a Chairman who must be a natural person. He may be reelected and may hold this person. He may be reelected and may hold office until the age of 75. this office until the age of 75. The Chairman organizes and directs the work The Chairman organizes and directs the work of the Board of Directors and reports thereon of the Board of Directors and reports thereon to the General Assembly and carries out its to the General Assembly and carries out its decisions. He watches over the proper decisions. He watches over the proper functioning of the Company's decision-making functioning of the Company's decision-making bodies and ensures that the Directors are able bodies and ensures that the Directors are able to fulfill their duties. to fulfill their duties. The Chairman of the Board receives notice of the transactions from the person concerned relating to current operations entered into under normal conditions except when, because of their purpose or their financial implications, they are not significant for any of the parties. The Chairman notifies the list and the purpose of those transactions to Board members and the Auditors. 24.3 Current transactions: 24.3 Current transactions: Transactions relating to current operations Transactions relating to current operations entered into under normal conditions are not entered into under normal conditions are not subject to the statutory authorization and subject to the statutory authorization and approval procedure. approval procedure. However, these transactions, except when due to their purpose or their financial implications, they are not significant for any of the parties, must be notified by the person concerned to the Chairman of the Board of Directors. The list and the purpose of those transactions are communicated by the Chairman to the Board of Directors and Statutory Auditors in accordance with regulations. 208 DASSAULT AVIATION Current version New version ARTICLE 32 DUTIES POWERS [OF THE ARTICLE 32 DUTIES POWERS [OF THE ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING] ORDINARY GENERAL MEETING] It chiefly has the following powers: It chiefly has the following powers: to approve, amend or reject the annual and to approve, amend or reject the annual and consolidated financial statements that are consolidated financial statements that are submitted to it, submitted to it, to decide on the distribution and allocation of to decide on the distribution and allocation of profits in accordance with legal and statutory profits in accordance with legal and statutory requirements, requirements, to discharge, or refuse discharge to, Directors to discharge, or refuse discharge to, Directors from any liability arising from their management from any liability arising from their management of the Company, of the Company, to appoint or dismiss Directors and Auditors to appoint or dismiss Directors (with the exception of the Director representing the employees, who is appointed under the provisions of Article 13 hereof and removed from office in accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-32 of the French Commercial Code) and the Auditors, to approve or reject the cooptations of Directors to approve or reject the cooptations of Directors made by the Board, made by the Board, to fix the amount of fees granted to Directors to fix the amount of fees granted to Directors and the remuneration of the Auditors, and the remuneration of the Auditors, to determine the total or partial redemption of to determine the total or partial redemption of capital, capital, to authorize the Company to trade in its own to authorize the Company to trade in its own shares on the stock exchange, shares on the stock exchange, to pass a decision on the Auditors' report on to pass a decision on the Auditors' report on related-party transactions, related-party transactions, to authorize the issuance of bonds and the to authorize the issuance of bonds and the formation of collateral that may be conferred formation of collateral that may be conferred upon them, upon them, and, in general, to pass decisions on subjects and, in general, to pass decisions on subjects not directly or indirectly entailing an amendment not directly or indirectly entailing an amendment of the Bylaws. of the Bylaws. 209 210 211 212 Photo credits Publisher Online consultation Cover: Dassault Aviation This brochure can be consulted online in © Dassault Aviation–A. Pecchi External Relations & Corporate HTML format at www.dassault-aviation.com, © Dassault Aviation Communication Department Finance section, then Publications. C. Amboise © Armée de l’air 78, quai Marcel-Dassault – Cedex 300 Financial analysts can find data there in P. 1: © Marc Praquin 92552 Saint-Cloud Cedex – France PDF format. P. 2: © Dassault Aviation–P. Sagnes P. 5: © Dassault Aviation–A. Février P. 6: © Dassault Aviation–K. Tokunaga Design and production P. 6: © Dassault Aviation Agence Marc Praquin P. 7: © Dassault Aviation–A. Février 5, rue Coq-Héron – 75001 Paris – France P. 7: © Dassault Aviation–V. Almansa P. 9: © Dassault Aviation P. 10: A. Jeuland © Armée de l’air P. 10: © Swiss Space Systems–S3 Printed in April 2014 P. 11: © Roland Pellégrino Imprimerie TAAG P. 11: © Dassault Aviation–DR Parc d’activité des Radars P. 12-13: © Dassault Aviation–A. Boissaye 91350 Grigny – France P. 14: © Dassault Aviation–P.M. Jacquart P. 15: © Dassault Aviation–A. Pecchi P. 16: © Dassault Aviation–K. Tokunaga P. 17: © Dassault Aviation P. 18-19: © Dassault Aviation–P. Dhaud This brochure was printed by an ecologically P. 20-21: © Dassault Aviation–S. Randé responsible printer on 100% recyclable and P. 22-23: © Dassault Aviation–S. Randé biodegradable coated paper, made from P. 24: © Dassault Aviation–A. Boissaye bleached ECF (Elemental Chlorine Free) P. 25: © Dassault Aviation–A. Février pulp in a European factory certified ISO P. 26-27: © Dassault Aviation–S. Randé 9001 (for quality management), ISO 14001 P. 28: © Dassault Aviation–Ph. Stroppa (for environmental management), CoC P. 28: © Dassault Aviation–E. de Malglaive PEFC (for the use of paper deriving from P. 30-31: © Dassault Aviation–K. Tokunaga sustainably managed forests) and EMAS P. 32-33: © Dassault Aviation accredited (for environmental performance). P. 34-35: © Dassault Aviation – A. Paringaux P. 36-37: © Dassault Aviation–S. Randé P. 38-39: © Dassault Aviation–E. Gauchet P. 39: © Dassault Aviation–A. Pecchi P. 40-41: © Marc Praquin Registered trademarks Rafale®, Mirage® and nEUROn® are registered trademarks of Dassault Aviation. Falcon® is a registered trademark of Dassault Aviation and Dassault Falcon Jet. Head office : 9, rond-point des Champs-Élysées-Marcel-Dassault – 75008 Paris – France Tel.: +33 1 53 76 93 00 – Fax: +33 1 53 76 93 20 – 712 042 456 RCS Paris www.dassault-aviation.com ETHICAL CHARTER A MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN & CEO HIGHER TOGETHER Founded almost a century ago, the Dassault Aviation Group is now one of the world’s major players in civil and military aeronautics. Renowned for its technical and industrial expertise, buttressed by employees who are passionate about what they do, offering outstanding products, innovative processes and working in synergy with its partners, the Group looks to the future with confidence. The Dassault Aviation Group also nurtures and projects a clear identity, strong values and strict ethical principles. Since 2001, the Group has stated these principles in this very document, its Ethical Charter. The Charter comprises two sections. The first section is entitled “Our values” and describes our five main guiding principles. The second section is called “Our code of conduct” which pragmatically illustrates daily conduct flowing from these values. The Ethical Charter aims to rally the men and women in our Group around these values and is intended to inspire their actions and convey Dassault Aviation’s image to our customers, partners and suppliers. This Charter represents a collective commitment which will come into its own as long as everyone is on board. Higher together! Éric Trappier Ethical charter | 1 CUSTOMER SPIRIT Satisfying the customer is both our philosophy and our guideline: • being a good listener, understanding his/her needs, acting in a manner which efficiently serves him/her; keeping our word; • offering excellent technical performance, confidentiality when needed and customized follow-up while optimizing the control of business expenses and response times. OUR VALUES 2 | Dassault Aviation HUMAN ECONOMIC QUALITIES PERFORMANCE People are the heart of our Group. We We regard creating value as an essential promote team spirit, the sharing of goal: it guarantees our profitability, our knowledge and know-how, creative initiative, financial stability, and our long-term future. and respect for ethics. In a context of intense international We favor united action at all levels, competition, we must be flexible, adaptable, mutual respect, the search for professional and responsive in dealings with our self-realization, and, from a human customers, our suppliers, and our partners. perspective, the feeling of being part of a successful, innovative business enterprise. TECHNOLOGICAL OPENNESS EXCELLENCE TO THE WORLD AND INNOVATION To reach these goals, we are engaged in sustained programs of scientific, technological, This is our Group’s spirit, passion, history, technical, and industrial cooperation and motto. in France, the U.S. and abroad, in a spirit We ensure the quality, reliability, and safety of partnership. of our aircraft through a dynamic of We are active in national and international constant innovation combined with our aviation and defense organizations. project management capability and Our internal and external communication our mastery of complex systems. We take is open and transparent. constant care of controlling and reducing the environmental signature of our activities and products. Ethical charter | 3 OUR CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct translates the 5 professional and ethical values expressed bythe Dassault Aviation Group into pragmatic and operational terms. Its purpose is to unite the Group’s personnel around these principles. The code of conduct is both a collective commitment and an individual imperative. It does not substitute for the national and international legislation in force. It is not a contractual document, but an ethical commitment which must be known and applied by all. It focuses on 5 key values. 4 | Dassault Aviation CUSTOMER SPIRIT The Dassault Aviation Group Respecting the customer also builds long-standing relationships means that the Dassault Aviation with customers based on trust Group acts in conformity with the and honesty. national and international laws Satisfying the customer is the priority which are in force. We will comply of all. scrupulously with the commercial ethics and principles of the OECD This presupposes: convention of December 17th, 1997, which has been ratified by France • listening attentively to his/her and the U.S. Foreign Corrupt needs and requirements in Practices Act of 1977, both of which, order to foster a business relain particular, prohibit offering tionship which is precise, apor granting any undue benefits, propriate, and customized; directly or indirectly, to any • keeping promises made concergovernment employee, in ning delivery times, cost, quality, exchange for acting, or refraining performance, specifications, reto act, in the performance of his liability, and confidentiality; duties or mandate, so as to favor • personalized follow-up to ensure the Dassault Aviation Group. satisfactory performance of the aircraft, and its systems, and our The Dassault Aviation Group also services. complies with applicable export control rules. The commercial relations of our employees and agents with customers must be grounded on the principles of integrity, professionalism, and the interest of the Group. Any actions directed at a customer – invitations, entertainment, travel, and gifts – must remain appropriate in nature and within accepted limits, in both amount and frequency. Ethical charter | 5 HUMAN QUALITIES The continued successful growth The Group is deeply concerned of the Dassault Aviation Group with enforcement of human rights is based on the quality and and fair labor practices; it gives commitment of the men and women special care to the implementation who make it up. They are its of essential principles such as: main asset. • working in a spirit of truth; • freedom from discrimination Accordingly the Group strives based on national origin, lifestyle, to maintain harmonious human marital status, sex, race, physical relations: handicaps, political or religious beliefs, or union membership; • by favoring professional self• respecting the individual and realization, initiative, and creatihis/her private life; vity; • maintaining a professional • by practicing an open and work environment and working constructive dialogue based conditions; on trust, mutual respect, • he availability of vocational and information about objectives training and the prevention of and challenges; health and occupational risks. • by encouraging team spirit, which entails solidarity, willingness to The personnel of the Dassault help, exchanges of experience, Aviation Group owe the Group the sharing of knowledge and undivided loyalty. It is, for example, the transmission of know-how. prohibited to work, without the Group’s express permission, for an actual or potential competitor. 6 | Dassault Aviation TECHNOLOGICAL EXCELLENCE AND INNOVATION The technical and technological The Group’s assets must be excellence of the Dassault Aviation preserved – both material assets Group’s aircraft is one of the pillars like buildings and equipment of its national and international and such intangibles as patents, reputation. manufacturing secrets, customer lists and software. Each employee This excellence is founded must see to it that there is no on a constant concern for quality, illicit or fraudulent use thereof for anticipating needs, for and take all necessary measures innovation, creativity, and the to prevent theft, sabotage, development of effective and espionage, and piracy. reliable new products and services. In connection with his/her duties Throughout its search for new our employees may be required materials and processes, the Group to handle or possess information takes the environmental aspects of a confidential or privileged into account. It is committed character concerning our customers to actively protect the environment or the Group or other information during the whole aircraft lifecycle, which has a national, international, right from the design stage. industrial, or commercial character or other value. He/she must be When conducting research and prudent, discreet, and honest with development, the Group is mindful such data at all times. of the environmental impact of new processes and materials which may be adopted for industrial use. The Group must always encourage the taste for challenge, favor professional commitment, responsiveness, and the transmission of the experience and know-how of its engineers, managers, technicians, skilled workers, and employees. Ethical charter | 7 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE In the context of keen international Economic performance is also competition and the globalization relevant to dealings with suppliers. of the worldwide economy, the The Group works consistently sustained growth of the Dassault to promote competition between Aviation Group requires a rational, suppliers. flexible and responsive organization, effective operating methods, and The selection criteria applied a sound financial policy. for suppliers are comparative in nature and are based on Creating value is a prime duty: it performance, cost, delivery time, ensures the Group’s independence quality, and reliability. and longterm future; it helps enable continuous improvements The Group maintains relations to our product line and more of mutual cooperation and efficient processes and cost savings. fair treatment with its suppliers; these relations are based on The Group provides true and reciprocal square dealing and the accurate information to its mutual meeting of commitments. shareholders and to the financial markets, in a sustained policy The Group’s employees owe of transparency. it loyalty. This includes not requesting or accepting gifts All of the Group’s personnel must or benefits which exceed take care, when in possession of standard business practice privileged information, concerning or which might influence the Group’s situation or plans, the employee’s behavior. Offers not to use it or disclose it illicitly, of travel, junkets, and participation particularly when it has not in non-professional events must yet been made known to the be declined. As a general rule, marketplace. a conflict between one’s own personal or financial interest, whether direct or indirect, and the group’s interests must be avoided. 8 | Dassault Aviation OPENNESS TO THE WORLD As information becomes more As a corporate citizen, it maintains global in nature, the Dassault the strictest political, religious, and Aviation Group has acquired philosophical neutrality; it does not means of communication, internal finance political parties, elected and external, that favor constructive officials, or candidates unless dialogue, trust, and transparency. such activities fully comply with existing laws. The Group is open to the scientific and academic community and In the business world, it takes participates in occupational training care to act in conformity with and professional education, laws, regulations, and established in research and development, practices, in a spirit of integrity, and in international exchanges ethics, and professionalism. of knowledge, techniques, and know-how. The Group does care about the impact of its activities on the citizen’s community, as well as the good implementation of fundamental principles of environment protection and respect. It has therefore voluntarily committed itself, since the year 2000, towards the ISO 14001 certification of all its production units. 78, quai Marcel Dassault – Cedex 300 – 92552 Saint-Cloud – France www.dassault-aviation.com Tél. : + 33 (0)1 47 11 40 00 Photos: © Dassault Aviation – Ph. Stroppa – A.Février Design and production: Agence Marc Praquin – Dassault Aviation – 2013
