Lonza – UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 About Lonza Lonza is one of the world’s leading and most-trusted suppliers to the pharmaceutical, biotech and specialty ingredients markets. We harness science and technology to create products that support safer and healthier living and that enhance the overall quality of life. Not only are we a custom manufacturer and developer, Lonza also offers services and products ranging from active pharmaceutical ingredients and stem-cell therapies to drinking water sanitizers, from the vitamin B compounds and organic personal care ingredients to agricultural products, and from industrial preservatives to microbial control solutions that combat dangerous viruses, bacteria and other pathogens. Founded in 1897 in the Swiss Alps, Lonza today is a well-respected global company with more than 40 major manufacturing and R&D facilities and approximately 10,000 employees worldwide. The company generated sales of about CHF 3.6 billion in 2013 and is organized into two market-focused segments: Pharma&Biotech and Specialty Ingredients. Lonza is headquartered in Basel, Switzerland and is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange and secondary listed on the Singapore Exchange Securities Trading Limited (“SGX-ST”). Further information can be found at www.lonza.com. Statement of Continued Support from Richard Ridinger “Our commitment to corporate social responsibility was underlined by our joining the UN Global Compact. Its principles will continue to be part of Lonza’s day-to-day life, involving all sites. We will also continue to make contributions to specific projects emphasizing social responsibility, such as our sponsorship of the Fertile Soils for Peri-Urban Agriculture in Hyderabad, India, and the Qingshan Lonza Primary School in China. Both are good examples of how measured contributions can make a significant difference.” Richard Ridinger CEO Page 1/8 PRINCIPLE ACTIONS / POLICIES REFERENCE Human Rights Principle 1: In our global “Code Of Conduct”, we have defined that all employees are http://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should expected to know the law as it applies to their sphere of responsibility; lonza/globalsupport and respect management is expected to provide appropriate training and guidance, citizenship/standards/code-ofthe protection of especially to respect human rights and employment rights. conduct.aspx internationally proclaimed human rights; and … Principle 2: It is in a manager’s responsibility to monitor the compliance; all departments http://www.lonza.com/about… make sure that are regularly supervised by our Audit Services department. lonza/globalthey are not citizenship/standards/code-ofcomplicit in human conduct.aspx rights abuses. Page 2/8 Labour Principle 3: The Code of Conduct provides the basis for creating and maintaining the http://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should relationship of mutual trust, which is essential to business success. It lonza/globaluphold the freedom expresses explicitly that we consider fairness in our dealings with employees to citizenship/standards/code-ofof association and be of paramount importance. It is our commitment to the corporate social and conduct.aspx the effective ethical responsibility, the respect for human rights and employment rights. recognition of the http://www.lonza.com/aboutright to collective Local management and human resources work closely together with employee lonza/investorbargaining; … representatives, work councils and unions in all countries and regions relations/~/media/6B5C4A438 according to the specific laws and agreements. 3464BB88ADB5812A32B1AB 1.ashx All existing contracts with unions are renewed on a regular basis in order to meet employee labor interests. In addition, our Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct provide for rules against child labor at our suppliers. Principle 4: Our Code of Conduct is applied to all actions and activities of Lonza in the http://www.lonza.com/about…the elimination of pursuit of a high level of social responsibility and as such is also crucial lonza/globalall forms of forced element against forced and compulsory labor. citizenship/standards/code-ofand compulsory See also Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct above. conduct.aspx labour; … Principle 5: In our Code of Conduct, all managers are committed to act in compliance with http://www.lonza.com/about…effective abolition the law. In addition, Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct is banning explicitly all lonza/globalof child labour; and forms of child labor at our suppliers. citizenship/standards/code-of… conduct.aspx http://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/investorrelations/~/media/6B5C4A438 Page 3/8 3464BB88ADB5812A32B1AB 1.ashx Principle 6: Our Code of Conduct is explicitly banning any form of discrimination; all http://www.lonza.com/about… the elimination of managers are obliged to act accordingly. Lonza is not tolerating any lonza/globaldiscrimination in discrimination, harassment or bullying on the basis of ethnicity, national origin, citizenship/standards/code-ofrespect of color, religion, creed, age, sex, disability or any similar characteristic. conduct.aspx employment and occupation. Furthermore, Lonza implemented a Global Data Policy that protects all employees against misuse of individual/personal data. Page 4/8 Environment Principle 7: We take on our responsibility in the area of environmental protection, health Corporate Citizenship website: Business should and safety, and towards our employees, human society and the natural http://www.lonza.com/aboutsupport a environment. Lonza Group defines goals and targets for safety, health and lonza/global-citizenship.aspx precautionary environmental protection. approach to Standards: environmental The safety and health of our employees, the well-being of our stakeholders http://www.lonza.com/aboutchallenges; … and the minimization of our impact on the natural environment are a Group lonza/globalpriority. The Group is committed to operations and practices, which prevent citizenship/standards.aspx harm to people and damage to environment or property. Sustainability: In 2012 we introduced Vision ‘Zero’: zero injuries, zero process incidents, zero http://www.lonza.com/aboutdistribution incidents and zero environmental incidents. Every person in every lonza/globaloffice, manufacturing site and research center has an everyday responsibility citizenship/sustainability.aspx to themselves, their co-workers, their company and their community to do everything in their power to achieve Vision ‘Zero’. We listen and respond to Management: our stakeholders. http://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/globalThe 2013 reporting year saw a number of new and revised critical EHS citizenship/management.aspx process guidelines coming into effect to harmonize and standardize Lonza’s approach to safe chemical and pharmaceutical manufacturing. A significant EHS policy: step forward was the introduction of an extended global emergency and crisis http://www.lonza.com/aboutreporting system, which puts Lonza management in a comfortable position to lonza/globalstay ahead of irregularities wherever they might happen. citizenship/management/polici es.aspx All our manufacturing processes are systematically assessed for their risks. Lonza applies the same risk-assessment matrix worldwide, which incorporates EHS section of Annual Report: ecological, economic and social aspects. http://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/investorrelations/financial-reports.aspx Page 5/8 Principle 8: Lonza facilities are member of the Responsible Care program in Switzerland Sustainability homepage: …undertake and of SOCMA’s ChemStewards program in the United States. At all facilities http://www.lonza.com/aboutinitiatives to worldwide, Lonza promotes the cycle of continual improvement for lonza/globalpromote greater environmental, health and safety issues. All our sites are internally audited citizenship/sustainability.aspx environment comprehensively and systematically for management system and responsibility; and performance of implementation of our environmental, health and safety CoPE initiative: … principles and guidelines and the compliance with standards and regulations. http://www.lonza.com/aboutlonza/globalCoPE (energy savings), horseshoe crab conservation (endotoxin detection), citizenship/management/climat MODA green alternatives (paperless, efficient QC micro processes) are e-change.aspx further examples for such initiatives. 2013 was a year of transformation; nevertheless we were able to improve and further optimize our use of natural resources, as well as energy and water consumption at our sites. Examples are the finalization of the air emissions handling project at Braine (BE), the reduction of electricity and natural gas consumption at Verviers (BE) and the reduction of water consumption by 30 % and 10 % at our Salto (BR) and Porrino (ES) sites, respectively. At the large production complex in Visp (CH), the newly installed regenerative thermal oxidizer at the company-owned wastewater treatment plant led to significantly reduced solvent emissions and considerably less nuisance odor emissions. A significant improvement project was realized at the calcium hypochlorite manufacturing site in Charleston, TN (USA), where spin flash dryer technology replaced kiln-type and fluid-bed dryers. This technology change reduced the carbon footprint by more than 600 tons of CO2 per million kilowatt-hours; the new process utilizes more efficient heaters and consumes less electricity to produce an equivalent production volume. Principle 9: Promoting Sustainability: Lonza participates in industry groups that promote Microreactor Technology: …encourage the sustainability. As participants in and signatories of the American Cleaning http://www.lonza.com/customdevelopment and Institute® and the Sustainability Charter, we are committed to a mission that manufacturing/chemicaldiffusion of endeavors to benefit society and improve the quality of life through hygiene manufacturing/advancedPage 6/8 environmentally and cleanliness by driving sustainability improvements across our industry chemical-synthesisfriendly and throughout the supply chain. In our Water Treatment business, we also acs/continuous-flowtechnologies. work with NSF® International, to determine and develop sustainability technologies/microreactorsstandards for chemicals and water contact products. All of our products are and-green-chemistry.aspx accompanied by a Material Safety Data Sheet. Solar Power: Microreactor technology developed by Lonza enables us to fulfill part of our http://www.lonza.com/aboutGreen Chemistry mission. lonza/globalcitizenship/management/climat As classical manufacturing processes in the pharmaceutical industry e-change.aspx produced more than 25 kg of waste for every kilogram of product, dramatic changes were required in process systems. Ten years ago Lonza began developing a more sustainable manufacturing platform using advanced continuous flow technologies. At the heart of the technology are microreactors, special processing instruments designed to create “Factories of the Future.” The results of such a transformation are more sustainable, greener, and economical processes for producing a wide range of pharmaceuticals. Our solar power engagement in Germany and Singapore helps develop and promote a fossil-free energy future. Page 7/8 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Lonza has implemented a Code of Conduct containing, amongst others rules http://www.lonza.com/aboutBusiness should on Corporate Social Responsibility, rules on bribery, conflict of interest, lonza/globalwork against antitrust, insider trading, etc. citizenship/standards/code-ofcorruption in all its conduct.aspx forms, including Lonza also has a specific internal Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy. extortion and Lonza also has implemented a specific Gift Policy. bribery. Lonza’s suppliers are obliged to comply with Lonza’s Supplier Code of Conduct, which deals with anti-corruption, anti-bribery and other related topics. Lonza offers a Whistleblower Hotline, which is operated by an external company. It is mandatory for all new Lonza employees to complete an online training appropriate to their role within the Lonza. The training focuses on topics such as anti-corruption and anti-trust. Lonza has implemented a periodical refresher training. Lonza has organized specific competition law trainings for employees, such as sales managers, who could potentially be exposed to antitrust issues. Page 8/8
