2 0 1 3 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report About This Report CONTENTS 04 CEO Message 06 Corporate Profile 2013 Sustainability Report Digest • Included opinions of executives on LG Chem’s CSR activities 08 Business Domain • Focused on the material issues selected through a materiality assessment 16 LG Way •Listed up the Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) by issue 17 LG Chem's Vision and Core Values Reporting period 18 Corporate Governance •From January 1 to December 31, 2013 (13th business year) ※Included major activities of 2014 such as participating in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 20 Interview with Corporate Executives 24 Sustainability Framework Reporting Boundary 25 Stakeholder Engagement • Korea Headquarters in Seoul, 10 manufacturing sites in Yeosu, Cheongju, Ochang, Ulsan, Gimcheon, Naju, Iksan, Daesan and Paju, and Research Park in Daejeon 26 Report Content Selection Process MAterial issueS • China L GCCI, a regional holding company, and 8 manufacturing subsidiaries in Nanjing, Dagu, Tainjin, Beijing, Guangzhou, Bohai, Botian and Yongxing 30 Ethical Management 36 Customer Value Reporting cycle 42 Energy and Climate Change • Every year since 2006 (latest report: April 2013) 46 Safety·Environment and Health Reporting principles 50 Human Resources Development • T his report is aligned with the core option in the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). ※The GRI Index is presented in pages 72 75. 56 Shared Growth with Suppliers • T he economic performance data is presented in accordance with Korean-International Financial Reporting 60 Social Commitment Standards (K-IFRS), and the guidance provided in ISO 26000 and EICC requirements were reflected in the preparation of this report. External Assurance APPENDIX • The details of the third-party verification of this report can be found in pages 78 79. 68 Sustainability Performance Data More information 72 Sustainability Management Index • T his report is published in Korean and English, given the diverse stakeholders, and can also be 78 Independent Assurance Statement viewed on our website at http://www.lgchem.com. 80 Membership of Organizations and Associations / Awards Received 81 Glossary 82 Participant Information 2 | 3 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report CEO Dear Stakeholders, Message LG Chem achieved KRW 23.1 trillion in sales and KRW 1.7 trillion in operating income last year in the midst of the slowing economic growth in emerging countries and depression in demand due to the delayed global economic recovery. Given such difficult conditions, our performance can be considered relatively satisfactory, and further, we continuously strengthened our core competence and competitiveness to gain market leadership in each business domain. In 2014, the business environment is again expected to be challenging as it was last year. However, with strong determination and passion to lead the market, all executives and employees of LG Chem will make the utmost effort to achieve outstanding results. By securing differentiated competitiveness in existing businesses and advanced technologies and impeccable quality in new businesses, LG Chem will grow into a global leading company. Global Chemical Company with Sales of over KRW 30 trillion by 2017 LG Chem will grow into a global chemical company with sales of over KRW 30 trillion by 2017. To that end, we have established the following series of management tasks: ▶ a global material company with strong R&D capabilities ▶ a workplace where talent can follow their dreams ▶ a responsible company that co-exists with society, and we will conduct a variety of activities to accomplish these tasks. Best 'Solution Partner' that Contributes to Resolving Environmental and Social Issues with its Innovative Materials and Solutions By figuring out the demands of various stakeholders on the pending environmental and social issues one step ahead and providing materials and solutions helpful to resolve those issues, LG Chem will emerge as a responsible company that co-exists and grows with society. Responsible Company that Co-exists with Society To accomplish one of our management tasks, ‘a responsible company that co-exists with society,’ we restructured our CSR organization in September 2013. CSR Team was newly formed to integrate internal and external communication channels, carefully listening to the voices of diverse stakeholders and planning and executing specific activities. Interview In addition, we joined the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in March 2014 to fulfill our responsibility as a global corporate citizen. LG Chem will strengthen its efforts to voluntarily comply with the 10 principles in 4 categories of What is your best description of ‘a responsible company that Then what are important factors in becoming ‘a responsible human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption in its business activity at home and abroad. co-exists with society’. company that co-exists with society’? This Sustainability Report, which is the 8th edition, mainly deals with the issues that stakeholders consider to be I often tell the employees at operation sites, “Be faithful to the basics.” LG Group considers ‘Harmony’ as its traditional shared value. Moreover, significant, and that have been thoroughly discussed over the last year in the aspects of economy, environment and When we neglect some basic principles to pursue immediate gains we practice the LG Way, the core value of the group, based on which society. In addition, this report covers manufacturing sites not only in Korea but also in China when it comes to the or yield to temptation, problems arise from that point. Safety-related we act responsibly for and build trust with customers and society. In this performance of CSR activities. accidents, environmental accidents, unethical or illegal actions all occur regard, I think LG Chem has the basic constitution to become ‘a responwhen we become less faithful to the basics. In this regard, I believe that sible company that co-exists with society.’ However, now is the time for LG Chem will lay the foundation for sustainable and sound growth by pursuing active interaction and substantial the first step toward ‘a responsible company that co-exists with society’ us to step ahead to establish a global-level CSR management system. growth with various stakeholders, and thus emerge as a well-respected and market-leading global chemical company. starts from being faithful to the basics. Among various activities for this purpose, I put much emphasis on safety I would like to ask for your continuous support and encouragement. Thus, LG Chem must be faithful to the basics in its business activities & environment and shared growth with suppliers. Basic responsibilities, so that it does not have a negative impact on the environment and which might be neglected when focusing on short-term results, should Thank you. society. Moreover, it should grow into a company that provides innovative never be overlooked. materials and solutions that are helpful in resolving pending and upcomMay 2014 ing environmental or social issues through interaction and cooperation Last of all, I would like to emphasize that it is important to spread CSR Vice Chairman & CEO with various stakeholders. This is what I think ‘a responsible company that activities throughout the corporate culture. When CSR activities become Jin Soo Park a part of our corporate culture, they will become our own competitiveco-exists with society’ is. ness that cannot be easily emulated by competitors, and thus we will be able to have the most ideal appearance of ‘a responsible company that co-exists with society.’ 4 | 5 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Paju Plant Head Office Daesan Plant Global Network Ochang Plant Corporate Profile R&D Center Cheongju Plant Gimcheon Plant Ulsan Plant Iksan Plant Since its foundationed in 1947, LG Chem has served as Korea’s representative chemical company, contributYeosu Plant Naju Plant ing to the development of the national economy and the enhancement of the quality of life through continuous technologicaly development, new product introduction, and quality innovation based on its stable growth. We have established the production, sales, and R&D networks at home and abroad, expanding our Beijing Tianjin business into the global market. We aim toat growing into a world-classbest company that provides innovative Yantai Qingdao Chongging materials and solutions by enteringcroaching into the new material business while pursuing higher -valueadded Hefei Ningbo in existing businesses and nurturing future businesses centered on IT & electronic materials and energy solutions. Xlamen Huizhou Guangzhou Taipei Shenzhen Hongkong 2013 Sales Company Overview Name LG Chem, Ltd OFFICE Manufacturing Subsidiaries IT & Electronic Materials Energy Solutions Headquarters LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, South Korea Name Location Name Location Major Products 3.0 2.6 Foundation January 1947 HQ LG Chem, Ltd. Korea Seoul Yeosu complex Yeosu NCC, SM, LDPE, HDPE, PVC, 13.1% 11.1% VCM, ABS, SAN, EPS, Acrylate, Employees Beijing Oxo-alcohol, NPG, SBS, MBS, SB 20,430 persons (12,596 in Korea, 7,834 overseas) as of December 2013 Latex, BPA Shanghai Cheongju complex Cheongju Electrolytes, Cathode materials, As of December 2013 Guangzhou PCM, Photoresists, 23.1 Rechargeable batteries Financial Snapshot Ningbo Ochang Plant 1 Ochang Rechargeable batteries, Display Total Assets KRW 17.4 trillion LG Chem (China) Investment Chongqing materials, Optical materials China Co., Ltd. Qingdao Ochang Plant 2 Ochang Separators Total Liabilities KRW 5.7 trillion Korea Shenzhen Ulsan Plant Ulsan Plasticizers Total Shareholders’ Equity KRW 11.7 trillion NCC, EO / EG, SM, BD, MTBE, Hefei Daesan complex Seosan B-1, PE, PP, Synthetic rubber, Petrochemicals Sales KRW 23.1 trillion PVC, VCM 17.5 Operating Income KRW 1.7 trillion Marketing Xiamen Iksan Plant Iksan ABS compounds, EP 75.8% Subsidiary Yantai Octanol, Butanol, Plasticizers, Net Income KRW 1.3 trillion LG Chem Hong Kong Ltd. Hong Kong Hong Kong Naju Plant Naju Acrylic acid New York Gimcheon Plant Gimcheon SAP Houston Paju Plant Paju LCD glass substrates LG Chem America, Inc. U.S.A Los Angeles Tianjin LG DAGU Chemical Co., Ltd. Tianjin PVC History San Jose Tianjin LG BOHAI Chemical Co., Ltd. Tianjin VCM, EDC LG Chem Brasil, Ltd. Brazil Sao Paulo Tianjin LG BOTIAN Chemical Co., Tianjin SBS Ltd. LG Chem Europe GmbH Germany Frankfurt 1947 1970s 1990s 2010 ~ LG Chemical India Private Ltd. India New Delhi Ningbo LG YONGXING Chemical Co., Ltd. Ningbo ABS, SAN, SBL LG Chem Japan Co., Ltd Tokyo LG Chemical (Guangzhou) ·Established as Lucky ·Began producing ·Renamed as LG Chem, Ltd. ·Started construction of automotive Japan Guangzhou EP Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd China Chemical Industrial petrochemical ·Completed construction of battery plant in Michigan, USA LG Chem TK Kimya Sanayi Ve Ticaret Limited Istanbul Sirketi Turkey LG Chem (Tianjin) Corporation products in Yeosu PVC & ABS plants in China ·Completed construction of automotive Engineering Plastics Co., Ltd Tianjin PC, PBT, PP, PA nylon, ABS and Ulsan battery plant I in Ochang LG Chem, Ltd. Moscow Office Russia Moscow ·Began producing IT & LG Chem (Nanjing) Information & Rechargeable batteries, Nanjing electronic materials ·Established a petrochemical joint LG Chem, Ltd. Bangkok Representative Office Thailand Bangkok Electronic Materials Co., Ltd. Polarizers Repreventure in Kazakhstan LG Chem Display Materials sentative Hochiminh Office Vietnam Ho Chi Minh Beijing Polarizers for TFT-LCD 1960s 1980s 2000s ·Completed expansion of polymer (Beijing) Co., Ltd. battery plant in Nanjing, China Office Jakarta Office Indonesia Jakarta CNOOC & LG Petrochemicals Huizhou ABS Co., Ltd. ·Established Korea’s 1st ·Completed construction ·Constructed and · Established High EVA and SSBR plant Singapore Office Singapore Singapore synthetic detergent plant and expansion of expanded petroin Daesan LG Chem (Taiwan), Ltd. Taiwan Taipei Polarizers petrochemical plants in chemical and IT&E Lithium-ion batteries, Yeosu and Naju materials plants at LG Chem Michigan Inc. U.S.A Holland R&D Centers Battery packs home and abroad LG Chem, Poland Sp. z o.o. Poland Wroclaw Polarizers ·Merged with LG Name Location VisakhapatDaesan PetroLG Polymers India Private Ltd. India PS / EPS Research Park Korea Daejeon nam chemicals and LG LG Chem Power Inc. U.S.A Troy LG Vina Chemical Company Ltd. Vietnam Ho chi Minh DOP Petrochemicals KazakhLG Chem, Ltd. Japan R&D Center Japan Tokyo KLPE E LLP Astana Ethylene, PE stan 6 | 7 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Business Domain Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Petrochemicals LG Chem completed a vertically integrated structure in the pet01 NCC/PO 04 EP 01 rochemical business through its mergers with LG Daesan PetroLG Chem produces and supplies premium PE / PP LG Chem is constantly increasing the sales of with excellent quality recognized in the market. differentiated and high value-added products to lead chemicals and LG Petrochemical in 2006 and 2007 respectively We produce basic oil fractions such as ethylene, propylene, BD, and the market. and takeover of Super Absorbent Polymer (SAP) business in 2008. benzene through thermal cracking of naphtha and supply them for a We produce high-functional engineering plastic materials used The new structure enabled the company to generate great synvariety of plastic products at home and abroad. for electric/electronic products, automotive parts and IT & elecergies among businesses by supplying basic petrochemicals tronic parts. and specialty materials at home and abroad in a stable manner. 02 PVC We strive to strengthen our competitiveness by increasing the LG Chem has been recognized as the No.1 PVC maker in 05 Acrylates & Plasticizers 02 proportion of premium products in a downstream process built Korea with world-class quality and production capacity. LG Chem is a global major player in acrylates and OXO market, growing together with downstream upon our great cost competitiveness of basic petrochemicals. We are steadily developing new products and accumulating technolcustomers. ogies for a wide variety of universal plastics that are used in construcWe are seeking sustainable growth in propylene derivatives tion and household items. LG Chem has responded more effectively to ever-changing business by positioning as one of the major players in the SAP 03 business with the development of eco-friendly plasticizers. market environments by diversifying its business structure and ABS 03 04 expanding its core businesses around the globe. Also, the company has developed new areas in the petrochemical industry, LG Chem is leading domestic and international markets as global No.1 ABS maker. 06 Synthetic Rubbers such as a high-performance/eco-friendly materials business, We supply various highly functional ABS materials that are widely & Specialty Polymers used in electric and electronic products, automotive parts, industrial LG Chem produces and supplies rubbers and with its differentiated processes, market-leading products, and specialty polymers for various applications. materials, and household items new materials development based on its long experience and Our products include butadiene-based synthetic rubbers for advanced technology. tires and packing, MBS as impact modifier, SBS as asphalt and plastics modifier, latex for paper coating and gloves, and BPA , ate int which is the raw material of PC and epoxy. cal ess on e mi sin arb ical jo an och bu c aes etr SAP l y Po hem GD G P LG c hL hL OL ON ith petro tan d wit cals d wit dK e w d d a khs rge em i rge ire rg e za Me roch Me qu Me ablish in Ka Ac Pet Est ture 06 07 08 11 05 20 20 20 20 ven Business Strategy 2013 Major Performance Vision •To optimize our portfolio by expanding technology-based Business • Secured the world’s first position in NCC energy efficiency business and by strengthening long-term competitiveness of our • Achieved the most sales of ABS by reorganizing business existing business portfolio to increase high profit products such as ASA, and heat resistant and transparent ABS Strategy •Develop technology-based products and strengthen customer • Put a new SSBR plant into operation (Nov. 2013) relations • Increased SAP sales to customers leading the market and • Enhance cost competitiveness in the existing business and increase completed the third SAP production line (Dec. 2013) high profit products • Prepare for the future with overseas complex projects and discovery Strengthened •Completed the development of process for producing butadiene of potentially promising materials R&D from butene, and thereby solidified our own technology base to expand the synthetic rubber business in the long term • Has designed a process for the commercialization of Carbon 06 Nanotubes (CNT) and CO2 plastics Sales KRW 17.6 trillion 8 | 9 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change IT & Electronic Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment MAterials 01 As the first company in Korea that successfully commercialized LCD polarizer in 2000, LG Chem has grown at a fast rate in the 01 Optical Materials 04 Battery Materials LG Chem produces the key materials of display products such as polarizer LG Chem produces cathode materials, electrolytes, and separators, LCD materials industry such as polarizer and photoresist, as well and 3D FPR. Since 2009, we have remained No.1 in the global polarizer which are core materials for rechargeable batteries. In addition to market. Based on excellent product development and mass-producmobile batteries for IT devices, we are also responding to the elecas in the IT materials industry such as battery materials and cirtion technology, in 2010, we successfully developed 3D FPR for the tric vehicle and energy storage system markets, which have high cuit materials. In particular, LG Chem took the largest share in the first time in the world, contributing to the further growth of the 3D potential for future growth. global polarizer market in 2009, which used to be dominated by TV market. 02 05 Japanese competitors, through a continuous reinforcement of Display Materials LCD Glass Substrates R&D capability. Also, we developed the world’s first 3D FPR (Film LG Chem produces photoresist, which is a core material in the LCD color LC Chem produces glass substrates for LCDs, which are key LCD Patterned Retarder) that has contributed to expanding the 3D filter, and OLED materials as the next generation display material. We are components and require high quality. TV market. pushing ahead with a new business of encapsulant for LED device to Major products in this area do not attract much attention because provide customers with unique solutions. they are not externally visible. However, they play an important role in the core functionalities of final products such as display 03 High Functional Materials LG Chem is focusing its core capability on high functional materials 06 OLED Lighting OLED lighting is considered the next generation light source due to products, mobile devices, and rechargeable batteries, thereby such as films for touch panel; semiconductor package and circuit mateits high efficiency and eco-friendliness with its closest spectral dis03 gaining more importance. In the midst of this changing environrials for smart phones and tablet PCs; and backsheet for solar cell, all of tribution to natural light. LG Chem is leading the global market with ment, LG Chem strives to solidify its position as a global leading which have high growth potential. the excellent luminous efficiency and lifespan of OLED lighting. company with cutting edge parts and materials based on its differentiated technologies. 04 , , PR p ark a n, t 3DF o r) rke f hn pe aiw no g Tec d, rip in T ma tio a njin a ng o lan ial (St n itor s arizer o duc ell D LC in N ch in P ater mo ials atter ie ol -pr or c nd l ist for nt f O ls nt for ter al p ass sol sa o res r z ers pla ion o teria r pla ess m zer ma ble b glob st m et for G las pane m t ri r t a e c ri r o ph pp e ola rize ruc m z lari pr o ola od ge e a he d’s fi he D LC ree n mu ed d Co dp pola o nst OLED po LCD of p cath char 1 in t orl back s zed ch sc maxi acy me iz ze c a r e . w li c i ial an L) iali ed a ted ized ed zed ke ed r r No he ed rcia tou the effi rst t 02 merc lters s (CC erc lish ple rcial b lish rciali 1 ma rcializ tes fo eved ted t cializ me ls for v ed ting he fi fi e m b m a . e y i r r m i e h t m r Co colo mina t Co m Est a Co mme Est mme No mm ctrol Ac h Sta me Co teria h g Ac ED li ) fo r r o Co o le m a W 99 fo lad L a 00 03 04 C 05 06 C and e 09 10 Co 12 m L 13 O 0 lm/ world 1 9 C 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 2 0 (8 the in Business Strategy 2013 Major Performance Vision Strategy •To become No. 1 company in the IT & electronic materials business • Maximize the performance of the existing LCD materials business Business Strengthened •Launched leading products : FPR integrated polarizer, Face Seal Adhesive for OLED (TV, POLED) • Increased R&D investment into post-LCD such as OLED 05 06 •solidify competitiveness by acquiring the core capabilities for and battery materials new business R&D • Developed the next-generation OLED core materials •explore new promising business and increase the number of • Launched OLED lighting product with the maximum efficacy leading products of 80 lm/W •strengthen the organization and technology capabilities Sales KRW 3.0 trillion 10 | 11 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Energy Solutions Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment LG Chem began its research on lithium-ion batteries in 1995, and in 1999, claimed the title of first mass-producer of lithium-ion batteries 01 Mobile Batteries 03 Batteries for Energy Storage With its high productivity and technological superiority, LG System (BESS) commercially available in Korea. Since then, we have been providing Chem accounts for 20% of the global market share. LG Chem holds excellent technology and mass-promarket-leading eco-friendly energy solutions. For mobile batteries, Mobile batteries are widely used in portable media devices such as lapduction capability for battery cells, packs and BMS. we have solidified our global market share in the IT area from laptops, cell phones, and tablets. To align our productivity with the rapid LG Chem is securing new customers in the various BESS areas growth of smartphones, ultra-book laptops, and tablets, we are assemtops and cellphones to tablets, while raking in more sales in new such as power grid, residential/industrial application and UPS. bling more production lines for lithium-ion polymer batteries. Also, 01 areas such as power tools and power drives. Automotive batteries we are providing differentiated solutions, including stepped batteries, with the world’s best technical prowess have brought LG Chem adbased on our unique stack & folding technology. Moreover, our growth is accelerating in the non-IT sectors, such as power tools and e-bikes. ditional sales orders and led to a solid customer base, strengthening 02 its global presence as No. 1. LG Chem’s power storage batteries have Automotive Batteries gained a foothold via pilot projects in Korea and the U.S., where the LG Chem has maintained the undisputed No.1 position in the company has expanded into the power generation and grid busiglobal automotive battery market with more than 10 years of nesses, preparing itself to become a top player in the world. R&D capability. We are equipped with solutions for all types of electrical cars (Hybrid EV, Plugged-in EV, and Battery EV) based on our strong product development capability and manufacturing competitiveness. This allows LG Chem to supply battery cells, packs, and BMS (Battery Management System) to global carmakers such as GM, Ford, Renault, Hyundai-Kia, and Volvo. LG Chem expects increased revenue from its automotive battery business with its excellent technology capability and partnership with customers by taking more orders from the existing customers while securing new customers. Meanwhile, we plan to launch new products to meet customer needs in new applications such as Micro-HEV. , ter n en ng a tte ry -io DC ha hin plie r d ny a m & Oc t in C llan pa b hiu r y R of sup Ho om n t lit ery tte ns Plan ry 02 -io f s C um firs ju) att ba ctio g tte no ion thi he eong Vb ,a tru anjin ba tio lut li t E CPI ns the ruc So on ced Ch on LG co nd N as st erg y &D du ea ( &D ed ed a ted on U.S. dR pro n Kor dR lish . let orea na dc En r te ssi r te b a U.S m p K sig olt rte the up Sta a M tte r y Sta st E he C o nt in De GM V Sta nt in Se t ba in t Pla for pla 95 99 00 01 04 09 10 12 19 19 20 20 20 20 20 20 Business Strategy 2013 Major Performance Vision Strategy •To become global No.1 lithium battery company • Mobile Battery: rank No. 1 in the market • Automotive Battery: lead the 2nd round market Business •Successfully won a 2nd round of orders for automotive batteries -S aw visible result from promoting strengths of polymer batteries compared to prismatic batteries • Developed and launched new market-leading products 03 High-capacity battery for PHEV, and stepped battery • E SS (Energy Storage System) Battery: develop as a new growth engine Strengthened • Developed process for the mass production of new types of R&D batteries that require high technology Sales KRW 2.6 trillion 12 | 13 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Research investment LG Chem has made unsparing investment for the Expansion of Research LG Chem continues to expand Shared ResearcH & Development the research Growth with Suppliers and manpower future, including continuous expansion of R&D Infrastructure infrastructure to establish a foundation to lead the Social Commitment expenses and manpower. global materials industry. R&D Expense Unit: KRW 100 million LG Chem strengthens the competitiveness of its existing core foundation technology through differentiated technology innovation. It is also dedicated to nurturing a new growth engine by developing next generation materials and technologies. These areIt is part of our efforts to become a leading global 5,500 Research Park material-specialized company with solid R&D foundation. 4,499 (in Daedeok Science Complex, Daejeon) 4,500 2013 ·LG Chem’s R&D hub ·6th research building completed in 2013 R&D Organization LG Chem is operating R&D centers specialized in each area. 3,500 2,991 3,208 2,500 LG Chem R&D 2011 2012 2013 Gwacheon R&D Center R&D Manpower ·Dry experiment-oriented research Unit: person IT & Electronic Materials * CRD : Corporate R&D 2014 ·operation starts in 2014 Common Petrochemicals Energy Solutions ** LGCPI : LG Chem Power Inc. (U.S.A) 3,000 Petrochemicals & Polymers IT & Electronic Materials CRD* Center Battery R&D Center 2,538 R&D Center R&D Center 2,500 Future Technology IT & Electronic Materials Mobile Battery Tech Center Research Center Technology Development Development Center Department 2,000 1,944 LG Science Park (Seoul) Advanced Automotive Battery 1,737 Japan R&D Center · LG Group’s comprehensive research complex Development Center 20 1,500 ·future source technology and activities to Advanced BESS 17 2011 2012 2013 create synergies among affiliates Development Center ·Operation starts in 2017 LGCPI** * Included figures for IT & E Materials Technology Development Department since 2013 (KRW 58 billion, 176 persons) LG Chem is committed to enhancing the competitiveness of existWe make efforts to obtain a solid global no. 1 competitiveness in the As a part of the effort to address depleting fossil fuel and environmening businesses and while securing technologies and developing high-tech IT & electronic material sector based on differentiated core tal pollution issues, we provide energy solutions based on the research products in the next generation new business area. materials and process technologies. on lithium-ion batteries and materials. The CRD Center is continuously reinforcing core platform technoloThe IT & Electronic Materials R&D Center develops core materials and Battery R&D (Battery R&D Center and Battery Development Center) is gies including adhesion, coating, process, simulation and analysis process technologies based on material synthesis, coating, processing, focused on the technological capabilities of various areas, including techniques to improve the competitiveness of our current businesses. and optical design techniques with the aim to develop market-leading electrochemistry, organic and inorganic materials, metals, and polymers, We also identify and promote promising opportunities in future new products in the display, circuit and semiconductor, and green energy to conduct research into battery materials, such as cathode and anode business areas through research on green energy materials, nextareas. materials, separators, and electrolytes. This became a foundation to degeneration display materials, and high-functional new materials. Petrochemicals velop high-capacity and high-energy batteries and systems for the smart Major research areas R&D phone, tablet PC, E-bike, xEV (HEV, Phev , BEV) and ESS. • LCD materials polarizing plate, photoresist, glass, etc. • Film Patterned Retarder for 3D display • OLED lighting/OLED materials • Battery materials Canode materials, electrolytes, separators, etc. • Micro-electronics materials IC package, Copper Clad Laminate, etc.. We established the Petrochemicals and Polymers R&D Center and the Tech Center to strengthen the competitiveness of the petrochemicals business and to develop high-functional eco-friendly product technologay. New Business• Energy Solutions The Petrochemicals & Polymers R&D Center strengthens the competitiveness Platform R&D of existing businesses based on its core technologies of polymerization, cataTechnology lyst, and process, and conducts R&D activities on new products. We focus our R&D capability on high functional/eco-friendly materials (CO2 plastic, carbon nanotube, etc.) and the creation of new businesses. The Tech Center performs TS&D activities such as technical development support for polymers, material IT & Electronic development, new uses/markets development, and technical education in the Materials R&D petrochemicals business. We provide customers with differentiated solutions by collaborating with the production, sales, and R&D divisions at the frontline. Major Research Areas Major research areas Major Research Areas • functional polymers ABS, metallocene PE, engineering plastic, etc. •B  attery materials – Cathode & anode materials, electrolytes, and separators • Platform technologies Coating, adhesion, printing/patterning, analytical • eco-friendly, high performance materials SAP, synthetic rubber, carbon nanotube, •M  obile, xEV, and ESS (Energy Storage System) battery – cylindrical, prismatic, solution, simulation, etc. CO2 plastic, etc. polymer batteries • New materials for next-generation display and green energy • development of catalyst technology and process – Organic/inorganic metal cata• system – Pack (cooling and structure interpretation) and BMS (Battery Man• High-functional advanced materials and organic-inorganic composite materials lyst, process optimization technology, etc. agement System) 14 | 15 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report LG Way LG Chem’s Vision and Core Values The LG Way is a unique management philosophy that guides the thoughts and actions of LG employees. It is the LG Chem is a global solution partner that provides differentiated customer values through its market leading call to attaining the ultimate goal of becoming ‘No.1 LG’ through the practice of LG’s unique code of conduct, products and services. We produce and supply materials and solutions that are essential for daily living to the ‘Jeong-Do Management‘, and LG’s management principles of ‘Customer-Value Creation‘ and ‘People-Oriented whole world. We will continue to pursue a sustainable growth by incorporating achievements in environmental Management‘. management and social responsibility. LG Chem actively participates in practicing the LG Way in order to achieve the vision of ‘No.1 LG.’ The vision of LG Chem is ‘to be a global leader growing with customers by providing innovative materials and solutions.’ This vision shows that achieving shared growth with our customers through differentiated value offering is what defines the purpose for LG Chem’s existence and serves as the force that propels us to become a global leading company. ‘No. 1 LG’ refers to the LG’s ultimate goal of being a respected and leading company. No. 1 LG Vision LG’s unique code of conduct requiring a continuous buildup of competence LG Chem’s Vision Jeong-Do Management for fair competition based on ethical management principles. Code of conduct To be a global leader LG’s management principles stating the purpose of business acGrowing with customers by People-Oriented Customer-Value tivities and providing a basis for its operations through the key concepts of ‘Customer-Value Creation’ and ‘People-Oriented providing innovative materials and solutions Management Management Creation Principles Management’. INNOVATIVE MATERIALS GLOBAL LEADER We strive to be a company that is We deliver the best materials to enNo. 1 LG trusted and admired by our customers, sure the success of our customers. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS the most attractive investment to our These innovative materials are supeWe solve customer problems and Code of conduct : Management Principles investors, the workplace of choice for GROWING WITH CUSTOMERS rior in both price and performance to Vision : No. 1 LG Jeong-Do Management those of our competitors, enhancing improve performance by providthe best and the brightest, and feared We grow with our valuable cusing innovative solutions, encomand emulated by our competitors. the performance of every product tomers by delivering innovative passing products, services, and LG that customers can completely trust Integrity Customer-Value Creation for our customers. values that help them thrive expertise tailored to meet the LG that is recognized to be the best in class by Work transparently according to • Customer-oriented customers by impressing them with excellent principles and standards and prosper. individual needs. • Delivery of substantive value quality and brand value • Innovation-driven creation Fair transaction LG that is the most attractive to investors Provide equal opportunities and People-Oriented Management LG that provides attractive value to investors fair treatment in every transactional Core Values • Self-management and creativity with high return on investment relationship • Respect for human dignity Strong Execution Customer Value Creation • Capability development and actualization Strong execution is essential to bringing We deliver value that substantially LG that talented people want to join Fair competition • Performance-based reward corporate objectives and aspirations to improves customer performance and LG that provides the best workplace where the Improve capabilities with which one talented employees can work with a sense of fruition. It is a systematic process that recompetitiveness. We act to enhance can fairly win the competition Customer ownership and enthusiasm quires an objective view of reality, thorcustomer value with a customerValue ough analysis, and concrete planning to centric mindset and a deep underCreation LG that competitors find formidable but achieve our goals. standing of both our customers and want to learn from the market. LG that competitors find formidable yet respect as a benchmark by producing remarkable Mutual Respect outcomes Mutual respect plays a key role in building teams and the capacity to make breakStrong Mutual throughs. This teamwork, strengthened Execution Respect by mutual recognition and respect, is what empowers us to achieve our goals. 16 | 17 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Corporate Governance LG Chem’s corporate governance stays transparent through the management led by professionals and the Board Committees under the BOD of Directors, and the operation of an independent Audit Committee. The Audit Committee and Outside Director Nomination Committee are operated under the BOD of Meetings of the BOD LG Chem. and the Audit Committee in 2013 Major Shareholders Audit Ownership Structure Audit Committee / The Audit Committee is a decision-making body that plans, conducts, and evaluBOD Committee LG Corp. Every year, LG Chem holds the general shareholders meeting, a key commuates internal audits. All three of the committee seats are filled by outside directors, so as to ensure the Number of Meetings 33.53% nication channel with shareholders through which the CEO makes a presentation on business status and collects opinions on major decision-making independence and transparency of the committee. Apart from quarterly committee meetings, the Audit Committee discusses significant issues frequently as they arise. Especially, the committee is briefed on 9 5 Woori Bank and management issues. Shareholders’ opinions are thoroughly reviewed by quarterly earnings performance, management plans, and other important issues in the economic/enviNumber of Agendas (National Pension Service) the management and the Board of Directors, and then brought into manronmental/social aspects, faithfully fulfilling its role as a monitoring mechanism. 5.24% 23 Approved 3 agement activities across the board. In addition, key business issues relevant The Government of to investors’ interests are disclosed via the Data Analysis, Retrieval and TransOutside Director Nomination Committee / The Outside Director Nomination Committee is com13 Reported 10 Singapore 1.85% fer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service or on the websites of posed of one inside director or non-executive director and two outside directors. After a thorough review Saudi Arabian Key Items the Korea Exchange (KRX) and LG Chem. The total number of shares in LG of potential candidates, the committee recommends qualified candidates with expertise in diverse areas Monetary Agency Chem (common shares) is 66,271,100 as of the end of December 2013. The of economy, environment and society, which may affect the corporate management, and also with an • Approval for business plan 1.58% •Reporting of earnings performance largest shareholder is LG Corp., possessing 33.53% of total shares. independence that allows them to avoid conflicts with the company’s interest. The recommended candiand financial statement dates are formally appointed with the approval of the board and the general meeting of shareholders. • Approval for investment plans, etc. Board of Directors Board of Directors * As of April 2014 The Board of Directors undertakes the role and performs the function of highest decision-making body. To embed Category Name Major Career Highlights and Concurrent Posts Remarks accountability in the management, the board reserves the right to hold the management accountable for any · Former President of LG Petrochemicals Chairman of the BOD Inside Directors Peter behavior that goes against shareholder interest as the directors retain the authority to appoint and dismiss execuBahnsuk · Former President of LG Chem Kim ·Chairman of the BOD and standing advisor of LG Chem tive managers. Also, the role of CEO and chairman has been split to reinforce the transparency and independence Jin Soo · Former President of Hyundai Petrochemicals President of the board. Park · Former President of LG Petrochemicals ·President of Petrochemical Company, President of Petrochemical Company of LG Chem, There is a total of 11 directors presently sitting on the board at LG Chem, with 4 inside directors, 1 non-executive Vice Chairman & CEO of LG Chem director, and 6 outside directors. The 6 outside directors, representing more than the majority, come from vari※ Concurrent post: LG MMA Co., Inc. ous fields of expertise and experience, such as chemistry, batteries, IT & electronics, technology, law, finance and Young Su · Former CFO of LG Electronics President Kwon · Former President of LG Display accounting. They monitor the management on key issues of the corporate operation. · President of Energy Solutions Company of LG Chem Additionally, ad-hoc meetings are convened to respond to any urgent management issues when the need arises. President Young Ki · Former Leader of IT & Electronics Materials R&D Center of LG Chem The board members pay visits to plants in Yeosu, Chengju, and Ochang in Korea as well as those in China to gain Park · Former Leader of Optical Materials Division of LG Chem a hands-on perspective into company operations. · President of IT & Electronic Materials Company of LG Chem Non-Executive Juno Cho · Former Leader of Info-Communication Division (North America) of LG Electronics Chairperson of the Outside · President & COO of LG Corp. Director Nomination Committee Board Secretariat Director ※ Concurrent post: LG Uplus, LG Hausys, LG International, LG CNS To support the board in performing its role and function effectively, we have placed the Board Secretariat under Outside Ki-Myung · Former Minister of Government Legislation Chairperson of the Audit Committee the Credit Management/Compliance Team. Prior to a board meeting, the secretariat briefs the outside directors Nam · Chair Professor of Law School at Chungnam University Directors on key management issues and meeting agenda so that the directors can make a detailed yet comprehensive Seung·Former Head of the Growth Engine Project for Next Generational Battery Member of the Audit Committee analysis and review beforehand. Mo Oh ·Professor in the School of Chemical and Biological Engineering at Seoul National University Se-Jin ·Former Member of the Subcommittee on National Competitiveness Member of the Audit Committee Kim · President of Korea Fund Ratings Il-Jin · Former Director of LG Dow Polycarbonate Member of the Outside Director Park · President of IJ International Nomination Committee Jang-Joo ·F ormer Member of the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Institute Member of the Outside Director Kim ·Professor of Materials Engineering at Seoul National University Nomination Committee Jin-Kon ·Full Member of the Korean Academy of Science and Technology Kim ·Professor of Chemical Engineering at Pohang University of Science and Technology 18 | 19 Interview with CorpOrate ExEcutives The following are the interviews of the management in charge of key business activities for sustainable growth of LG Chem. What kind of efforts have LG Chem made to fulfill its social Technology innovation is a prerequisite for securresponsibility? ing sustainable competitiveness for material manufacturers like LG Chem. What kind of efforts is LG The concept of sustainable management or corporate social responChem making to achieve technology innovation? sibility was not made overnight. It should be considered as part of the The key to success for material companies lies in techdevelopment process of corporate management. LG Chem has long nology innovation, and groundbreaking innovation been thinking about how to effectively practice ethical management, requires investment. Even in adverse situations, LG and eventually declared the LG Way, a unique management philosoChem has succeeded in building a world-class R&D phy that emphasizes customer value and respects human dignity infrastructure by constantly expanding the amount of based on its code of conduct of Jeong-Do Management. Meanwhile, R&D investment with a long-term perspective. In the after going through the Asian financial crisis, the company adopted a past, fast emulation of quality products was sufficient holding company regime and introduced a BOD-centered manageto guarantee success to many companies, but things ment system as part of the efforts to improve its corporate goverhave changed now. With the goal of “Do what others nance and establish a global management system. In this regard, I haven’t done, what didn’t exist before,” we are putting would like to say that LG Group and LG Chem have been taking on a more weight on a first mover-related research. At presleading role in carrying out corporate social responsibility. ent, we are striving to create a first mover industry by In the past, issues related to ethical management or corporate manproducing new materials such as green energy, nextagement were mainly discussed in the aspect of CSR. These days, President Jin-Nyoung Yoo generation displays, and high-functional materials. however, safety & environment-related issues in the workplace have (Research Park Leader) President Sukjeh Cho (CFO) come to the fore as more serious issues. Regarding this, LG Chem has To be a first mover, corporate culture is most important. A change in the corporate culture, which could be viewed as the DNA of a company, will bring about more competitiveness and an originality that cannot be easily emulated only through drastically increased the investment expenses in safety & environment and strengthened its preventive activities. We are now benchmarking. Based on the LG Way, the culture of LG Chem, namely, creativity, autonomy, innovation and cooperation, is spreading such activities to our overseas subsidiaries, especially those in China. becoming our competitiveness. When it comes to the issues related to collusion and fair trade, which also have recently gained more attention, LG Chem as a global company is committed to strictly abiding by the law of each country and reprimanding those who commit a violation What is your forecast of green business and green product market? And what is LG Chem’s priority in these for their misconduct. areas? More affordable and powerful automotive batteries are required for electric cars to be commercialized. At LG Chem, we are As the CFO of LG Chem, how do you evaluate the company’s CSR activities and what are your suggestions conducting research on next-generation batteries with more than double the capacity of the existing batteries, as well as for further improvement? batteries that are completely different from the lithium-ion batteries. We call these ‘innovative batteries’ . The same standard of The CSR activities can be evaluated from various perspectives as they are involved with various areas. For instance, LG Chem innovative R&D is also underway for ESS batteries. I expect that these technologies will be commercialized by the mid-2020s, has made much effort to increase energy efficiency and respond to climate change, and, I think, has been achieving decent contributing to the revitalization of the national economy as well as our company. performance lately. From a CFO’s perspective, I would like to say that making the company’s business portfolio sustainable is also an important What are your thoughts on the view that recruiting and retaining talent is important in becoming a ‘global part of the CSR activities. Pursuing sustainable growth by establishing a more future-oriented, eco-friendly, and stakeholdermaterial company with strong R&D capabilities? centered business structure is surely what a company can do to fulfill its social responsibility. LG Chem's effort in diversifying its Recruitment and retention of talent require a good corporate culture in addition to fair treatment. Researchers must be able to business activities to automotive batteries and IT & electronic materials can be better understood with this perspective. do research that is true to the term. Working as the leader of Research Park for more than 10 years, I have realized that those who Making efforts to manage invisible risks is also highly important. Non-financial risks are being managed effectively at LG Chem are most focused are the most creative. Thus, the company must create an atmosphere where employees can freely conduct their own researches while sharing goals at the company level. I go abroad 5 times every year to scout global talent. However, what I do based on employees' commitment to Jeong-Do Management and by strengthening the responsible departments such as must be backed up by our current researchers to effectively attract qualified applicants. In this regard, I believe every one of our Safety & Environment and Partner Collaboration. The internalization of risk management in employees by providing them with researchers is not only an employee but also a recruiting manager. Overall, I think making the current employees happy is the best regular education and spreading the culture of taking the initiative is as much important as quantified risk management. and the most desirable HR strategy. 20 | 21 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment What is the reason that the Corporate Communications As LG Chem is expanding its overseas business, the company Department took charge of sustainability management of now needs to manage the issues related to diversity and LG Chem? human rights at the global level. What is the current status Sustainability management of a corporation is a series of activities that of diversity and human rights management as well as chalmust identify what both stakeholders and the public demand, establish lenges facing LG Chem? a strategic direction, and introduce them to the management. I put much value on ‘ontological equality,’ which means that all human beings are equal in their existence. This idea is also reflected in one Accordingly, the company needs to be able to detect the changing of our management principles, ‘People-Oriented Management’, and is environment and voices outside of the company in an accurate manactively pursued by LG Chem with much emphasis on the diversity of ner while it equips its employees to have the capacity to recognize employees. In fact, all our employees are given equal opportunities and share them and apply them to their work. regardless of their gender, religion, disability, region, group or society The Corporate Communications Department was re-organized sevthey belong to, and those who achieve the highest performance are eral times and, in September 2013, set up the current system that offered the highest compensation based on a fair evaluation. More efcovers such areas as PR, fair trade, energy & climate change, safety forts are being made to apply this principle not only in the head office & environment, and CSR. Also, as the Department is operated under or domestic plants but also in the overseas subsidiaries. In addition, the CEO, it can speed up the decision-making process and implemuch attention is now being paid to attracting more women talent mentation whereby external opinions are quickly delivered to the and giving them opportunities to grow. All of these efforts are becomentire organization and immediately applied. ing more essential for global companies like LG Chem. Senior Vice President Kapho Cho Senior Vice President Minhwan Kim (Corporate Communications (CHO) Department Leader) This condition has maximized the role as the contact point linking the inside and the outside of the company in a systemic What kind of efforts is LG Chem making to create a workplace where employees can follow their dreams and way and enabled a prompt and consistent response to the issues of energy & climate change and safety & environment, all of pursue work-life balance? which have emerged as global challenges. In addition, cooperation among the teams of experts under the Department has At LG Chem, the CEO actually engages in securing talent. The best and the brightest are secured through a variety of recruiting become very efficient and thereby maximizing the synergy effect. programs, while the core talent are nurtured through diverse programs to grow into experts in their respective areas such as researcher, regional expert, and global talent. Moreover, our unique HR system, with its foundation on creativity and autonomy Recently, safety & environment has become an important social issue. How is LG Chem responding to it? and emphasis on growth through work, has been highly appreciated. Based on the recognition that “safety & environment is the top priority in any kind of business activity,” LG Chem always emphasizes I believe that work-life balance can be realized only when the workplace becomes a place where employees feel happy. Rather the importance of safety & environment and strengthens the relevant departments and their control systems through field manthan working on the employees’ weaknesses, we focus on appreciating their strengths so that they feel happy and can imagement starting from the CEO. From the operation side, the safety & environment-related organizations of major plants, which merse themselves in their work. This is how we enhance our performance, and this is the essence of our corporate culture. In used to be under each business unit, are now governed directly by the CEO and have been strengthened. The leader of the Safety & Environment Department at the head office has been promoted to the executive level, and the Safety & Environment Audit Team a bid to create a working environment where employees can concentrate on their core task, our way of doing business has was set up to monitor all operations at home and abroad. been made more practical : unnecessary reports are not drawn out, simple reports are made verbally or through text mesFrom the management system side, LG Chem organized and operates the Safety & Environment Committee on a quarterly basis in sages, and meetings are attended by the persons concerned only and finished within one hour. order to operate and improve the safety & environment management system more efficiently. The Committee is composed of the Employee welfare allows our employees to immerse in their work, and therefore, definitely brings out high performance in CEO, executives of domestic and international operations, and leaders of plants, and convenes to share issues and best practices return. LG Chem has introduced a selective welfare system that reflects the preference and lifestyle of each employee, and also on safety & environment at home and abroad and discuss and plan better ways of capacity building. the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) that helps employees resolve their personal matters and thereby fully focus on their LG Chem has decided to make an investment of KRW 140 billion in the safety & environment area this year, up 56% from KRW 90 work. We plan to continue developing more contents according to the needs of our employees. billion of the previous year. However, such investment requires a change from each employee to bear actual fruits. To that end, the Corporate Communications Department will make continuous efforts to establish a culture where employees are encouraged to do the right thing and refrain from doing the wrong thing, and also to stimulate employees to internalize the idea of ‘safety & environment management in daily life’. 22 | 23 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Sustainability Framework Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability Vision and Principle Stakeholder Communication LG Chem aims to become a chemical company that generates sustainable future value by putting priority on human LG Chem is making efforts to communicate and grow with our stakeholders. Key stakeholders to LG Chem, who directly or indirectly affect or are affected beings and achieving harmony with the environment in all its business activities. To this end, we have established by our business activities, include shareholders and investors, customers, employees, suppliers, NGOs and local communities, academia and experts, the vision of ‘Sustainable Chemistry for Human and Environment’ and corresponding principles and 10 key tasks in industrial associations and groups, media, and government organizations. A variety of communication channels tailored for each stakeholder group are the aspects of economy, environment, and society. We will continue to establish specific plans for each task and take introduced on a regular basis, while feedback and information collected during this process are reflected in making decisions to further develop our measures to enhance their execution, and thereby minimize the negative effects and maximize the positive effects of sustainability management system. We described the activities we have pursued in response to the requests and interests raised by our stakeholders our business activities to become a global leading company that co-exists and grows together with society. throughout the previous year and the subsequent results in this report. Vision Sustainable Chemistry for Human and Environment Communication Channels and Major Interests of Key Stakeholders Principles Sustainability management principles Academia & Experts We observe the principles of sustainability management to generate sustainable future value. Consulting, Joint R&D • We provide eco-friendly and innovative materials and solutions. • We practice corporate ethics as a corporate citizen. Shareholders & Rating Customers • We produce products and operate plants in a sustainable manner. Government organizations Companies Customer Satisfaction • We contribute to community development based on our business capability. Industrial Policy Consulting, IR Events, Financial InforSurvey, Product Stewmation Disclosure, Credit Industrial Associations & Groups Pilot Projects ardship Monitoring Economy Environment Sociaty Rating Sustainability Meeting & Forum, Tasks Industry and Business Related •Increase market share and •Strengthen product • Respect human rights and develop Company Association boost sales (p.6-15) stewardship (p.39-41) talent (p.50-55) •Enhance customer value •Respond to climate change and •Enhance safety and health (p.46-49) (p.36-41) reduce energy •Strengthen compliance with fair trade consumption (p.42-45) standards (p.34-35) NGOs & Local communities Media •Minimize environmental •Reinforce partnership with suppliers Education & Welfare Projects, Suppliers Executives and Employees Press Conference effects in plants (p.38-45) (p.56-59) Local Cooperation Shared Growth Employee Satisfaction •Pursue strategic social contribution Initiative Committee, Survey, Labor Manage(p.60-65) Supplier Information ment Council, In-house Session, Management/ Newsletter, Safety & EnviSustainability Management Department Technology Support ronment Committee Program In September 2013, LG Chem established a CSR Team under the Corporate Communications Department Leader, directly governed by the CEO, at headquarters so that sustainable management is carried Expectations of Major Stakeholders & LG Chem's Correspondence Efforts out in a more systematic and effective manner. The CSR Team serves as a means of communication with internal/external stakeholders on a variety of sustainability issues, and reports to the CEO immediately Shareholders Customers Executives Suppliers NGOs & Local Academia Industrial AssoMedia Government upon the occurrence of important issues or relevant achievements. The issues or activities requiring & Rating Companies and Employees communities & Experts ciations & Groups organizations Expectations the awareness of the management are shared at the monthly managerial meetings, encouraging the · Long-term growth ·Smooth communica· Improved corporate ·Management · Strategic contribuIndustry-academia ·R esponse to new ·C reation & distribu· S hared growth management to have constant interest in sustainability management. potential tion with customers culture support and training tion to society collaboration regulations tion of profits ·F air trade & regula· Creation & distribu· R&D capability ·Extensive participation in activities for suppliers· Investment in · Technological · Management of ·C SR activities tory compliance tion of profits ·Improved product company operation ·Fair performance community development chemical substances · Technology innova·S afety & health in Sustainability Management Activities CSR Self-Assessment ·Transparent discloquality and safety · Cooperative laborsharing with sup·Local CSR activities tion operation sites sure of company management relations pliers of overseas offices LG Chem joined the membership of UN Global Compact (UNGC) in March, 2014, which encourages the information ·Enhanced employee welfare benefits company to clarify its responsibilities and roles as a global corporate citizen, and to voluntarily improve Self-Assessment ·Strengthened safety & health for employees and comply with the 10 principles in 4 sectors, namely human rights, labor, environment, and antiCorrespondence efforts corruption. The results of our efforts will be shared with our stakeholders through our annual sustainon-site examination ·Sales promotion and ·Collection of opinions ·Corporate culture innova·Technology and ·Chemistry camp for ·Technology inno·Stronger manage·Sales promotion in ·Support for shared ability report. Beginning in 2013, LG Chem has conductsed an annual self-assessment of CSR activities market leadership for improvement and tion activities (p.55) education support the aspiring youth vation (p.8-15) ment of conflict each business area growth with monitoring at domestic plants and subsidiaries in China so as to effectively identify CSR-related risks. From the year Annual consolidation (p.8-15) feedback through top ·Fair recruiting and to suppliers, and cre(p.62) ·Discovery of new minerals (p.41) (p.8-13) suppliers(p.56-59) of Progress ·Transparent BOD management meeting performance-based pay ation of the Win-Win ·Creation of a library growth engines ·Stricter management ·Active social contribu·Ethical management CYCLE management (p.36-37) system (p.50-51) Fund (p.56-59) of hope (p.63) (p.14-15) of chemicals at tion activities at home (p.30-35) of 2014, short-term or mid-and long-term improvement plans will be established with the considerSelection of (p.18-19) ·Continuous R&D ·Safety & environment ·Fair supplier selec·Social contribuplants and suppliers and abroad (p.60-65) ·Safety & environment ation of the urgency or importance of the risks identified through the cooperation with the concerned Improvement Target activity (p.14-15) audit and prevention tion process (p.59) tion activities by (p.40) ·Technology innovaaudit and education · Labeling  certification activities (p.46-48) ·Support for shared each plant in China ·Test analysis of toxic tion activities and (p.46-48) departments, and monitoring activities and follow-up management will be conducted as well. For the Improvement and acquisition (p.70-71)·Work-related disease growth through (p.64-65) substances (p.41) discovery of new Plan ·Response to relevant prevention and health regular evaluations growth engines internalization of CSR throughout the management, these activities will also be also promoted at all standards such as EICC promotion activities (p.49) (p.59) (p.14-15) overseas subsidiaries and suppliers. (p.76-77) 24 | 25 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Report Content Selection Process Report Content Selection Process Materiality Assessment / In the process of identifying material issues, the social interest level and the internal In the process of assessing the materiality of sustainability issues and deciding on what to include in this report, influence level were reflected in a comprehensive way. First of all, in measuring the social interest level, the media we considered the 4 principles in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), namely ‘Sustainability Context’, ‘Materialexposure frequency of each issue in 2013, the awareness level of domestic and overseas companies in the same ity’, ‘Stakeholder Inclusiveness’, and ‘Completeness’. In particular, the principle of stakeholder inclusiveness was industry, and the results and feedback of the online survey conducted among external stakeholders were considreflected throughout the whole process of selecting the report content. ered. Second, to analyze the relationship between LG Chem’s strategies and management principles, the results of an employee survey and the opinions of the CSR Team at headquarters were collected. Based on the social interest Report Content 1. Identification of 2. Materiality 3. Report content Selection Process LG Chem-related issues Assessment Determination level and LG Chem’s influence level clarified through this process, a materiality assessment matrix was formulated, and the 10 major issues located at the upper right were identified as LG Chem’s material issues. Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness 4 Principles in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Materiality Assessment Matrix Stakeholder Inclusiveness Material issues Report Content Social interest level Ethical Management 1. Ethical Management In order to identify significant sustainability issues, we first analyzed the characteristics of the industry that LG Customer Satisfaction Chem engages in as well as in the context of sustainability. In the materiality assessment process, we selected Ethical Health and safety, management Technology innovation Product Stewardship & 2. Customer Value the key issues that are considered significant by our stakeholders, and determined whether the reporting scope, Quality control the aspects affected by the issues and reporting period would be applied appropriately based on the principle HR development Product Stewardship & Efforts to respond to 3. Energy and Climate Quality control climate change Change of completeness. 4. S afety, Environment Influence of Stakeholder Assessments & Decisions Efforts to respond to Social contribution Health & Safety Customer satisfaction, and Health climate change, activities Discovery of new business 5. Human Resources Identification of LG Chem-related Issues / To conduct a materiality assessment, related issues were idenshared growth and new growth engine HR development Development tified through the following 4 steps. First of all, to secure consistency and comparability, we considered the 43 6. S hared Growth Shared Growth issues used for the materiality assessment in 2012 Sustainability Report. In addition, sustainability-related global with Suppliers standards, such as GRI G4, ISO 26000, and EICC, were studied for a better understanding of global trends, and the Social contribution 7. S ocial activities Commmitment key sustainability issues of global leading and domestic companies in the chemical industry were analyzed to Discovery of new grasp the industry trends. Lastly, the issues closely related to LG Chem were identified through media analysis, business and new Significance of Economic, Environmental & Social Impacts Business Domain growth engine leading to a final set of issue pool with 27 issues in 6 categories. LG Chem’s influence level Technology innovation Issues of the previous Year Global CSR trend Economy & Management Executives & Employees Report Content Determination / Each issue was examined from the perspectives of completeness, including · Economic performance · Work-life balance report coverage, report boundary of the concerned aspect, and report period, to see whether it effectively indi·Discovery of new business and new · Health and safety growth engine cates the company’s economic, environmental, and social achievements, and then was reviewed by the manage· Provision of equal opportunities and Global standards ·Ethical management respect for diversity ment. This report focuses on the material issues selected through this process. ‘customer satisfaction’ and ‘product 43 issues identified during related to sustainable · Technology innovation · Human rights and labor rights the development process of stewardship and quality control’ were integrated into ‘customer value’ as they both are related to activities of enmanagement (GRI G4, ·Intellectual property rights and patent · HR development 2012 Sustainability Report hancing customer values. ISO 26000, EICC, etc) security Environment Consumers & Products LG Chem’s Internal & External Stakeholder Survey · Efforts to respond to climate change · Brand management · Energy efficiency · Product stewership and quality control LG Chem is committed to interacting with its internal and external stakeholders. To be specific, from January 24 to February 2, 2014, we conducted an online sur457 news articles on LG Key issues of global · Water consumption · Eco-friendly product life cycle vey designed to identify the importance level of each issue and the sustainability level of the company, in both Korean and English so that the voices of diverse Chem in 2013(excluding leading and domestic · Prevention of air, water, and soil pollution · Customer satisfaction stakeholders can be heard. Overall, a total of 391 external stakeholders (academics and professionals, industrial associations and groups, the media, NGO and duplicate articles and companies in the · Waste · Marketing activities local communities, government organizations, shareholders and credit rating agencies, suppliers, customers, etc) and 2,868 internal stakeholders (executives and obituariesㆍpromotions) chemical industry · New & renewable, alternative energy employees) participated in the survey. According to the results, ‘product stewardship and quality control’, ‘customer satisfaction’, ‘discovery of new businesses · Biodiversity and ecosystem and new growth engines’ were considered the most material issues, ranked first to third (regardless of order) by both internal and external stakeholder groups. Community Suppliers The survey enabled us to understand the kind of issues that need to be thoroughly discussed in this report, and also to reach a conclusion that internal and Media Chemical industry issue external stakeholders are on the same page when it comes to the kind of issues that are material to the company. · Job creation ·Encouragement of suppliers’ social · Social contribution activities responsibilities · Fair selection and evaluation of suppliers · Shared growth 26 | 27 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Material Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment issues 01 Ethical Management 02 Customer Value 03 Energy and Climate Change 04 Safety·Environment and Health LG Chem strives to create sustainable future value by prioritizing human beings and seeking harmonization with 05 Human Resources Development the environment in all its business activities. We communicate with stakeholder groups in various ways, through which opinions are collected and reflected ion the long-term direction for corporate business activities. In this way, 06 Shared Growth with Suppliers we will make ceaseless efforts to become a global leading company that co-exists and grows with the society. 07 Social Commitment 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report All LG Chem employees at home and abroad pledge their commitments to Jeong-Do Management, LG’s unique way ofIssues MAterial behavior, and practice LG Code of Ethics as a standard for action and judgment. LG Chem is also making efforts to become aEthical responsible company by Management strengthening activities to check compliance in advance and go beyond simply abiding by the basic legal requirements. We inspect the Customer Value compliance status and implement the voluntary management and improvement measures regarding internal Energy andwhich policies Climate may Change be in violation of the relevant laws and regulations. Based on the belief that ethical management is fundamental forSafety·Environment the corporateand Health management, we continue to strengthen our self-examination and apply strict countermeasures on the violation cases. Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Responsible Department Internal Audit Teams 1 and 2, Ethics Office, Credit Management/Compliance Team, SocialPublic Affairs Team Commitment Strategic Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans Direction •Expand Jeong-Do •S trengthen Code of Ethics (ban on receiving money or flowers for • Continue to educate and promote Jeong-Do Management practices congratulations or condolences) Management •A ll employees and suppliers pledged for practices of Jeong-Do • Execute stronger promotion activities about Management Jeong-Do Management in overseas subsidiaries • strengthen education for overseas employees •establish compliance •Appointed a Compliance Officer and established Compliance Guidelines •Continue to execute compliance activities by 01 system and execute •Organized Compliance Team theme Strengthen compliance activities for improvement activities overseas subsidiaries •Operated compliance activities under the selected themes •expand compliance support to include overseas subsidiaries •Operate Fair Trade • Held an internal transaction committee (quarterly), implemented •Implement fair trade inspection and prevention Ethical Management Compliance Program fair trade inspection and prevention education (including some education (decrease interval and expand scope overseas subsidiaries and regional offices) and target) • Revised the subcontract manual •Strengthen internal capabilities (educate new employees and hold workshops for persons in charge) / Jeong-Do Management Jeong-Do Management is LG's unique way of behavior which emphasizes fair competition by building capacity. Jeong-Do Management Promotion Activities Responsible Teams It does not simply mean ethical management, but refers to our determination to create substantial performance Code of Ethics / We continue to apply the Code of Ethics more strictly, including the prohibition of receiving Internal Audit Teams 1 and 2 based on competency. In 1995, LG officially declared Jeong–Do Management as part of its management prinany money or flowers for congratulations and condolences from stakeholders such as suppliers. · Support on improving impediments ciples. Under a holding company regime launched in 2003, LG proclaimed the LG Way in 2005 and is continuously to performance and competitiveness Action Programs / implementing Jeong–Do Management. · Manage risks of non-compliance or Ethics Hotline •A reporting system for violations of the Jeong-do Management unfair trade and inefficiency Win-Win Growth Website •A grievance mechanism for suppliers Ethics Office Jeong-Do Management •E mployees who receive gifts voluntarily report to the Ethics Office, and the received gifts · Establishes a sound corporate culture Gift·Money Receipt are put up for internal auction of which the proceeds are donated to social welfare and strict discipline Reporting System organizations or the goods are donated in the name of the company. · Improves inefficient institutions and practices Jeong-Do Management • Employees of LG Chem and suppliers pledge their commitment to complying with the LG Integrity Pledge Code of Ethics and Jeong-Do Management principles. Ethical Capacity Fair Competition Jeong-do Management •A ll employees and suppliers are surveyed to assess their awareness of Jeong-Do based on Capacity Management Building Survey Management and to identify the areas in need of improvement. Impartial Treatment Promotion at Overseas Subsidiaries / LG Chem has reinforced its education on Jeong-Do Management not only at domesticlocal plants but also at overseas operation sites. Each subsidiary in China has an ethical affairs officer and a supervisor. In 2013, LG Group provided online education on JeongDo Management to Chinese subsidiaries, which also offered their own offline education to their office workers. Moreover, the Ethics Office offered three LG Code of Ethics sessions of education on Jeong-Do Management to local employees in Mumbai, Vizag, and New Delhi in India. LG Chem supports the order of free market economy and seeks the common interest of all our stakeholders so as to grow into the global No.1 company. To this end, LG Chem is actively encouraging all employees to comply with We Do Not Receive Money for Congratulations or Condolences! the LG Code of Ethics, the guiding principles that all employees must follow in their thinking and behavior. The LG Code of Ethics can be found at http://ethics.lg.co.kr. LG Chem carried out education on Jeong-Do Management at the ‘Conference on Chemical Regulations’ with 400 suppliers in attendance. the Ethics Office of LG Chem introduced LG’s unique code of conduct and asked the participants to report to the Ethics Hotline if they find any case of LG Chem employees violating the Code of Ethics. LG Chem announced the strengthened Code of Ethics under which money or flowers for congratulations or condolences cannot be CEO’s Resolute Commitment received and a meeting with suppliers must be reported in advance. Although a lot of companies make an internal determination for ethical management, it is Every employee at LG Chem shares the CEO’s resolute commitment that “our efforts to grow into a leading comexceptional that a company shows its determination before its suppliers and asks for their cooperation. In this way, LG Chem is making continuous and leading pany should be based on Jeong-Do Management that discards bad practices without hesitation and is faithful to efforts to move forward and grow with its suppliers. principles and basics.” 30 | 31 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development / Compliance System Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Appointment of Compliance Officer Compliance Activities in 2013 In accordance with the revised Korean Commercial Act, LG Chem appointed a Compliance Officer at the Board of Directors meeting held in April 2012 The Compliance Team closely cooperates with relevant departments to maximize the effect of compliance activiand established the Compliance Guidelines required for the operation of the compliance program. The Guidelines mainly present the establishment and ties. By utilizing relevant department’s knowhow, and accumulated information and data, we were able to estabimplementation of preventative measures to reduce legal risks that may occur in the course of business. The applicable scope includes all activities related lish and implement improvement measures in an effective manner. In 2013, a group of compliance activities were to the company operation and its employees. The Compliance Officer supervises compliance activities in accordance with the Compliance Guidelines executed along with Public Affairs Team (fair trade and external cooperation), Employee Relations Team (employee by inspecting the compliance status of the company and its employees and implementing the improvement measures regarding the existing company relations management), Safety & Environment Team (establishment of safety & environment policies and accident policies which may violate the relevant laws and regulations. response) and Accounting Management Team (supervision of intra-company contracting). 01 ·Identified associations and conference participation that may give rise to potential inappropriate Compliance Organization contacts with competitors, and evaluated and classified the associated risks LG Chem established the Compliance Part under the Legal Department in 2012 to identify the company-wide compliance status, to establish network ·Set up an internal approval process and guidelines for participation and the behavior before and after with other departments, and to set up the directions for compliance activities. In 2013, the Compliance Part was expanded to become Credit Manageparticipation ·Stipulated the prohibited acts with respect to direct contacts with competitors and collection or sharing ment/Compliance Team to establish a more stable organization for carrying out compliance activities. of information about competitors through third parties Preventive of Cartel ·Convened a conference to raise the awareness of cartel prevention and emphasize the importance of the Prevention Handbook Roles and Responsibilities of Compliance Team policy implementation (participants included executives and team managers) The Compliance Team inspects possible violation of applicable laws and regulations and employees’ complying status of Compliance Guidelines on a regular or frequent basis. The Team also selects a main theme to establish preventative and improvement measures to reduce legal risks of the relevant 02 ·Gave an explanation on extensive internal transactions and self-dealings and presented in detail the scope of counterparties and transaction amount for each case area and supports other departments within the company. The Team continuously develops and performs customized compliance educational proPublication ·Provided education on prior inspection, legal requirements, and internal process for transaction between of practice guidelines subsidiaries grams for each business unit and employment position. In addition, it reviews and monitors the results of compliance activities, including improvement on transactions ·Held on-site conferences to provide practice guidelines to employees (Daejeon, Ochang, Cheongju, measures and training, and inspects and evaluates the legal risk management. between subsidiaries Daesan, Yeosu) Compliance framework 03 ·Presented relevant legal regulations and precaution measure, labor relation issues, and countermeasures to accidents and disputes Major Roles of Compliance Team ·Enhanced the overall understanding of the roles of the relevant departments, identified major risk fctors Board of Directors (BOD) and introduced measures to facilitate cooperation with other departments to improve the management Publication of in-house efficiency • Implementation of Compliance CEO subcontract guidelines ·Held conferences at headquarters and regional offices Guidelines Report • Preventative and improvement meaCFO sures to reduce legal risks Compliance Officer • Formation and implementation of compliance education programs Legal officer • Compliance activity review and result evaluation Credit Management/Compliance Team Support Management Method of Compliance Activities LG Chem conducts compliance activities by selecting an individual theme as a priority control target. This 1 Conference on Intra-Company Contract Guideline method enables us to evaluate the issues, establish the solution, and engage in intensive, in-depth improvement of individual risk. Plan for Compliance Activities To secure competitiveness, it is necessary for a company to check law violation risks in the procurement process Step by Step Process and also to disperse, reduce, and manage the risks properly with the suppliers in the distribution network. In this Theme Selection Risk Evaluation Improvement Measures Post Management regard, LG Chem will select the improvements of procurement and quality control process as the key theme of its compliance support activities in 2014, and the activities will be spread to our overseas subsidiaries. Factors to Consider ·C heck current work status · Establish improvement ·Monitor implementation · Possibility of occurrence of an and process measures ·Measure and evaluate Themes for 2014 Activities illegal activity, effects on the · Review document and data · Support other performance company, legal trends, etc. departments Procurement process Dissemination of compliance ·C  onduct the interviews of ·Provide additional support Quality control process relevant parties, etc. · Provide training (if necessary) improvement improvement activities to overseas subsidiaries 32 | 33 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development / Fair Trade Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Fair Trade Compliance Program Operation Plans & Expectations LG Chem has been running its own compliance program for fair trade since 1995, and was registered CP Organization for Fair Trade LG Chem is committed to incorporating fair trade into its corporate culture through a variety of activities to enon the Korea Fair Competition Federation in 2002 as a company that operates a fair trade Compliance hance employee awareness such as expansion of the fair trade compliance program and reinforcement of educaProgram. With the declaration of the ‘Practical Guidelines on Fair Competition’ in 2006 for the first time in CP Manager (Corporate tion on fair trade. In 2014, the inspection on cartels will be expanded to include 3 offices and 4 production plants Communications Department Leader) the Korean chemical industry, we established a system to prevent any legal violations, including specific in China, a subsidiary in Taiwan, and 9 domestic plants. In addition, the period of inspection on subcontract-related behavioral guidelines for the observance of fair trade laws and regulations. laws and regulations will be shortened from biennial to annual, while the range of inspection will be expanded CP Team (Public Affairs Team) from unit price-oriented to all subcontract law violation cases. Operating Structure We will also reinforce education on fair trade to enhance internal capabilities. The education on fair trade will be For the effective operation of the Compliance Program, a cp team was formed under an executive-level provided as a regular course in the new and experienced employee training programs, and annual workshops CP Manager to take the responsibility for planning and implementing the program and reporting to the Fair Trade Facilitator Internal Subcontract on fair trade will be held for team leaders and persons in charge. In addition, we will minimize law violation risks BOD. Moreover, to promote fairness in the handling of the subcontracts with our small-and medium(2 or more persons Review Committee by conducting prevention activities, including distribution of practical guidelines on internal transactions and from each division sized affiliates, we run the Internal Subcontract Review Committee to preliminarily screen any subcon& plant) subcontracts. tract transaction over a certain amount (KRW 3 billion) to check the legitimacy. In addition, the LG Chem Internal Transaction Committee, chaired by the CFO, meets every quarter to examine the activities of the Operation Performance & Plans program and to seek better ways of making improvements. Subcontract Subcontract Operation Performance •IT & Electronics Materials Company & •IT & Electronics Materials Company & As part of the effort to promote fair trade, we provide annual training programs on international cartels, subconEnergy Solutions Company Energy Solutions Compang ·Cheongju/Ochang Plants · Cheongju/Ochang Plants tracts, and internal transaction inspection and prevention. We have expanded the training program to include Procurement Team/Production Management Coordination Team/Management CoordinaTeam/ Production Team overseas plants since 2013, and modified the Fair Trade Compliance Manual based on the questions and answers Fair trade tion Team •Overseas office of the previous program. In 2013, we mainly modified the subcontract manual that includes contents such as · Procurement Team in Seoul (IT & Electronics Materials) (Tokyo) September working-level guidelines and checklists and risks from breaching subcontract laws and regulations. The workingJune level manual is distributed to all employees through the intranet. October Fair trade W/S Fair trade •All employees in •Domestic charge of fair trade May December production plants(Cheongju, Contents of the Fair Trade Compliance Manual Youngnam) Internal transaction April 2013 Fair trade W/S 2014 Fair trade •Advertisement •All employees in charge March •Domestic production plants inspection Fair Trade Compliance Manual March of subcontract April (Busan, Suwon, Changwon, October Gumi, Ulsan, Gwangju, Incheon, Jungbu, Pyeongtaek) Internal transaction Internal transaction •SI Inspection September •SI, construction May inspection June Transaction Term Sign•Advertisement Subcontract Subcontract Fair trade Fair Trade Manual Subcontract Manual •Petrochemicals •IT & Electronics •Overseas offices/subsidiaries Manual Manual Company Materials Company & · 3 offices (LGCCI) and · Procurement Team/ Energy Solutions Company manufacturing subsidiaries Planning Team · Ochang/Cheongju Plants (Dagu, Bohai, Botian, YX) for overall business, for production commisfor preparation of confor advertisements or in China Procurement Team/Producincluding finance, sales, sion, procurement, and tracts with agencies product labeling Fair trade tion Team/Management and procurement processing contract with and suppliers •Overseas subsidiary Coordination Team subcontractors (Taiwan) 34 | 35 MAterial Issues Providing customers with differentiated values is a core element of sustainable management that determines the value Ethical of the company. Management Only the company that provides products and solutions that meet customers’ potential demands can enjoy shared Customer growth Value with customers Energy and Climate Change in the rapidly changing environment. LG Chem continuously strengthens its innovation activities in order to improve customer values, and Safety·Environment and Health fulfills its responsibility for customers and products by securing quality competitiveness. Moreover, we contribute to the enhancement of Human Resources Development customer value through the effort to minimize environmental and safety impact throughout the product lifecycle. The achievements of Shared Growth with Suppliers such efforts are managed and evaluated as a core target of the organization in each area. Social Commitment Responsible Department Quality Department, Safety & Environment Team (Eco-Product Rart) Strategic Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans • Strengthen customer value • Executed corporate culture innovation activities • Strengthen corporate culture innovation innovation activities • promoted solution partner activities activities • Continue to implement solution partner activities 02 • strengthen quality • Implemented quality improvement activities by business •Increase customer satisfaction through competitiveness unit (strengthen management on raw material suppliers, continuous quality improvement secure reliability in quality assessment, etc.) • produce more eco-friendly • Strengthened compliance with safety & environment •Expand the material composition survey to products regulations in overseas subsidiaries (pilot survey on material include all overseas subsidiaries Customer Value composition) • Continue to strengthen the level of manage• S trengthened control of chemicals (re-inspection of all ment on chemical material compositions, Eco-friendly Supply Chain Guideline/ 'K 2013' LG Chem Exhibition Hall, Germany Internal Regulations on Eco-Product Development) / Customer Value Innovation Activities LG Chem understands the situations the customers are in, problems they find difficult to address, and values that Cases of Customer Value Creation they need, even before they recognize them themselves, and provides innovative materials and solutions in an effort to provide the best customer value. We not only support customers for their short-term business success, but also identify their potential needs in pioneering a new market for mutual growth. To this end, through the Support for Customer to According to the needs of a customer that had difficulty in developing thin diapers due to lack of internal R&D continuous activities to change the corporate culture and the determination of the management, LG Chem has Develop New Diaper and capabilities, LG Chem provided innovative technical support based on its long experience and knowledge in encouraged all executives and employees to become more customer-oriented and focus on the nature and core Increase Its Market diaper analysis and application technology. We offered the customer with a full range of solutions to improve Competitiveness of customer value innovation. In addition, experts from various departments gather to have a more comprehendiaper performance such as absorption force and speed and also to increase the SAP rate. As a result, the cussive and in-depth understanding of customers’ concerns and needs and thus develop and execute the ways to tomer succeeded in launching a premium diaper with superior quality to that of its competitors. We, on our part, also achieved an innovative technological support platform and acquired the technology of SAP dispersion and create new values in an effective and swift manner. Such a cooperative corporate culture of LG Chem can be found optimal combination of subsidiary materials as well as core process technology. in all areas ranging from R&D to production, quality, and sales so as to create various achievements. Development of Acrylic Customers have an increasing demand for a polarizer that can realize a slim bezel product as part of the effort From CEO Message (June 2013) Polarizer to Overcome to strengthen their LCD TV competitiveness. The existing TAC polarizer’s limited performance couldn’t satisfy Performance Limit of TAC such needs due to its inherent property of matter. As such, LG Chem developed an acrylic polarizer with a Identifying even the potential demands of customers a step ahead and offering the best Polarizer new material to replace TAC based on its accumulated technological capabilities, and addressed quality issues products and solutions far beyond their expectations are most and improved performance in a way to support customers to have a competitive edge in the LCD TV market. important in our business activities.” In addition, we established the foundation to take the lead in the polarizer market by acquiring differentiated technologies in the stages ranging from raw materials to polarizer manufacturing. Solution Partner Development of LG Chem identified the needs of customers for new solutions as ever-slimmer mobile electronic devices with New-Concept Atypical curved designs lead to less spare space in the devices but customers require more use time. To find the meaSolution Partner: a companion helping customers address their problems and bring about better results Stepped Battery that sures to maximize space efficiency, all the related departments had heated debates and cooperated from the Utilizes Space Inside Electronic Devices early stage and as a result, the stepped battery was developed based on our unique stack & folding technology Providing Solutions to utilize the empty space inside electronic devices for battery installation. Through this solution, customers Ident ifying custo rm easures CUSTOMER could increase the use time of their smart phones, and we were able to prove our capabilities in developing and m er’s is h counte sues Coming up wit •Providing customized SUCCESS manufacturing cells that realize the highest energy density inside electronic devices. products and services • Understanding the business • Forming one team participated by • Offering environmentenvironment customers different divisions and customers related solutions engage in • Checking the present conditions • Managing plants/operating • Identifying the concerns and and coming up with improvement facilities efficiently needs of customers measures 36 | 37 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers / Quality Competitiveness / Eco-Product Social Commitment LG Chem has a systematic quality control system in place and operation to achieve the best customer satisfaction. We organized a specialized system in As a company that supplies the entire world with materials and products that are necessary for modern industries each business unit and division to provide the best quality management according to business and product characteristics. We focus our capabilities on to develop and for people’s convenience, we have a great responsibility for the impact that our products have on securing quality competitiveness in all business areas from development and procurement to production and sales. the environment and safety and thus strive to minimize their negative effects. We operate a system to minimize the impact our products have on the environment and safety throughout their entire production process from The petrochemicals business unit has the quality policy of securing quality competitiveness recognized by customers based on differentiated technoloR&D to disposal, thereby producing more eco-friendly products. gies. To that end, it has established the principles of identifying quality complaints at the early stage and preventing their re-occurrence. The Quality/ Innovation part at headquarters, establishes and manages quality policies and directions for the business unit. Moreover, the planning team of each Vision for Eco-Product business division has a part or a person in charge of quality control to implement the self-regulated quality management system. In addition, it realizes The approach of applying sustainability to the entire lifecycle of a product from R&D to disposal enables us to differentiated properties of matters and functions from the development stage, and the QA team in the plants prevent the shipment of poor quality respond to the environmental risks that the product may pose as well as to the global market and also to create products by securing inspection reliability so as to maximize customer satisfaction. new business opportunities. In other words, making products greener is another way of helping customers succeed in their business. By providing more eco-friendly and competitive materials and solutions, LG Chem wants to Since the IT & electronics materials business unit has a product portfolio covering a wide range of businesses, it is important to conduct differentiated and contribute to the success of our customers as well as to a more sustainable future. professional quality control management with the consideration of each product’s properties and nature. In this regard, each division operates its own quality organization to enhance the execution of business/product-specific quality improvement, and also conducts an inspection on a regular basis to Customer Value Enhancement Response to Global Market (New Business Opportunities) have an overview of quality control activities. In particular, the Quality Committee at headquarters is convened every month under the chairmanship of the head of the business unit, participated by management strategy officers at headquarters, quality officers at each division, and heads of QA and CS teams to discuss monthly quality issues, report on Q-Cost performance, deal with major quality improvement tasks, and enhance quality competitiveness of key products, so as to secure quality competitiveness at the headquarters level. Vision Eco-Product Solution Partner* The energy solutions business unit executes strategic quality control activities with distinctive goals: ‘Launch Perfect Product,’ ‘Significant Improvement Mission Make all products “Eco-Products” Regulation Compliance / Internal Code Observance of Raw Material Quality,’ and ‘Elimination of Root Cause of Poor Quality Products.’ The quality management coordination division under the business unit establishes and manages quality strategies and goals. In addition, the mobile business division and automobile/ESS battery division have organized their own groups in charge of quality management, which execute expertise-based activities to strengthen quality competitiveness, such as product and supplied part QA and quality system improvement. In particular, an exclusive research organization is in operation to secure product safety and reliability, Core Tasks Product Stewardship Product Safety Advocacy Regulatory Affairs which is very important for battery products. We have made multi-faceted efforts to achieve the target of zero safety issue by securing advanced quality • Establishing eco-product policies • Issuing MSDS •R esponding to law • Monitoring laws and regulations evaluation technologies and developing examination methods. Nanjing Plant, the battery production base in China, has been equipped with the same • Defining a work procedure • Assessing risks enforcements • Conducting audits on regulatory •R eceiving the regulatory • Assessing hazards • Responding to NGOs compliance system and also put the best quality control process in place to secure quality at the production stage and to enhance customer satisfaction with quality compliance certificate •R esponding to govern• Responding to regulatory bodies by quickly responding to customer complaints and field issues. • Responding to customers ment authorities * Eco-Product Solution Partner (Eco = Ecology + Economy) : This term refers to providing business divisions and stakeholders with solutions that are effective and valuable in the aspects of Efforts to Secure Competitiveness in Battery Quality the environment and the economy throughout the entire product lifecycle from R&D to disposal. Development Quality Raw Material Quality Product Quality Customer Quality Reinforcement of Response to Overseas Safety &and Environmental Regulations / LG Chem has Establishing a battery Strengthening raw material Establishing a battery Integrating with customer's product development system suppliers management manufacturing process quality system strengthened its support for the response to overseas regulations to fulfill our responsibility for the safety &and ·Setting up a work system by ·Organizing quality guarantor ·Establishing an integrated ·Integrating with the comenvironment management at home and abroad. We provide a translated version of the MSDS (Material Safety product development stage of suppliers by part manufacturing process of pany’s quality control system 129 tasks Data Sheet (MSDS) on exporting products. The issuance system has improved user’s’ convenience by increasing ·Defining a work process, through the analysis of quality ·Operating an organization division-specific R&R, and specialized in nurturing ·Expanding at overseas requirements of major custhe number of languages supporting the service from 4 to 30. Moreover, we established the global chemical approval standards in subsidiaries tomers and reflecting them suppliers ion the supplier management substance management standards based on the inspection of material ingredients we have carried out domesti25 process documents ·Establishing a quality system standards to guide, diagnose, ERRC*** inspection cally since 2008, and introduced them to overseas subsidiaries. In 2013, wWe conducted a pilot operation of the ·Setting up PLM* IT System for suppliers, providing supand nurture suppliers ·Rationalizing and matching of standards in some areas of China, including Nanjing and Dagu, and also in Poland in 2013, and will expand the port for process improvement Establishing an FMEA inspection & test standards and work standardization coverage to all production plants by 2014. In particular, in November 2013, we held a one-night two-day explanaprocedure ·Establishing the company’s own tion session for suppliers and the persons in charge of procurement/environmental issues in Nanjing and Dagu FMEA** procedure in November, 2013, offering education on major safety &and environmental regulations and material ingredient * PLM : Product Life-cycle Management ** FMEA : Failure Mode and Effects Analysis *** ERRC : Eliminate, Reduce, Raise, Create inspection methods of China and other countriesnations. 38 | 39 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Reinforcement of Chemical Management / LG Chem has taken the lead in managing chemical substances Management of Minerals Extracted from Conflict Areas / In 2012, we added conflict minerals to the list based on its global standards. We have been building a database of chemical composition of each material since of banned substances in the 'Internal Regulations on Eco-Product Development'. This action was taken to conform 2008 and established a system, in 2010, to identify and manage all chemical substances along with their amounts to the efforts of the international community, which is trying to decrease inhumane crimes and establish peace in entering the company. We incorporated the ERP-based chemical management into the entire process of procureconflict areas, such as Congo and other neighboring countries, by prohibiting the direct and indirect purchase of 4 ment and use activities, raising awareness of the importance of chemical management throughout the company. minerals (gold, tin, tungsten, and tantalum) produced there, and thus keeping the mineral money from being used We also introduced a system that continuously monitors the changes in materials by time and in regulatory/ to fuel the armed conflicts and human rights suppression. We raised the bar for ethical businesses in 2013, and business environments. We updated the chemical composition information by re-inspecting the 2,000 materials reviewed the use of the conflict minerals more stringently. Moreover, we conducted a review on the 100 suppliers whose ingredients had been inspected already, and also checked MSDS for compliance with GHS. In addition, we of raw subsidiary materials that have the possibility of using the conflict minerals. We encourage our suppliers to notify suppliers on any inclusion of restricted materials such as toxic substances or new chemicals after a real-time join our ethical efforts through these activities, and support the electrical & electronic product customers in the verification to help them prevent any infringement of safety & environmental regulations. global market, who are very sensitive about the use of conflict minerals. Eco-Friendly Supply Chain Guideline and Internal Regulations on Eco-Product Development / LG Test Analysis of Harmful Substances / The Corporate R&D center of the LG Chem Research Park analyzes Chem is making all-out efforts to minimize negative impacts on the environment and to produce more ecoharmful substances present in raw materials and finished goods to assess the environmental impact of our products. friendly products. In this regard, we established the ‘Eco-Friendly Supply Chain Guideline’ and the ‘Internal ReguThe following table shows specifically what we do when carrying out this analysis and environmental assessment. lations on Eco-Product Development,’ so as to secure the eco-friendliness of products and minimize hazardous Category Description substances from the processes of product design and supply chain management.The ’Eco-Friendly Supply Chain Guideline’ articulates the safety & environment-related requirements, and its use as a meaningful standard has Operation of an ISO 17025 • Analysis on 6 hazardous RoHS substances (Cd, Pb, Hg, Cr(Vl), PBBs• PBDEs) Authorized Testing Laboratory • Analysis on halogen free (Br, Cl, F) led to the enhancement of the overall supply chain management level. The guideline is available on the Open • HBCDD, 9 types of phthalates (DMP, DEP, DIBP, DNBP, BBP, DEHP, DNOP, DINP, DIDP) Procurement System website (http://open.lgchem.com). • Analysis on Sb, Be LG Chem recognizes the ever-tightening regulations on chemical substance management at home and abroad • Number of reports issued in 2013: 1,251 as a new business opportunity to build our competiveness, not as a barrier we have to overcome. Accordingly, TVOC Assessment • Assessment of TVOC and FA in raw materials, processes, and products and individual we enacted the ‘Internal Regulations on Eco-Product Development’ that stipulates much stricter rules about the VOC study (P&T, Headspace, TD, etc.) Green product/material assessment: IT & Electronics/Automobiles, etc. company’s product development and material procurement than the relevant laws. We provide the regulations in Korean and English to effectively manage risks that chemical substances pose to the safety and environment. The Accreditation as an •Apr. 2007 TÜV RoHS Lab certification •Jun. 2010 KOLAS scope extension Authorized Testing Body 6 hazardous RoHS substances – 6 hazardous RoHS substances list of regulated substances is classified into 2 types, restricted substances and substances for reduction, according (self-analysis method) (IEC62321:2008) to the characteristics of the business units. In addition, efforts are being made to include contents that reflect the •May 2008 TÜV scope extension • Aug. 2011 KOLAS scope extension latest trends and are technologically significant. As a result, the regulations are operated with consistency in varihalogen free (Br, Cl: self-analysis – halogen free (Br, Cl, F: KS M 0180:2009) ous situations and as a substantially meaningful standard throughout our business activities. method) •Feb. 2012 TUV scope extension •Sep. 2008 KOLAS scope extension – 9 types of phthalate (DMP, DEP, DIBP, DNBP, 6 hazardous RoHS substances BBP, DEHP, DNOP, DINP, DIDP) (self-analysis method) – halogen free (Br, Cl, F: KS M 0180:2009) Conference on Chemical Regulations •Jun. 2009 TÜV scope extension • Apr. 2013 TUV scope extension – 6 hazardous RoHS substances Sb, Be (US EPA 3052:1996) (IEC62321: 2008), HBCDD, 3 types of LG Chem held the ‘2013 Conference on Chemical Regulations’ on March 12, 2013 participated by 400 employphthalates (DBP·BBP·DEHP) ees of 330 domestic suppliers. We shared the latest trends on safety & environment-related regulations we face, such as the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization & Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) in Europe. We operate a systematic and global management of chemical substances by conducting chemical composition surveys and re-inspection on a regular basis. The conference was designed to promote our efforts to prevent chemical-related accidents that have emerged as current social issue and our determination to cooperate with suppliers in achieving high-level safety management. 2013 Conference on Chemical Regulations 40 | 41 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management As climate change emerges as a global issue, the proactive determination to address it by companies has become an important soCustomer Value cial responsibility. Effective energy consumption and GHG reduction in business activities present companies withand Energy not onlyChange the risks, Climate but also the opportunity to create new businesses. LG Chem strengthened its company-wide organization system and management Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources system in order to effectively respond to regulations and to establish a green process. We monitor energy consumption and Development GHG emissions against the target on a regular basis, and encourage all our employees to voluntarily engage in energySharedsavingGrowth with Suppliers activities with an Social Commitment incentive system. Responsible Department Energy/Climate Change Team Strategic Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans • Implement  energy saving and •M  onitor mid-and long-term reduction goals • Implement company-wide integrated GHG reduction projects and achievement energy audit •E xecute process innovation and transition to 03 low-carbon business structure • improve energy · GHG • E stablish energy · GHG management IT system • Establish integrated energy · GHG system management system (in all business sites at home and abroad) • E stablish company-wide energy • Introduce Energy Management System (EnMS) • Expand application of EnMS (to all Energy & Climate Change management system •O  perate company-wide Energy Committee • Implement shared growth programs on business sites at home and abroad) •Design a shared growth model energy saving Ochang 1 Plant Photovoltaic System / Energy & Climate Change Strategy and Goal LG Chem has strengthened its competitiveness in relation to energy and greenhouse gases (GHG) by proactively LG Chem is propelling the efforts to reduce GHG to 23% below BAU (business as usual) by 2020, to establish the responding to internal and external regulations on GHG and energy and promoting green business activities, in mid-to long-term goal to reduce energy intensity, and to make continuous improvements. For this, we intend to an effort to emerge as an innovative green company. In addition, for sustainable shared growth with SMEs, we will apply EnMS to all operation sites at home and abroad and further decrease the level of GHG reduction by monitorfaithfully carry out our social responsibility by actively participating in energy saving efforts and sharing our diverse ing the performance through an IT system. knowhow in saving energy and responding to regulations with our suppliers and SMEs. GHG Reduction Company-wide Active Reduction & Improvement of Energy·GHG Management System / LG Chem Goals and Performance Vision is making every effort to reduce GHG to 23% below BAU by 2020 and to achieve a green management system. The GHG emissions (thousand tons) LG Chem intends to comply with energy & GHG regulations and to establish a green process so that the company company now manages energy consumption and GHG emissions with the GHG and Energy Management System can maintain its continuous growth. To this end, we plan to improve energy efficiency in all processes and reduce BAU (GEMS) on a monthly basis, and will make further efforts to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions by 12,757 GHG emissions directly, while decreasing GHG emissions indirectly by manufacturing higher value-added prodintroducing the EnMS to more operations in 2014. ucts and transforming the existing manufacturing process into a lower energy consumption structure. BAU 23% 9,558 10% Extensive Application of EnMS / LG Chem acquired ISO 50001 in 2013 by introducing the EnMS to the VCM 9,821 Vision No.1 Greenovation* Company 8,610 Plant in Yeosu, and plans to receive the accreditation for all operation sites at home and abroad in 2014. We will establish an organized energy management process by setting up an energy management plan that meets the Goal Cost Leadership / Responding to Regulations / Building Eco-friendly Processes 2013 2020 ISO 50001 standards; monitoring the basic energy performance; training and improving the capabilities of the perPerformance Goal Enhancing Competitiveness in Energy and GHG Reduction sons in charge; and reviewing the management performance. In this way, we expect to establish a company-wide Mission * Scope: Domestic and overseas sites • Actively Responding to Global Regulation • Supporting Green Business energy management system while also raising the awareness of employees regarding the reduction of energy consumption. Advocacy & Energy Saving and Core Tasks Energy & Carbon Management Response to Regulations Comprehensive Cooperation GHG Reduction • Responding to government • Establishing a management system • Introducing Target Management • Drawing up mid-to long-term plans Shared Growth Program on Energy Saving regulations • Operating an Energy Committee System • Conducting audits on reduction • Promoting ourselves as a green • Providing information on carbon •Establishing a system to proactively and offering technical assistance company footprints to supply chains respond to Emissions Trading Scheme LG Chem is involved with diverse activities to promote sustainable shared growth between large corporations and SMEs. We participated in energy saving • Analyzing potential reductions • Supporting green business • Acquiring carbon labels • Implementing power-saving projects for shared growth among large, medium and small companies, organized by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, with 3 suppliers in 2012 and • Convening technology sharing • Providing carbon information on regulations 4 suppliers in 2013. In 2014, through LG Chem’s Win-Win Fund, we will share our energy saving technologies and know-how with our suppliers and thus help • Conducting shared growth meetings products • Conducting CDM business them raise their cost competitiveness. In addition, we will support them in effectively responding to various regulations, such as Target Management System programs on energy saving • IT management and Emissions Trading Scheme, and thus building their capacity to respond to climate change. Through these efforts, we will contribute to reinforcing the Scope Global (10 domestic sites & LG Chem Research Park + 12 overseas manufacturing subsidiaries) management capability of SMEs whose energy demand and efficiency management need improvement and to establishing a sound energy ecosystem shared along with the government, large corporations, and suppliers. * Greenovation : The word is a combination of ‘Green’ and ‘Innovation,’ and it is LG Chem’s manifestation to become the world’s most innovative green company. 42 | 43 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Energy & Climate Change Organizational Structure Energy Saving and GHG Reduction Projects and Performance Response Organization LG Chem runs Energy/Climate Change Team to strengthen the LG Chem’s energy saving activities and respond to While participating in the national efforts to save energy, we set the mid-to long-term reduction targets to be a variety of climate change regulations in a systematic manner. The Energy/Climate Change Team is responsible reached by 2020, and monitor our reduction performance every year. In order to achieve these energy saving and CEO for formulating strategies to respond to regulations at home and abroad, preparing mid-to long-term plans for GHG reduction targets, each plant is actively engaging in process innovation activities, and each business unit Corporate Communications GHG and energy saving, analyzing the risks and opportunities inherent in climate change, and promoting shared is also pressing on with activities to make a transition to a low energy consumption business structure. A repreDepartment Leader growth programs on energy saving. Each plant has an energy manager, responsible for energy saving with the sentative example is the Yeosu NCC Plant, which was ranked No.1 in energy efficiency in the world. Including all Energy/Climate Change Team government and SMEs as well as planning and implementing GHG reduction projects. Apart from developing plants at home and abroad, LG Chem reduced energy cost over KRW 80 billion in 2013, which is KRW 10 billion new GHG reduction technologies, our R&D center, Research Park, is conducting the carbon-LCA (Life Cycle Assessmore than the previous year, gaining a competitive edge in cost. Furthermore, we are reviewing our GHG reducBusiness Unit Plant Research Park ment), which analyzes GHG emissions over the entire life cycle of a product from its production to disposal. We tion performances that have been verified by the government and the feasibility of offset projects in an effort to also implement much of our capabilities in developing innovative technologies, such as the battery for electric reduce the risks that may arise from the Emission Trading Scheme. Such efforts are expected to reduce the cost Planning Technology Environment cars and the Energy Storage System (ESS). Such efforts have contributed not only to greening the businesses of LG risk caused by emission trading onwards. Chem, but also to saving energy and resolving power shortage problems in Korea. Production Energy Good Practice for Energy Saving Operation of company-wide energy committee / LG Chem is strengthening its organizational structure to build capacity in coping with energy and climate change issues. For example, a company-wide energy comYeosu NCC achieved the world’s No. 1 energy efficiency mittee was organized to contribute to the prompt decision-making of the executives and the enhancement of LG Chem has created many innovative cases by conducting voluntary energy saving activities, going beyond responding to regulations. In particular, the Yeosu communication between the executives and plants at home and abroad. The committee is involved in various NCC Plant whose energy cost accounts for 62% of its total manufacturing costs, excluding the raw material costs, introduced innovative ideas and technologies activities related to energy and climate change, while sharing practical ideas and technologies and performances to enhance the energy efficiency of naphtha cracking facilities, achieving the highest level of energy efficiency in the world. Through such efforts, LG Chem was ranked first place in terms of energy competitiveness out of 115 NCC companies around the world according to a survey by Solomon Associates, a U.S. energy and also giving incentives to our employees so voluntary energy saving efforts are encouraged. Through such efconsulting company, in February 2013. The survey shows that the energy intensity of the plant stood at 4,170 kcal/kg, which is more than 40% lower than that forts, our organized system in response to energy saving and climate change regulations is being recognized as a of other NCC's in the world. Even when compared to the average of global top 25% companies, it is more than 24% superior in energy efficiency. benchmark case for other companies. In 2014, we will continue to secure the global No. 1 competitiveness in energy efficiency by improving the energy intensity to below 3,000 kcal/kg, which is an unprecedented level of energy efficiency. We will not rest on our laurels but continue our innovative activities for energy saving so that we can secure cost Construction of company-wide energy committee competitiveness and participate in energy saving activities. Chairman •Main Ideas for NCC’s Energy Saving •Performances CEO Emitted gas Better Energy Intensity (kcal/kg, Ethylene) 3. Installation of stack heat exchanger (170 → 100℃) Deputy Chairman 4,397 △227 Saving Cost Corporate Communications 214 4,170 Department Leader Naphtha KRW billion/year Steam Before After Energy Managing Information Strategy Department at plants CRD Center Chinese Subsidiaries Department Boiling water LG Chem Honored with Silver Medal at Energy Saving Contest Cracked gas Comparison to competitors 1,100℃ LG Chem's systematic management has made fruitful results and been highly appreciGlobal top 25% Global Category LG Chem ated at home and abroad. Through our company-wide energy management as well as Companies Average bold investment such as the introduction of the EnMS and the ESS and innovative imEnergy Intensity 4,170 5,561 7,460 provement of the manufacturing process, we have saved an annual average of KRW 53.8 (kcal/kg, Ethylene) 2. Installation of insulating billion over the past 5 years. In recognition of such achievements, LG Chem’s Senior Vice 1. Advanced insulator wall in gas convection Energy Cost (KRW President Cho Kap-ho has been presented with the Silver Medal. It is believed that such parts Base +1,310 +3,100 100 million/year) performance will not only raise the competitiveness of the company itself, by saving * Based  on research by Solomon Associates energy cost, but also create new jobs and new growth engines, for example, through the (compared energy competitiveness of 115 petrochemical companies worldwide) development of the battery for electric cars and distribution of the ESS, contributing to the sustainable growth of the society in harmony with the government's green policies. (Temperature of outer wall: 90 → 70℃) advanced material(Aerogel) The 35th Energy Saving Contest 44 | 45 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management It is the company’s fundamental responsibility for its employees and for the environment to have systematic and preemptive management on Customer Value a safe work environment and health issues. It is very important to minimize negative influence and risks from business Energy and Climate activities Change by eliminating potential risks and supporting the healthy life of employees by taking proactive, rather than reactive, measures. LG Chem Safety·Environment andestablish is striving to Health Human Resources Development company-wide strategies for safety, environment & health and targets by business site, and incorporate related items in the executive and orgaShared Growth with Suppliers nization evaluations to systematically manage achievements and improvement plans. Social Commitment Responsible Department Safety & Environment Team, Safety & Environment Audit Team, SH&E Team in each business site, HR Service Team Strategy Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans • E stablish a corporate culture • Executed CEO on-site management • Continue to implement CEO on-site management that prioritizes safety and • Implemented company-wide online • Execute additional online education for more participants environment education • S trengthen activities to prevent • Strengthened safety & environment • Strengthen safety & environment audits (high risk areas) safety & environment accidents organization and audits •Manage records of violation cases, accidents, and targets 04 • Set up safe environment strategies and goals •Operate company-wide safety & environment committee and workshop •R  einforce capabilities regarding • Executed training course for process • Implement course to nurture experts in safety & environment safety & environment capabilities afety management experts • Establish company-wide safety & environment guidelines and and the level of management IT system Safety•Environment & Health •P  revent occupational diseases and strengthen health • Implemented work environment assessment • Operated health promotion programs • Strengthen occupational disease prevention campaign • Continue to operate health promotion programs enhancement activities CEO's Visit to Daesan Complex Enhancement of Safety & Environment Management Capability and Level Employees in charge of safety management at workplace are provided with education on Process Safety Manage/ Safety & Environment ment (PSM) through 10 sessions. In 2013, a total of 6 education sessions were held while outside experts were At LG Chem, we consider safety & environment as one of our top management priorities and make continuous efforts to enhance our competitiveness invited to in-house camp training where employees could enhance their safety management capability by learnand power of execution in this area. In 2013, we conducted a thorough audit on safety & environment and provided employees with relevant education, ing about process safety-related regulations as well as real business practices through theory and practice. In 2014, so as to minimize the safety & environment-related risks in our business activities. We will constantly strengthen our competitiveness in this area by estabeducation on technology to nurture safety & environment experts will be additionally provided along with that on lishing a company-wide safety & environment audit system as well as mid-and long-term strategies, based on which we can completely prevent safety & PSM. Moreover, a company-wide guideline on and computing system of safety & environment management will environment-related accidents and deal with new regulations in a preventative manner. be prepared to upgrade the level of our safety & environment management to that of global standard. Improvement of Safety & Environment Departments Establishment of Corporate Culture with Priority on Safety & Environment With a strong determination expressed by LG Chem’s CEO to put top priority in safety & environment in all business activities, we have improved our LG Chem is making a variety of efforts to internalize the culture that prioritizes safety & environment in every busisafety & environment system throughout the company and enhanced the roles and responsibilities of the safety & environment departments. In 2013, ness activity and also to encourage the management to take the initiative in the activities. The CEO emphasizes the we promoted the Safety & Environment Department at headquarters to the executive level and newly established a Safety & Environment Audit Team, importance of safety & environment at operation sites through his regular visits, and executives and team leaders while strengthening the power of execution across the company by increasing the number of employees in the concerned departments at each plant. LG discuss how to bolster the importance of safety & environment in corporate management at their leadership Chem will make its safety & environment management system more effective and systematic through close cooperation among the concerned departtraining sessions. In addition, all employees, including office workers, received online education under the goal ments of all the domestic and overseas workplaces. of increasing the company-wide awareness of safety & environment, promoting the understanding of relevant Online Safety & Environment standards and principles and strengthening the execution of prevention activities. Also, the safety & environment Education Reinforcement of Safety & Environment Audits and Accident Preventive Measures departments across the company gathered at the 'Safety & Environment Management Workshop' and discussed audits on 10 domestic plants and 14 overseas subsidiaries in regard to legal matters such as licensing, systematic management of corrosion and deterioraeffective measures to continuously enhance company-wide awareness. tion of facilities, and operation of initial reaction system in cases of emergency. A series of short and long-term improvement plans were established based on the results of the audits and the level of safety & environment management has been constantly enhanced through a regular check-up of compliance. CEO’s Visit to Operation Sites – Emphasis on Safety & Environment In 2014, areas with high risk of safety & environment-related accidents, such as the liquid product logistics system and high-risk facilities, will be identified and put under stricter management. In addition, mid-and long-term strategies on safety & environment management across the company as well as the Based on his belief that the key of market leadership lies in operation site management, the CEO made relay visits to major operation sites, including Yeosu complex, Daesan complex, and Yongxing Plant in China. At every operation site he visited, he made sure to first receive a report on the safety & goals of each plant will be set to clarify the responsibilities and authorities of each department and thus to effectively prevent safety & environment-related environment issues, and conducted a thorough examination on the key issues of each plant and ways to respond to emergency situations. During his visit accidents. Based on these efforts, accident prevention activities will be continuously conducted through the management of safety & environment-related to Yongxing Plant in China on July 15, he re-emphasized the importance of safety & environment as a key priority in every business activity, saying, “Not accident rate and investment execution rate, operation of the company-wide safety & environment committee, and mandatory introduction of safety & only relevant departments, but also each of us has a responsibility for safety & environment. Safety & environment is an action, and this action needs to be environment-related items to the executive and department performance evaluation. practiced by all employees, including those in production and factory affairs.” The CEO will continue his visits in 2014, spreading the management principle that prioritizes safety & environment throughout LG Chem’s operation sites. 46 | 47 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development / Health Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Safety & Environment Activities at Operation Sites LG Chem has created a pleasant work environment through various proactive health management activities. Its Cheongju Plant Safety & Environment as top priority in business activities / Cheongju plant orgaheadquarters and domestic and overseas business sites implement various activities to prevent occupational nized the ‘Process Safety Review Board’, coming up with a process through which the relevant departments take diseases and support all employees to lead a healthy life. advantage of their expertise in reviewing the safety aspects of the plant expansion project in its earliest stage. Though requiring more time and expenses than before, it enabled the expansion of the plant that was safety Occupational Disease Prevention Activities guaranteed and increased the interest of all employees and executives in securing safety. The achievements and LG Chem executes work environment inspection on a regular basis to control exposure to hazardous chemical know-how we have obtained through the operation of the board will be systemized, and the guidebook will also substances by process and to establish the best work environment guidelines. We have also established a leakage be updated so as to establish our safety standards. In addition, we will incorporate safety as a distinct part of our detection system to guarantee a safe and pleasant work environment. In an effort to minimize the occurrence of Cheongju Plant Process Safety Review Board corporate culture by strengthening company-wide safety education. occupational diseases among employees, we inspect and improve hazardous factors at work that pose a burden on the musculoskeletal system, while reinforcing preventive activities through education and explanation on related diseases and also providing employees with physiotherapy and medical counseling. Daesan Plant – Creation of Safety-First Culture with Execution / Daesan Plant has dedicated the year 2013 to the establishment of a safety-first culture with execution throughout our business site. While strengthenHealth Promotion Activities ing our self-safety responsibility, we have executed safety patrol, safety audit, labor-management joint observation LG Chem runs a health promotion program in connection with local hospitals to provide professional healthcare tour, etc. on a regular basis. Safety & health education was also strengthened so that each employee is required to solutions tailored to each employee. Every year, medical check-up and continuous counseling are provided to protake the total 24 hours of regular safety & health education, while more thorough education was provided for sumote the health of employees. A health promotion center is in operation at each site to help employees regularly pervisors and new employees. We have also operated in-house safety broadcasts 3 times a week and published an check and manage health conditions on their own. Each plant has established and manages a reduction target in-house EHS newsletter in order to reinforce our safety execution ability. In addition, we have improved the safety in the rate of employees with health issues. We provide the high risk groups with regular tracking management management of suppliers by strengthening regular safety & health education for them as well as for new visitors. and customized management programs such as metabolic syndrome management and body fat reduction. We Daesan Plant Safety & Health Coexistence In April, we had an agreement ceremony for co-existence and cooperation in safety & health with our suppliers. Cooperation Agreement Ceremony conduct anti-smoking/anti-drinking campaigns and send out health journals on a regular basis, encouraging emThis was a part of LG Chem’s industrial accident prevention programs with suppliers, and received much interest ployees to enhance their awareness of health promotion. A psychological counseling center is also in operation from the government, with the participation of the Ministry of Employment and Labor’s Boryeong District Office to help employees maintain a sound mind. The center offers a variety of psychological tests that help employees Chief, Director of the Center for Major Industrial Accident Prevention, Director of the Industrial Accident Prevention identify their individual personalities and aptitudes for various duties, along with on and off-line customized counDepartment, and Labor Supervisor. LG Chem and its suppliers showed strong determination to maintain mutually seling on their personal lives. In addition, a team building program is in place to make communication smooth and organic relations for safety and once again considered the importance of safety at the special lecture following healthy, and at special times, such as Family Month, external experts are invited to discuss a wide range of issues the ceremony. that arise in daily life, allowing employees to benefit from the professional help. Beijing Plant in China–Safety & Environment Management Reinforcement / Even though legal Health Activities at Operation Sites evaluations are not required for our Beijing Plant, we voluntarily executed a ‘safety status assessment’ in an effort Gimcheon Plant – Providing suppliers with health education and managing employees with health to systematically respond to the recently tightening safe manufacturing policies and plant safety management issues / Gimcheon Plant encourages its employees to promote their health by offering various programs. Beginstandards. The safety status assessment helps businesses to come up with safety measures by evaluating the level ning in August, we offer health education not only to our employees but also our suppliers to raise their awareness of of risks and harmful elements in the product lifecycle and estimating the potential accident risks. The Beijing Plant health, while having professors of the designated hospitals make a quarterly visit to operation sites. In addition, health completed the evaluation according to 12 items by the end of 2013, and as a result, the awareness of the imporofficials visit the plant twice a month to conduct examinations on employees with health issues and provide them 1 tance and necessity of safety as well as the safety management level have been enhanced. The Beijing Plant not with medical counseling. In October, we completed a checklist for the management of employees having problems only continues to strengthen safety & environment management in the workplace, but also supports its suppliers with their musculoskeletal system given the characteristics of their jobs. Gimcheon Plant will continue its effort to for their own safety & environment management. In March 2013, we newly formed an environmental procureconvey accurate health information and activities to promote the interest of its employees in health promotion. ment division to execute safety & environment inspection on the supplier that cleans sealed plastic boxes for packaging. The on-site inspection includes storage and use of dangerous chemicals, special equipment management, Nanjing Plant in China– Support for Employee Health / The Nanjing Plant has built a facility for the health fire-fighting facility layout within plant, execution of safety education, employee health, etc. As a result of the and leisure of employees. The facility is well equipped with a gym that has more than 30 different types of fitness inspection, the modification of 20 problems identified was recommended to the supplier along with guidelines. 2 equipment, a ping-pong table, a yoga and dance room, and showers, and is flexibly operated from 08:00 to 20:00 After a 3 month period of modification, the supplier came to provide best quality services to the Beijing plant. 1. Fitness Club in Nanjing Plant considering the different lifestyles and work hours of employees. It also provides employees with psychological coun2. Psychology Lecture at Nanjing Plant seling for their healthy and stable state of mind. In cooperation with Nanjing Normal University, psychology doctors are invited to offer 2 sessions of counseling a week and 4 lectures a year. Moreover, we make much effort to encourage employees to have stability of mind and promote its importance through a monthly psychology column and a bi-annual psychology promotional journal. 48 | 49 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues It is very important for the company to secure and train excellent talent in order to improve its distinctive competitiveness. In addition, it Ethical Management is essential to establish a work environment where each individual can demonstrate capabilities to the fullest forCustomer Value better performance and provide fair evaluation and treatment according to performance, which will enhance employee satisfaction andEnergy and Climate retention. Change has LG Chem Safety·Environment and Health established the principles in HR management that we respect our employees’ creativity and autonomy, prioritize each individual’s capabiliHuman Resources Development ties, and guarantee employees the treatment suitable for their performance. Based on the principles, we have established and executed Shared Growth with Suppliers the strategies to secure and nurture outstanding talent and promote the corporate culture in which employees focus on the essence and Social Commitment core of the work and realize creative ideas. Moreover, we incorporated the core talent turnover rate and the face-to-face interview rate into the KPI of executives and organizations to evaluate performance and to promote improvement. Responsible Department HR Planning Team, Talent Recruiting Team, HR Development Team, Corporate Culture Team Strategy Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans •S ecure outstanding talent in the • Recruiting talent at home and abroad •Early securing, prior verification, and future growth business supervised by the management nurturing of outstanding human resources and R&D areas in the future growth engine business 05 • Operating various programs to secure talent early and R&D areas •Nurture talent to lead the market •N  urturing a candidate pool of HPI*, next generation •Nurture entrepreneurs to lead the market and to have business achievements global business leaders, and division leaders •Support business performance through based on the LG Way •S trengthened prior training for subsidiary presidents, global capability development resident employees, and supervisors Human Resources Development • Establish a market-leading corporate culture •S elected and implemented the 7 innovations for improving corporate culture •Establish the corporate culture in which employees focus their way of work on creating customer value 2013 New Employees Training * HPI : High Potential Individual / Human Resources Principle Talents Envisioned by LG Chem In order to realize ‘Customer-Value Creation’ and ‘People-Oriented Management,’ which are the management philosophies of LG, a series of human resources principles have been established and used as the index of human resources and corporate operation. With the belief that the creativity of individuals is the source of value creation, Employees who accept the Employees who play fair through we respect diversity and autonomy of employees and encourage them to develop their potential and bring challenge to be the world’s best constant capability development with dreams and passion out their maximum performance. LG Chem employs the best talents and guarantees fair opportunities without discrimination, and provides the highest compensations to the talents that achieve the highest performance Employees who trust in and practice the LG Way according to our fair and objective evaluation. LG Chem’s HR Principles Employees who value teamwork and Employees who give first priority to Creativity and Source of value work creatively and autonomously customers and pursue constant innovation autonomy of creation individuals • People-oriented Management • Customer-value Emphasis on PerformanceOperation Employment Status management principles creation competency based rewards method Provision of fair Long-term Basic Principles Employees by Region Employees by Gender (Korea) Percentage of Managers (China) opportunity perspective Unit : Person Unit : Person Unit : Person Europe Asia America * Office workers Best capability·Best performance·Best reward Expatriates 534 406 225 102 3% 2% 1% Female 12% HIGHEST CAPABILITY HIGHEST PERFORMANCE HIGHEST COMPENSATION 1,149 17% We hire talent from all around the world, We present the top talent with challenging tasks We provide the highest compensation to top China regardless of race, nationality, and gender. and more training opportunities to develop talent regardless of race, nationality, gender, 8,203 them into our core human resources, based on religion, disability, region and group 37% · Recruiting people with creativity and unique fair and objective evaluation individuality · Annual salary system linked to individual capabilKorea Male Female at the · Job placement with consideration for individual · Objective and fair evaluation system ity and performance Local employees preference and aptitude 12,596 5,474 manager-level ·Systematic training opportunities for each level · Performance-based fair rewards 57% 83% or higher 765 · Offering incentives to core talent, based on their market value, business impact, etc. and skill One-on-one career development session · F ast track promotion system 254 88% ·Well-devised career development system 22% 50 | 51 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development / Securing Talent / Talent Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Recruiting Global Talent Based on the belief that talented employees are the key source of differentiated competitiveness, LG Chem has LG Chem has been actively encroaching into the global market to make the leap forward to becoming a worldestablished systematic HR management strategies closely linked to its business goals and strategies, and is exertclass chemical company. We are working towards the localization of our overseas subsidiaries by securing and culing much effort to develop outstanding talent. We run systematic training programs with the aim of nurturing tivating outstanding local talent. In the case of China, each subsidiary is actively securing new recruits by conductfuture entrepreneurs to lead the market, developing job-specific competencies to secure best quality competiing on-campus recruiting at major universities within the respective regions, and conducting on a rolling basis the tiveness, and strengthening global competency and leadership capacity based on core values to carry out sucrecruitment of outstanding talent with the required capacity to do local business. In the case of the US and Europe, cessful global businesses. we rely on local recruiting firms to bring in highly qualified talent of manager-level or higher positions. HPI Training Programs Core Talent Development for Market Leadership Securing Global Talent In order to maintain the position as a market leader, it is very important to discover individuals with business caWe have carried out the ‘BC (Business & Campus) Tour & Tech Fair,’ directly supervised by the CEO and executives, pabilities and leadership competency at an early stage and nurture them into future entrepreneurs. LG Chem has 1st year Leadership in the US and Japan for nine consecutive years since 2005. This fair is designed to introduce our company to outestablished an entrepreneur nurturing system in connection with Succession Plan for our future entrepreneurs, standing local students and interview them. Furthermore, we have continued the efforts to recruit outstanding including the candidates for the position of division leader, the next-generation global business leaders, and High global R&D talent through the 'LG Techno Conference,' which is co-organized by LG affiliates. 2nd year Global communication Potential Individuals (HPIs). Taking up 5% of office workers, the HPI is the talent pool for future entrepreneurs. The training programs for them are annually provided for the first three years and for those in their fourth year 3rd year Enhancing business or higher, an annual workshop is held to discuss business strategies and issues to enhance their business insight. capability Furthermore, to nurture future entrepreneurs, we operate training programs for the division leader candidates 4th year Workshop on business and the next-generation global business leaders to help them gain insight into the general management based strategy & issue on comprehensive introspection. In 2012, we started running a taskforce team to systematically nurture entrediscussion preneurs. The team is fostering the mentoring and coaching activities to improve their business capabilities and leadership competency. Entrepreneur Nurturing System BC Tour & Tech Fair Training Target Training Method CEO Pre-employment Program We are focused on the pre-employment of highly qualified talent such as engineers who develop the next genCompany Leader Executive eration products and product/process engineers who are required for future growth businesses. For the selected CEO candidate pool Candidates • Mentoring by his/her superior talent through the pre-employment program, we provide various opportunities such as supporting school tuition · Designating his/her superior in targeted post as mentor Division Leader Division Leader Succession Plan · Mentoring the capability required to fill the post such as and giving on-the-job training or employment guarantees, to pre-secure more talent who can help us lead the General Candidate Pool Candidates leadership and business acumen managers market. Nextgeneration Entrepreneur Pre-employment Program global Candidate Pool Department/Plant Leader • Establishing and operating CDP* Junior & business leader • Assigning individual tasks Candidates Senior managers • Conducting workshops & annual training In Out R&D Industrial Scholarship Program A scholarship offered to R&D masters and doctors at home and abroad Employment guaranteed after graduation HPI Team Leader Candidates * CDP : Career Development Plan Assistant, Assistant manager Industry-Academic Customized training and industrial scholarships provided to masters, doctors and Collaboration Program specialists from universities who have signed an MOU with the company Designed for undergraduates in the 1st semester of the 4th year. who receive on-theExpert Competency Enhancement On-the-job Engineer Training job training in the division in which they want to continue working after graduation and Internship Program To secure the best quality competitiveness, training employees to be experts in their respective areas is very important. To this end, we operate the LG This nurtures and double checks the potential of on-the-job engineers. Chem Academy to strengthen the capabilities of production technology experts. The Academy provides 37 courses in the petrochemicals area, 32 in the Outstanding undergraduates at home and abroad with various majors are secured, Global Internship nurtured, and verified Carried out along with the Executive/team leader mentoring IT & electronic materials area, and 74 in the battery area. Our internal experts develop educational programs and also give lectures on the knowledge to enhance the connection with the training and the employment and skills accumulated over the years. Moreover, in 2013, as part of the efforts to help new employees bring out the best in them as soon as possible, we Industry-Academic A long-term internship (4 months) for undergraduates that awards school credits. developed the e-learning/mobile-learning system consisting of 12 courses (9 for on-the-job training and 3 for general/common education) as a regular Collaboration Internship Employment guaranteed after graduation Signing Ceremony for the Agreement on IndustryAcademia Training between LG Chem & KAIST training support system that minimizes the limits of time and space. All LG Chem employees are allowed to sign up for and take the on-the-job training e-learning courses on the website of the LG Chem Cyber Academy. The general/common e-learning courses are designed to provide the contents related to issues that all employees should be aware of, such as safety & environment and information security. These learning programs not only enable the employees to develop themselves but also strengthen their expert competency required for successful business performance. 52 | 53 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development / Corporate Culture Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Level-based Leadership Competency Enhancement According to the LG Way, the management philosophy on which LG employees base their thinking and behavWe offer leadership programs for all employee levels, based on the belief that each and every employee is a poior, LG Chem encourages its employees to build a creative and autonomous work environment where they can tential leader. These innovative programs, based on our core values of the LG Way, are designed to develop the strengthen their global capacity and show excellent performance. leadership capacity at each employee level. The second year course for assistants and assistant managers aims at helping them find a new meaning in their jobs and effectively play the role of middleman. The courses for the Direction for Corporate Culture Innovation junior managers or higher levels focus on the capacity building of employees as potential leaders. For the secondIn order to achieve the ultimate goal of becoming ‘No.1 LG’ in this globally competitive environment, LG Chem year senior managers, who are likely to take the position of team leader at any time, the courses emphasize their needs to take a leap forward to emerge as a market-leading company. To that end, our members are focusing essential role as potential team leaders. more on the essence and core of differentiated customer value creation and making efforts to bring out creative ideas. In addition, they strive to accomplish their goals in a self-initiated manner and create synergy effects Level-based Leadership Training Structure through active cooperation between organizations. Such innovation in working styles goes hand-in-hand with Course name Targets Contents strict observation of principles and basic rules. TL Team leader · Discussing and drawing management direction to lead the market (Team Leader) · Clarifying action agenda as a team leader 7 Innovations for Improving Corporate Culture for Market Leadership SL 2nd-year senior · Building capacity as a potential team leader Job Facilitator The internal/external business environment has been rapidly changing in recent years. Accordingly, LG Chem (Senior Leader) manager Relations Linker has selected and implemented 7 major tasks, focusing on what must be strictly adhered to and what should be Performance Coaching continuously innovated. JL 2nd-year junior · Enhancing basic capability as a potential leader by discovering individual (Junior Leader) manager strength and weakness 7 Innovations for Improving Corporate Culture for Market Leadership AL 2nd-year assis· Recognizing the role as an effective mediator within the company InnovaListening·Discussion·Practice and Simplification of Protocol · Listen carefully / Discuss intensely / Act thoroughly / Protocol is for our customers (Assistant Leader) tant manager · Devising the way to guide and mentor juniors tion of working Work Intensive & Smart ·Reporting & meeting improvement: Simplifying report formats and avoiding unnecessary styles meetings Together 2nd-year · F inding a new meaning in the job based on the experience over the ·Reduce overtime work and holiday work through intensive work assistant previous year ·Encourage vacation leaves for refreshment to raise productivity Self-initiated Work · Take initiative to undertake new challenges and achieve goals in spite of any obstacles Global Competency Training Global Talent Development Structure Promotion of Collaboration · Create synergy between teams and organizations through collaboration At LG Chem, we enhance our competitiveness by reinforcing our capacity as a global organization in a systematic ObservaObserving principles of safety & environment · Make safety & environment principles part of your habitual routine way so as to make our overseas business operations more successful. Targeting the employees who directly contion of Training after returning Basic Implementing Jeong-Do management · Fair job practices: accurate and honest reports; transparency in operation of business from overseas duty tact our global customers, LG Chem offers a variety of training programs to improve their foreign language skills Rules and partners; proper use of corporate assets Training during and business etiquette as well as to strengthen capacity related to the respective jobs. Furthermore, we provide the overseas stay Principles Observing work regulations · Manage commuting times & diligence and indolence, observing break times our employees with long-term camp training on a regular basis to enhance their foreign language competencies Training before leaving for overseas duty such as English, Chinese, and Japanese. In addition, those scheduled to be dispatched to overseas subsidiaries or Customized Organization Development Promotion Activities on Corporate Culture Innovation for Market Training for local experts branch offices are trained to build up their global leadership and management skills beforehand. Also, LG Chem Program for Chinese Market Leadership runs local expert development programs to nurture talents who will take charge of overseas businesses in the straWe are promoting a series of activities to set up a corporate culture as a market leader, so as to In 2013, as part of the effort to innovate the working tegic regions such as China, India, Brazil, Russia, and the Middle East, and dispatches those experts to the regions styles at 9 operation sites in China, 5 team-based corprovide differentiated value to our customers. We will continue our efforts for innovation and Intensive training on English, Chinese, and Japanese for 3 to 6 months, encouraging them to learn the local languages and conduct market research. In this way, they porate development programs were developed, suitchange to establish such a corporate culture throughout the company. able for local conditions. Those 5 programs consist of are trained to develop the capabilities required for their task when they are dispatched in the future. 'active communication,' 'team membership,' 'increasSpreading and sharing 7 innovations Corporate culture campaign ing momentum to achieve goals,' 'enhancing initiaTeam Leader Leadership Enhancement Program ·Sending a notice to the executives and leader ·Running the Focus Board* twice a month tive,' and 'strengthening positive attitude.' Each team groups supporting the leaders to take the (all operation sites at home and abroad) can choose a program that it will take according to its initiative in changing the corporate culture * Focus Board: Abbreviated form of Market LeaderFrom March 12 to April 10, 2013, the Team leader Leadership Enhancement Program was held over 5 sessions, under needs. 37 in-house lecturers were trained to run the ·Applying the market leadership module to the ship Focus Board the theme of Strictly following the principles and basic rules and Innovation of working styles. At this program, team programs at the operation sites in China, and a total mandatory training courses and sharing with all leaders had a discussion on environment & safety, Jeong-Do management, and rules and regulations related to corpoof 48 teams (648 attendees) participated in the promembers Organization development program rate operation, emphasizing the importance of following principles and standards. Furthermore, they shared the ways grams in 2013. LG Chem is committed to innovating Team development program tailored for China to innovate not only company-wide working styles but also those of each business unit, and discussed the direction of its corporate culture not only in Korea but also in its improvement in working styles with their team members. After returning to their operation sites, they came up with overseas branches through the continuous operation ·Implementing customized programs for each ·Developing and implementing organization deteam to establish the working style focused on velopment programs tailored for China with the specific action plans with their team members and had them successfully implemented. of corporate development programs developed and esence and core consideration of local conditions, in an effort to Team Leader Leadership Enhancement Program supported by the head office. innovate the working styles at the operation sites in China 54 | 55 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management It is essential for companies to secure stable and long-term cooperative relationship with reliable suppliers in order to achieve stronger Customer Value competitiveness and sustainable growth of their own as well as the industry. Also, since a company’s business activities have overarching Energy and Climate Change influence on the entire product and service value chains, it is very important to manage social responsibilities of suppliers in addition to Safety·Environment and Health a 중  대 이슈로 선정된 이유 및 영향 providing support to them. LG Chem seeks to achieve a sound and healthy shared growth with suppliers by establishing a systematic mutual Human Resources Development b 중대 이슈에 대한 관리 방법 cooperative relationship. To ensure effective management and improvement, performance related to shared growth Sharedis Growth with as included one of Suppliers c 관리체계 평가 방법 the Key Performance Indicators that are used to evaluate the executives of procurement department. Social Commitment Responsible Department CSR Team, Procurement Department Strategic Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans • Implement  5 Action Plans • Operation and expansion of the Shared Growth Initiative Committee • Introduce supplier performance sharing system for Shared Growth •Signing of the Agreement on Shared Growth • Reinforce shared growth promotion activities (including agreements between 1st and 2nd tier suppliers) • Expand operation of Win-Win Fund • E xpanded financial support (KRW 46.1 billion) 06 • Increase support for 2nd tier suppliers • Evaluated as ‘Satisfactory’ for shared growth index • Support suppliers in energy saving, audit, and • Received ‘Shared Growth Enterprise Award’ consulting • Payment made to subcontractors within 7 days •D  omestic production of equipment and materials/parts Shared Growth with Suppliers • E xpand fair supplier selection •E valuation items related to the environmental compliance, shared •Strengthen CSR evaluation on suppliers and evaluation system growth, labor and human rights •Strengthen openness and fairness in local  Meeting between IT & Electronic Materials •C  ompleted establishment of Open Procurement System for overseas procurement of overseas sites Procurement / Logistics and Suppliers subsidiaries / Shared Growth with Suppliers Five Major Tasks for Shared Growth In the spirit of Jeong-Do Management, LG Chem carries out a policy of shared growth with its suppliers that is grounded in a fair trade culture. We provide our suppliers with long-term, consistent, and practical support. Our •O  peration of the Shared Growth Initiative Committee aim is to achieve shared growth by establishing the order of fair trade through such a policy and raising competiof LG Chem • Incorporation of the goal for shared growth into the 01 tiveness through various support for our suppliers. evaluation of relevant executives Acts of Determination for Shared Growth • Joint entry into overseas markets From CEO Message (May 2013) 02 05 • Support for suppliers in participating in job fairs and employment  Expansion of Financial Establishment of • Prior notification of raw materials price to Support and Other Partnerships plastic suppliers In order for LG Chem to lead the global market and to be the global No. 1 company, Improvement of •C  reation of KRW 44 billion for Shared Growth • Compliance with subcontracting laws: we need to grow together with the outstanding suppliers. of LG Win-Win Fund Payment Terms prohibition of unfair discounting and verbal PO, cost accounting sheet, etc. • 1 00% cash payment to • Enforcement of joint application of patent subcontractors • Arrangement of discussion meetings and 03 04 • Improvement of payment terms for exchange meetings for suppliers. (non-subcontract) SMEs: Payment on note within 60 days Technical Support Training Support for •P  ayment to subcontractors Shared Growth Support System within 7 days for Strengthening Human Resources The shared growth policy of LG Chem is carried out under the direct leadership of the management. We have • E xpansion of payment terms for 1st Competitiveness Management • Support for technical training of suppliers, including selected the five major tasks for shared growth and established the LG Chem Shared Growth Initiative Committee, tier suppliers to 2nd tier suppliers operation of the Polymer Processing School which is chaired by the CFO and composed of 11 executives from different areas, in order to directly involve the • Capacity-building training and HR support for suppliers management in the efforts toward achieving shared growth with small and medium-sized suppliers. The Commit• Support for suppliers in receiving online trainings tee convened twice in 2013 and reviewed the performance and discussed future plans to more effectively push of LG Academy • Support for suppliers’ involvement in new green projects forward our activities for shared growth. In addition, we created the Partner Collaboration Department and CSR • Support for suppliers in problem resolution (consulting) Team in September 2013 to strengthen the driving force for our shared growth activities and carry them out in a • Technology and quality improvement activities, free support for analysis and test, etc. more systematic way. • E xpansion of domestic production of part materials & equipment 56 | 57 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Major Tasks and Performance for Shared Growth in 2013 Partnership with Suppliers LG Chem recognizes its suppliers as business partners and believes that achieving shared growth with them is essential for sustainability management. We, therefore, actively pursue shared growth projects that produce real outcomes. The operation of the Open Procurement System has enabled LG Chem to improve not only the access of new suppliers but also the fairness and conveWe signed shared growth agreements with our suppliers, developing and providing comprehensive support and nience of the work process. We are making continuous efforts to improve the system to follow the paradigm shift from simple management of suppliers cooperation initiatives for small and medium-sized suppliers in various areas such as finance, technology, training, to achievement of shared growth. market development, and communication. In January 2013, LG Chem concluded shared growth agreements with 47 first tier suppliers. As an effort to take the leadership in spreading the culture of shared growth throughout the supply Transparent Selection of New Suppliers Through the Open Procurement System or OPEN (http://open.lgchem.com), LG Chem selects new suppliers in a fair Based on Openness and Fairness and open manner. Any supplier that wants to start doing business with LG Chem may apply by registering on the OPEN Shared growth agreement ceremony chain, we also encourage our first tier suppliers to sign agreements with second tier suppliers. website. A decision to accept or reject an application of registration is made based on the results of the self-evaluation for LG Group's joint support to suppliers of the applicants and the selection criteria of LG Chem for new suppliers. In this way, the barrier for new suppliers to apply for transaction with LG Chem has been lowered. LG Chem and JIWOO TECH realized shared growth through a close partnership and exchange of technological prowess that exercises the strengths of both parties Support for Overseas Subsidiaries to Secure LG Chem has completed the establishment of the same Open Procurement System for Chinese subsidiaries to secure Based on the resolute commitment of the top management, LG Chem is operating various programs to support Openness and Fairness in Local Purchases openness and fairness in the local purchasing process. In addition, along with the process standardization through the its suppliers, particularly focusing on technical support. Among the technical support programs, the joint develsystem, the purchasing rules, know-how, and guidelines were reorganized to secure transparency in the operation and management of suppliers. To strengthen purchasing competency of overseas subsidiaries, we plan to continuously opment project with JIWOO TECH is considered as a representative and meaningful case. JIWOO TECH is a comexpand our support, such as providing trainings and holding information exchange sessions on a regular basis. pany that specializes in manufacturing precision industrial machinery. When LG Chem built additional production lines of optical films in Nanjing, JIWOO TECH participated in the joint project to domestically produce the core facilities that had been imported in the past. LG Chem and JIWOO TECH launched the project in July 2012, and Supporting and Fostering Suppliers with LG Chem conducts regular evaluations in various aspects to foster its suppliers and realize shared growth. On top of completed the development of domestic facilities with better function and quality than the imported facilities. the Regular Evaluation System the technical and financial status, suppliers are fairly evaluated in terms of compliance with environmental regulations, The newly developed facilities have been used in the production lines since April 2013.. With this effort, LG Chem shared growth (improvement of payment conditions for second tier suppliers), and labor and human rights laws and reduced the facility cost and established a production line for a small volume of products, while JIWOO TECH regulations (identifying unfair labor practices and internal strikes) and then provided with feedback. In particular, we obtained the order for the whole facility of the process for polarizing film, the core of the relevant production line, continuously strengthen the criteria related to safety & environment, human rights, and labor in order to thoroughly manage and protect not only LG Chem but also our suppliers. Suppliers with outstanding results are offered incentives and thereby substantially increased the sales volume by over 50% and 30% in 2012 and 2013, respectively. such as improvement of payment terms and the preferred right to use the Win-Win Fund, while those with poor results that fall below the standard are required to submit action plans for improvement. These measures have been designed for the development of both LG Chem and our suppliers. May Received 'Satisfactory' grade on 2012 September Offered training opportunities at LG Academy November Expanded the LG Chem Shared Growth Initiative Major Shared Growth Activities in 2013 Win-Win Index Committee to employees of suppliers LG Chem received a 'Satisfactory' grade in the In 2013, online training opportunities at LG Academy were given The Shared Growth Initiative Committee was expanded Win-Win Index, which is evaluated by the Fair Trade to the employees of subcontractors that concluded the shared and strengthened as the leader of Partner Collaboration January Concluded agreement on fair trade and shared Commission (FTC). The FTC evaluates companies growth agreement with LG Chem. The online training program Department, a newly created position directly under growth with 47 subcontractors based on their performance of implementation of the included various courses, such as general management and the CEO in September 2013, was appointed as a new 5 th agreement on fair trade and shared LG Chem proclaimed its determination for shared growth by signing its fifth agreement on fair trade agreement on fair trade and shared growth along with the satisfaction level of SMEs. Following the favorable language. 226 participants from 32 companies who completed the training generally shared positive feedback, so we plan to member of the committee. result in the index, LG Chem secured the 1-year Online continue to provide these opportunities to our suppliers. growth and shared growth since 2008. training exemption from the written fact-finding investigation in the subcontract area by the FTC and is able to carry participated 'Satisfactory' out its business in a more stable manner. 226 by employees December Introduced in the NCCP's Best Practice 32 Grade on Win-Win Index Casebook for Corporate Partnership from suppliers New member in the LG Chem was introduced as a best practice, along with Opportunity provided Shared Growth Initiative 10 other major corporations, in the 2013 Best Practice to suppliers to Committee Casebook for Corporate Partnership, published by the participate in the National Commission for Corporate Partnership (NCCP) Win-Win Small Giants Joint Job Fund expanded to Fair 2013 April 44 Agreed on additional funds into Win-Win Fund KRW billion LG Chem expanded the Win-Win Fund from KRW 30 billion to KRW 44 billion to grant low cost loans to October Provided support for suppliers to participate in the second and third tier suppliers. government job fair The Small Giants Joint Job Fair 2013, co-organized by the Ministry NCCP's 2013 Best Practice of Trade, Industry and Energy and the National Commission for Casebook for Corporate Corporate Partnership (NCCP), was held at KINTEX (Ilsan). LG Chem Partnership recommended its outstanding suppliers so that they can participate in the job fair and directly employ talent. 58 | 59 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues LG Chem recognizes various influences that we could have on local communities and citizens around the worldEthical as we Management engage in vibrant Customer Value business activities in many different countries. With this in mind, we continue social contribution activities utilizing our business characEnergy and Climate Change teristics and expertise in an effort to reinforce our positive influences. Selecting four major areas, we are systematically operating various Safety·Environment and Health a 중 대 이슈로 선정된 이유 및 영향 programs for teenagers and have a plan to gradually expand the programs to the global level. We collect and evaluate feedback from our Human Resources Development b 중대 이슈에 대한 관리 방법 stakeholders, including direct beneficiaries of social contribution activities and reflect them in our improvementShared plansGrowth in order to provide with Suppliers c 관리체계 평가 방법 more effective programs. Social Commitment Responsible Department CSR Team Strategic Direction Major Activities / Achievements Goals / Plans •Focus on the youth • S upport on improvement of reading and •Continuous management of existing education environment for the youth beneficiary organizations 07 • Expand projects overseas • Reflect business characters •Chemistry and science education-related •Find ways of social contribution to projects address environmental issues Social Commitment • Contribute to the local community •Volunteer works by employees •Social contribution that reflects the through volunteer groups and clubs characteristics of the local community Library of Hope ‘Chaeknaru’ / Social Commitment As a leading chemical company, LG Chem is committed to becoming a socially responsible company that coexists and grows with society, while also contributing to the development of the national economy. In line with Records of 'Youth Education' Programs the slogan of the LG Group for its social contribution activities, 'Love that makes young dreams come true,' our 400 participants 35 times social contribution activities focus on children and youth who can be easily marginalized but have limitless potenChemistry Camp 4,800 participants in total tial. As a corporate citizen partner that provides future solutions to our youth, we will continue to carry out social contribution activities for the youth and do our utmost to fulfill our social responsibility. 2005 1,270 participants 2013 10 times Chemistry 14,892 participants in total Frontier Festival Social Commitment Framework 2004 2013 The social contribution activities of LG Chem are systematically performed in four major areas: youth education, youth welfare, local community support, 200 participants and global social contribution. In particular, our expertise as a chemical company is fully exhibited in carrying out the activities for youth education. A Junior Science Class 1,200 participants in total variety of education programs are run to raise the interest of the youth in science and technology and to contribute to nurturing young talent. At the 2004 2013 same time, a series of welfare projects for the economically marginalized have been implemented in a bid to help ease an ever-deepening income gap and to grant equal opportunities to the youth of the low-income bracket. Such projects include improving the education environment and supporting Records of 'Youth Welfare' Programs their cultural life. Noting that a company can grow sustainably only with the development of its local communities, we carry out diverse social contribution 3 libraries activities around our operation sites at home and abroad. In addition, we look for the ways to contribute to the development of host countries and regions Build a Library of Hope 20 where our subsidiaries are operating and to conduct global social contribution activities. libraries in total 2007 2013 Social Commitment Vision 2 classrooms Create a Classroom 10 classrooms in total Vision Citizen Partner of Hope 2008 2013 Mission Corporate Citizen Partner that Provides Solutions for the Future of Youth 4,300 participants 46 times Musical Holiday 32,100 participants of Hope 2007 2013 4 Major Areas Youth Education Youth Welfare Local Community Support Global Social Contribution · Chemistry Camp · Create a Classroom of Hope · S ocial Contribution Activities by · Love for Youth · Chemistry Frontier Festival · Build a Library of Hope Operation Site · Social Welfare ·Junior Science Class · Musical Holiday of Hope · Hobby Clubs’ Community Service · Local Community · One Plant-One Military Unit 60 | 61 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Four Major Areas for Social Contribution Youth Welfare / ·Build a Library of Hope Youth Education / LG Chem has implemented the ‘Build a Library of Hope’ project of which the goal is to spread a reading culture among the youth who will play a leading role ·Fascinating Chemistry! LG Chem Chemistry Camp in the future, and also to provide a cultural venue for local residents who have been culturally marginalized. This project is one of LG Chem’s representative The LG Chem Chemistry Camp is one of the our representative social contribution activities that uses our programs for youth welfare, in line with the slogan for social contribution, Corporate Citizen Partner that Provides Solutions for the Future of Youth. Since the expertise as a chemical company. Since its launch in 2005, the camp has been held for middle school launch of this project in 2007, we have been opening libraries at the steady pace of 2 to 3 libraries in elementary and middle schools per year. Not only do students every year, to help them familiarize with science through exciting experiments and practical exwe support the operation and management of the libraries, but we also provide various outreach programs, such as reading education and ‘Meet the Author’ ercises such as creative structure building activity. This 3-day event is accompanied with other programs sessions to promote the libraries. Including the 3 libraries newly opened in 2013, a total of 20 libraries are in operation now. We will continue expanding such such as personality education and vision lectures that help the youth grow into healthy members of the activities to help local communities from the long-term perspective, so as to pursue mutual growth with the local communities in a sustainable way. society. ·Create a Classroom of Hope ·Chemistry Frontier Festival ‘Create a Classroom of Hope’ is an activity that began in 2008 to create a pleasant education environment for the The ‘Chemistry Frontier Festival’ is a chemistry festival to find and cultivate future talent of the 21st cenyouth, who have relatively poor social support. Every year, one or two youth education facilities are renovated tury in science and technology and also to increase the high school students’ interest in chemistry. Jointly to improve the education environment. After renovation, voluntary activities are carried out by employees of LG sponsored by six petrochemical companies, including LG Chem, and organized by the Korea Petrochemical Chem to ‘Create a Classroom of Hope.’ This community service was provided at social welfare centers in BanghIndustry Association, this program has been held annually since its launch in 2004. Through various chemwa2-dong and Singil (Seoul) in 2013, adding to a total of 10 Classrooms of Hope so far. istry experiments, the festival participants learn the true values of chemistry that are closely related to our Create a Classroom of Hope daily lives such as environment, energy, life, social study, and traditional science. The winners in the top rank ·Musical Holiday and Mecenat Programs are given various benefits, including a chance to receive overseas training as well as special employment Through the ‘Musical Holiday and Mecenat Programs’, various musical performances are performed for soldiers and residents in areas with limited access privileges if they join one of the co-hosting companies. to cultural events. This program has been continuously provided since 2007 in the military frontlines such as Uleung-do, Baekryung-do, and Gangwon Province, contributing to the cultivation of emotions of military servicemen, enhancement of the culture in barracks, and improvement of the cultural ·Junior Science Class welfare of the military. Consequently, we were given the honor of winning the ‘Cultural Management Award’ at the Mecenat Awards 2009, and received The ‘Junior Science Class' for the youth at elementary schools and childcare centers in Daejeon has been held appreciation plaques twice from the Ministry of Defense. In 2013, six performances of the musical ‘Bachelor’s Vegetable Store,’ which depicts the hopes since 2004. Our researchers at the LG Chem Research Park are voluntarily participating in holding more than 20 and dreams of young men and therefore can be easily related to the young soldiers in the military, were successfully held, after-school science classes every year. This program is one of LG Chem's representative talent donation activities, encouraging children to discover the excitement of experiments and also to develop their dreams. Local Community Support / ·Social Contribution by Operation Site Various social contribution activities are conducted in our ten operation sites across the country to solve the difficulties in local communities. In 2013, a series of activities for the youth were performed in such ways as renovating community child centers and providing scholarships and school uniforms. Furthermore, a variety of activities such as support for the elderly to receive eye surgery as well as for multicultural families were also provided. To support the social contribution activities at each operation site, our employees raised around KRW 300 million in funds and Event for multicultural families (Daesan Plant) to watch an LG Twins baseball game actively participated in volunteer activities amounting to 21,889 hours of volunteer work. ·Hobby Clubs’ Community Service Junior Science Class LG Chem is strongly encouraging its employees to participate in community service and contribute their talent Fascinating Chemistry! LG Chem Chemistry Camp in diverse and voluntary ways. The community services by hobby clubs voluntarily started as small units, but have steadily grown since 2009 when the company decided to support those clubs. In 2013, the clubs in ten operation LG Chem held four sessions of chemistry camp in January 2013, which was attended by some 400 locations across the country performed 187 community service activities. youth. Middle school students, gathered from all over the country, had a chance to step closer to chemistry, participating in diverse and exciting experiments such as making lip balm, cooking molecThe 20th Library of Hope, Jilpoong ular gastronomy, and making mini cars that operate on salt water. In addition, various other programs were also held, including special lectures on personality education, vision setting, and special perforLG Chem’s 20th Library of Hope, the Jilpoong Library, was completed on December 7, 2013. It was built in the YMCA Youth Center in Hakdong, Yeosu (Jeollanammances using scientific principles, which were designed to help youth grow into healthy members do) where the residents are culturally underprivileged. Besides bookshelves, this library also has a video-audio room to watch videos and group study rooms for of the global society. meetings and discussions. In particular, approximately 1,700 books out of the 2,500 books donated by LG Chem were provided by the employees of the Yeosu Fascinating Chemistry! LG Chem Chemistry Camp Plant who voluntarily raised funds and collected used books. 62 | 63 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment global social contribution (Social Contribution Activities by Chinese Subsidiaries) Community / ·Hygiene & Environment Enhancement Project Youth Education / The regional holding company in China cooperated with the China Women Development Foundation to improve ·‘Attractive Chemistry’ class hygiene conditions in poor areas by starting a project to improve toilet conditions in Hebei. The company built LG Chem’s regional holding company and Yongxing Plant in China are carrying out various social contribution new toilets in 2 schools in Hebei and donated sports apparatus and equipment to the schools. Along with this, activities using our expertise as a chemical company. In November 2013, the members of Aixin She (Loving Heart LG Chem provided relevant news articles to the Hebei community on a daily basis to let the people know the Society) of the Petrochemicals Sales Department and TC Department of the regional holding company visited importance of hygienic practices. the attached elementary school of Beijing University and offered the ‘Attractive Chemistry’ class. The employees carefully prepared for the class with interesting chemistry experiments that can raise the interest of students. The ·Environment Cleaning Activities Yongxing Plant held ‘Attractive Chemistry’ classes for children and kindergartners in local schools in the Zhejiang As part of public services, 50 employees of Beijing Plant of LG Chem have been campaigning environment cleanprovince, in July and November 2013. The employees of the Yongxing Plant also raised funds to build safe roads ing activities for 4 years. In August 2013, 60 administrative staff members of Beijing Plant voluntarily picked up for the children. garbage on the adjacent roads and nearby subway stations of the plant. Consequently, not only has the environIn the years to come, more information on social contribution activities will be exchanged among the Chinese ment surrounding the plant improved, but the garbage volume has also reduced considerably. Beijing Plant will subsidiaries of LG Chem, and such activities will be continued based on a sense of mission to provide the youth continue to do such a job on a regular basis to protect the environment and to raise the people’s awareness about with science education. public services. Also, Yongxing Plant has actively participated in the environment cleaning campaign of the Chinese subsidiaries by cleaning the nearby reservoirs. ·Experience Korean Culture Event In July 2013, the employees of the administrative and HR teams of Yongxing Plant held an event for the local students to experience traditional Korean culture. This event included classes to promote Korean culture, trying on traditional garments, and making Kimbap. The employees led the classes about geography, history, celebri1. Regional holding company in China_ ’Fun Chemistry’ Class for Students ties, traditional houses, and currency, while the students had the chance to wear Hanbok, the traditional Korean of Elementary School Attached to Peking University dress, and to learn traditional etiquette. Later, the LG Chem employees demonstrated how to make Kimbap, and 2. Yongxing Plant_’Fun Chemistry’ Class for Children 1 2 the students could practice following the demonstration. The Chinese students showed a keen interest in Korean 1 2 culture, asking many questions. Youth Education / ·LG Chem Library of Love LG Chem continues to develop the welfare and the education environment for the youth. In June 2013, volunteers from LG Chem’s Guangzhou Plant visited Kulong Elementary Schools 1 and 2 in Luogang to deliver 30,000 yuan-worth of books, computers, and office supplies. Guanzhou Plant has, so far, provided 300,000 yuan-worth of stationary and sports apparatus and equipment since it built the LG Chem Library of Love in 2007. 1. Beijing Plant_ 1 ·Support for Flood Recovery in Yuyao and School Lessons Environment Cleaning Activities Yongxing Plant took part in the restoration of flood damage in Yuyao where typhoon Fitow hit hard. In order to 2. Yongxing Plant_ Experience Korean 1 2 help the schools where all the classrooms were flooded and could not continue to teach the students, the manCulture Event agement from Yongxing Plant called an emergency meeting. Also, the plant provided 100 pairs of desks and chairs and 4,000 books, all together worth 52,000 Yuan, so that schools could resume class. Chinese Regional Holding Company of LG Chem Wins 2013 Top Company Promotion & Image Award ·Delivery of Art Supplies to Elementary School 2 Employees of Nanjing Plant visited Yanziji Elementary School to give the students backpacks filled with art supThe Chinese regional holding company of LG Chem received the 2013 Korea Top Company Promotion & Image Award on September 27, 2013. LG Chem's 1. Guangzhou Plant_Support Activities various activities to fulfill its social responsibility and play a role as a sustainable and environment-friendly company were highly appreciated, resulting in for ‘LG Chem Library of Love’ plies. The head and the employees of the regional holding company visited the art exhibition of the students winning the award. The company reaffirmed its strong will to carry out more active social contribution activities to contribute to preserving and improving 2. Yongxing Plant_Recovery Aid to appreciate and purchase the artwork and emphasized the importance of a positive learning attitude to the the environment of the local communities in China. for Yuyao Flooding Disaster students. The company has also established action plans by plant to develop and implement the educational environment of the local students. 64 | 65 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value APPENDIX Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment • Sustainability Performance Data • Sustainability Management Index GRI G4 ISO 26000 (International Guideline on Social Responsibility) EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) 10 Principles of UN Global Compact • Independent Assurance Statement • Membership of Organizations and Associations / Awards Received • Glossary • Participant Information 66 | 67 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Sustainability Performance Data Economic Data Environmental Data All LG Chem operation sites in Korea and China are operated under the environEnergy Unit: TJ, GJ/product ton Economic Performance Unit : % Distribution of Economic Value ment management system. Each operation site has set up directions, strategies, 2011 2012 2013 Corporate Tax Unit: KRW 100 million 2011 2012 2013 and goals in detail and has improved and monitored performances continuously. Stability Current Ratio/Debt-to-Equity Ratio 153.6 171.8 174.7 2011 2012 2013 If necessary, they are verified by a third audit institution. Korea Direct energy 80,206 86,589 87,542 Indicators In order to use resources efficiently, the operation sites continue to reduce the Debt-to-Equity Ratio 57.5 54.0 48.8 Income tax expenses from 6,270 3,742 3,307 Indirect energy 32,111 37,048 48,151 continuing operations use of raw materials and water and find ways to recycle waste and wastewater. Dependency on Borrowings 26.0 27.4 25.7 Subtotal 112,304 123,624 135,676 Also, they have established and kept monitoring disposal facilities and systems to Profitability Operating Income Margin 12.5 8.2 7.5 Procurement Status (2013) Unit: KRW 100 million prevent the pollution of air, water, and soil. By doing so, they are making continuIntensity 9.06 9.44 9.81 Indicators Business Amount Items Use Supplier ous efforts to prevent pollution and possible accidents and to reduce pollutant China Net Income Margin 9.6 6.5 5.5 Direct energy 2,466 1,868 1,843 emissions. Petrochemicals 113,820 Naphtha, EDC, etc. PE/PVC raw GS Caltex, OXY ROA 15.5 9.5 7.5 Indirect energy 10,681 11,501 11,160 materials Chem, etc. Production Unit: ton ROE 24.7 14.7 11.4 Subtotal 13,147 13,369 13,002 IT & E Materials 16,016 TAC Film, Cobalt, Polarizer raw Fuji, etc. 2011 2012 2013 Growth Sales Growth 16.5 2.6 (0.5) etc. materials Intensity 8.07 7.83 6.84 Indicators Korea 12,401,297 13,090,003 13,831,606 Operating Income Growth (0.1) (32.2) (8.8) Energy 10,893 Anode materials, Battery raw Hitachi, Mit· For Korea, the data before 2013 was modified to abide by the statement rules of the government. China 1,628,383 1,708,174 1,900,294 · For China, the data before 2013 was modified due to inventory expansion, and also to abide by Solutions Cathode materials, materials subishi, etc. Net Income Growth (1.4) 30.6 (15.6) the emissions trading regulation of Tianjin City. Separators, etc. Total Assets Growth 20.6 8.5 5.2 Total 140,728 Labor Cost Unit: KRW 100 million, KRW million/person Environmental Investment Unit: KRW 100 million, RMB million Greenhouse Gas Economic Performance by Business Unit: KRW 100 million 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Scope 1 & Scope 2 Emission Unit: tCO2-eq, tCO2-eq/product ton 2011 2012 2013 Total Annual Payroll 6,772 7,265 9,043 Petrochemicals Korea 377 278 514 2011 2012 2013 Sales 172,654 175,143 175,452 Total Payroll Per Capita 63 62 72 China 99 38 45 Korea Direct emission 4,248,459 4,623,589 4,697,356 Net Income 23,291 14,362 13,320 · Salaries for women and men are equal and awarded without discrimination(salaries of top IT & E Materials management excluded) Indirect emission 1,697,471 1,865,117 2,466,167 Sales 31,417 32,707 30,248 · Total payroll: Excludes welfare benefits and retired DB (direct benefit) or DC (direct comNet Income Subtotal 5,945,916 6,488,689 7,163,510 3,743 4,357 3,789 pensation). This is only for workplaces within Korea (foreign entities excluded) Energy Sales Intensity 0.479 0.496 0.518 22,686 24,780 25,736 Solutions China Direct emission 178,807 130,380 129,836 Net Income 1,175 387 3,230 Raw Materials Unit: ton, ton/product ton Dividends Others Sales 2011 2012 2013 Indirect emission 1,266,136 1,331,655 1,316,737 2011 2012 2013 Net Income Korea Total raw materials used 13,374,592 14,200,330 14,959,766 Subtotal 1,444,943 1,462,036 1,446,573 (21) (3) (2) Net Income During the Term (KRW 100 million) 21.697 15.063 12,706 total Intensity 0.887 0.856 0.761 Sales 226,757 232,630 231,436 Intensity 1.08 1.08 1.08 Primary & Diluted Earnings Per Share (KRW) 29.069 20.318 17,211 Net Income China Total raw materials used 1,662,835 1,736,874 1,523,427 · For Korea, the data before 2013 was modified to abide by the statement rules of the 28,188 19,103 17,430 Dividend Ratio (Par value, %) 80 80 80 government. Intensity 1.02 1.02 0.80 · For China, the data before 2013 was modified due to inventory expansion, and also to Total Dividend (KRW 100 million) 2.945 2.945 2,945 abide by the emissions trading regulation of Tianjin City. · Total amount of raw materials recycled at Korean workplaces in 2013 was 46,627 tons. Sales by Region Unit : % Dividend Payout (%) 13.6 19.6 23.2 Scope 3 Emission Unit : tCO2-eq 2011 2012 2013 Dividend Yield (%) 1.26 1.21 1.34 2011 2012 2013 Korea (Domestic market) 44 43 43 Power for resale 8,592 9,040 8,849 China 43 42 44 Water Unit: m³, m³/product ton The Americas 7 8 7 2011 2012 2013 wastewater treatment 14,731 15,727 16,471 Southeast Asia 6 7 6 Korea Total water used 41,273,364 49,114,397 57,282,786 waste general waste 10,139 9,763 9,726 treatment designated waste 2,140 2,411 3,009 Western Europe 3 4 5 Intensity 3.33 3.75 4.14 Others 13 13 13 China Total water used 5,743,645 5,959,692 6,547,159 Water use 13,703 16,306 19,018 Consolidated Adjustment (16) (17) (19) Intensity 3.53 3.49 3.45 Business trips of employees 1,398 · Only limited to operation sites in Korea · Emissions due to business trips have been calculated systematically since 2013 68 | 69 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Labor-Management Collaboration Social Data Wastewater Unit : m3, m3/product ton, % Hazardous (toxic) Chemicals Unit: ton, ton/product ton LG Chem believes in horizontal relations between labor and management in lieu 2011 2012 2013 of a vertical structure, and promotes collaborative labor-management culture 2011 2012 2013 Employment by Age and Gender Unit: person where employees and the management respect one another on an equal footing. Korea Total amount 11,508,574 12,286,422 12,868,071 Korea Total amount used 1,967,645 2,653,306 3,364,981 2011 2012 2013 Embracing the principles of ‘Customer-Value Creation’ and ‘People-Oriented ManIntensity 0.93 0.94 0.93 Intensity 0.159 0.203 0.243 Male Female Male Female Male Female agement’, LG Chem has established a cooperative labor-management partnership. We aspire to materialize labor-management partnership as one community that Recycled amount 1,504,299 1,069,140 1,748,978 China Total amount used 1,206,921 1,226,999 853,991 Korea 50 or above 1,084 2 1,300 2 1,430 2 helps to build our global competitiveness, enrich the lives of our employees, and Recycling Rate 11.6 8.0 12.7 Intensity 0.741 0.718 0.449 40 49 2,798 26 2,900 33 3,001 45 contribute to social development through sustainable performance. Therefore, we China Total amount 3,324,691 3,505,509 3,708,207 30 39 3,532 413 3,738 483 2,872 684 developed a unique collaboration model that facilitates interactive participation and cooperation in the three different dimensions of corporate management, field Intensity 2.04 2.05 1.95 Under 30 2,387 533 2,724 557 4,022 540 operation, and collective bargaining. Recycled amount 1,332,919 1,441,138 1,387,493 Total 9,801 974 10,662 1,075 11,325 1,271 Recycling Rate 28.6 29.1 27.2 China 50 or above 18 1 21 1 29 1 Labor Union Status Unit: person 40 49 157 20 178 22 205 31 Unit: Person 2011 2012 2013 30 39 779 516 839 543 1,020 726 Water Pollutant Unit: ton, kg/product ton Certification for Environment Management (ISO 14001) Korea 5,137 5,535 5,593 Under 30 2,430 2,358 2,958 2,565 3,118 2,704 2011 2012 2013 Korea Daesan Plant Ochang Plant 1 China (Trade Union) 4,562 5,180 5,817 Total 3,384 2,895 3,996 3,131 4,372 3,462 amount Intensity amount Intensity amount Intensity Gimcheon Plant Gimcheon · LG Chem guarantees employees the right to association and three basic labor rights. Ulsan Plant Plant Gimcheon Plant Korea COD 563 0.045 565 0.043 634 0.046 Naju Plant Paju Plant Employment Creation Unit: person T-N 174 0.014 238 0.018 197 0.014 Yeosu Plant Research Park 2011 2012 2013 Accident Rate & Intensity Ratio China COD 202 0.124 219 0.128 104 0.055 Iksan Plant Male Female Male Female Male Female 2011 2012 2013 NH3-N 28 0.017 13 0.008 8 0.004 China Bohai Nanjing Korea 1,559 163 1,136 167 975 238 Korea Accident rate (%) 0.19 0.34 0.32 Botian Guangzhou China 1,827 2,475 2,171 2,049 2,127 2,250 Intensity ratio 0.05 1.63 0.06 Air Pollutant Unit: ton, kg/product ton Dagu Yongxing China Accident rate (%) 0.50 0.37 0.32 2011 2012 2013 Retirement Status of Korea Unit: person, % Intensity ratio 0.11 0.07 0.02 Beijing Tianjin amount Intensity amount Intensity amount Intensity 2011 2012 2013 · Intensity Ratio= Lost labor days / Total labor hours x 1000 Korea Dust 158 0.013 162 0.012 164 0.012 Retired Male 266 275 312 Employees Nox 974 0.079 1,099 0.084 1,040 0.075 Female 54 66 42 Certification for Safety Management Sox 624 0.050 505 0.039 383 0.028 Total 320 341 354 Korea OHSAS 18001 Daesan Plant Ochang Plant 1 China Dust 75 0.046 85 0.050 130 0.068 Retirement Rate Male 2.71 2.58 2.75 Gimcheon Plant Research Park Nox 15 0.009 18 0.011 34 0.018 Female 5.54 6.14 3.30 Yeosu Plant Sox 57 0.035 54 0.031 6 0.003 Total 2.97 2.91 2.81 KOSHA 18001 Daesan Plant Iksan Plant Naju Plant Ochang Plant 1 Maternity Leave Unit: person Waste by Type Unit: ton, ton/product ton China OHSAS 18001 Bohai Nanjing 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Botian Yongxing Korea 132 146 147 Korea General waste 140,650 122,698 121,626 Dagu China 228 317 170 Designated waste 29,692 30,297 37,635 · In 2013, 63 out of 65 employees who used maternity leave returned to work (Korea). Subtotal 170,342 152,995 159,261 Actions Taken on Breaches Reported Unit: no. of cases, person Social Contribution Cost Unit: KRW 100 million, RMB 10 K Intensity 0.014 0.012 0.012 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 China General waste 13,821 15,416 18,051 Investigation by Ethics Office 50 48 68 Korea 252 245 210 harmful waste 6,184 8,856 9,194 Disciplinary China 195 121 268 Subtotal 20,005 24,272 27,245 Strong 17 6 10 actions taken Intensity 0.012 0.014 0.014 against persons Light 7 6 1 involved ·R  ecycling rate in Korean and Chinese operation sites marked 67% and 66 %, respectively, in 2013. 70 | 71 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Sustainable Management Index GRI G4 General Standard Disclosure Core Option Core Option External External Category Indicators Contents Page Category Indicators Contents Page Verification Verification Strategy Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (CEO, chair, or equivalent senior Report G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 2 78 79 and G4-1 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for 4-5 78 79 Profile Analysis G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 2 78 79 addressing sustainability G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennia) 2 78 79 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4-5 78 79 OranizaG4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 83 78 79 G4-3 Name of the organization 6-7 78 79 tional ‘In accordance’ option the organization has chosen (core vs. Comprehensive) and the GRI Content Index Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products, services 8 -15 78 79 G4-32 for the chosen option, and the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been exter2, 78 79 78 79 G4-5 ation of headquarters 6-7 78 79 nally assured Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operaOrganization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; if not G4-6 6-7 78 79 tions or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report; scope and basis of any external G4-33 assurance provided; the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers; whether the 2 78 79 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 18 -19 78 79 highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organization’s Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and benefisustainability report G4-8 6-7 78 79 ciaries) GoverGovernance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body and G4-34 18 19 78 79 G4-9 Scale of the organization 6-7 78 79 nance any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts Total number of men and women workers by employment type, employment contract, workforce status, Process for highest governance body delegating authority over sustainability management-related tasks G4-10 51 78 79 G4-35 18 19 and region, portion of work by contractors, significant variations in employment numbers to senior executives and other employees In principle, all employWhether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ees are allowed to join 78 79 G4-36 18 19 G4-11 economic, environmental, and social topics the labor union. Process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environG4-12 Organization's supply network 56 59 78 79 G4-37 18 19 mental, and social topics Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, ownership, or supply There was no signifiG4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 18 19 G4-13 78 79 network cant change in 2013. G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 18 19 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle on risks of sustainable management issues is G4-14 24 78 79 addressed by the organization G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its members 18 19 List of externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives G4-41 Processes for the board of directors to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. 18 19 G4-15 80 78 79 to which the organization subscribes or endorses Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report List of memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advoG4-48 26 27 G4-16 80 78 79 and ensures that all material aspects are covered cacy organizations in which the organization G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 24 Identified All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents, G4-17 26 27 78 79 Ethics and Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of material including those not covered in the report G4-56 16 17, 30 35 78 79 Aspects Integrity ethics Processes for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries and how the organization and G4-18 26 27 78 79 implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related BoundarG4-57 16 17, 30 35 78 79 to organizational integrity ies G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the process for Defining Report Content 26 27 78 79 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matG4-58 16 17, 30 35 78 79 G4-20 Aspect boundaries within the organization for each material aspect 26 27 78 79 ters related to organizational integrity G4-21 Aspect boundaries outside the organization for each material aspect 26 27 78 79 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons G4-22 See notes of each data 78 79 for such re-statements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 26 27 78 79 StakeG4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 25 78 79 holder EngageG4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 25 78 79 ment Organization’s approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and G4-26 25 78 79 by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the G4-27 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting and the 25 78 79 stakeholder groups that raised the key topics and concerns 72 | 73 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosure External External Category Aspect Indicators Contents Page Category Aspects Indicators Contents Page Verification Verification Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6 7, 68 Labour Occupational DMA Disclosure on management approach 47 78 79 Performance Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to Practices Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce representing the formal joint management–worker health and safety G4-EC2 42 45 and Decent G4-LA5 46 49 climate change committees that help monitor and advise occupational health and safety programs Market Work Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant Type of injury, rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of G4-EC5 68 G4-LA6 71 78 79 Presence locations of operation work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation 51 G4-LA7 Employees with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 46 49 78 79 Indirect EcoG4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 18 19 G4-LA8 Health and safety issues covered in formal agreements with trade unions 46 49 nomic Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 60 61, 68 Training and DMA Disclosure on management approach 51 78 79 Procurement Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee, by gender and by employee category 50 55 78 79 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 59 Practices Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of Material G4-LA10 50 55 EnvironG4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 68 employees and assist them in managing career endings mental G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 68 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by G4-LA11 50 55 Energy gender and by employee category DMA Disclosure on management approach 43 78 79 Diversity and Equal Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category accordG4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 69 78 79 G4-LA12 51, 71 Opportunity ing to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 69 Equal RemuneraRatio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category and by significant G4-EN5 Energy intensity 69 78 79 tion for Women G4-LA13 68 locations of operation G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 42 45, 69 78 79 and Men G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 42 45, 69 Supplier AssessG4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria 56 59 ment for Labor Significant actual or potential negative impacts on labor practices in the supply chain, and actions Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 69 Practices G4-LA15 56 59 taken thereof No such water G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Human Freedom of AssoOperations and suppliers identified as having violated or having significant risk of violating the right sources in Korea Rights ciation and CollecG4-HR4 to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining, and measures taken to support these 71 Emissions DMA Disclosure on management approach 43 78 79 tive Bargaining rights G4-EN15 Total direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 69 78 79 Child Labor Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk of incidents of child labor, and meaG4-HR5 71 G4-EN16 Total energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 69 78 79 sures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 69 78 79 Forced or CompulOperations and suppliers identified as having significant risk of incidents of forced or compulsory G4-HR6 77 sory labor labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor G4-EN18 GHG emission intensity 69 78 79 Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 56 59 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 69 78 79 Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria 56 59 G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 69 78 79 Rights Assessment Significant actual or potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain, and actions taken Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 69 G4-HR11 56 59 thereof Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 70 Society Local Communities DMA Disclosure on management approach 61 78 79 Products and DMA Disclosure on management approach 37 78 79 Percentage of operations that implement local community engagement, impact assessments, and G4-SO1 60 65 78 79 Services development programs G4-EN27 Extent of mitigation of environmental impacts on products and services 36 40 78 79 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 60 65 All packaging mateG4-EN28 Percentage of product sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed, by category rials are recycled by Anti Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption, and significant G4-SO3 30 35 recycling suppliers -corruption risks identified Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 30 35 Compliance G4-EN29 See business report with environmental laws and regulations Anti-competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices, and See busiG4-SO7 Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments, by type 69 Behavior their outcomes ness report Supplier Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliSee busiG4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 40 41 G4-SO8 Environmental ance with laws and regulations ness report Significant actual or potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain, and actions taken Assessment G4-EN33 40 41 Supplier AssessG4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society 56 59 thereof ment for Impacts Significant actual or potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain, and actions taken Labour Employment G4-LA1 Total numbers and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region 70 G4-SO10 56 59 on Society thereof PracBenefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time tices and G4-LA2 50 55 Grievance Mechaemployees, by significant locations of operation Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Decent nisms for Impacts G4-SO11 60 65 grievance mechanisms Work G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 70 on Society Labor/ManageMinimum notice periods regarding operational changes (also applies to the case it is specified in Product ReCustomer Health Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are Complies with G4-PR1 36 40 78 79 G4-LA4 sponsibility and Safety assessed for improvement ment Relations collective bargaining agreements) national law 74 | 75 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report ISO 26000 (International Guideline on Social Responsibility) EICC(Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition) Core Subject Issue Page Category Page Category Page Organizational Governance Decision-making Process and Structure 6, 22-24, 50-55, 68-71 CB CB1 Customer Designation 8 -13 FL FL7 Wages and Benefits 50 Basic Labor Human Rights CB2 Company Contact Information 3 FL8 Humane Treatment 71 Due Diligence 30 Company ManageInformation CB3 Supplier Company’s Characteristics 6-13, 22 ment and FL9 Non-discrimination 50-51 Human Rights Risk Situation 30 Ethical CL Management Accountability on Conduct FL10 Freedom of Association 71 CL1 22, 30, 82 Avoidance of complicity 59 Supplier Labor & Ethics Company’s FL11 Ethical Business Practices 30-35 Resolving Grievances 31, 49 CL2 Labor/Ethics Policy & Procedure 30, 50, 59 CharacterFacility Labor/Ethics Management istics Labor/Ethics Management System FL12 30-31 Discrimination and Vulnerable Groups 50, 51, 71 CL3 30-35, 50-55, 71, 82 System Status Status Civil and Political Rights 50, 51, 55, 71 Labor/Ethics Management System Labor/Ethics Management System CL4 30-35 FL13 30-35 Elements Elements Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights 50 55, 71 CH – FHManagement Accountability and 46, 47, 70, Refer to FH1 Facility Contact information for HSE 3, 6-13, 22 Health, CH1 Health, Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 50-55, 71 History on HSE business reports 46, 47, 70, Refer to Safety, and HSE Management Accountability and Safety, FH2 EnvironmenCH2 HSE Policy and Procedures 39, 46, 47 History business reports Labor Practices Employment and Employment Relationships 50, 51, 71 and Envital Manageronmental FH3 HSE Policy and Procedures 39, 46, 47 CH3 HSE Management System Status 38-41, 46-49 Conditions of Work and Social Protection 50, 51, 70, 71 ment (HSE) CH4 HSE Management System Elements 38-41, 46-49 ManageFH4 Occupational Safety and Machines 46-48 Social Dialogue 71 men FH5 Emergency Preparedness 46-48 FB Customer Designation, Supplier Health and Safety at Work 46-49 Basic Facility FB1 Facility Contact Information, Supplier 3, 6-13, 22 Occupational Injury ㆍIllness and PhysiInformation Facility Characteristics FH6 46-48 cally Demanding Work Human Development and Training in the Workplace 52-54 FB2 Contract Information on Suppliers 6-13, 22 FH7 Industrial Hygiene 39-41, 46-48 Environment Prevention of Pollution 38 45, 69 70 FB3 FB3 Suppliers’ Characteristics 6-13, 22 FH8 Living Conditions 49, 50 Sustainable Resource Use 42 45, 69 70 FL Facility Contact Information for Labor FL1 3 FH9 Environmental Permits 39-41 Labor and Ethics Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation 42 45, 69 70 ManageFH10 Pollution Prevention 42-45, 69, 70 ment and Management Accountability and 30, 32, 34, Refer to FL2 FH11 Hazardous Substances 46-48, 70 Protection of the Environment, Biodiversity and Restoration of Natural Habitats 65 Ethical History business reports Conduct FH12 Wastewater & Solid Waste 69, 70 Fair Operating Practices Anti-Corruption 30-33, 59 FL3 Labor and Ethics Policy & Procedures 30, 50, 59 FH13 Airborne Emissions 42-45 FL4 Freely Chosen Employment 50 Responsible Political Involvement N/A FH14 Product Content 36-41 FL5 Child Labor Prohibition 71 Fair Competition 34, 35 FH15 Management System Status 39, 46, 47 Compliance with FL6 Working Hours Promoting Social Responsibility in the Value Chain 56-59 legal working hours FH16 Management System Elements 38-41, 46-49 Respect for Property Rights 30 Consumer Issues 10 Principles of UN global Compact Fair Marketing, Factual and Unbiased information, and Fair Contractual Practices 34-36 10 Principles Contents Page Protecting Consumers’ Health and Safety 38-41 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Based on LG Group’s principle of People-oriented Management, LG Chem advocates internationSustainable Consumption 36-41 internationally proclaimed human rights; and ally declared human rights protection norms such as the UN Global Compact. Based on this, we 38, 50 Consumer Service, Support, and Complaint and Dispute Resolution 36, 37 protect labor rights at the company and strengthen the human rights item in the evaluation 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. process of our suppliers, striving to manage and prevent human rights issues. Consumer Data Protection and Privacy N/A 3.Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the LG Chem established a fair HR principle, provides equal opportunities and compensation to its 55 Access to Essential Services 36, 37 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; employees, and complies with international conventions on the prohibition of child labor and 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; forced labor. Education and Awareness 36, 37 5. the effective abolition of child labor; and 38 Community Involvement and Community Involvement 60-65 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Development Education and Culture 60-65 occupation. 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to LG Chem follows GHG emission regulations and joins GHG reduction initiatives at home and Employment Creation and Skill Development 51, 52, 71 environmental challenges; 46, 47, abroad by setting up goals to reduce GHG emission and energy intensity in each operation. In 8. u ndertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 49 Technology Development and Access 14, 15 addition, the company operates the Energy Committee and the Energy Management System, and responsibility; and applies an eco-friendly system to all stages from product development to manufacturing. Wealth and Income Creation 42-45 9. e ncourage the development and diffusion of environmentally 30, 31 friendly technologies. Health 46-49 Since the declaration of Jeong-Do Management in 1995, LG Chem spares no effort to end corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, by introducing the Compliance Program (CP) for fair trade, implementing the Gift/Money Receipt Re35, 36 Social Investment 56-59 including extortion and bribery. porting System, strengthening the code of conduct, and carrying out law-abiding activities by theme. 76 | 77 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of LG Chem ·Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders The Korea Productivity Center was requested by LG Chem Ltd to provide independent assurance on the information presented in LG Chem’s 2013 SustainLG Chem categorizes stakeholders into 9 groups (e.g. shareholders, clients, contractors, and etc.) in order to be compliant with the principle of inclusivity. It ability Report and hereby provides following assurance statements: clearly separates each group’s communication channel and expectation and gathers stakeholders’ opinions through active communication. Especially, the AsResponsibility and Independence surer thinks highly of LG Chem’s effort to strengthen the communication with its contractors by establishing win-win cooperation and participating in win-win The Report is prepared by LG Chem, which entitles a complete responsibility for the information, opinions, and content of the Report. The Assurer’s regrowth committee activity. sponsibility is to provide independent assurance statements on the Report. As an independent assurance provider, the Assurer neither participated in the ·Materiality : Significant Issue Identification and Reporting publication of the Report nor engaged in any conflict or interests that undermine its state of independence. LG Chem organized sustainability management issues into 6 categories and total of 27 issues by using sustainability management international standard such as Verification Standards GRI G4 Guidelines, ISO26000, and EICC, analyzing media research, and researching other chemical companies’ issues. Moreover, the Assurer drew out 10 material The independent assurance was performed in accordance with Type 2 and a moderate level of assurance engagement based on AA1000AS(2008) asissues through the materiality testing that focuses on social interest level and LG Chem’s influential level. These issues are proportionally distributed to each page surance standards. The assurance statement checked suitability of inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness by following AA1000APS(2008) assurance of the Report. principles. Moreover, it checked whether the information on the Report is compliant to GRI G4 Guideline standards. ·Responsiveness : Response to Issues Limitations LG Chem comprehended expectations that can affect stakeholders’ performance, took responsive actions accordingly, and appropriately depicted the informaThe Assurer conducted an assurance engagement on LG Chem’s 2013 performance by following the above assurance standards. We verified the reliability tion into the Report. It uses the Report to publicly disclose its responsive activities and performance regarding sustainability management material issues. Parof LG Chem’s performance on the Report in following manners: financial data was verified by the financial statement and disclosed documents audited ticularly, establishment of CSR team, recognition of sustainability management as part of its valuable task, and creation of a separate department for sustainability by the auditing agency and environmental and social performance data was verified by applying Type 2 and a moderate level of assurance engagement. management are highly applauded. Furthermore, on-site inspection was limited to Seoul headquarter and if further assurance process is performed, the result may change accordingly. Recommendation Methodology The Assurer highly values LG Chem’s diverse efforts and performance to improve its sustainability and we suggest the following to improve sustainability The following method was used to provide the assurance about the Report reporting and condition. ·Verified whether requirements from the core option on GRI G4 Guidelines were fulfilled ·Verified consistency with the principles dictating the content and quality of sustainability reports based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. ·Establishment of sustainability management strategy system is needed in order to systematically promote sustainability management. Henceforth, based on ·Verified objectivity and appropriateness of key issues selected and content in the Report by reviewing media research and performing benchmark analysis. sustainability management strategy system, its promotion tasks and KPI should be drawn out. By continuously managing this process, LG Chem’s sustainability ·Verified the suitability of the information and expression error through comparison analysis with other publication management activity and performance can be depicted with more details in the report. ·Verified the evidence of data and information through on-site inspection on Seoul headquarter and internal process and system. · This report covers 8 production centers in Korea and China. We suggest LG Chem, as a global company, to expand the coverage of the Report to enhance susFindings & Conclusion tainability management activities and performance of the entire foreign production centers. The Assurer verified that the Report accurately and fairly illustrates LG Chem’s sustainability management activity and performance. Moreover, through the assurance, the Assurer verified that LG Chem’s Report fulfilled the requirements of GRI G4 Guideline’s Core Option. ·S takeholders participate as LG Chem gathers their opinions through survey and interviews within the company. There is a need to strengthen activities that can In case of General Standard Disclosures, the Assurer verified that the Report is written in compliance with the requirements of Core Option. For Specific gather stakeholders’ direct opinions and verify their expectations. Other than interviews with the board of directors, different communication channels, such as Standard Disclosures, the Assurer reviewed Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) and indicators about material issues by using the reporting interviews with experts outside of company or representatives of other groups of stakeholders and committee meetings, are necessary. criteria process below. Material Issues DMA & Indicators Ethical Management G4-56, G4-57, G4-58 April, 2013 Customer Value DMA-Products and Services, G4-EN27, G4-PR1 Korea Productivity Center DMA-Energy, G4-EN3, G4-EN5, G4-EN6 Energy & Climate Changes CEO Jin, Hong DMAEmissions, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, G4-EN21 Kim, Dong-Soo Park, Tae-Ho Lee, Ki-Hwan Jung, Ae-Jin Safety Environment and Health DMA-Occupational Health and Safety, G4-LA6, G4-LA7 Head of Center Team Leader Team Leader Researcher Human Resource Development DMA-Training and Education, G4-LA9 Shared Growth with Suppliers N/A The Sustainability Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency officially certified by AccountAbility [organization established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder participation and verification] and is qualified to independence assurance engagements. Our Assurance Committee is comprised of competent experts who have Social Commitment DMA-Local Communities, G4-SO1 in-depth experience in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have completed the relevant training. ·AA1000AS(2008) : AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating the organization management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information· ·AA1000APS(2008) : AA1000 AccountAbility Principles Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides principles of AA1000 standards 78 | 79 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report Membership of Organizations and Associations Glossary CSR Industry Term Contents Page UN Global Compact Network Korea Korea Petrochemical Industry Association 3D FPR(Film Patterned Retarder) A space-division method for 3D that delivers images using a patterned retarder film placed on the screen and viewed with 10 3D glasses Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development (KBSCD) Korea Chemicals Management Association ABS Thermoplastic resins formed from three types of monomers-Acrylonitrile, Butadiene, and Styrene 8 Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD) of KCCI Korea Chemical Industry Council of KCCI BAU(Business As Usual) Estimate of carbon emission if a company does not take special action (low carbon and green growth, etc.) 42 Climate Forum of National Assembly International Institute of Synthetic Rubber Producers (IISRP) Green Company Council Korea Vinyl Environmental Council COD(Chemical Oxygen Demand) Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) : In environmental chemistry, the chemical oxygen demand (COD) test is commonly 70 used to indirectly measure the amount of organic compounds in water Korea Fire Safety Association Korea Information Display Society (KIDS) EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship A coalition of the world’s leading electronics companies working together to improve CSR, requiring them to comply with Korea Environmental Management Association Korea Specialty Chemical Industry Association 26 Coalition) CSR guidelines in the global supply chain. LG Chem also follows EICC guidelines, and covers them in page 60. Korea Mecenat Association Korean Society of Automotive Engineers EnMS(Energy Management System) EnMS (Energy Management System): An internationally standardized system for the company to continue managing 43 energy efficiency and thereby reduce costs at the company level Fair Competition Federation Korea Smart Grid Association ERP(Enterprise Resource Planning) A total information system, designed to ensure the efficient management of all human and physical resources in the enter40 prise used for business activities, with an aim to reinforce business competitiveness ESS(Energy Storage System) Energy Storage System: Energy storage to save excess power generated by power plants and then to transmit the power 15 Awards Received later GEMS(Greenhouse gas and Energy A GHG and energy management system to analyze and manage climate change-related risks 44 Management System) GHS(Globally Harmonized System) Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labelling of Chemicals (GHS): A worldwide initiative to promote standard • Green Car Awards: Green Technology Awards from Ministry of Knowledge and Economy 40 criteria for classifying chemicals • 47th National Taxpayers Day : Achievement of KRW 400 Billion of National Tax GRI G4 The latest guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in May 2013 on the Sustainable Management 26 • International Conference for Large and Small Business Cooperation: Excellent Partner Award for Shared Growth Report. In its Sustainability Report, LG Chem followed the GRI G4 Guidelines, covered in page 58. • Good Corporation Award organized by Citizens’ Coalition for Economic Justice: Best Company for Metal, Non-metal, Chemical Industries ISO17025 Globally recognized standards developed by ISO specifically for testing and calibration labs that intend to seek accreditation. 41 • DJSI Asia Pacific & DJSI Korea Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI): DJSI Asia Pacific & DJSI Korea ISO26000 Guidelines on CSR for institutions, including corporations, established by the ISO 26 • Hankyoreh Economic Research Institute’s East Asia 30: Excellent Company for East Asia 30 KOLAS (Korea Laboratory AccreditaKorea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme: A governmental administrative office established by Korean Agency for Technoltion Scheme) 41 • Global Standard Management Awards: Best Manufacturer for Sustainable Management Report ogy and Standards of the Ministry of Knowledge Economy • Chosun Daily Advertisement Awards : Best PR for Chemistry Industry LCA(Life-cycle Assessment) A technique for assessing the environmental performance of a product by quantifying the amount of energy and materials 43 consumed and emitted from the lifecycle of the product to evaluate their impact on the environment • 35th Energy Saving Contest : Silver Tower Order of Industrial Service Merit MSDS(Material Safety Data Sheet) MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) : A document that contains information on how to work safely with chemical materials, • Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Awards : Sector Leader for Raw Materials including descriptions on the name of the chemical material, their physical chemical properties, hazards, risks, emergency 39 procedures in the case of explosion or fire, and their environmental impacts NCC(Naptha Cracking Center) The Naphtha Cracking Center is the plant with facilities for pyrolyzing naphtha to produce petrochemical feedstock like 8 ethylene and propylene NH3-N(Ammonia Nitrogen) NH3-N (Ammonia Nitrogen): One of the indicators to measure the level of water pollution 70 NOx(Nitrogen oxides) NOx (Nitrogen oxides): The primary air pollutant produced mostly by the direct combination of atmospheric oxygen and 70 nitrogen oxidized in the combustion process REACH(Registration, Evaluation, A European Union (EU) regulation on all chemicals of which 1 ton or more are produced or imported per year, that requires Authorization and Restriction of the registration, evaluation, authorization, and restriction of chemicals depending on their production and import volumes 40 Chemicals) and risks to human health and the environment SAP(Super Absorbent Polymer) Super Absorbent Polymer: Polymers that can absorb and retain several hundred times the amount of liquid as their own 9 mass Sox(Sulfur oxides) Sulfur oxides: A gas primarily emitted from fossil fuel combustion such as coal and oil that holds sulfur and causes acid rain 70 Stack & Folding LG Chem's patented battery technology that aligns and stacks Bi-Cells made with severed parts of anode materials, cathode 12 materials, and separators according to product design Stepped Battery Layers of batteries consisting of different sized Bi-Cells to maximize the inner space of smart devices 37 T-N(Total Nitrogen) An indicator of water pollution that refers to the sum of organic and inorganic nitrogen compounds 70 TVOC Total volatile organic compounds: Hydrocarbons volatilized into air and causing strong odor or ozone 41 80 | 81 2013 LG Chem Sustainability Report MAterial Issues Ethical Management Customer Value Energy and Climate Change Safety·Environment and Health Human Resources Development Participant Information Shared Growth with Suppliers Social Commitment Korea China CSR Team LGCCI. Staff Division. Business Coordination Dept. Business Planning Team Planning Team. Petrochemicals LGCCI. Staff Division. Business Coordination Dept. HR Team Strategic Planning Team. IT&E Materials LGCCI. Staff Division. Business Coordination Dept. HR Development Team Strategic Planning Team. Energy Solution LGCE BJ. Facility & Environment Team Credit Management/Compliance Team LGCC TJ. Operating Management Team Planning & Coordination Team LG BOHAI. Factory. Environment Team IR Team LG BOTIAN. Production Team Strategic Planning Team. Research Park LG DAGU. Management Dept. HR & GA Team Ethics Office LGCE NJ. HR & GA Dept. Safety & Environment Team Public Affairs Team LGYX. Administration Team Safety & Environment Team LGCC GZ. Quality Mangement & Innovation Team Energy/Climate Change Team HR Planning Team Talent Recruiting Team HR Development Team Corporate Culture Team Global HR Team Inquiry on Sustainability Report LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Designed by_intoGraphic 02-583-768 8 HR Service Team LG Chem Ltd. CSR Team Employee Relations Team Tel 02-3773-0705 Fax 02-3773-7933 Procurement Strategy Team. Petrochemicals E-mail csrteam@lgchem.com 82 | 83 C111531 This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Counciltm) certified paper with soy ink. LG Twin Towers, 128, Yeoui-daero, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel 02-3773-0705 Fax 02-3773-7933 E-mail csrteam@lgchem.com
