RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD Planet People Community 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community NEWS 2013 4 LETTER FROM THE PRESIDENT 10 LANDMARKS 2013 12 ABOUT SEUR 16 Our company 17 70 Years delivering 18 INDE SEUR in figures 20 Management structure 24 Mission and Values 26 Products and services 27 National 27 International 29 e-commerce 30 X Logistics Close to customers 31 32 RESPONSIBILITY 35 SEUR commitment 36 Close to stakeholders 40 Recognition 43 PLANET 44 Emissions Reduction and Control 45 Sustainable Mobility 47 Responsibility and balance regarding natural resources 52 A “Responsible” proposal 56 PEOPLE 60 The biggest asset 61 Training commitment 66 Commitment to a healthy working life 69 The best talent at the service of the customer 71 COMMUNITY 73 Open to society 74 Solidarity Logistics 76 Promoting SEUR values 77 PARAMETERS OF THE REPORT 79 2 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 3 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Find out about the main iniciatives we developed throughout 2013 We are members of GeoPost expanded SERES Foundation ”Total Zero” to 17 countries 4th CSR Report and SEUR Foundation Report: “Our more responsible delivery” NEW S2 “Efficiency Logistics and CSR” Professional Logistics Award We have strengthened our CSR brand with the ”r-logos” Members of the European FREVUE Project We have launched SEUR Predict 3 01 We have increased First company in the sector to ecological fleet receive the PEFC RER certification Best Business Practices EWWR European Awards 2013 Award in eco efficiency, KPMGThe (European Week for Waste Confidential Reduction) We have launched our eco-packagings We support for entrepreneurs Social Enterprise Award for “Caps for a new life” initiative Membership of the Business Commitment for Clean Sport Plan Membership of the SEUR is listed as one of the most “Business Equality Group” attractive logistics company to work for SEUR is ranked as one of the 100 best to work for in Actualidad Económica www.r r.es 4 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 5 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community MOVING YOU CLOSER TO A MORE EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE Responsibility MOVING YOU CLOSER TO A MORE EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE Planet Our commitment Reduction and control of Carbon footprint As a benchmark company in the express delivery market in Spain and At SEUR our commitment to sustainability forms an integralo part in all SEUR’s commitment to Innovation, Sustainable Mobility and the responsible use of natural resources, makes it the “most responsible offer” available on Portugal, with a history spanning over 70 years, SEUR has consolidate areas of our business and is increasingly present in the services offered, the market. its position as leader in the B2C market, due to its commitment to value/ helping us move towards a better future for all with the help of our clients. added logistic and international presence in 230 countries thanks to its SEUR is able to further enhance the ultimate goal of its commitment by • Wide range of ecological vehicles operating in 11 cities partner GeoPost. continuing to grow sustainability and responsibly with the PEOPLE, o • The most ecological land based service: by way of our “Total Zero” service, shipments are CO2-neutral at no extra cost to the customer PLANET e a SOCIETY it belongs to. • Members of the European FREVUE Project supported by the European Commission for the use of electric vehicles in the distribution process • Eco-Packaging: designed with ecological criteria Continued commitment by SEUR to increase the effectiveness of delivery, offering the best customer service possible: Caring for people and our planet is as urgent as our shipments 98,4% compliance 95,6% client retention Over 20% market level index share 98% MOVING YOU CLOSER TO A MORE EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE People service fulfilment SEUR Predict: increasing “Delivery Store”, Service with over Advance notice of delivery via SEUR nearest Store Locator successful delivery rates and 1,000 delivery points interactive e-mail/SMS with 1,178,572 visits in 2013 putting customers in charge of their own time Our best asset Results 2013 At SEUR, people are its greatest asset. Therefore, it recruits and retains talent by implementing multiple policies to: • Ensure equal opportunities at all levels. Tons of C02 Tons of C02 /2/package Over 140.000 tons of CO2 17,25% el 31,30% Waste: Energy consumption • To promote a good work, personal and family balance. emitted due transported: offset by the “Total Zero” da reduction in paper increase in the 0,16% €/parcel -7,09% kWh to transport: -9,24% GeoPost program consumption per package responsible paper use • Invest in professional development, improving capabilities and motivation. -1,26% transported • Ensure a safe and healthy working environment. • Improve the pride of ownership and involvement in company goals. The commitment to training, having the best team and being the best the customer can get, has led to the launch of the “SEUR Sales School“ via one of the leading business schools (ESIC Business & Marketing School), with more than 1400 students, representing an investment in training in 2013 of more than 450,000 €. EWWR European Awards 2013 (European Week for Waste Reduction) Accomplishments Resultados 2013 “Efficiency Logistics and CSR” Professional Logistics Award SEUR is ranked as one of the 100 best companies to work for in 93,5% of employees on permanent contracts “Best Business Practices” Award in eco efficiency KPMG-The Confidential Actualidad Economica. First company in the sector to receive the PEFC RER certificatation BONUS Distinction 2010 for its commitment to the health and welfare Over 90,000 hours of training of their employees 100 best ideas Award from Actualidad Económica for introducing electric motorcycles in the fleet Investment in training: 467.937,83 € SEUR named as a “Superbrand” in the third edition of the Finalist in the EnerTIC Awards 2012 Superbrands Awards in Spain Equality in the workplace: Women 40.90, Male 59.10% Adhesión al Grupo Membership of the “Business Equality Group“ 35 aid plans available to workers and their families: 45.103 € 6 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 7 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community MOVING YOU CLOSER TO A MORE EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE Community MOVING YOU CLOSER TO A MORE EFFICIENT AND SUSTAINABLE Abertos à sociedade One of the pillars of CSR policy is SEUR ‘s commitment to society. And promotes the values of SEUR through sports and cultural sponsorship, and support for entrepreneurs: SEUR Logistics is committed to solidarity through volunteering and the SEUR Foundation, with campaigns such as: • www.teloenvioporseur.com blog as a platform for the exchange of innovative ideas and experiences of experts in the field. Y PEOPLE • “Caps for a new life” • Launch of the competition “Challenge SEUR e-mprende” LIT PL BI • “Bikes for Life” • Membership of the Business Commitment for Clean Sport Plan • Food donation campaigns A AN NS E O T RE SP UNITY RESPON MM S A CO B I Results 2013 L Y IT Over 1.156.250.000 Over 2.300 tons of More than 3.400 tons Mais de 550.000 More than 13.000.000 Social Enterprise Award recycled caps plastic reduction in CO2 € entregues aos paid to beneficiaries for the “Caps for a E beneficiários new life” OPL PE 8 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 9 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Letter from the president In a complex scenario, with a Spanish business activity rate that is still in negative figures, SEUR consolidated its from the president at all shipments originating or delivered in 17 European countries, performed through the GeoPost leadership position in the market during 2013, and closed with a business figure greater than the previous year. The Network, to be CO2 neutral; i.e.: 100% of the emissions generated are offset. This ground-breaking initiative, positions decided support for the most dynamic sectors of the economy – such as e-commerce or international trade – has been the SEUR international service as the most ecologic in the market, at no additional cost to customers. key to improving our results. We execute our business following a sustainable and responsible model, seeking the improvement of economic performance, protection of the environment and benefiting society. We are committed to our professionals. We invest in their training and professional growth and in designing healthy work environments in which they can develop their activities in an optimized and risk free manner. The success This is our 5th Corporate Social Responsibility Report defining the basic lines of the commitment we maintain towards of our activities depends on the talent of everybody working at SEUR. We are in the ranking of the 100 best companies our stakeholders, in-line with our adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact. This commitment is based to work for, produced by the magazine ActualidadEconómica, and we are the best logistics company to work for on the strategic definition of Social Responsibility within the company and involves including sustainability in the according to the annual RandstadEmployer Branding report. In addition, we work with Fundación Woman’s Week – management model, as per the three pillars of our policy: the Planet, People and Society. platform focusing on gender equality. A basic principle promoted by SEUR through initiatives such as adhesion to the workgroup “Companies committed to Equality”. This business vision is part of our corporate culture, our operational DNA, which implies each and every one of our professionals. Dedicating the necessary efforts to achieve these objectives of sustainability and commitment towards We strive to generate a positive and responsible impact in all our actions. And we can state with satisfaction that our stakeholders is so closely knit to our way of management as it is to technology, operational or attracting and society recognizes and manifests it in the multiple rewards and distinctions that our social and business initiatives retaining the best talent. receive. The “Bottle tops for a new life” campaign from SEUR Foundation was given the Social Company Award. The introduction of electric motorbikes in our fleet received the Actualidad Economica Award to the 100 Best We are fully committed to generating value – especially for our customers – and this commitment is tied to innovation. Ideas in 2013 and our SEUR Predict solution was given the “Best Business Practices” Award by El Confidencial-KPMG In 2013 we invested over eight million Euros in driving new technologies, processes and solutions. We innovate in our in the eco-efficiency category. areas of strategic interest, such as e-commerce, with differentiating services for our customers that obtain in this way the necessary tools to drive their business generating wealth and jobs. SEUR is a reference in urgent goods shipping and we are becoming leaders in sustainability and responsibility in our business. We will continue to drive a model of sustainable and responsible business, seeking to improve We transported in 2013 over 75 million packages, with an average of 300,000 packages per day and peaking at above business performance, protect the environment and benefit society. For many years, we have been adding to our half a million during the most intense months. This all represented a total of 55 million shipments, with a growth of 8% corporate culture everything that represents respect for the environment and responsible actions. And thanks to this, compared to the previous year. We mean maximum activity and, therefore, it is obvious that we have a considerable we have gained expert knowledge that we make use of to improve and share with society. Above all, in a year such as impact on the environment. 2014 in which we celebrate the 10th Anniversary of our Foundation, and which is the climax to intense activities aimed at growing in a sustainable way with People, the Planet and Society that we are a part of. At SEUR we are committed to responsible and sustainable mobility. We go to great lengths to design and implement all kinds of solutions to minimize the environmental impact of our activity. We pioneer sustainable initiatives that change how we act in the urgent goods shipping market. One of our priorities is reducing CO2 emissions. We have a Sustainable Development Dashboard in place since 2006 and one of its objectives is to control polluting emissions of our vehicles. We work on three operational lines. One of them is the use of alternative vehicles and fuels. The SEUR eco-fleet is already operational in eleven provinces with vehiclespowered by electricity and by alternative fuels that are more ecologic such as natural gas and LPG. Together with another three major companies dedicated to distribution, we are members of the FREVUE Project supported by the European Commission, with a pilot experience in Madrid to distribute goods using electrical vehicles. Another line of action is the optimization of journeys. It is not only a matter of avoiding unnecessary journeys, but to offer alternative options for customers in terms of delivery and collection of their shipments. And we have over one thousand points to do so at SEUR. Technologies help us to design solutions to reduce these unnecessary journeys as much as possible and therefore generated contamination. Simply with the launch of SEUR Predict, which informs final addressees of the estimate 2 hour delivery window, we will help to reduce CO2 emissions by 4%. Yves Delmas SEUR Charmain Finally, the third line of action focuses on the development of initiatives to raise awareness on the importance of sustainable mobility, and also promote knowledge of how, individually we can contribute to reduce CO2 emissions and improve air quality. One of our most successful initiatives in this field is the “Total Zero” programme, aimed Letter 10 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 11 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community LANDMARKS 2013 Company estones Company mil LAND SEUR is one of the most important and consolidated brands in Spain. Its M value as brand is such that it has become generic to our country, where 9 of 10 Spanish people mention SEUR when being asked to mention an urgent shipping company. The Top of Mind of SEUR, dreamt by any brand 2013 KS Expansion of GeoPost to 65% of shareholders in consolidating the integration process of the European partner. The operation represents even greater integration in one of the most important international transportation network in the world, participating in the European leadership of the B2C market and AR accompanying customers with international logistics solutions, especially in the European environment. This alliance is reinforced by convergence and total symphony of corporate values that prioritized technology innovation and differentiation in the market by quality of service. 10th Anniversary of SEUR Foundation SEUR Foundation, celebrating this year its 10th Anniversary, was born in 2004 to agglutinate all actions developed to improve the conditions of societies that SEUR is a part of. Since then, it has become a reference in solidary logistics, promoting commitment of aid to the most needed, and specifically for children. A Superbrands, for the fourth year running since 2009. www.r r.es 12 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 13 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Business milestones Sales school, SEUR created its Sales School two years ago in order to develop its human capital. In 2013, SEUR Management consolidated the project by obtaining the Everyday the SEUR transport network SEUR telegrama: thanks to this service first official certificate that differentiates the moves over 300.000 packages, customers can send messages with complete A reference in e-commerce with best sales professionals in the transportation peaking at 500,000 in some legal guarantee from any location with access e-solutions, a 22% increase reaching industry and certifies all students completing the campaigns such as Christmas. to Internet without having to go to a post 100 million Euros in revenue. Present ambitious SEUR Sales Development Programme office, reducing travelling, and resulting in in the leading trade shows (eShow, (PDC SEUR) thanks to an agreement with ESIC greater commitment towards the environment. expOME) in Barcelona, Madrid and Business and Marketing School. Lisbon. SEUR Frío: with the re-launch of this service, SEUR A GeoPost is number one in Regarding our presence in Social Networks, the Development of the offers shipments at a controlled temperature from France and ranks second in blog teloenvioporseur exceeded 62,000 unique international business, collection to delivery at destination, evidencing its Europe in the transport and users, with over 10,000 fans on Facebook and with 8% increase, constant commitment to innovation. It has invested package delivery market. It 4,100 in Twitter. supported by DPD, the 2 million Euros in infrastructure and procedures to delivered a total of 814 million first ground network at a guarantee maximum quality for this. shipments worldwide in 2013. European level. Responsibility milestones We participated in the We launched SEUR Predict, which helps to We increased our European FREVUE We launched our We published our 4th We joined forces with We reinforced our Award for Logistics eco-friendly fleet Project, for urban freight Eco-packages reduce CO2 emissions by CSR Report and SEUR Fundación SERES visual identity with Efficacy and shipping using electric more than 4% Foundation Report, “Our (Fundación Sociedady r-logos CSR, Professional Empresa RESponsable) vehicles. most responsible delivery” Logistics. GeoPost extended “Total Zero” to 17 countries. KPMG El Confidencial We adhered to SEUR received the Social SEUR, first company in Recognized as one of Recognized as the the workgroup Award on “Best Company Award for its the industry to receive the 100 top best company in “Companies Business Practices in the “Bottle tops for a new the RER recognition companies to work Spain to work for, committed to equality” and play ecoefficiency category. life” project certificate granted by Winners of the European for in the ranking (Randstad Employer an active part in its “Catalogue PEFC EWWR 2013 Award from produced by Branding) of Good Practices, companies 12,600 initiatives in 23 Actualidad Económica committed to equality” countries. 14 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 15 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR Our company SEUR, the top transporte urgente e logística em Espanha e Portugal, has been caring for shipments since 1942, when it carried out the first one between Madrid and Barcelona, creating a new concept in urgent goods shipping. ABOU Since then, the company has become a reference thanks to its care and innovation strategy in the development T of new services and advanced technology solutions, aimed at offering customers a broad range of quality custom solutions that are effective. SEUR provides all its experience to guarantee the best service. It has a team of over 6,300 professionals, working for the almost 1,200,000 customers that fully trust SEUR when shipping goods. UR Today, SEUR operates in over 230 countries through the international network of its strategic partner GeoPost SE and continues to face challenges and promoting projects that eliminate barriers for the shipments of its customers. 1,200,000 customers fully trust SEUR www.r r.es 16 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 17 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR 70 years delivering The birth of SEUR represented the origins of urgent transportation as a new business sector in delivery from Madrid to Barcelona. The idea was simple and ingenious for the time: Transport packages or Spain. An activity that transformed how logistics and goods shipping were managed and made a considerable documents door to door, with a customized service. contribution to companies for their own business development. For many companies, the birth of SEUR was a complete revolution because it meant they could focus their activities in one location, removing the need for Almost personal. One idea that was put into practice during difficult years after the war and gradually grew regional branches and warehouses that accumulated goods. The possibility of moving any part of spare within 24 through trustful people that extended the model to their respective areas, thanks to their entrepreneurial skills, hours throughout Spain redistributed the business activities in Spain and rationalized its costs. much imagination and enormous effort; encompassing each one of the families involved in the project. This history of entrepreneurship and innovation was documented in 2012 in a volume that contains moving human tales and emerges as an inspiration of modern companies and the youngest entrepreneur generations. The text describes the origin of the company in 1942, when its founder, Justo Yúfera, made the first urgent 2010 2013 • New claim, “Where do you want to • SEUR launched SEUR Predict, a go?”. revolutionary solution, pioneer in • SEUR joined forces with Punto Pack Spain that improves competitiveness to create the biggest network of of the customer – company relation 1942 2000 delivery points in the country. and purchasing experience, as it • SEUR became a shareholder of informs addressees of the delivery SEUR offered the first urgent The 70s The 90s Commitment was made towards B2C Logalty 2011. time of their shipment within a transport service between • Agreement with Logalty for the 2 hour window; this significantly Madrid and Barcelona This new form of making urgent deliveries, physical delivery of documentation reduces failed deliveries and favours by road, was based on networks of The concept of “urgent 2004 designed by the founder shipment” was extended with with electronic proof. SEUR Burofax customers being the owner of their Justo Yúfera. It was the SEUR warehouses and organized transport and SEUR Telegram were born. time services such as SEUR 8:30 and • SEUR Foundation was created. 24h service. routes designed to optimize times. the launch of SEUR 13:30. • GeoPost (strategic partner) joined the • Launch of the sales channel shareholder structure www.seur.com Early days The 70s The 80s The 90s XXI Century The 80s 2006 2012 2014 2007 The 60s SEUR experienced its definitive CSR and its commitment • 70th anniversary and 10th Anniversary of SEUR Foundation rollout and started to operate at to Sustainable Mobility was consolidated the integration • Consolidation of the company. Renewal of the visual identity of SEUR, promoting an international level, in Europe articulated process of the European its main attributes: customer focus, quality of and USA. partner, which in September • SEUR extended its service to the Spanish service, innovation and efficiency. became a majority cities with greatest business activity shareholder. (Bilbao, Valencia, Seville and Zaragoza). • Opening of the SEUR Sales 2009 School, with over 1,400 students. • New brand positioning. SEUR is recognized as • Launch of new “TuMandas” one of the Superbrands. rates, adapted for all • SEUR obtained the EFQM +500 seal customers 18 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 19 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR SEUR figures strategic axis: Income increase in SEUR, a reference in the industry Internacional • 95 million Euros in 2013. 8% growth compared to 2012 • International turnover represents 18% of global revenue 2013 revenue: 54 million shipments per 22% market 81 branches and 9 537 million year, 8% growth compared share transfer platforms e-commerce euros to 2012. 75 million packages • 100 million Euros, 22% increase compared to 2012 shipped in 2013. • E-commerce turnover represents 19% of total • Leader in B2C market, with over 30% market share. • One of every 3 e-commerce packages in Spain is delivered by SEUR 256 points of sale and Headcount of 6,300 Over 3,500 Total customers: over 1,000 SEUR employees and vehicles 1,200,000 proximity stores collaborators Logistics • 24 million Euros, maintenance compared to 2012 • Represents 4.5% of global turnover Customer retention: 98,4% em Customer satisfaction Operating 95.6% cumprimento do index greater than 90% capacity in 230 serviço excellence levels countries More than 90,000 8 million euro hours of training. investment in Commitment to talent infrastructure, operational solutions and technology in 2013 20 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 21 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community GeoPost figures Recognized by Superbrands as a brand of excellence, SEUR bases its development in a quality service portfolio adapted to different sectors, while always innovating and currently complemented by three strategic axis: international, e-commerce and value added logistics. Over 14,000 interviews answered, establishing that 80% of interviewed parties would recommend SEUR to their friends and family members (satisfaction levels between 7 and 10 in a scale out of 10) “We focus each day our efforts on building a brand that transmits the best guarantees in all senses. We seek excellence in search of the highest quality, through commitment, trust and safety”. 4,391 million euros The second operator in 814 million shipments Over 20,000 invoiced per year Europe with brands such as in 2013 employees its international partner DPD, and national brands such as Chronopost, Interlink, etc. More than 830 Over 26,000 vehicles 310,000 customers logistics centres and warehouses 22 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 23 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR Management structure The following figure shows the managerial structure of SEUR: SEUR, S.A., its affiliate companies and the branch network, are governed by the highest supervision and decision making body, the Board of Directors of SEUR, S.A., while the management is performed by the management and Yves Delmas executive bodies of the Company and by the social bodies of each one of the branches and affiliate companies. Chairman The Chairman and Executive Officer exercise an executive function. The members of the Board and shareholders Benjamín Calzón meet once a year in the General Shareholder Meeting for the approval of the Annual Financial Statements, Gen. Manager SEUR GeoPost formulated by the Board, which are audited. Alberto Navarro In 2013, GeoPost increased its investment in the capital of SEUR, S.A. up to 62%. This shareholder increase Chief Executive Officer reinforces the commitment of GeoPost in the company and does not modify the strategy of SEUR, which is consolidated and strengthened. It also encourages the bringing and developing business opportunities from the hand of a powerful partner, with a robust financial situation and that has managed to consolidate its leadership in European markets, despite a highly complex economic climate. Carmen Queipo de Llano Carlos Sanza Brand and Communication Legal o v e rn a n c e b odies are: The current g • Chairman: Yves Delmas • Executive committee: Ángel Arenal David Sastre J.Carlos Moro Pedro Gallego STRATEGIC Hilario Peñas Adela Ortega TRANSFORMATION • CEO: Alberto Navarro D. Yves Delmas INTERNATIONAL SALES SAC OPERATIONS PLANNING AND TECHNOLOGY COORDINATION D. Alberto Navarro • Vice Chairman for Institutional Relations: D. Julián Recuenco Fernando Rodríguez Sousa D. Alberto Puente • Administrator of Logistics Business Units: Julián D. Roberto Abarca (invitado permanente) Mikel Iriberri Rafael Cabo Eric Lebeau Antonio Mtnez Recuenco • Audit and Compliance Committee: DEVELOPMENT FRANCHISE FINANCE AND HUMAN Carlos Cavero LOGISTICS SUPPORT ADMIN RESOURCES • Board of Directors: Dª. Teresa Debelius D. Yves Delmas D. Ramón Mayo D. Alberto Navarro D. Alberto Navarro D. Julián Recuenco D. Ramón Mayo Dª. Teresa Debelius D. Alberto Puente D. Javier Velayos D. Pedro Lozano D. Eric Lebeau 24 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 25 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR ABOUT SEUR Mission and Values Products and services SEUR goes for quality, innovation and commitment to maintain its proximity to customers. The goal is to provide National solutions to their needs, adapting to changes and defining this attitude in our MISSION: Door to door transport services: “To be the leading and comprehensive solution for urgent transportation requirements, both national and international, guaranteed for all types of customers”. Premium: For this, SEUR shares a series of values that accurately reflect its actions and behaviour. Door to door services that guarantee next day delivery before a given time. • Customer focus • Innovation and continuous • To provide the service of a improvement multi-specialist company • Involvement and initiative in lues Professional va • Product and service quality all projects • Respect • Integrity • Responsibility Ethical values • Commitment • Ethics Code • Good use of facilities. SEUR • Comply with legislation equipment and image • Transparency • Honesty in commercial les Ethical princip • Respect and non relations discrimination • Safety and Health • Confidentiality Standard: • Human Rights and Society • Environment Door to door service that allows performing any shipment within the Iberian Peninsula, delivered the next working day. With the approval of the SEUR Ethics Code in 2011 – which includes a Crime Prevention System and the creation of an Ethics Committee–, SEUR has consolidated its advance towards good governance. Always through a management model based on the principles of ethics and transparency and applicable to both activities and decisions that are made, as well as the relations with different stakeholders. 26 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 27 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community International services: C omplementary Being part of the one of the leading global operators such as GeoPost opens the doors to reaching over 230 countries, which makes SEUR the fundamental ally for all Spanish companies wishing to increase their international presence. These range from Refund, Change, Delivery Acknowledgement and execution of procedures with the Public Sector. Thanks to a strategic alliance with GeoPost and other international logistics operators, SEUR has the capacity to offer cover worldwide. A cheap and highly reliable The perfect service for A service for urgent service for all shipments to large volume shipments in shipments Europe Europe s: Legal service Less urgent international We transport your shipments heaviest goods Together with Logalty, company specialized in service provision of generation and custody of electronic evidence. 8% growth Documents with certified Certification with full Legal notification Guarantee compared to 2012 28 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 29 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community e-commerce Logistics SEUR undertook a firm commitment to on-line business, developing a comprehensive, modular and flexible SEUR provides added value to its urgent shipping portfolio thanks to a comprehensive service that fulfils solution, capable of adapting to the needs of any industry and type of customer. Companies such as Amazon, additional requirements of its customers in any link of the logistics chain. Expansion and suitability of facilities, ASOS, Privalia and Mango are only a small example of customers that already trust our solution. investment in advanced technology and specialization in promotional and product logistics, results in having important customers such as BBVA, Travel Club and Coca Cola. It also offers a broad range of logistics services that provide added value to the traditional urgent shipping business. 100 million Euros, E-commerce Leader in B2C 22% increase turnover market, with compared to 2012 represents 19% over 30% market of total share • Process optimization by decentralizing parts of the value chain of a business: storage, inventory control, management, preparation, follow-up and all aspects related to urgent shipping. • Specialists in the pharma, textile, perfume and consumer electronics sectors. • Type of logistics: comprehensive, promotional and product SEUR e-solutions offers an integrated, specific and efficient solution for all online store requirements. Represents Turnover of 24 4.5% of million Euros global turnover National/International Delivery in stores IInformation implementation Product and services catalogue SEUR Saturday Comprehensive logistics Returns management Online follow-up Telephone support Packages COD (Cash on delivery) SMS/ E-mail information 30 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 31 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ABOUT SEUR Social Networks Close to our customers Blog (http://teloenvioporseur.seur.com/tag/blog/). More than 62,200 unique users, 106,627 page views, over “We innovate by adapting operational and technological collaboration systems, positioned at the forefront in 334 publications, have positioned SEUR as a reference in terms of customer integration”. e-commerce and sustainable mobility, eco-efficiency, innovation and new technologies Connected through… Linkedin (http://www.linkedin.com/company/seur) Stores Web Facebook (https://www.facebook.com/seur.es): 12,000 fans, 10 campaigns, 350 updates, more than 2,300 More than 1,000 SEUR The SEUR website allows engaging “Likes” and over 750 comments Proximity Stores thanks to a service, online real-time follow-up of the agreement with Punto Pack shipments, calculating fees, checking Twitter (https://twitter.com/SEUR) A new channel to and our own 256 points of sales. the nearest SEUR stores, obtaining listen and contact customers. 17,000 “tweets”, almost 4,200 activity and quality reports, checking followers, 1,800 “retweets” and 13,650 mentions. invoices and much more. 24 hours a day, 365 days a year and from any place. More than 12 million visits in YouTube (http://www.youtube.com/user/SEURoficial) 2013, growing more than 60% in collections requested through the Smartphone app website and a 30% increase in users. We have an app that allows calculating fees, finding the ail nearest store and follow-up on Interactive SMS/em shipments. Enables customers to modify the delivery date of shipments and provide details for delivery. And now, through Predict,online purchasers can manage ion Customers integrat their time. A team of specialized rvice team consultants, has been Customer Support Se provided to customers, together with the most More than 14 million phone advanced technical resources calls per year managed by the and the necessary software customer support team to automate shipment management. 32 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 33 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Customer satisfaction Superbrands brand: SEUR has been chosen as one of the top brands, which means recognition of its market success and excellence in brand management. This award, considered at an international level as the “Oscar to Branding”, reinforces the solid trajectory of SEUR, its commitment to quality and recognition and trust of the public. The Award is granted based on criteria such as leadership, capacity to face times of adverse economy in the market, positive perception and customer loyalty; all of these being traits that are characteristic of SEUR. In addition, as a novelty, the last edition also considered brands that demonstrate strong Corporate Social RES P Responsibility commitment, as is the case of SEUR, which considers it as a transversal strategy reflected in all areas of the company. Over 14,000 interviews answered, establishing that 80% of interviewed parties would recommend SEUR to their ABILITY friends and family members (satisfaction levels between 7 and 10 in a scale out of 10). NS O 34 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 35 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community RESPONSABILITY The commitment of SEUR For SEUR, sustainable development is a commitment that involves each and every one of its employees at all By adhering to the commitment to implement social responsibility in the company, it also assumes the duty to levels in the company. To include it in our corporate culture means leading business in a responsible manner, inform externally of its advances; as it has already been done through the publication of the CSR report, available seeking financial performance improvements, respecting the environment and benefiting society. to everybody and accessible from any device, and which is presented and published through “Breakfasts with stakeholders” as well as communication and awareness campaigns. “Caring for persons and for our planet is as important as our shipments” This commitment is further strengthened as SEUR subscribes the United Nations Global Compact, and supports and respects the 10 Principles it promotes, andalso creates and publishesits own visual identity, the r-logos that identify the responsible initiatives and allows communicating, both internal and externally, the advances that have Since its origins, SEUR has been aware of the need to contribute to wellbeing and improving been achieved; informing and raising awareness of stakeholders on the various initiatives related to the pillars that communities in which it is present. Therefore, in 2004, it formalized its commitment by are the foundation of the SEUR policy: Planet, Persons and Society. creating SEUR Foundation, in order to channel a large part of the company’s social activities; and in 2006 it established a commitment to sustainable development and a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. This policy is a part of all areas in SEUR and is increasingly present in the services it offers, evolving together with its customers towards a better future for all. Because only this way will it encourage the ultimate goal of its commitment: continue to grow and do so in a sustainable and responsible manner with the persons, planet and society a que pertence. Los 10 Príncipios de Pacto Mundial de Naciones Unidas Derechos Humanos Principio Nº 1. Apoyar y respetar la protección de los derechos humanos. Principio Nº 2. No ser cómplice de abusos de los derechos. Ámbito Laboral Principio Nº 3. Apoyar los principios de la libertad de asociación y sindical y el derecho a la negociación colectiva. Principio Nº 4. Eliminar el trabajo forzoso y obligatorio. Principio Nº 5. Abolir cualquier forma de trabajo infantil Principio Nº 6. Eliminar la discriminación en materia de empleo y ocupación. The key to the success achieved so far is based on a collaborative and participative Management Model stemming from senior management commitment to Sustainable Development and the creation of a CSR Medio Ambiente department in 2006, reporting to the Management Committee and that, by being a part of the Strategic Planning Principio Nº 7. Las empresas deberán mantener un enfoque preventivo que favorezca el medio ambiente. area, receives all information from the Network and its environment. This way, it has a direct impact on the rest of Principio Nº 8. Las empresas deben fomentar las iniciativas que promuevan una mayor responsabilidad ambiental. projects being performed in the company and becomes part of all business areas. Principio Nº 9. Las empresas deben favorecer el desarrollo y la difusión de las tecnologías respetuosas con el medio ambiente. But it has been the appointment of a CSR manager in each one of the business units, forming part of the CRS Anti – Corrupción team, the fact that ensures the rollout of the global and local model, ongoing dialogue and agreeing on knowledge Principio Nº 10. Las empresas e instituciones deberán trabajar contra la corrupción en todas sus formas, incluidos extorsión y soborno. and experiences that enable progress as a group. 36 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 37 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community SEUR is consistent with its ideas A SEUR é consequente com os seus ideais Equivalent carbon dioxide (CO2e) represents emissions of all greenhouse effect gases, combined and converted into equivalent CO2 units using the global warming potential (GWP1 Values) A digital platform has been designed for this called “Respire” RESPIRE – RESponsible Piloting and REporting tool. The report considers, for the life cycle analysis, greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the use of fossil fuels and electricity during our activities. Gross figures (for example litres of fuel) are converted into greenhouse gas emissions, broken down into two phases: • Preliminary phase Well to Tank: Emissions from activities implemented to supply the source of emission being considered (for example, for fuel, the emissions generated by extraction, refining and distributing fuel). • Usage phase Tank to Wheel: Emissions from the use of a source of emissions (for example, in the case of fuel, those corresponding to the combustion due to the use of a vehicle). Therefore, SEUR develops a responsible and sustainable business model that, thanks to the work made by the human team of the company, has positioned it in a prominent place in this field. Indicators are consolidated in six-month periods at a local, national and international level and converted into equivalent carbon dioxide emissions (CO2e) using the values of the GWP Index (global warming potential(*)), This management model, participative and collaborative, is reinforced by having representation and forming validated and audited internally and externally. part of the international Sustainable Development committee of GeoPost, consisting of 20 representatives from different shipping companies such as DPD, Chronopost or Exapack. In addition to establishing alliances and The scope of the dashboard at SEUR has been increasing, reaching a total of 28 business units, in addition to promote internal and external “benchmarking” a common Dashboard was created in 2006 with key performance the impact of the national and international network, which, on closing 2013, represented 65% of the business; indicators based on the activities of SEUR, bearing in mind the stakeholders and defined as per the pillars that and that is expected to increase gradually, as we are aware that obtaining these indicators helps decision-making support its commitment. Each one of the indicators is calculated as total units and units per item transported, processes, the execution of initiatives and, as a result, efficient and sustainable management of the company. considering direct and indirect emissions, in addition to the proportion of the figure calculated through accurate measurement, estimates and/or extrapolation. A new reporting system was established in 2013, together with (*) GWP values describe the amount of heat that can be trapped (or in other words, damage to the atmosphere) a methodology and protocol, designed to satisfy the following six criteria: relevance, transparency, accuracy, of a unit of a given greenhouse effect gas relative to a unit of carbon dioxide. GWP values turn greenhouse effect coherence, comprehensiveness and comparability; complying at the same time with recognized rules and existing gases emission figures for the various CO2 gases into equivalent CO2 units. regulatory commitments enumerated below: Total greenhouse gas emissions by: 1.21 Kg CO2e/package 38 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 39 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community RESPONSABILITY Close to stakeholders SEUR is present in over 15 associations and is actively involved in various business sustainability forums, in collaboration with both public and private entities, of different nature and from different industries. In 2013, SEUR merged efforts with Fundación SERES (Fundación Sociedad y Based on the principle of transparency, SEUR maintains fluid and transparent communication with its stakeholders, Empresa responsable) participating as speakers and success stories during the which are identified by considering key factors such as influence, proximity, dependence, responsibility and session “sharing solutions”. representation. Shareholders Customers Employees Foro de Liderazgo Empresarial Annual Shareholder Meeting, www.seur.com, telephone Monthly digital magazine, Board of Directors, Management support, presence in social internal releases, suggestions Committees, involvement in the networks and SEUR blog, market box, intranet, presence in Annual Sustainable Development surveys, customer satisfaction social networks and SEUR Forum, members of the index, polls, meetings, blog, departmental meetings, European GeoPost Sustainable conventions and Sustainability performance management, Development committee, Policies Report/ SEUR Foundation Report. meetings and involvement in and Codes established at a group CSR initiatives, welcome guide, level. courses, climate poll and training. Suppliers Society Administration Media Reports, collaborative Involvement in Forums and Involvement in forums and Events, press releases, projects, meetings, quality events, development of social projects for publicising good corporate material, SEUR agreements, adhesion to programmes, Sustainability practices and innovation. website and meetings with commitments and contracts. Report/ SEUR Foundation the media. Report, presence in social networks and SEUR blog. 40 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 41 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Aware of our position as a reference in the sector, SEUR commits to both internal and external communication, RESPONSABILITY in order to share good practices and acquired knowledge, facilitating the spread of commitment to sustainable development at all levels, in and out of SEUR. A good example is the various participations as speakers in foreign sessions. Recognition Event Organised Based on the CSR model, collaborative and participative, both at an internal and external level, various milestones and recognitions have been achieved in 2013. Waste Management Session Madrid Chamber of Commerce – CITET FREVUE Session London Cross River Partnership In addition to the various certificates that SEUR has, such as the various Management Systems certified as per ISO 9001 and EFQM +500 for Quality, ISO 14001 for Environment, OHSAS 18001 for Occupational Hazard Energy efficiency in distribution Session Community of Madrid Prevention, ISO 27000 for Personal Data Protection or TAPA for security, we should add the EMAS certification on environmental protection, obtained by the branches of Tenerife, Las Palmas and Santa Cruz, converting SEUR Sharing Solutions Fundación SERES into the first company in the sector in Spain that obtains this certificate. Companies committed to women and Equality in Europe Madrid Woman’s Week / ECOFIN Some of the recognitions obtained in 2013 were: European Sustainable Mobility Week Ministry for Agriculture, Food and Environment • European Award EWWR 2013 (European Week for Waste Reduction) in the PEFC session: Economy, Sustainability and Forests PEFC company category. III National Sustainable Mobility Congress CITET • Award Logistics Efficiency and CSR. Professional Logistics • “Best Business Practice” award in the eco-efficiency category. El Confidencial. November ITC Industry Forum C. of Madrid General Directorate for Industry, Energy and Mining • Social Company Award for its action “Bottle tops for a new life” • SEUR, first company in the industry to receive the RER certificate, a PEFC CSR Commission CEOE recognition. • Award 100 best ideas by Actualidad Económica for introducing electric COMPANIES WITH THE PUBLIC SECTOR Co-responsible motorcycles. • Finalist of the EnerTIC Awards 2012. Annual Madrid VI Pro Climate Forum Session Madrid City Hall • Distinction BONUS 2010 for its commitment to employee health and wellbeing. • SEUR joins the ranking ranking of the 100 best companies to work for by Executive Women – Entrepreneurial Culture Gestiona Radio Fundación Madrid Woman’s Week Actualidad Económica IFREI Session (IESE family-responsible employer index IESE Business School • Best logistics company to work for in Spain, according to the annual report of the multinational Randstad Employer Branding. Session on Good Human Resources Practices in the • SEUR consolidates as “Superbrand” in the III edition of Superbrands Awardsin Randstad logistics industry Spain III Session on Occupational Hazard Prevention UNO Furthermore, internally, the CSR web portal is maintained and updated for SEUR employees; we have been involved in the International Sustainable Development Forum of the Group and shared initiatives using the r-box tool, a platform for exchanging responsible initiatives developed by the various group companies throughout the world. Externally, the Social Networks strategy implemented in 2012 represents a new distribution channel of all initiatives and an alternative means of contact, not only with customers but with all stakeholders. Part of this strategy includes the creation of the “teloenvioporseur” blog, and the commitment for sustainable mobility and support Responsability given to entrepreneurs. 42 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 43 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community PLANET Emissions Reduction and Control The reduction in CO2 emissions is one of the priorities at SEUR, as reflected both in its CSR policy and the fact that the dashboard was implemented in 2006, facilitating a comprehensive monitoring of indicators. totalze SEUR is aware of the need to establish this clear commitment through a methodology that allows quantifying and PLA measuring the Carbon Footprint, while establishing the measures aimed at reducing and compensating greenhouse effect gases N emissions, as the basis for continuous improvement. zero C02 zero cost to you ET This commitment supported by SEUR at an international level, is the basis of the launch in July 2012 of the “Total Zero”, programme, extended to 17 countries in 2013, through which all international shipments made through the GeoPost network are CO2-neutral and do not involve an additional cost for customers More than 140,000 Tonnes of CO2 compensated by the Total Zero programme 1 2 3 Measure Reduce Compensate Biodigester Dehydration programme Reforestation of alfalfa in in Cambodia in Colombia France 12,000 Tonnes of CO2 50,000 Tonnes of CO2 Thanks to Total Zero, have been avoided compensated during the 85,000 Tonnes of CO2 have during the first year of first year of Total Zero been reduced during the www.r r.es Total Zero first year 44 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 45 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community PLANET CO2 emissions derived from transportation is one of the key indicators in the Sustainable Development Dashboard, as it represents the biggest impact on total emissions generated during the execution of our activities. Sustainable mobility During 2013 we have reduced CO2 emissions associated with transportation by 1.26%; considering the increase in production compared to the previous year translates into a -9.24% reduction of CO2 emission per package transported. This indicator encompasses all CO2 emissions originated by transportation services of each The Sustainable Mobility programme emerged in order to reduce polluting emissions associated with goods business unit and produced by external suppliers engaged for transportation, contribute to improve air quality in cities and fight against climate change, based on three lines of the execution of transportation services, breaking down such action: emissions by the various means of transportation involved (air Reduction of transport, by road and/or railway), the types of fuel used (petrol, -1.26% tonnes of diesel, LPG, CNG, electricity,…) and where they are produced, CO2 associated with differentiating emissions generated during collection and transportation delivery of goods (last mile) from emissions generated during ents ative vehicles u c ti o n in no. of movem transportation between business units (Line Haul). Use of altern R e d and fuels • Efectividade de entrega • Eléctricos • Otimização de rotas • GNC • Ecocondução • GLP • Teletrabalho • Novas Tecnologias • Videoconferências • Portal intercâmbio (carpooling) Training Awareness / • Awareness Campaigns • Eco-driving site • e-Mobility (blog teloenvíoporseur) • Eco-driving training • Identification of eco-vehicles • R&D&i projects • Internal and external benchmarking Responsability Planet People Community 46 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 47 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Use of alternative vehicles and fuels In this way, the ecological fleet has been increased with a commitment to package delivery using less polluting vehicles that are already operational in many cities: Madrid, Vitoria, San Sebastián, Pamplona, Seville, Alicante, For years, SEUR has been trying alternative systems for deliveries, especially, in city centres. A proof of this is Málaga, Barcelona, Valencia, Tarragona and Cartagena the increase of both number and type of alternative vehicles that have been added to the fleet in 2013, adding electric motorbikes We are participating in the European Project FREVUE 2013-2017: (pilot programme for energy efficiency and “Cross Rider” electrical vehicles to SEUR City, bicycles, electric and use of electrical vehicles for urban freight shipping), the only project that has been co-funded by the European tricycles, Natural Gas vehicles and LPG vehicles. In this way, the Union for the use of electrical vehicles in deliveries and that we are partners of. ecological fleet has been increased with a commitment to package delivery using less polluting vehicles that are already operational in many cities: Madrid, Vitoria, San Sebastián, Pamplona, Seville, Alicante, Málaga, Barcelona, Valencia, Tarragona and Cartagena 13% increase in number of alternative vehicles in 2013 We are participating in the European Project FREVUE 2013-2017: (pilot programme for energy efficiency and use of electrical vehicles for urban freight shipping), the only project that has been co-funded by the European Union for the use of electrical vehicles in deliveries and that we are partners of. Designed with the environment in mind. Responsible delivery with eco-friendly vehicles 48 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 49 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Reduction in no. of movements Alicante, or the collaboration with CycleLogistics in its activity, the European logistics on bicycle campaign that took place The ongoing commitment of SEUR to increasing the efficacy of in Seville. its deliveries, offering better customer service while optimizing • Benchmarking: Involvement in Forums, such as the its distribution routes, entails a reduction on CO2 emissions and guarantees an increase in customer satisfaction with each 98% Madrid Pro Climate Forum and the GeoPost Sustainable Development Forum, as well as miscellaneous Sessions, Distribution sharing our experiences: effective delivery; while avoiding subsequent journeys and the efficacy generation of additional CO2 emissions. • 2013 Speakers in Annual Madrid Pro Climate Forum Session. Therefore, in 2013, SEUR has continued to commit to offering • 2013 Speakers at the Sustainable Mobility and Sustainable its customers over 1,000 stores to deliver and collect their Urban Distribution Congress organized by CITET. packages. • 2013 Speakers in the Distribution Energy Efficiency Session (Community of Madrid). • 2013 ITC Sector Forum (organized by the General Directorate for Industry, Energy and Mining of the Community of It is worth highlighting the launch in 2013 of SEUR Predict, the solution Madrid). that SEUR offers to its customers as added value and whose objective • “Eco-driving” website: initially aimed at delivery personnel and extended during a second phase to all is to give addressees the option of selecting the delivery date and give SEUR employees. them a 2-hour “time window” for the delivery. • R&D&i projects: in order to facilitate new advances and drive the rollout and involvement of all stakeholders • r-box: platform that works like a social network for sharing good practices among the various business units at an international level. In all, SEUR Predict • Identification of the eco-friendly fleet with the r-logo: in order to raise awareness of all stakeholders on enables us to reduce nonthe new possibilities and how the future is a reality. -4.3% CO2 productive journeys and, emissions/ therefore, last mile CO2 The development of these Sustainable Mobility initiatives has led to SEUR being awarded several recognitions, Package after emissions associated with transporting each shipment, in addition to such KPMG El Confidencial Award to Best Business Practice in Eco-efficiency 2013 (for SEUR Predict) implementing Predict emissions that would emerge from goods returns; initially reducing or finalists of the EnerTIC Award 2013, in addition to the 100 best ideas award by ActualidadEconomica for CO2 emissions per package by 4%.. introducing electric motorbikes in Madrid. Awareness As a third line of action, we have kicked off several initiatives in order to raise awareness on the importance of sustainable mobility and promote understanding on how each individual can contribute to reduce CO2 emissions and improve quality of air. Some of the initiatives developed and aimed at the various stakeholders are: • Development of the blog “teloenvioporseur” with the “e-mobility” section as a platform to exchange ideas and innovative experiences, share knowledge, publicise success stories and learn from experiences and expert knowledge on the matter, encouraging change towards new means of sustainable mobility both SUSTAINABLE IDEAS. Alejandro Martínez as a company and as citizens in general. With over 4,500 readers/month Berriochoa, da Fundação Eroski; Blanca • SEM Involvement (European Mobility Week) since 2008 until 2013. In 2013 we performed the following Drake, da Vitra; May López, da SEUR; actions: Paola Castañeda de Club de Excelencia; Salvador Servera, da Artemius Packaging • Competition in social networks to share the presence of the ecological fleet in Spanish cities with our community. Pet Europe (APPE); José Manuel Martín, • Distribution of Pinushalepensisseeds with all deliveries made using eco-friendly vehicles, offering access to da Procter & Gamble; Carlos Larriba, da Europac; José Manuel Riesco, tecnólogo da the Sustainability Report, in order to raise awareness on alternative means of distribution as well as eco-driving. Repsol; Fernando Gabilondo, manager of Interface. • Sponsoring events that promote sustainable mobility (like the “By bicycle to LasAtalayas” initiative in 50 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 51 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community PLANET Collection of used objects campaign Responsibility and balancing ofnatural SEUR has launched various awareness campaigns, both internal and external, as well as collection of used objects campaigns in collaboration with SEUR Foundation. Some of these environmental and social campaigns resources have involved the entire team at SEUR, with its customers, suppliers and even public in general, who were able to participate actively through SEUR stores: tops o ll e c ti o n o f plastic bottle C In addition to establishing sustainable mobility as our main line of action, other initiatives have been kicked-off to reduce the consumption of natural resources in SEUR facilities, through the use of more efficient systems and “Bottle tops for a new life” project products that are respectful with the environment, promoting re-usage whenever possible, recycling, suitable • Objetive: Support medical costs not covered by Social Security of waste management and guaranteeing the fulfilment of environmental standards. This has led to perform energy children with serious diseases or facilitate access to orthopaedic devices efficiency audits, implement energy and natural resource saving measures, develop different awareness campaigns for those without resources and establish a commitment towards waste management as well as the use of responsible products. • Results: This campaign has managed to create the greatest pacific This is evidenced in our involvement for the fifth consecutive year in the European Waste citizen movement with a social and environmental objective, involving Prevention Week. over 12 million persons, and combining all kinds of associations and individuals, including schools, city halls, companies, in addition to the entire team at In 2013 there have several initiatives have been performed to promote the commitment of SEUR SEUR to sustainable development among its employees, customers and suppliers. Many Figures as at December 2013 of them with a common objective: reduce waste through re-use and in some cases with a social purpose. Initiatives that have led SEUR to obtain the European EWWR Award 2013 (European Waste Prevention Week) in the company category, among the more than 12,600 actions performed in 23 different countries during 2013. Portal do Intercâmbio 60 children have been helped, Thanks to 2,312.54 tonnes Avoiding 3,400 tonnes who received a total aid of of bottle tops of CO2 emissions A proposal was received through the suggestions box for creating 550,677.16 euros. a portal for the sale of second hand objects among employees. A specific website, the “Exchange portal”, 824 users and was created as a result of the involvement in more than 30,554 the European Week for Waste Reduction, page views se this site being available to all employees Bicycles re-u and collaborators. Project “Bikes for life” This web portal acts as a platform for • Objetive: Solidary and sustainable programme, developed in collaboration exchanging used items, giving the with Fundación Alberto Contador and FundaciónAnanta, repairing bicycles possibility of purchasing, selling, renting, giving and exchanging goods, in addition in an occupational training workshop programme for persons with disabilities for subsequent donation to unfavouredpersons and groups. to encouraging “car-pooling” (an initiative to share cars among various users), which Bicycles are collected for free and transported by the SEUR network.. strengthens the commitment towards sustainable mobility. • Results: 112 bicycles have been transported so far with this campaign. 50 bicycles were This initiative allows increasing communication among employees, environmental awareness as well as waste delivered for a humanitarian project in Uganda, 20 bicycles to a residential facility for minors in and fuel consumption reduction, while providing help towards obtaining additional income and reducing costs in Trujillo and approximately 40 bicycles have been dedicated to projects of Fundación Alberto a complex economic climate. Contador in Morocco. Over 200 direct and around 600 indirect beneficiaries. 52 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 53 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community o m p a n h a d e sensibilizaçã Energy efficiency C a Comité Nacional Some of the various initiatives established for reducing energy consumption are: de Transporte • Progressive substitution to low-consumption luminaries • Temperature rationalization of climate control systems • Extension of generalized power off of lights and climate control systems in a greater number of buildings • Installation of presence detectors in more transit areas • Use of buttons in a greater number of spaces that turn off lights after a few minutes “Zero papel” • Relocation or removal of luminaries SEUR is aware that the best waste is that which is not generated; • Reduction of electrical devices such as printers, for example therefore during 2013 it has continued to promote the implementation Reduction of • Migration cloud-computing with the consequent improvement in server of document digitization processes, delivery without delivery notes, Greenhouse Gas efficiency centralization and coding of printers, electronic invoicing and Emissions from innovation with the launch of products such as SEUR Burofax, consumption per In addition, SEUR has photovoltaic facilities in various branches SEUR Telegram or the digital delivery confirmation; all these package by -12% that produce 2,260,000 kWh each year, sufficient to supply the energy -7,9% kWh solutions combine the protection of natural resources also improving compared to 2012. requirements of 416 families during this period and not emitting energy service efficacy. 904,000 kg of CO2, main gas responsible for the greenhouse effect. consumed Aware of the importance of involving all our stakeholders in the compared to responsible use of energy, we launched two awareness campaigns 2012 Responsible paper in 2013 both internal and externally. We combined forces with WWF Increase by in the campaign “Earth Hour” and the initiative “European Sustainable As evidence of its commitment to eco-friendly social and business Development Week” development, SEUR has been promoting for several years the +31.30% of inclusion of environmental criteria in the acquisition of forest products. responsible All these initiatives represented a -7.09% reduction in energy consumption at our facilities; translated into To this purpose, the percentage of “responsible” paper over total paper compared Greehouse Gas Emissions from energy used by buildings (both own and rented) and referenced to package consumption of paper was added to the dashboard indicators in to 2012 transported, it implies a -10.55% reduction, at 0.045 KgCO2e/package in 2013. 2006, considering responsible paper the one recycled or with forest certification and that guarantees that the forest products SEUR was one of the companies invited come from forests that are managed in a sustainable manner, as as speakers and success story during the per international standards. Therefore, SEUR has opted for FSC forest certified products (Forest Stewardship “ITC Forum” Energy Saving and Efficiency Council) and PEFC (Programme for Endorsement of Forest Certification) for itsdifferent products, such as office in Logistics Centres, organized by the material and, recently, labels and packages, so that 97% of consumption of paper in 2013 was “responsible”. Community of Madrid and part of the “Madrid Saves Money with Energy” campaign, in order to promote solutions to improve energy efficiency within the logistics sector. 54 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 55 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Waste Eco-packages SEUR understands waste management as something global, not only In 2011, and in collaboration with various handling waste generated by the activities of the company (paper, suppliers, a project was established to cardboard, plastic, wood, scrap metal, computer equipment, clothes Waste: introduce eco-design criteria in packaging, while and shoes...) but also giving an option for employees to recycle other maintaining quality levels and guaranteeing the -0,16% €/ types of waste, contributing to protect the environment and collaborate safety of goods. package in social action campaigns. This approach is what SEUR Foundation has successfully managed to transmit to everybody with the campaigns Plastic envelopes started to be used created “Bottle tops for a new life” and “Bikes for life”. with 40% and later 70% of recycled material helping to reduce the consumption of natural One of the ways to reduce the amount of waste generated is to recycle either paper, cardboard and plastic, resources, CO2 emissions and therefore, the among others, which are almost completely recoverable, making it possible to re-use them again as raw material. carbon footprint of each shipment. In 2013, the project was extended in order to adapt the By using compactors in some branches, it was possible to increase the amount of recycled waste, preventing packaging portfolio for Points of Sale and EVCs, tree felling and use of new petroleum-derived materials. At the same time, the amount of CO2 emissions derived following financial, quality and safety criteria, in addition to environmental criteria, such as the reduction of ink from their transportation has been reduced, because, by reducing the volume of the waste, less trips are necessary in variety and quantity, adaptation of thickness/grams, percentage of recycled material or type of material (FSC to transport them. certified, 40%, 70% and 100% recycled). Sodexo collaboration In addition, following the implementation of this new packaging, the r-logo (r-responsibility logo) was included, together with a descriptive message, in order to promote this “culture” We worked with Sodexo against food waste, by donating and transporting surplus food from the 2013 Madrid and environmental awareness among customers, suppliers and employees. Open. Over 4,000 meals were delivered to a social diner ‘Ave Maria’ in Madrid using the SEUR Frío, service, in compliance with all legally enforceable food safety requirements. This initiative emerged from the company This initiative that has led the PEFC organization to grant SEUR the certificate that accredits meeting Sharing solutions, organized by FundaciónSeres and based on collaboration between companies our company is a member of the Network of Entities Involved with forest sustainability, on CSR matters. With this project, SEUR reinforced responsibility with the environment, simultaneously avoiding recognition given by PEFC to companies committed to this matter and that makes us the food waste and its effect both in terms unnecessary consumption of resources and waste generation, this being first company in the industry to be part of this work team consisting of only 38 companies. one of the pillars of the CSR policy of SEUR:to become engaged in the Society that we are part of. As a result of itscommitment and the results obtained, SEUR participated as a success story in the Session on “Optimization of waste management in the logistics and transportation industry”, organized by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry in Madrid SEUR points of sale and proximity stores SEUR continues to commit to extending the most capillary and most accessible network in the market for customers with over 1,000 SEUR-Punto Pack stores and 256 own stores. This facilitates collection and delivery to private customers, increasing delivery efficacy and reducing travelling and last mile CO2 emissions. PLANET A “Responsible” proposal Offer an increasingly responsible service, listen and analyze the needs of customers in terms of sustainable development and provide added value to the business so it is perceived as such by customers, employees and society in general, is the basis of the CSR policy at SEUR. Committed to progressively integrating environmental and social criteria in its product portfolio. This can be evidenced in the following initiatives. 56 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 57 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community ery service In store deliv This is a product that resolved B2C market requirements, offering addressees the possibility of collecting their shipments from the store and, depending on location, hours, etc., users can select it as an alternative to home delivery. Furthermore, in order to guarantee delivery efficacy, once the shipment is available in the store selected by the addressee, an e-mail or SMS is sent to inform the shipment is ready. If the order has not been collected after five days, a reminder e-mail or SMS is sent. This avoids CO2 emissions that would be generated PEO by a return, while also offering a quality service PL r in our website Store lo c a to E SEUR has a tool to find the nearest SEUR Store in order to offer customers a very comfortable alternative for 1.178.572 collection and deliveries. In addition, this option is available inquiries on the website and the mobile app as well as present in in 2013 social networks. e-mail and SMS advance notice Since 2008, SEUR sends an advance notice via e-mail or SMS to its customers, reducing failed deliveries. This service has evolved offering the addressee customer, the possibility of selecting the date of delivery and providing additional information that can optimize the necessary journeys to complete the service. All the aforementioned examples highlight innovative initiatives implemented at SEUR that contribute to increase quality of service being provided and strengthen delivery efficacy, reducing last mile CO2 emissions related to transporting of each package and CO2 emissions, resulting from the addressee customer returning the goods. 58 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es www.responsabilidadseur.es 59 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community PEOPLE Our biggest asset SEUR continues to only attract the best talent and integrate it in the company so that it feels part of the team from day one. Corporate implemented a programme to achieve this called P.A.I.S. (SEUR Welcome and Integration Plan). The objective of the programme, in effect since 2005, is to fully integrate new members in the least possible time The success of SEUR is the result of a policy of excellence, turning SEUR into the most reliable partner, thanks to and, therefore, plans hiring, and promotes socialization and integration and adaptation to the workplace through the involvement of the best professionals in the industry, fully committed to their customers. 360º vision. Training, follow-up, visits, rotations, interviews, are some of the keys of the project that integrates all new members, including temporary staff and trainees, and that has a 100% satisfaction index among new hires. At SEUR, our people are our biggest asset. From the selection process to promotion, there is a constant consistency with the strategy of the organization, based on ethical and socially responsible principles. Therefore, SEUR considers that communication both internally and externally, is the keystone to involving all those that talent is hired and retained by applying multiple policies designed to: are part of SEUR. • Ensure equal opportunities at all levels The need to measure its impact and effectiveness emerges from the awareness of the importance of having • Promote conciliation of occupational, personal and family life internal communications aligned with business strategy. • Commit to professional development, improving capacity and motivation • Guarantee a safe and healthy work environment Various internal communication channels are available to establish an ongoingdialogue: • Improve the pride of belonging and involvement in company objectives The hiring policy at SEUR is based on direct hiring vs. the use of temporary staffing agencies. • Online magazine (with special section on • Websites CSR and another for SEUR Foundation) • Suggestion box • Department meetings • Points of information in facilities 93.5% of the headcount has a permanent contract • Corporate management and sales team • Social events such as the “Family Day” meetings • “Teambuilding” Sessions 6.5% with temporary contracts • Annual convention and regional meetings • Platforms in social networks • Breakfast with the Chairman and Senior Contract Management Distribution by age 1,7% 1,3% 22,4% 39% 35,5% Above 60 Under 25 25 35 years 36 45 years 46 60 years years old old old old 60 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 61 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community Measures designed to generate ongoing, transparent and two-way communication that reinforces the spirit of As at the end of 2013, 43.7% of corporate and affiliate employees benefited from these measures; this is a the SEUR team. measure being extended to offices in 2014. In addition to this proactive listening, there are satisfaction polls for employees.The results obtained in 2013 Examples of conciliation measures implemented in some work centres are: showed a 7% increase compared to the previous year, positioning satisfaction above 4, with 5 being the highest score. It is worth highlighting that 93.83% of interviewed employees are proud of working in SEUR. The employee • Flexible working hours: one hour margin for start satisfaction poll is a communication channel that has consolidated in SEUR, as was initiated in 2004 and is and leave times, which reinforces the commitment with performed every two years. Its purpose is the design and implementation of improvement plans that respond sustainable mobility by avoided peak times 43.7% employees to the concerns of our human teams in a clear commitment towards continuous improvement and concern for • Flexible vacation: possibility of distributing them with flexible persons. The scope of the poll presented in this report covers SEUR SA and SEO, although it is our intention to throughout the year remuneration increase this scope. • Home working: option for pregnant women in their 6th To retain the best professionals, many measures have been established at a corporate level, which are being month of pregnancy and Customer Support operators extended to other business units in SEUR. • Compressed work schedule from the fifth month of pregnancy until a year after birth of the child • Promotion of videoconferences, to replace travelling • Flexible remuneration programmes • Help for employees, suppliers and their • Conciliation measures families through internal projects of SEUR During jointcommittee meetings to follow up on the Equality Plan, performed in different offices, the results • Great commitment to training Foundation of indicators and measures established were analyzed, • Potential development programme • Discount option in products Women 40.90% highlighting the authorization of 100% of lactating permit • Performance assessment programme • “Outplacement” programmes Men 59.81% applications, requests for reduced work shifts due to legal guardianship and partially remunerated absence leaves. • Management by objectives programme In 2013 we started to work with Fundación Woman’s Week – platform focusing on gender equality. As a result of this collaboration, we adhered to the working group “Companies committed to equality” and participated in the “Catalogue of good The Flexible Remuneration Plan “SEUR: You choose”. Thanks to this, SEUR employees can dedicate practices, companies committed to equality”, the first initiative promoted by part of their remuneration to engaging a series of goods and services including health, nursery school, training, this Workgroup involving over 50 actions and initiatives from major Spanish companies computers or lunch vouchers, among others. to favour equality. The main benefits are: SEUR reinforces its commitment with occupational reconciliation during a session at IESE Business School. • Provide with greater net salary thanks to tax advantages. • Engage products and services offered by SEUR in a comfortable way, with very attractive financial conditions. • Voluntary nature. • Modifiable programme, employees can decide how they want to receive their annual remuneration in order to adapt it best to their personal and family needs. 62 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 63 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community PEOPLE Furthermore, SEUR continues to be a part of the Concilia Network, which agglutinates a small group of companies that are notable for their commitment to the implementation of measures that facilitate the reconciliation of Commitment to training occupational, personal and family life. Each year, aids are convened through internal projects of SEUR Foundation. These aids are aimed at employees, collaborators and their families, and are broken down into of 4 types: SEUR has made a global commitment to ongoing and permanent training, in support of developing the professional skills of its employees; this has a direct impact on the quality of service offered to customers. • Relief funds: Help to contribute when possible to 35 aids The goal is to involve professionals from the Network in its culture and business objectives, while improving their overcome an exceptional situation 45,102.76 euros skills and responding to new organizational requirements. • University grants: Subsidy of university registration Delivered to employees fees aimed at students with brilliant academic reports, and their families in 2013 In order to guarantee the publicising of the Training Plan and facilitate access to training for all employees, a Portal but whose families have very limited resources to was provided that is continuously being updated containing articles, news, good practices, virtual library and support their studies. comments on training already provided • Special grants: Assistance for families with students ho are in situations that require special attention, such as for example derived from some disability. Thanks to the “SEUR 2013 Training Plan”, over 90,000 total hours of training have been given, designed to • Internal sponsorships: Aid for employees and family members that have extraordinary skills in the world increase employee qualifications and promote their +90.000 hours de of art, science, sports, etc. professional and personal development; this represented of training an investment in training exceeding 467,937.83 Euros. “Outplacement programme”, initially established in corporate, SEUR has an agreement with a multinational We continued our commitment towards training with the specialized in “Outplacement” processes in order to ensure that professionals leaving the company, have the Sales School.. emotional, methodological, organizational and technical support, to achieve a successful transition to another company as well as reduce rehiring time. This programme has generated so far an average satisfaction of 4.30 (over 5), 93.3% of candidateshave been rehired and an average hiring time of 7.7 months has been achieved. In 2013, we continued to work on training with the “SEUR Sales School”, a pioneer and unique experience created in 2013 as a sales transformation project supported by: • The creation of our own, unique and homogenous sales style for the entire Network (what internally has been called SEUR DNA, “our way of doing things”). • A training system for a sales team with an initial 3 year horizon, perfectly in-line with the growth strategy of the company, to improve its pro-activeness and sales efficiency. And all with the clear objective of making the human team a distinguishing element in the market. 64 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 65 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community Training Plan for Middle Management Based on a practical methodology combining in-person, online and virtual training as well as coaching, learning can be transferred to the workplace. On completing their studies, students can obtain certified qualification from one of the leading business schools (ESIC Business & Marketing School) accrediting their level of knowledge, first official certification that differentiates the best sales professionals in the transportation industry and certifying students has successfully ended the ambitious SEUR Sales Development Programme (PDC SEUR) SEUR has made a commitment towards global continuous and permanent training. At SEUR, Middle Management is a key part, of strategic importance for the organization. This perspective focuses the design of the Middle First year: Second year: Third year: Management Training Plan. Specialist qualification (Bronze) Senior specialist qualification (Silver) Official certification (Gold) The purpose of this Plan is to produce the best management team, offering added value to the organization. The School is built on the basis of a spirit on continuous improvement We kicked off this project in 2012 with the first training module “The Role of Middle Management” aiming that allows adapting to rapid changes in the market and consolidating to raise awareness of the Middle Management in terms of their strategic role at SEUR, not only as a business SEUR employees as the best professionals in the transportation manager but also as people manager. The good results and acceptance have driven the promotion in 2013 of More than and logistics industry. Therefore in 2013, we addedto the SEUR Middle Management to Team Leader. 1,400 students Sales Coaching Model applicable to all face-to-face channels (Sales Force, SAC Agents and Points of Sale), the “Coach This training Project is ongoing and we continued to advance in 2013 with a new module “Team Management”. Leader Programme” that is part of the training and development The objectives are,first of all, to consolidate the change initiated with the first module as well as putting into programme for sales management at the SEUR Sales School. practice the new Middle Management role, highlighting the people leadership strengths and boosting the role as change drivers in teams. All based on the goal of getting the best Management to lead the best team. This initiative reinforces the commitment of the company towards innovation, together with the motivation and training of the human team at SEUR. The SEUR “Sales School” received in 2013 a Special Mention in the 17th Edition of the Human Assets Awards, in the category of Strategic Training and Development Policy. Recognized as one of the top 100 best companies to work for in the ranking produced by Actualidad Económica. The increasing concern of SEUR regarding the training of its employees has been one of the main areas of improvement that has allowed SEUR to enter the ranking of top 100 best companies to work for according to Actualidad Económica; SEUR ranks in 66/67th position. WELCOME TO YOUR PROFESSIONAL FUTURE 66 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 67 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community PEOPLE Commitment towards healthy occupational life Everybody at SEUR has an active commitment towards occupational hazard prevention, which is reinforced year prevention world, agreeing on best practices from various companies of recognized prestige in the industry. after year. A commitment to establishing a safe working environment, as well as promoting preventive culture. A recognition to this commitment is the fact that SEUR in 2013 received the distinction BONUS 2010 given by The fundamental pillars of the “Occupational Hazard Prevention Policy” at SEUR are: FREMAP for its commitment towards the health and wellbeing of its employees. • Fulfilment of OHP requirements throughout the SEUR Network vs. Master OHP Plan 2.0. This distinction was possible thanks to the initiatives implemented, which effectively contributed in a verifiable • Promote the image of SEUR with the development of an effective preventive culture through OHSAS 18001 way to reducing occupational accidents and the execution of effective work accident prevention and professional certification of work centres and the integration with other Management systems. illness actions. This recognition reinforces the commitment of SEUR towards wellbeing and health of all its members, with initiatives that help to maintain a favourable work climate and that promote the sense of belonging. • Reduce personal impact caused by OHP contingencies and accidents rate. Furthermore, the “Ethics Code” of SEUR approved by the Board in 2011 includes, in its fourth principle “Safety and Health”, the commitment to “contribute to developing a preventive culture aimed at ensuring the right of all employees to protect their safety and integrity”. The Occupational Hazards Prevention department organizes activities to promote “healthy life” habits, such as sessions to care about postural health at work, workshops that help to lead a healthy life through various activities such as therapeutic massages, relaxation sessions, Pilates, nutrition. OHP visits to the various centres, training courses, audits or awareness campaigns, are some of the ongoing activities that take place each year to ensure that preventive activities are fulfilled. Commitment to training is a key aspect; hence a plan was established covering initial, functional and responsibility training that is attended by all SEUR employees when they join the company; recycling, adapted to workplaces; management training; specific training, such as first aid and accident investigation workshops. 2,780 hours of At the same time, two communication tools are available OHP training since 2012, which complement the information provided in courses, the “OHP” website and the “Movilízate!” blog. This blog’s main objective is to improve quality of life and occupational health of all persons working at SEUR, providing useful information that helps to increase safety during “in itinere” travels, reinforcing the commitment towards safety and sustainable mobility. SEUR has a high degree of implementation of risk prevention at its work centres. As proof of its commitment, it participates in remarkable forums such as the presentation to the IRSST (Regional Safety and Health at Work Institute) of its “Occupational Hazard Prevention Management” system, highlighting the commitment towards OHP, or the involvement in “OHP Innovation”, an association that aims to promote a culture of innovation in the 68 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 69 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planeta People Community PEOPLE The best talent at the service of our possibility of obtaining and accumulating points that can be exchanged for gifts through a web portal. The “SEUR Management Award”, was created in order to give formal recognition and serve as a stimulus for customers continuous improvement in 2010.This award recognizes the management of executive teams in branch offices. The best management team is identified depending on certain quantitative and qualitative aspects based on the principles of leadership, process management, people management and The commitment to persons, teamwork, spirit of collaboration and innovation. Reinforcing this line of action in 2013, we established the “1st innovation have been, and are, essential factors for having reached Edition of the SEUR Strategy Awards” designed to recognize the 70 years of history; impossible without the help of all employees of projects of greatest success and impact in the strategy of SEUR during 2013, SEUR. as well as the involvement and collaboration of teams in their execution. The employees are the most important resource; that is why our In addition, in 2013 SEUR participated in the “9th edition of the Employment Development Policy is based on encouraging promotions from Fair” at IE Business School, during the Nebrija Professional Employment Fair within, offering challenges and opportunities to employees that help as part of the companies forum “Meet 2013” and in the 6th ESIC Companies them to progress continuously within the company. Forum, held in Madrid and designed to attract the best talent and provide advice to attending students, encouraging their entry into the occupational Since 2009, SEUR has implemented a Potential Development world, while informing of the company and its values: Teamwork, spirit of collaboration, innovation and customer Programme to identify the potential of company employees. This focus. Values made a reality by the persons that are part of the SEUR team. policy allows establishing development and career plans aimed at the skills of each professional. Over 200 persons have passed In 2013, SEUR was selected as the best logistics company to work for in Spain, as revealed by the annual report through it and will continue to consolidate in 2014. A highly qualified produced by Randstad Employer Branding and joined the ranking of top 100 companies to work for produced team, with the biggest training plan, can face the crisis with the best by Actualidad Económica. professionals. In order to develop the leadership and motivation skills of middle and senior management, they were provided with the “SEUR Management Schools” accessible through the training 12 website. In addition, SEUR has entered into collaboration agreements icos SEUR 20 with schools and universities of renowned prestige, such as IESE, the Juegos Olímp Camilo José Cela University, the Madrid European University, ESIC or the Association for Management Development, in order to provide access to skills development, master and higher courses. During 2013, a new Skills-based Management Model was implemented that defines best practices and current requirements of the Company. The implementation of a new Skills-based Management Model and a Performance Assessment system for the Network allows differentiating and assessing skills of employees in an agile and simple way, while adding value to the business. This new system will allow SEUR to remunerate based on performance, develop training plans designed and aligned with strategy and individual requirements, facilitate detection, maximization and retention of technical talent, as well as correctly assign careers. The new Skills-based Management Model shall be the basis for the development of People Management policies such as selection, training and professional development. In order to explain and share this model, a large number of courses were provided in 2013 to over 140 intermediate managers in the various business units and corporate branches. This model will be implemented in various business units of the Network in 2014. The “Incentives Programme” continued in 2013. Rolled out to the sales area and the Customer Support and Points of Sales areas, it encourages through individual and direct rewards and incentives for each employee, the 70 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 71 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community COMMUNITY Open to society One of the pillars of the CSR policy at SEUR is the commitment with the Society it is a part of, aware of its duty to contribute to the wellbeing and improvement of communities it is present in. COM This commitment with society has special relevance in present time, where the complicated social and economic climate evidences the increasing need for solidarity actions that help those most needed. M Therefore, SEUR voluntarily establishes cooperation agreements with various associations and non-profit organizations, contributing to satisfy some of the many demands that are received. A large part of the social actions of SEUR are channelled through SEUR Foundation, which, since its creation in ITY 2004, has increased both its activities and the number of beneficiaries of its actions1. UN In addition, and in-line with its commitment towards Sustainable Mobility, in 2013 Spanish participants of the “Shell eco-marathon”, were sponsored for the fifth consecutive year.This action fostersactivities that promote the development of solutions in terms of energy and mobility. The involvement through the publicising of experience accumulated by SEUR on Sustainable Mobility and the free provision of transportation and logistics services using eco-friendly vehicles, at national and international level, reinforce its Sustainable Mobility programme, seeking a reduction in environmental impact generated by the transportation activity, as well as the promotion of energy efficiency. Another way to rollout this commitment was the theme used to articulate the “SEUR Circle” loyalty programme around social responsibility and commitment to the Ecocity 2012 environment, by giving an “ecosphere” souvenir, a miniature world, complete and self-sufficient example of sustainability. 86.12% of employees believe that SEUR promotes its commitment with society and the environment 72 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 73 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community COMMUNITY As an e-commerce reference company, SEUR is aware of its position as facilitators in the creation and promotion of companies, in 2013, and in order to contribute to entrepreneurship and business development Solidary logistics in the country, various initiatives were launched aimed at entrepreneurs: • Section e-mprendedores in the Blog, www.teloenvioporseur.com, as a platform for exchanging ideas and innovative experiences that allows sharing The commitment undertaken by SEUR towards society traduzknowledge, publicise success stories and learn experiences and knowledge from translated into the incorporation of SEUR Foundation, in 2004; a experts on the matter. reference of solidary logistics aimed at favouring profiles most in need, • “SEUR e-mprende challenge”, concurso destinado a empreendedores e such as children, and that, thanks to the solidarity and professionalism empresários, que premiou o vencedorcompetition aimed at entrepreneurs and of the team of SEUR, has managed to execute initiatives involving business people, rewarding the winner with 2,500 Euros of shipments and consulting great social impact. through coaching and networking sessions with experts on e-commerce, presence in the most important e-commerce shows of our country: Madrid and Lisbon and The activities of SEUR Foundation range from the organization of its own actions to the collaboration with various OME Expo e-commerce in Madrid, together with the E-commerce Paris Tradeshow, NGOs and other non-profit organizations. These collaborations are based on the support of the expertise the EEC 2013 (European E-commerce Conference), the SC leadership Forum 2013 provided by SEUR: logistics and urgent goods shipping. session, Expourense and the Ecommerce&Tech Barcelona among others. • Presence in the most important e-commerce shows of our country: eShow in Barcelona, Madrid and Of all the projects performed in 2013, we should highlight the “Bottle tops for a new Lisbon and OME Expo e-commerce in Madrid, together with the E-commerce Paris Tradeshow, the EEC life”, campaign, a solidary and environmental bottle top recycling initiative in Spain and 2013 (European E-commerce Conference), the SC leadership Forum 2013 session, Expourense and the Portugal, led by SEUR Foundation; the project helps participants to donate their bottle tops Ecommerce&Tech Barcelona among others. making available for their tops delivery premises and SEUR stores in charge of collecting and transporting them from the various points to their final delivery to the recycling plant. In addition, SEUR contributes through the involvement of the SEUR volunteer team, which in this case has been extended to the entire headcount: 6,300 employees and collaborators, including senior management. With this initiative SEUR has managed to offer a solution through a new collaboration approach demanded by society during times of crisis: help and collaboration without business or social distinctions. This has helped to reach positive results in all aspects, promoting volunteering with a social and environmental purpose that is unprecedented in Spain. But there are many more solidary actions initiated by the various SEUR branches, such as the collaboration with Sodexo against food waste, action that involved delivering 4,000 meals to a social diner, or with the Food Bank. • “SEUR e-solutions”, comprehensive, modular and flexible solution that facilitates the start-up of an online business. This tool available through www.seur.com, facilitates the development of your own virtual Corporate volunteering is of great relevance in these initiatives, as they require the involvement of all SEUR store, technology integration connecting with transportation services, e-commerce specialized logistics and employees and are complemented with the specific volunteering programme launched in 2013. transport solutions that are based on the 70 years of experience of SEUR. For further information, please check the Activities Report of the SEUR Foundation or the website www. These actions reinforce the commitment of SEUR to entrepreneurs, offering innovative and differentiating solutions fundacionseur.org. that contribute to enrich the Spanish business network by developing different business initiatives. 1 For further information please read the SEUR Foundation Report and its www.fundacionseur.org 74 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 75 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community COMMUNITY were: s d e v e lo p e d during 2013 les of sponsorship Other examp Promoting SEUR values • Sports sponsorship: • Zaramaga basketball club • Sponsorship of Seville FC Promoting ethical and sustainable values is present in all activities of SEUR, being a fixed part of the transparency • Basconia basketball club • Teenager Indoor Soccer in Tarragona and communications policy of the company. It also generates an additional value of trust that reinforces the • DeportivoAlavés • Hércules FC commitment of SEUR and relates it to the culture of effort, teamwork, talent integration and improvement. • Bicigrinos de Santiago • Valladolid rugby team • Paddle tennis competitions in Albacete • Alarcón handball team and AsturiasCantbasket em Santander • Porto Golf Tournament • Cantbasket in Santander • Cantabrian Basketball Association of other n in v o lv e d w ith sponsors e Therefore, in 2013, SEUR subscribed to the agreement for clean sports, and signed the letter of adhesion to It has also be d ing:: become a part of the Clean Sports commitment, a pioneer project in the world. events inclu An example of this was the support over the last 6 years provided to the Spanish Basketball Federation (FEB) and • Santillana del Mar zoo its foundation. A sponsorship consolidated since Eurobasket 2007, which has allowed accompanying the various teams in their multiple successes while also sharing principles such as equality and solidarity towards the most • San Juan bonfires in Alicante unfavoured social groups, as evidenced by the projects of Fundación FEB. • Esteban Vicente Museum in Segovia • FIVE International Ecological Wine Fair As a plan to activate and promote the practice of this sport in hosting cities, we supported our team in 2013 through our Enthusiasts’ High Performance Centre, providing notions on how support our side in the most • Prince of Asturias Awards sporting and fun way. • Food collection in Pamplona • SEMINCI in Valladolid. Always with the idea of promoting closeness at all levels, to different stakeholders through varied sponsorship, reaching the maximum number of cities, both in Spain and Portugal, encouraging an open position of support and dialogue with the surrounding society and through initiatives with essential values in-line with those of the company, such as attitude to improve, effort, solidarity, respect and competitive spirit that allows it to continue In addition, SEUR participated with a team of employees in the 2nd Edition of the Adecco B3 League; an being the reference in the market intercompany 3x3 basketball competition organized by the Spanish Basketball Federation,the values of which are based on healthy competitiveness, co-existence and practicing of healthy sports. 76 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 77 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Parameters of the report This publication, the fourth sustainability report, aims to transparently provide the main financial, social and environmental figures of SEUR, during 2013, considering all stakeholders. PARA SEUR is the reference company of urgent shipping in the Spanish market, multi-specialist with a clear commitment towards e-commerce, internationalization and logistics. The content of this report have been defined in-line with these activities, M considering the companies that are included: SEUR, S.A., the Operations, Logistics, International and Insurance Broker affiliates, together with the broad network of branches that execute their activities in the country. E This annual report was possible thanks to the involvement of everyone involved in SEUR, being direct and indirect participants of the initiatives it contains and for contributing to the provision and production of information and necessary indicators to ensure this report follows the recommendations and requirements set forth in the GRI 3.0 Guide (Global Reporting Initiative) as per application level C. Although this report has not been subject to a verification process, the checks of the principles RS OF THE established in the guide have been used. The quantitative information is the result of measurements, estimates or, if necessary, extrapolations and includes both direct and indirect impact, i.e.: derived from the subcontracted activity, corresponding to the seventeen branches in annual comparisons and the scope described next to the indicator for absolute figures. The definitions of each indicator included in the CSR dashboard, together with requirements in terms of scale and calculation TE methods, are included in the document that is provided, updated and improved continuously, maintaining its usage and follow-up common internationally. The figures and calculation methods are continuously audited in order to guarantee accuracy of information, establishing an Internal Audit programme of the dashboard at an international level. In this sense, R the positive results obtained in the last internal audit in April 2012 helped to continue progressing and consolidating the CSR model at SEUR. The description of each initiative reflects the scope of each information, distinguishing among various levels:: • Corporate level: refers to SEUR, S.A., the headquarter offices of SEUR located at C/ Gamonal 6, Madrid. • Network level: refers to SEUR, S.A., Operations, Logistics, International and Insurance Broker affiliates as well as the branch network. SEUR develops a management model based on Corporate Social Responsibility in the business, social and environmental ORT dimensions. Hence this report is structured around these three pillars of action. EP Part of its commitment to saving natural resources, SEUR has produced a digital version of the report, available for review in www.responsabilidadseur.es and that complies with accessibility criteria. For further information on the company or information related with this report, please visit the SEUR www.r r.es website at www.seur.com or contact the Corporate Responsibility Department by sending an email to responsabilidad.social@seur.net. 78 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 79 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Performance Indicators according to the GRI 1 Strategy and Analysis Page 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement of Stakeholders Page 1 1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 4-5 4 1 Governance structure of the organisation 18-19 1 2 Description of the key impacts, risks and opportunities 4-5 4 2 President is executive or not 18 37-38 46 4 3 Unitary board structure: number of members, dependency, executives 18-19 4 4 Recommendations from shareholders and employees to the highest 18 GOVERNANCE 2 Organisational Profile Page governance body 4 5 Remuneration of members of the highest governance body 18 2 1 67 Name of the organisation 4 6 Avoiding conflicts of interest 18 2 2 Primary brands, products and/or services 21-25 4 7 Qualifications and experience of the highest governance body 18-19 2 3 Operational structure 14-16,18-19 4 8 Mission, vision and values, codes of conduct 20 2 4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 67 11 4 9 Overseeing compliance 18 2 5 Number of countries where the organisation operates 2 6 Nature of ownership and legal form 18-19 4 10 Evaluation of the highest governance body’s own performance 18,20 2 7 Markets served 14-17,21-25 4 11 Description of the adoption of the precautionary approach (risk COMMITMENTS, 20 management) 2 8 Scale of the reporting organisation 14-17 2 9 Significant changes during the reporting period (size, structure, 4 12 Externally developed social, environmental and economic 4-5,7-9 32-34 EXT. INITIATIVES ownership, location, etc.)Prémios e distinções recebidos principles 2 10 Awards and distinctions received during the reporting period 8-9, 28,35 4 13 Associations 33 3 Parameters of the report Page 4 14 Relationship of stakeholders 32 ENGAGEMENT OF 3 1 Reporting period 67 4 15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 32 PROFILE 3 2 Date of the most recent previous report 67 4 16 Approaches to engagement of stakeholders 32.34 STAKEHOLDERS 3 3 Reporting cycle (annual, etc.) 67 4 17 Concerns of stakeholders 32,34 3 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 67 3 5 Process of defining report content (determination of materiality, 67 SCOPE AND COVERAGE prioritising topics within the report, identification of stakeholders 3 6 Scope of the report 67 3 7 Limitations on the scope 67 3 8 Basis for reporting on subsidiaries, outsourced operations, etc. 67 3 9 Data measurement techniques (hypotheses, estimations, etc.) 67 3 10 Effect of the re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 67 3 11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 67 3 12 CONTENT Table identifying the basic content 68-73 3 13 ASSUR. External assurance of the report 67 80 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 81 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community Performance Indicators according to the GRI Nº Dimension Code Indicator Page Nº Dimension Code Indicator Page 1 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 14-16-37 50 Labour LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifeline 55-56 practices learning that support continued employability and 54-62-63 58-59 8 Economic EC8 Investments for public benefit assist employees with managing career endings 10 Environmental EN1 Materials used (weight or volume) 37-48 51 Labour LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular practices performance and career development reviews 55-56,58 12 Environmental EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy 38,45 source 52 Labour LA13 Composition of the governance bodies and breakdown 18-19 practices of employees (by gender, age, minority group, etc.) 50,53 14 Environmental EN5 Energy saved due to efficiency 38,45 56 Human Training hours on human rights that are relevant to HR3 Environmental operations, including the percentage of employees 20 15 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Rights 38,45 trained energy-based services 57 Human HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and 20 17 Environmental EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 42 Rights corrective actions taken Environmental EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas 61 Human 25 38,67 HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained on 20 emissions by weight Rights human rights policies 27 Environmental EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 37-48 and results achieved 63 Community Community engagement programmes (nature, 42-45 SO1 35 Environmental EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of scope and effectiveness) 61-65 37-48 products and services 64 Community SO2 Percentage and total number of business units 20 37 Environmental EN28 Monetary value and number of fines for noncompliance analysed for risks related to corruption NA with environmental laws and regulations 65 Community SO3 Percentage of employees trained on the 20 38 Environmental EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products organisation’s anti-corruption policies used for the organisation’s operations, and 37-41 75 Product Practices related to customer satisfaction transporting members of the workforce PR5 (including results of satisfaction surveys) 14,26-28 responsibility 42 Labour LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees (by practices 52-54 significant locations of operation) Programmes for compliance with laws or adherence 76 Product PR6 47 Labour LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention and riskresponsibility to standards and voluntary codes mentioned in 20,30 practices control programmes for workforce members, their families 55-57 marketing communications, including advertising and and community members regarding serious diseases sponsorship 49 Labour LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee practices 55 (by employee category) 82 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 83 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORD News 2013 Letter from the president Landmarks 2013 About SEUR Responsibility Planet People Community GRI Supplement for the Logistics and Transportation sector Code Indicator Page Code Indicator Page LT1 Number of boats/ships controlled by the organisation NA LT11 Description of policies and programmes for preventing substance abuse (i.e., training and awareness campaigns) 41,57 LT2 Breakdown of the fleet 14,38,40 LT12 Number of highway deaths of drivers or third persons per million kilometres NA LT3 Description of environmental impact management policies and travelled programmes, including: 1) Initiatives regarding sustainable transport (i.e., hybrid vehicles) 37-41 LT13 List of incidents occurring during port inspections, including the following 2) Modal transport data: 3) Route planning 1) Name of the ship and number of the International Maritime Organization NA (IMO); LT4 Description of initiatives for using renewable energies and increasing 2) Port of detention, reason for detention, and 37-48 energy efficiency 3) Duration of the detention (include dates) LT5 Description of initiatives for controlling emissions that affect air quality LT14 Description of policies and programmes for public access to mail services derived from road transport (i.e., use of alternative fuels, frequency of 26, 40-41 37-41 (for example, distance to post offices and mail boxes) vehicle maintenance, driving styles, etc.) 47-48 LT15 Provision of logistics and transport resources for distributing local and LT6 Description of implemented policies and programmes for managing global humanitarian aid, measured by (for example) tonnes of transport 43-44 the impacts of traffic congestion (i.e. promoting distribution during 37-41 capacity, dedicated personnel time, shipments, value (in terms of fair trade), 63 valley hours, new modes of urban transport, percentage of distribution donations in preparation and disaster response. using alternative modes of transport) LT7 Description of policies and programmes for managing and reducing noise 37-41 LT16 Selection criteria of contracting and location services. Specify the relationship with international standards such as conventions of the 50-51 LT8 Description of environmental impacts derived from the organisation’s 37-48 International Labour Organization (ILO) most relevant infrastructures and buildings LT17 Describe local measures for offering security in the hiring and employment 50-59 LT9 Description of policies and programmes for determining work hours Under continuity for workers hired repeatedly but discontinuously and rest hours, rest facilities and permissions for drivers current legislation LT10 Describe the methods for providing devices that allow workers to maintain communication during the workday ND 84 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT www.responsabilidadseur.es 85 RESPONSIBLE DELIVERY FOR A SUSTAINABLE WORLD WORKING FOR A SUSTANAIBLE WORLD! WOULD YOU LIKE TO JOIN US? Responsability Planet People Community This document has been digitalized according to paper consumption reduction policies For more Info visit www.responsabilidadseur.es or scan the QR 2013 SUSTAIBILITY REPORT
