annual report 2014 Solutions for life 2013 fiscal year 1 annual report 2014 Solutions for life 2013 fiscal year CONTENT 06 ABOUT THE REPORT 08 OUR MESSAGE 1 10 ABOUT THE SOLVÍ GROUP 12 Our profile: several companies, one commitment 14 Our belief: more than an identity, the engine that drives our actions 14 • Being Solví 15 Our services: portfolio of environmental engineering solutions for life 16 Our history: evolution focused on sustainable growth 18 Where we are: diversity and interculturality in action 2 20 HOW WE OPERATE 22 Corporate Governance: coordinated decentralization, synergy and alignment 22 • Risk Management 22 • Ethics Management 24 • Communications Management 24 Leadership: the leader as an orchestra conductor 25 Corporate Responsibility: the company’s role in a network of people, community and environment 27 Responsible innovation: the path to the future 28 Challenges, commitments and achievements 3 32 OUR PARTNERS 34 Employees: our great differentiation 35 Suppliers: partners in our sustainable performance 36 Customers: drivers for increasingly sustainable businesses 37 Community: the extension of our values 38 Relations with the market and organized society: a double-way path 4 40 OUR BUSINESSES 44 Solví Public Waste 48 Solví Private Waste AR 56 Solví Sanitation 60 Solví Energy Valorization 64 Solví Engineering 5 68 OUR PERFORMANCE annual 70 Context of operation report 72 Solví Panorama 2014 74 Economic Performance 76 Contributions to sustainable development 76 • Solví Sustainability Platform 2013 fiscal year 95 2014 Panorama 95 The Solví Scenario 98 GRI Index and Global Compact Index, ISO 26000 GRI 3.3 GRI 3.1 annual report 2014 ABOUT THE REPORT Annual Report 2014 The Solví Group considers the Annual Report Thus, the organization expects to create CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE SUSTAINABLE production process an important opportunity to a parameter that allows it to follow the DEVELOPMENT evaluate its practices and thus reinforce a culture company’s progress regarding the key This theme is addressed under Our Performance, of sustainability across the organization. themes of its strategy. starting with a brief description of the facts that happened in 2013 facts and the organization’s This is due to the great internal mobilization, and The changes proposed are also in line financial results. It also brings the main with target audiences, to collect and analyze data with the result of the survey conducted in innovations, starting with the Solví Sustainability to be published.This year, it was not different.The 2013 with target audiences to evaluate the Platform and actions directly related to the production of this report involved leaderships, previous annual report published by Solví. implementation of this tool. employees and members of the Local Social Responsibility Committees, who worked together This materiality practice was important to It also shows the company’s shortand to define the relevant information to be published. define the report content and the improvemedium-term expectations and strategies, taking ment diagnostic framework, once it provided into account forecasts for the 2014 macroeconomic Then, several structural changes were a chance to hear the external audiences, scenario and projects in progress. implemented when comparing to previous years; such as customers, suppliers and represenalterations that are exactly the result of this broad tatives of the banking sector. The report shows data from January 1 to internal debate that happens before the report December 31, 2013. The analysis of information production. The G3.1 guidelines of Global Reporting about management; economic, social and Initiative (GRI) – incorporated in last year’s environmental performance; and challenges for The implementation of ISO 26.000, the first report – remain in this issue, guiding the 2014 was based on interviews with than executives international standard focused on corporate report and offering parameters for the report of the company. The only data submitted to auditing responsibility, was an important instrument production, based on relevant themes are the financial data. in this process, leading to reflection and selfsuch as materiality, stakeholder inclusion, evaluations; as well as the commitments sustainability context, comprehensiveness, However, despite the changes implemented, a assumed with the Global Compact and the work balance and clarity, comparability, accuracy, comparison to last year’s information is possible, developed by the recently created Sustainability periodicity and reliability. once the indicators are the same but grouped in Workgroup, which directly acted to define the a different manner. company’s materiality matrix. Thus, the publication is structured in three main portions: Most importantly, we know that, once again, the All this process culminated in the creation of the Solví Group Annual Report was mainly based on the Solví Sustainability Platform, a document that CORPORATE PROFILE – Presents the same systemic vision that is behind the way graphically represents the efforts the organization Solví Group and its history, as well as its the company runs its businesses, not addressing will dedicate in the next years to keep its values, principles and styles of making the performance of the Group’s companies businesses and relationships fully aligned with the businesses. It has three chapters: About separately in the operational, social and sustainable development needs. the Solví Group, How we Operate and Our environmental aspects, but based on goals, Partners. what the company intends to achieve. Due to the power and importance of this document, Solví Participações decided to OUR BUSINESSES – Brings the main structure its annual report based on the achievements of the companies that belong indicators and themes pointed out in its to the Solví Group and presents its Have a good reading. Sustainability Platform. challenges for the future. 6 7 GRI 1.1 GRI 1.1 annual report 2014 OUR MESSAGE considering its experience of over 18 years that allows us to have better and consistent growth, based on a solid 2013 was an important in South American countries. increasing results that help the foundation and quality services, year to the Solví Group. development of both the society and the always towards a harmonious company. coexistence with the environment. We materialized our We understand that a determinant for the organization’s achievements, in 2013 and entrepreneurial talent and in previous years, is the fact that Solví has Following the same idea of relationship expanded our already high always invested and implemented strategies consolidation and strengthening, we THAT’S SOLVÍ and initiatives to promote innovation and established partnerships with several ability to deliver, through consolidation and maturation strengthen its corporate governance, ensuring sustainable results and allowing to institutions to support the development of innovative and economically viable DELIVERING of pioneering projects, help disseminate the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, a commitment technologies, and we collaborated to and conducted innumerous environmental SOLUTIONS helping keep Solví’s leading assumed and pursued by all companies of awareness campaigns and programs. FOR LIFE. the Group. position in the markets it Our participation in the Orient Expedition operates. The introduction of supporting managerial project of the Schurmann Family is one of tools, such as the Solví Entrepreneurship these partnerships that instigate us. CARLOS LEAL VILLA Model (MES), risk management Chairman, the Solví Group decentralization and additional promotion of Started in last year, this initiative aims In the segment of waste, Organosolví started the ethics management are inserted in this to support the family’s third trip around to produce organic fertilizer, transforming context. the world, supporting the construction organic waste into this important farming of a boat that incorporates sustainable product, with attractive productivity rates for The Solví Integrity Program conducts technologies, among other aspects. the sector. employee training and engagement actions to help them operate in an ethical manner Lastly, we were awarded last year by In the area of energy valorization, we and incorporate risk management in their representatives of the Brazilian society consolidated our business of energy daily routine. in the areas of governance, social generation from a single fuel: biogas, based responsibility and people management, on the degeneration of organic matter found That’s because we believe the actual which are for us a reason to feel satisfied in landfills. adhesion of people is what will enable and a source of inspiration. the effective incorporation of values and The idea is to replicate this model – adopted principles. Such recognition reflects the commitment by Termoverde, in Salvador – in new thermal of both leadership and employees to the plants to be installed in other landfills of the In this sense, we understand the relationship organization, as well as the Group’s solid Solví Group. The international operation has with our stakeholders as one of the pillars financial profile, characterized by Solutions for life also been in the Group’s development plans, 8 9 ABOUT THE SOLVÍ GROUP Our profile Our beliefs Our services Our history Where we stand “Solví is like a family.” Mariana Matsubara, coordinator at Solví Energy Valorization since 2010. 1 GRI 2.1; 2.3 GRI 2.3 about the solví group I annual report 2014 ABOUT THE SOLVÍ GROUP Managerial Structure Our profile: The Solví Institute several The Solví Institute is responsible for promoting the socioenvironmental entrepreneurship of companies that belong companies, one The Solví to the Solví Group and supporting the qualification of Institute managers and employees, allowing them to act as agents commitment of change towards sustainable development. For this purpose, it keeps a network of Local Social Responsibility Committees, comprised of members from various areas The Solví Group is Center for Shared Services of each company.The Institute also manages the social comprised of companies investment fund of the Solví Group, which has the monthly that are in evidence for Center for Shared contribution from the Group’s associated companies and whose purpose is to fund their projects. their operation in five Services segments: Public Waste, The CSS has an agile team, with Private Waste, Sanitation, experience in the best practices of Energy Valorization and process design, offering relevant Solví Engineering. Through these information to provide competitive Engineering advantage to the companies of the Solví operations, the Group is Group. Its main purpose is to promote the present in 250 Brazilian perfect integration of people, processes cities located in different and platforms of information intelligence. states, and in Argentina, Bolivia and Peru. To keep these operations, it has the support of more than Solví 25,000 employees. Public Waste Solví Regardless of the size Energy of operation, location Valorization or business area, all companies from the Solví Group have assumed Solví Solví the same commitment: Sanitation Private Waste offer Solutions for life, by Engenharia Ambiental S.A. providing differentiated services, highly efficient and innovative, that allow a harmonious coexistence between the environment and the society. 12 13 GRI 4.8 GRI 2.2; 2.8 about the solví group I annual report 2014 Our beliefs: more than an identity, Our services: a portfolio of environmental the engine that drives our actions engineering solutions for life BEING SOLVÍ Solví Resíduos Solví Saneamento Solví Valorização Being a company of the Solví Group means having employees that act as business leaders, who (Public Waste) (Sanitation) Energética work for the good in a sustainable manner, delivering Solutions for Life to the society, generating (Energy Valorization) • Sanitary Landfills Water results for the organization and value to all its stakeholders. • Household Waste • Raw Water Intake Carbon Credit Collection • Biogas • Treatment MISSION • Hospital Waste Collection • Carbon Credit • Storage Offer solutions for waste treatment, sanitation, energy • Selective Waste Collection • Ducting Thermoelectric Power Plants valorization and engineering, operating and managing • Special Cleaning concessions and contracts with public and private clients. • Lifting Units • Biogas-Powered Promote the development of our employees and communities, • Maintenance of Green • Thermoelectric Power Plants Areas • Distribution creating value to shareholders, customer, suppliers and the government, through sustainable growth and respect for the • Transfer Facilities • Drinking Water Quality environment. Monitoring • Health Waste Treatment VISION • Cleaning of Public Ways Sewage • Waste Valorization and • Collection System Be the best group of engineering management companies Treatment Plant Solví Engenharia that provide Solutions for Life and a reference in the provision of differentiated, integrated and innovative services. • Treatment (Engineering) • Lifting Units Solví Resíduos • Disposal • Civil Construction VALUES (Private Waste) • Waste Quality Monitoring • Infrastructure Excellence, Innovation, Dynamism, Team, Social • Landfills Classes I and II Responsibility, Partnership. • Industrial/Commercial Collection Commercial Management • Composting • Hydrometer Reading MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES • Co-processing • Bill Print and Delivery Harmonize the expectations of customers • Management and users with the search for business • Billing Actions results and development of our employees, • Incineration • Fraud Control through decentralized operations that are • Reverse Production planned and controlled at corporate level. • Production of • Maintenance of Organomineral Fertilizers Hydrometer Park • Metal Recovery • Maintenance of Contact • Remediation of Information Contaminated Areas Customer Service • Increase in Bulb Lifecycle • Screening and Recycling 14 15 GRI 2.9 about the solví group I annual report 2014 Our history: evolution focused on sustainable growth The Solví Group has operated under this name for less than ten years. But some of the companies that originated the Group – such as Vega – bring experience of over 40 years in the market of engineering and environmental solutions. Tradition directly reflected in the Macaé Serviços e Projetos Ambientais business history of the Group. Manufatura Miraflores Reversa 1990s 2000s The Solví Group was created in Two important facts in this period. The first was in 2003, when Suez Ambiental 2013 1997, when Vega Engenharia and Relima, traditional companies that was created, which started to centralize the Suez Group’s businesses in the areas of public and private waste and sanitation. Ecossistema 2012 offered public cleaning services, Three years later, French-Belgian multinational decided to sell its shares in became part of Suez, a FrenchBrazil, leading to the acquisition of Suez Ambiental capital through buyout and Belgian multinational operating in the originating the Solví Group. energy segment. That was in 1997, and, in the following years, new Almost at the same time, the new company decided to expand its businesses, companies were acquired, expanding focusing operations also on the generation of renewable energy, with the the operations of the Group to other creation of Solví Valorização Energética. business areas. In this period, the company started in industrial waste In the following years, several internal actions were performed to change Solví into the largest and best engineering company of environmental solution 2010 2011 Valorização management and treatment with the in Brazil. With this goal in mind, Solví Excellence Academy was created (in Energética creation of GRI – Gerenciamento 2008) for employee training and leadership development, and the 2020 Solví de Resíduos Industriais (1998) and Document was produced (in 2009), which establishes the business strategies Essencis Soluções Ambientais (1999). that will guide the Group in the following years. 2008 2009 Engenharia Ambiental S.A. 2006 Remediation Catarinense 2007 2004 2010s 2002 2005 1998 2000 In this decade, the Solví Group started its internal restructuring process, which will allow to achieve its mediumand long-term goals. 2003 Ecototal The initiatives included the 1997 1999 2001 implementation of the new Solví Corporate Governance structure (2010), the creation and launch of the Solví Entrepreneurship Model (MES) in 2012, and the beginning of operations in Bolivia. San Isidoro In 2013, new achievements: strengthening of the Solví Integrity San Isidoro Acquisition Program, Organosolví production of Sita/Suez Coprocessamento start, and the beginning of operations in Argentina, among other actions. Incineration Solution 16 17 GRI 2.5; 2.7; 3.8 GRI 2.5; 2.7; 3.8 about the solví group I annual report 2014 Where we stand: diversity and interculturality in action More than 250 cities have services offered by the companies from the Solví Group, Pernambuco taking environmental solutions to several places across the country and abroad. Barra de Guarabira Ipubi Solví Public and Private Waste Salgadinho São Benedito do Sul Solví Sanitation Piauí Altos Solví Energy Valorization Pará Paraíba Teresina Solví Engineering Benevides João Pessoa Amazonas Marituba Manaus Ceará Horizonte RR AP Goiás MORE THAN Mato Grosso Dourados AM PA MA CE Alexânia Aparecida de Goiânia Bahia Águas Claras Camaçari Caetité Glória 250 CITIES SERVED RN Feira de Ilhéus PB Santana MORE THAN 25,000 PI PE Irecê São Francisco Peru do Conde Lauro de Freitas AC TO AL RO SE Macururé Ilabaya Peru BA Salvador Vitória da Conquista EMPLOYEES Juanjuí MT Espírito Santo Tingo Maria DF Aracruz Lima Bolívia Bolívia GO Vila Velha Miraflores Minas Gerais San Isidro Santa Cruz MG ES de la Sierra MS Alfenas Cochabamba Belo Horizonte SP RJ Betim PR Brumadinho Rio de Janeiro Paraná Conselheiro Santa Catarina SC Baixada Lafaiete Araucária São Paulo Fluminense Capivari de Baixo Congonhas Contenda Lorena São Bernardo Barra do Piraí Joinville RS Araçatuba Embu do Campo Contagam Araras Embu Guaçu Louveira Barra Mansa Curitiba Divinópolis São Caetano São José dos Argentina Arujá Ferraz de Mauá do Sul Belford Roxo Itabirito Pinhais Vasconcelos Mogi das Cabo Frio Atibaia São Carlos Itatiaiaçu São Mateus do Sul Franco da Rocha Cruzes Campos Barueri São José Juiz de Fora Guararema Osasco Itaboraí Botucatu dos Campos Paulínia Ouro Branco Guaratinguetá São Paulo Itatiaia Caieiras Sabará Rio Grande do Sul Guarulhos Poá Macaé Cajamar São Vicente Praia Grande Sete Lagoas Itaberaba Sorocaba Magé Canoas Montenegro Campinas Promissão Niterói São Roque Capela de Novo Itapecerica da Sumaré de Minas Argentina Campo Limpo Serra Santana Hamburgo Paulista Quatá Paracambi Suzano Farroupilha Pelotas Rosário Itapevi Ribeirão Pires Porto Real Caraguatatuba Taboã Giruá Porto Alegre Itaquaquecetuba Rio Grande da Serra Resende Carapicuíba Jacareí da Serra Gravataí Rio Grande Coroados Tatuí Rio de Janeiro Jandira Santa Isabel Ibiruba Santa Maria Cotia Taubaté Volta Redonda Jundiaí Santana do Minas do Leão São José Cubatão Parnaíba Várzea do Norte Paulista São Gabriel Diadema Santo André São Leopoldo Vinhedo Santos + municípios São José 18 do Rio Preto 19 HOW WE OPERATE Corporate Governance Leadership Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible Innovation “ I’m glad I work at a company from Challenges, commitments the Solví Group” and achievements Ricardo Araújo Júnior, driver of Koleta Ambiental since 2008. 20 2 21 GRI 4.1; 4.2; 4.3; 4.6; 4.11 GRI 4.1; 4.4; 4.6 how we operate I 2014 annual report HOW WE OPERATE A RELIABLE AND NEUTRAL CHANNEL Corporate Governance: assuring coordinated decentralization, synergy and alignment The Conduct Committee is the body in charge of clarifying the principles of the Solví Code of Conduct and promoting and The Corporate Governance structure strengthening an ethical culture, monitoring the progress of processes and eventual implemented by Solví Participações in exceptional situations to achieve the best 2007 is surely one of the main pillars possible resolution. of the organization, providing the RISK MANAGEMENT necessary support to help companies In 2013, the Solví Group’s companies developed and See how the Conduct implemented action plans, according to a risk mapping Committee works: put into practice their business conducted in 2012. Once again, the particularities of • It is comprised of representatives from strategies and actions that will ensure the different companies of the Group were respected, the companies controlled by the Solví their longevity. giving them autonomy to define their strategies and Group; The Administration Council of Solví is the preventive actions. Vega Engenharia – a company of main deliberative group of the organization, • It supports the organization’s the Group that operates in the public waste segment –, which has five members, four of them are Administration Council in issues that for instance, created an internal Risk Committee, to independent members. It has the support of involve ethics and behaviors, including follow up all actions implemented. employee violations; two advisory committees the Investment and New Business Committee and the Risk and Audit Committee that provide • It works with confidentiality, ensuring important analyses and strategic input to the secrecy to those who identify and decision-making process. ETHICS MANAGEMENT report attitudes that do not observe For the Solví Group, business ethics the Code of Conduct; Complementing the Group’s governance is more than a differentiation that structure, initiatives have been conducted Ethics has always guided every action developed can have a positive effect on our • Ensures answers to denunciations in the areas of risk management, ethics and by the Solví Group’s companies, including actions actions. It’s a commitment, a guide received; communications (relation with stakeholders) involving leadership and those restricted to employees. that drives our way to make business. to systematically improve the incorporation To ensure that, the organization keeps a Conduct • Forwards recommendations to When defending and disseminating of governance principles across the Committee that provides guidance, answers questions analyzed cases for proper decision an ethical behavior among our organization, such as transparency, equality, of the companies involved in employees, we expect not only to and receives denunciations, investigating and properly accountability, compliance and corporate denunciations; gain credibility in the market, but responsibility. forwarding the cases. influence the market. And, for this The organization also has exclusive channels In 2013, the Solví Code of Conduct was revised to • Acts preventively, answering questions purpose, we invest in initiatives that to report actions or behaviors that do not incorporate requirements from the new Corporate of the management about ethical allow all our employees to practice observe the Code of Conduct, ensuring issues resulting from behaviors of the principles we defend and, Anti-Corruption Act (nº 12.846), enacted in August information confidentiality and security. employees or third parties; especially, go beyond the company’s 2013, and in force in 2014. The Group’s leaders limits, involving all our received instructions about this Act and had the • Regularly informs the Administration business chain.” Denunciations can be notified to Solví via email opportunity to make questions to a guest specialist, Council about the status of cases in a debate about the subject. In 2014, this Mauro Renan, superintendent comissao.conduta@solvi.com or letter Caixa analyzed by the Committee; Postal nº 31.256 – São Paulo – SP (free service). subject will also be addressed by the Solví Integrity at Organosolví and member of • Promotes continuous training to the the Conduct Committee of the Program, a comprehensive proposal that promotes leadership. organization a strong synergy between the actions developed by the Conduct Committee and the departments of Communications and Human Resources. 22 23 GRI 4.6 GRI 4.9 how we operate I 2014 annual report Leadership: : the leader as Corporate Social Responsibility: the company’s COMMUNICATION an orchestra conductor role in a network of people, community MANAGEMENT and environment The leaders of the companies, internally Solví understands Corporate Social Responsibility essentially as a management The Solví Group adopts a called Entrepreneurial Leaders, are especially decentralized communication model that seeks to fulfill the demands of the society segments related to the responsible for the way their teams operate. management model, ensuring a company’s business and environmental preservation in its tactical and operational fast flow of information across the EThis concept is the main foundation of the Solví strategies and plans organization and contributing to strong Entrepreneurship Model (MES), which is based on relations with the stakeholders, by a work philosophy that adopts meritocracy and sharing good practices. enterprisingness. With this model, it expects to support In 2013, an important managerial tool that supports And, this way, it contributes to the sustainability the corporate governance and achieve the MES was developed and implemented, allowing of communities where it operates, and the 2013 was an important year. every Business Unit leader to clearly know his real business goals. sustainability of the company itself. In the After the diagnostic analysis and contribution to the organization’s results. environmental actions, all initiatives that it planning conducted in 2012 for In this context, in 2013, the focus This tool, which is a data analysis platform, generates develops are based on rigorous compliance with the implementation of ISO 26000, was the development of an internal managerial reports to all leaders, strengthening the environmental laws and regulations, and the internal we actually started to perform the communication network, with the culture of meritocracy already present in the Group. Environmental Policy, which, in many aspects, actions developed and evaluate creation of the Communication is considered more rigorous than the legislation them. This new cycle, which The decentralized managerial reports also allow to Workgroup (GTCOM), comprised in force. In 2013, more than R$ 205 million were is renewed annually, will help increment the Value Creation Program (PCV), with allocated to the area. strengthen a culture of sustainability of members from the Group’s goals that match every reality, thus consistently in the Group’s companies. companies, acting as focal points of promoting improved quality and productivity of However, Solví’s commitment to the environment Although ISO planning foresees services provided. is not seen only in its investments, but especially in communication. future scenarios – incorporating its systemic vision present in the management of its Actually, quality is one of the guiding principles a long-term systemic vision into In 2013, these employees were production activities. of all areas of operation, and, in this sense, Solví the company’s practices, already trained to map and prioritize target encourages the Entrepreneurial Leaders to seek The environmental issue is not dissociated from essentially connected with the audiences, developing local plans ISO certifications; in fact, many units already have social and economic issues, leading the Group’s quality of human and environmental of communication that were later ISO 9001 certification and others have gone further, companies to create projects focused on supporting life – the corporate action occurs in validated by the leadership from with ISO 14001 certification, which is specific for the development of technologies that improve the present moment, according to environmental management systems, and others the quality of life of people with environmental the current reality of the company. participating companies. have OHSAS 18000. engineering solutions, as well as projects to That allows such actions to add Also in 2013, a new internal channel promote empowerment, by fostering citizenship and value to the organization not was launched, Comunica Solví, which contributing to income generation. only along the years, but also allows the leadership and focal points contributing to short-term results. The Solví Institute, responsible for promoting this And that’s exactly the paradigm of of communication from the Group’s culture of socio-environmental entrepreneurship sustainability: combine short term companies to post information about in the Group’s companies, also supports the and long term.” qualification of managers and employees, business, sustainability, innovation, allowing them to act as agents of change towards people, quality, safety, results, ethics, Claudia Sérvulo da Cunha Dias, sustainable development. For this purpose, it among other themes. keeps a network of Local Social Responsibility manager of Communications Committees, comprised of members from various and Social Responsibility at the The contents are produced by areas of each company. Solví Group themselves and approved by Solví’s department of Communications. Through the SOMAR Project, the Institute encourage the Solví Group’s companies to invest in sustainability projects – locally developed from corporate macro guidelines and conducted with the support of local partnerships – that generate positive impact to people and the environment in the cities where the organization operates. 24 25 how we operate I 2014 annual report Excellence Academy Responsible innovation: the path to the future Launched in 2011 by the Solví Institute, the Solví Award for Excellence in Social Programs Objectives The demands of the society regarding sustainability change and expand every day. Responsibility recognizes the good practices implemented by the Group’s companies, For this reason, it is essential for Solví, which guides its businesses based on the awarding not only notable projects, but Integrator Promote integration and alignment with Solví’s search for solutions for live, to be constantly ahead, presenting the market and other also encouraging continuous improvements culture and values target audiences new options to solve problems that may impact the environment. in the search for a socially responsible Interns Identify and develop potential young studies management, using its own tool that allows with potential to be part of the team of Solví to identify the maturity degree of companies in terms of incorporation of the criteria Develop internal and external talents adopted by the Global Reporting Initiative Trainee recently graduated to occupy key positions in the organization (GRI), ISO 26000 and the Global Compact. With this identification, the companies Improve technical competences of Technical employees from specific areas, are encouraged to create programs staff with positive impact on their performance of sustainability goals and action and skills. plans that promote the principles of a socially responsible management, Develop potential leaders, Managerial supervisors and coordinators to fulfill involving employees in discussions and staff business demands implementation of planned actions. Solví believes that, regardless of the role their Boost managerial competences and skills employees have in the company or in Lead to turn the organization’s managers into the society, all of them should act as entrepreneurs. environmental agents. Increase the performance of managers Coaching In this context, the Solví Group has Improve project management and promoted, since 2008, the Solví Volunteer PMI follow-up skills. Day twice a year to encourage the spirit to serve and the sense of shared responsibility Develop an integrated view of the daily among the organization’s employees. Also Grow functional activities with the knowledge area of the Elementary/Middle/High Education to encourage the sustainable participation and in the Spanish language course. and intrapreneurship of its employees, the Solví Excellence Academy plans, implements Contribute to the development process For Solví, innovation is what happens when The development of a proactive culture, and promotes actions focused not only on of executives, preparing substitutes and we challenge ourselves to think differently, in which people see challenges as Successors successors to fulfill the Group’s growth seeking solutions that can bring a positive opportunities and feel encouraged to professional development, but also on human demand. impact on the organization’s results and the development of its employees. change them through collaboration and society through services the Group offers. creativity, is the foundation to promote This is innovation that can generate really innovation at all levels of the company. important changes.That’s why the company And innovation has been the foundation encourages its employees to see their of our development as a company. We daily routine differently, stimulating them to see that in the projects submitted to the discover more efficient ways to perform the Solví Innovation Award, a number that has same activities. increased along the years.” The Academy programs are investment of the company to leverage the careers One of the ways to encourage employees Tadayuki Yoshimura, council member of of our employees and ensure the is the Solví Innovation Award, which aims to expand the culture of innovation across the Solví Group and creator of the Solví understanding and absorption of of future skills for the company’s growth. the organization by recognizing the best Innovation Award in 2007 I guess that’s its greatest importance.” initiatives and proactivity of its employees. In 2013, in its 7th edition, it had the Maria Cristina Bertolino, participation of 90 projects, 7% more than in superintendent of DHO 2012. at Essencis 26 27 GRI 1.2 GRI 1.2; SO1 how we operate I 2014 annual report Challenges, commitments and achievements Social 2013 Commitment 2013 2014 Commitment Challenge Risk Management 2013 Commitment 2013 Achievements 2014 Commitment Challenge Responsibility Achievements Management The Risk Creation of Action The Action Plans Follow the Incorporate the The Social Start the actions Twenty-two The Sustainability Consolidate the Management is Plans to monitor were developed implementation Risk Management Responsibility seeking compliance companies Workgroup will be Local Social understood as an risks that have for each Business of Action Plans into the Management of with the goals developed created with focus Responsibility essential tool to been mapped Unit, based on and develop organizational the Solví Group’s established in their goal on supporting the Committees as identify, analyze and ensure proper the vulnerabilities a reporting culture, as a measure companies is Programs. At planning and implementation bodies in charge and propose reporting to the and degree of mechanism for to create value and performed by corporate level, one evaluation of goal planning. of and able to strategic actions to Administration exposure related a more effective sustainability. the Local Social create a Workgroup cycle was Challenge. conduct the social face situations of Council of each to the activities monitoring of with representatives instability related business area. performed. how the theme Responsibility conducted. The responsibility from the to the operations This process has progressed Committees, which following areas: Sustainability management of follow the corporate Workgroup was the companies. of companies, was individually in every business Environmental allowing to adopt a conducted for area. guidelines established Management, not created. by the Solví Institute. preventive attitude every company Finance, Personnel and Information in case of strategic and was based Intelligence, to risks that involve on the Solví Risk support the work financial results and Management Policy of Local Social the organizational and Risk Maps. Responsibility image and climate Committees. of companies. Ethics 2013 Commitment 2013 Achievements 2014 Commitment Challenge Management The Conduct Enhance the 2013 Actions The Promote a strong Provide Committee, diffusion of the Solví Integrity Program synergy between guidance to comprised of five Code of Conduct was launched. the actions employees, Organizational 2013 Commitment 2013 2014 Commitment Challenge employees of the as an enabler in The proposed developed by helping them Development Achievements Management Solví Group, is the the dissemination initiatives included the Conduct deal with the body in charge of the principles to the reformulation of Committee and complexity The Organizational Consolidate the Tools and Support Fulfill the of clarifying the show how to apply the Solví Code of the departments of of ethical Development MES with all technologies the Group’s different principles of the them in the daily Conduct, which was Communications dilemmas Management leaders of the Solví. were developed companies in training Solví Code of routine of every revised to incorporate and Human experienced is considered a to support the their employee demands Conduct and employee. the guidelines of the Resources. by anyone, strategic area Create modules MES, allowing training process, according to promoting and new Anti-Corruption respecting providing support of professional managers to strengthening the distinct strengthening an Act (12.846/2013). the cultural to business, development based know the real the Excellence profiles of ethical culture, The company’s diversity. responsible for on the guidelines impact of the Academies. the function/ monitoring leaders received the consolidating an of MES and business they are employee/ the progress new version of the entrepreneurial implement them conducting on geographic of processes Code and signed a culture with can at the Excellence the organization’s region where and forwarding term of commitment, generate value Academies of each results. the Group eventual ensuring their through businesses company of the operates. exceptional compliance and of the Group, with Group. situations for the dissemination among the leader as the best possible the staff members. main agent of his/her resolution. area. 28 29 GRI 1.2; 2.10 GRI 1.2 how we operate I 2014 annual report Knowledge 2013 Commitment 2013 Achievements 2014 Commitment Challenge Communication 2013 2013 Achievements 2014 Commitment Challenge and Innovation Management Commitment Management Communication at the Commitment An internal Ensure clear intention Consolidate The Solví Group’s Increase the The 7th edition Keep expanding Strengthen Solví Group, managed Implement the communication and constant flow the operations are based number of of the Solví the culture of communication by the Solví Institute, plan designed network was of information understanding on the creation of innovative projects Innovation Award innovation across and relationship is a tool of education for Solví developed, with for effective that effective Solutions for Life, in the Solví Group conducted in the organization skills of the and an essential Participações the creation of the communication. communication seeking to identify and, consequently, 2013 had the by recognizing organization. part in the process S.A., while Communication With this purpose, a is a mandatory tools and methods to the number of participation of 90 initiatives and to build its legacy, local plans of Workgroup supporting material competence of ensure fulfillment of candidates for the projects, which proactivity of as it encourages the Group’s (GTCOM), will be developed leaders, legitimate sustainability demands award. represents a 7% employees open behavior of companies are comprised of for the leadership – the focal point as of the society. Based increase in relation and promoting employees and developed and members from the the Communicating the manager of the on this concept, to 2012. engagement enables to strengthen implemented. Group’s companies, Leader Guide –, local plan and keep the Solví Innovation actions with the relationship with acting as focal points which, based on constant flow of Award was created the Group’s the organization’s of communication. concrete examples, information. as a corporate stakeholders. stakeholders. The These employees will guide them in encouragement basic concept were trained terms of behaviors to proactivity of of the Corporate to assume this in real situations employees in their Communication of function. that can impact the search for innovative Solví Participações institutional image. solutions that can The activities S.A. is to establish The first module of promote positive performed included a natural and quick an e-learning course impacts on the mapping and flow of information, on the theme will be company and its prioritization of target to help consolidate launched, available to different stakeholders. audiences and the Corporate anyone interested in development of local Governance of the this subject communications Group plans, aligning the strategies of the business units with those of the Solví Group. AWARDS See some awards THE SOLVÍ GROUP CRVR GRI ESSENCIS and recognitions (Companhia • Environmental • The Best Companies to Work for (Guia Você S/A) achieved by the Solví elected the first in An award that recognized Riograndense companies of the corporate governance. the Group’s work in Merit Award • Intranet Portal Award (Instituto Intranet Portal) Solví Group: de Valorização value protection, through granted by Fiesp • MAKE Award Brasil 2013 de Resíduos) The special issue of 1.000 its good relationship (Federation of (MAKE – Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise) Melhores Empresas with stakeholders and the Industries of • Santa Catarina Excellence Award / PCE • Henrique (1,000 Top Companies) of transparency in information the State of São (Santa Catarina Movement for Excellence) Luiz Roessler IstoÉ Dinheiro (magazine) disclosure. In the general Paulo) • SP Management Qualilty Award / PPQG Environmental Merit chose Solví as the best ranking of the segment, the (SP Institute of Management Excellence) Award (Ecologia example of Corporate company was in 2nd, the e Meio Ambiente • Rio Quality Award /PQRio Governance in the same position achieved in (Rio de Janeiro State Government) magazine published segment of specialized Social Responsibility. by Publemosc) • Minas Gerais Award of Environmental Management (Minas Gerais State Government and Brazilian Union for services. Quality/UBQ) 30 31 OUR PARTNERS Employees Suppliers Customers Community Relations with the market “Professional training at GPO is one of our priorities, a strong team is and the society reflected in the work results.” Gustavo Andrade Nunes, Contract manager at GPO since 2013. 3 GRI 2.8; LA1 GRI EC7; LA1 our partners I 2014 annual report OUR PARTNERS EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION EMPLOYEES BY LENGTH OF SERVICE (AT THE SOLVÍ GROUP) Bolívia Employees: our major differentiation 1,184 More than 20 years 276 4.45% 1.09% Argentina 2.8% 2.3% 576 16-20 years The Solví Group has more than 25,000 employees, who act as environmental 1,119 5.53% Peru 4.7% agents, seeking solutions for life. The operation of these employees is based 2,185 11-15 years 47.11% 1,395 7.49% on solid values – shared by the company – such as entrepreneurship, Northeast 6.9% 5.272 53.7% 6-10 years innovation and proactivity. 1,889 North 8.7% 715 2-5 years Southeast 8,657 34.33% 13,544 20.9% South 0-1 year 1,739 11,879 Suppliers: partners in our sustainable performance The organization is aware of its power With this purpose, it developed supplier registration of influence across the business chain and qualification criteria, ensuring commercial relations only with those companies that have and wants to use it positively, building the same principles as Solví.Technical visits, long-standing strategic commercial assessment meetings, surveys, training actions and partnerships with companies that have the projects developed in partnership with suppliers are some of the initiatives that strengthen the The employee profile of same values as the Solví Group. relationship with suppliers. the Solví Group somehow More than 25,000 employees shows a portion of the Brazilian population with its rich characteristics and challenges related 13-YEAR SUCCESSFUL TRAJECTORY to diversity.We are very EMPLOYEES BY different, not only in our BUSINESS UNIT functional body, but also In 2013, we celebrated the 13th anniversary With a customized development to in areas and locations Construction of the partnership between the Solví Group help increase productivity, the new 0.81% 0.06% of operation, and most 1,792 and MAN Latin America – manufacturer of prototype has the ideal power to importantly, we have a Volkswagen and MAN trucks and buses. transport up to 13 tons of solid waste Energy strong sense of belonging 14 2.95% In this period, more than seven vehicle per trip, running, on average, 4,000 to a unique and coherent prototypes have been developed by MAN km a month. It was also developed to company, which is ‘being Holding/ CSC 7.11% to fulfill specific needs of the Group’s reduce acquisition and maintenance Solví , 203 companies. A result of this joint work is VW costs and ensure safety and comfort Constellation 23.230 6x2 Compactor, a to the driver and team of waste Waste Priscila Lopes, truck prototype for solid waste collection, collectors. The idea is to extend and 22,461 People Coordinator at the 89.08% which belongs to the fleet of Loga, the Solví adapt these innovations to other Solví Group. Sanitation Group’s company in charge of providing models manufactured by MAN used in 745 waste collection services in the city of São different segments. Total Paulo in 2013. 25,215 34 35 our partners I 2014 annual report Customers: drivers for increasingly Community: an extension sustainable businesses of our values The Solví Group, through its customers, can achieve its mission, which is to The Solví Group sees in neighboring find solutions for life.The customers encourage the Group’s companies to communities of its operations an dedicate more and more efforts to the search of technological innovations opportunity to expand its values that can promote environmentally adequate and socially inclusive results beyond the organization. Thus, the in issues like waste disposal and valorization, energy generation from Group develops its own campaigns renewable sources and improved quality of essential services. and partnerships to expand the vision of sustainability and population awareness. It also supports and develops initiatives for the CUSTOMIZED SOLUTION development of people in situations of social and economic vulnerability.The objective is to Finding an environmentally build transparent and quality relations, with the aware and economically identification and mitigation of the main local viable solution for the paint problems. sludge produced in the industrial process of metal surface painting.That was the challenge proposed by Renault to GRI, the Solví Group’s company in charge of waste management at the INCENTIVE TO EDUCATION Ayrton Senna Complex, a plant located in São José dos Pinhais (PR), which houses Encouraging students at older age for the grade they are attending the three Renault factories in (age-grade distortion) to keep studying, showing these young people that many Brazil. job opportunities are directly connected to the education level. This The proposed option was to is the main objective of the Futuraí project, created by the Municipal Secretariat use this waste as alternative of Education and Culture of Minas do Leão, a city located in Rio Grande do raw material in the production Sul, in a partnership with CIAPPEG (Interactive Center of Psychological and of premolded cement blocks. Pedagogic Service). The idea was implemented The initiative – supported by CRVR (Companhia Riograndense de Valorização in 2013 and has presented de Resíduos), a company that belongs to the Solví Group – conduct supervised good results, with positive visits to local companies, widening the students’ view of the labor market and environmental and economic their future perspectives. impacts: increased recycling index was observed in the In 2013, besides the visits to companies, the participants visited the Ayrton Senna Complex and administrative areas of the City Administration of Minas do Leão and CRVR reduced cost of paint sludge facilities in the city, when they could learn about the work performed by a public recycling. body, and the professional qualification required to perform every function with quality, as well as the challenges of working in an environmental engineering company that deals with waste. 36 37 GRI 4.12; 4.13 our partners I 2014 annual report Relations with the market and organized society: a double-way path Solví participates in discussions promoted by associations and organizations MILLENNIUM DEVELOPMENT GOALS of the society and in the development of policies for the different markets where it operates, provided that they are aligned with the corporate identity. It The Solví Group is a signatory to the Global Compact, an initiative also assumes voluntary commitments that follow its principles and values. developed by the United Nations (UN), whose purpose is to mobilize the corporate community for the adoption of internationally accepted essential values in their business practices: HUMAN RIGHTS ENVIRONMENT Principle 1 Businesses should support Principle 7 Businesses should and respect the protection of internationally support a precautionary approach proclaimed human rights; and to environmental challenges; Principle 2 Businesses should make sure Principle 8 Businesses they are not complicit in human rights abuses. should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and LABOR Principle 9 Businesses should Principle 3 Businesses should uphold encourage the development and the freedom of association and the effective diffusion of environmentally friendly recognition of the right to collective bargaining. technologies Principle 4 Businesses should uphold United Nations the elimination of all forms of forced and Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION compulsory labor; Principle 10 Businesses Ethos Institute of Social Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the should work against corruption in effective abolition of child labor; and Responsibility all its forms, including extortion Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the and bribery. Brazilian Business elimination of discrimination in respect of Council for Sustainable employment and occupation Development Unions and Trade Associations 38 39 Solví Public Waste OUR BUSINESSES Solví Private Waste Solví Sanitation People know where I work and they talk about the Solví Energy improvements in the Valorization service provided. Rodrigo Borges, operator at São Gabriel Saneamento since 2012. Solví 4 Engineering our businesses I 2014 annual report OUR BUSINESSES The Solví Group has strong presence in five segments – Public Waste, Private Waste, Sanitation, Energy Valorization and Engineering – and it provides the support required for all its companies to achieve the expected results, acting quickly and in synergy with corporate strategies. Thus, the operations have the support from The Solví Group’s companies are focused on the Center for Shared Services (CSS) for the designing projects and conduct viability studies development of its businesses.This unit centralizes for new businesses which require expertise all administrative areas that support the companies from different companies, identifying these (Accounting, Tax, Supplies, Treasury, Accounts opportunities, creating partnerships with different Payable, Accounts Receivable, Insurance, Personnel companies, aligning interests. This is a synergy Administration, Reporting, Information Technology work, very important for the Group’s business and Information Development), promoting an expansion. integration between processes and information. The result is resource optimization, standardization of key In only six months, with this focus, 64 business procedures and service customization. proposals were submitted, eight contracts resulting from these were signed in 2013, in the The CSS is always seeking innovations and areas of waste management, energy valorization, technologies that can improve its productivity, engineering and sanitation. optimize processes, fulfill the demand of its internal customers or reduce costs. SYNERGY OF RESULTS In 2013, Koleta Ambiental, in a the Port of Santos, considered consortium with Revita Engenharia the largest port in Latin America – a company that belongs to the and one of the 50 largest ports Vega Group –, won the bid for the in the world. Then, Koleta provision of conservation, general expanded its operations, with cleaning, sweeping, collection and the creation of an operational final destination of waste generated at unit in the city of Santos. 42 43 SOLVÍ PUBLIC WASTE Providing quality services to the population, with long-term agreements with municipal authorities, and respect for the environment. This is the main objective of the Solví Group in the segment of Public Waste. Its operation in this market is through companies that comprise the Vega Group – including Revita Engenharia Sustentável, present in 13 Brazilian cities – and Relima, operating in Argentina and Peru. 44 45 SOLVÍ PUBLIC WASTE Sustainable future Pioneer in the segment of urban cleaning and waste valorization, Vega has more than 40 years’ Vega’s future challenges include the consolidation, experience in the market, operating in many among municipal governments, of the “Clean City” Brazilian states and in Latin American countries, concept, which values service quality, and not the through associated companies or own units quantity of collected waste or total sweeps. For many years, the Group has defended the popularization One of its focus in 2013 was its geographic of this urban cleaning model which, to achieve the expansion.Following this strategy, and after almost expected result, is based on environmental education two years in negotiation, Hera Ambiental and population participation in the inspection process, Waste Treatment Center (WTC) was promoting a deep behavior change. acquired, located in the city of São Francisco Cumprido do Conde (BA), in a strategic place to serve the Reconcavo Bahiano (the 2013 coastline that defines the bay). COMMITMENT Fulfilled In Piauí, one more acquisition: WTC of Altos, a city located 41 km from Teresina. Still in construction phase, the facility will receive waste from the State capital and other 21 cities in the region. The company is also investing in the implementation of a WTC in Belém (PA), to serve this State capital and the metropolitan region. Both units are expected to start operating in 2014. In the international area the company signed an agreement in Argentina and has increasingly strengthened its presence in Peru, where it has COMMITMENT operated for more than 15 years, through Relima. Vega is also responsible for services of waste collection and urban cleaning in Santa Cruz de la It will keep searching for better margins in agreements already 2014 Sierra, the most populous and economically important signed, with investments to city in Bolivia. improve Vega’s productivity and operation efficiency. In Internally, and to improve the culture of continuous the international area, the focus will be on improvements in its operations, the Group the expansion and consolidation of business implemented Optimax in 2013, a management tool in Peru, a country that has presented 6% based on four pillars (Leadership, People, Processes growth rate a year. In addition, two large and Operational Management Systems), which is Waste Screening Centers in the capital of already helping the company improve its productivity, São Paulo will be constructed, which will people management and, consequently, its margins. help the City Administration of São Paulo achieve its recycling goals.. 47 SOLVÍ PRIVATE WASTE Promoting innovative environmental management solutions for sustainable destination of waste from the industrial segment. This is the main mission of the Solví Group’s companies that operate in the segment of Private Waste. SOLVÍ PRIVATE WASTE Essencis is a company that provides industrial waste treatment and destination, as well as environmental valorization.And, therefore, it LANDFILLS: AN ECOLOGICALLY AWARE SOLUTION develops and implements innovative solutions that, while fulfilling its customers’ needs, promote Landfills are a safe and efficient method for the sustainable development of the places where the final disposition of both Class I waste (with the company operates. risk to the environment or public health and, for this reason, requiring special treatment and That is seen in important agreements disposition) and Class II waste (household waste signed by the company, such from homes, shops or other activities performed as the agreement signed in in a city). 2013, with the Gerdau Group. The agreement foresees the acquisition of steel plant sludge 2013 COMMITMENT The landfills managed by Essencis and other companies of the Solví Group are all built with generated by the unit of Gerdau Fulfilled cutting-edge technology of soil waterproofing, and located in Ouro Branco (MG); the they adopt the total waste confinement technique, recovery of metallic iron contained with drainage and treatment of wastewater and in the material – using a new and gas emission and are continuously monitored to patented technology –; and the material resale to ensure maximum the market as a high value-added raw material for steel production, replacing the use of scrap and iron ore. To develop this process, Essencis will keep a plant in the city, whose capacity will fulfill not only the demand of this customer, but In 2014, Essencis will keep the whole steel industry in the Minas Gerais. supporting its customers COMMITMENT Another investment in Minas Gerais in 2013 was the construction of waste energy valorization unit and partners in the search of sustainable solutions, aligned 2014 in Betim. This unit produces blends (replacement with the National Solid Waste sources) from several types of waste (oil sludge, Policy, and using innovative solvent, plastic, contaminated soil, paper, fabric). technologies. It will also keep After the treatment, the material is used in cement the projects in progress and its cost reduction kilns as alternative fuel. The project is a result of strategies implemented in 2013, promoting the a technical partnership between Essencis and company’s growth French Lafarge. Following its strategy of expansion in Minas Gerais, Essencis also inaugurated at the end of 2013 an Environmental Valorization and Treatment Center (EVTC) in Zona da Mata, in Juiz de Fora. One Class I landfill is operating at the site, but other investments are foreseen, such as the construction of a Class II landfill and other complementary technologies. 51 SOLVÍ PRIVATE WASTE New demands One of plans of GRI for the next years is to promote the diversification of its activities, to The Environmental Merit Award granted by the offer more and more customized solutions to its Fiesp (Federation of the Industries of the State customers, aligned with the National Solid Waste of São Paulo) to encourage good practices in Policy (Law 12.305/10). With this objective, in the production sector, was another important 2013, it started in the market of reverse logistics fact in 2013. of electric and electronic appliances. Since GRI was awarded for its innovative technology then, monitors, TVs, printers, among others, are used by Receitalamp, a company of the Group collected and disassembled, and their components specialized in the revitalization of fluorescent are sent to the recycling facility. The electronic bulbs, returning them to the market to be boards of computers are sent to a Japanese reused. However, the most important step in company of reverse production that separates 2013 was the consolidation of Organosolví. metals like copper, aluminum and gold, reinserting Located in Coroados, in the country side of them in the production chain. São Paulo, it is considered the largest plant of Also in the same line of operation, organic fertilizer in Brazil, with monthly capacity GRI started to manage, last to process 4,000 metric tons of this product. year, the reverse logistics of automotive catalysts and plastic recipients from lubricants, 2013 COMMITMENT Organosolví started operating in late 2012, but in 2013, the product acceptance was evaluated, Fulfilled which was above expected. which are collected thanks to the participation of GRI, in a partnership with Koleta Ambiental, under the “Jogue Limpo” Program, a structured initiative offered to manufacturers, importers, unions and distributors of lubrificants IN 2013, GRI COLLECTED AND RECOVERED in the country, after a sectorial agreement to AROUND 6 MILLION POST-CONSUMPTION prevent incorrect disposal of this type of recipient, which could contaminate the environment. Only LUBRICANT RECIPIENTS. in the states under the responsibility of GRI – Minas Gerais, the Federal District, Espírito Santo, Alagoas, Sergipe and Bahia – around 6 million post-consumption lubricant recipients have been collected and recovered. GRI also started to offer in 2013 the off-site decharacterization service of products not are The goal of GRI will especially COMMITMENT suitable for sale or consumption, thus, protecting involve the market of the manufacturer brand and preventing illegal trade and reuse. Until then, this service was conducted Organosolví. The company also intends to keep its 2014 only at customers’ headquarters. All these actions leading position in the market have favored the action of GRI in the market of of industrial waste and start TWM (Total Waste Management). new businesses in different states in the area of consumer goods. 53 SOLVÍ PRIVATE WASTE With its operations focused on the states Great plans of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, Koleta For the next years, the objectives of Koleta are Ambiental ended in 2013 the restructuring ambitious: the company intends to double its revenue process started in year before, joining by 2018. For this purpose, it intends to expand services, processes and quality controls. geographically and diversify its portfolio. The purpose was to ensure the same standard of operations in all markets where It also foresees the construction and operation of its it is present. own transfer stations – temporary destination places between the collection area and the landfill – in The results of improvements have already Rio de Janeiro and in São Paulo. appeared, bringing important Another segment of investments has been the contracts. Last year, for implementation of recycling facilities. The Itaquera unit, instance, Koleta São Paulo, located in São Paulo (capital), was inaugurated in 2012 in a consortium with Vega, started to provide services of 2013 COMMITMENT and is already processing solid waste. Fulfilled In the same place, a recycling plant for Civil waste collection, sweeping, Construction waste started operating in 2013, where the conservation of internal ways materials are screened, separating those that can and administrative buildings for be reused as raw material in Civil Construction, in Codesp, the company in charge non-structural applications. of managing the Port of Santos, in the State of São Paulo. Another important bid won by the company was from CPTM (São Paulo Metropolitan Train Company), for the final destination of organic waste collected at the 90 stations of CPTM located in 22 municipalities. The synergy with other companies of the Group also allowed to create new partnerships. Today, Koleta collects the organic waste sent to Organosolví, in Coroados (SP), and later, it delivers the resulting fertilizer. It has also become responsible for the wate transportation to With concluded internal the Aterro Industrial Ecossistema, a landfill restructuring process, Koleta kept by Essencis, in São José dos is prepared to expand its COMMITMENT Campos (SP). businesses, by either starting in new markets or offering new 2014 In Rio de Janeiro – where the company is services. Then, the company the market leader – the revitalization work expects to increase its share of the unit was concluded. However, the in the segment of valorization main focus was to show the customers and management of private waste, increasing that the company is prepared to conduct all its results. The projects in progress include the stages of waste management. construction of transfer stations in São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro, as well as a recycling plant, also in Rio. 55 SOLVÍ SANITATION Ensuring the quality and universalization of services of water supply and sewage treatment to the population served. This is the objective of Solví Sanitation, operating through concessionaires Manaus Ambiental and São Gabriel Saneamento, in Manaus (AM) and São Gabriel (RS), respectively. SOLVÍ SANITATION Vacacaí River, in São Gabriel In 2013, the population of São Gabriel, a city MANAUS AMBIENTAL located 320 km from Porto Alegre, the capital of The same movement is happening in the capital of Rio Grande do Sul, frequently saw professionals Amazonas, where Manaus Ambiental has been for from São Gabriel Saneamento – a company 13 years the private concessionaire in charge of local that belongs to the Solví Group and currently sanitation, serving 1.8 million people. In this period, in charge of the water supply and sanitation all goals agreed with the City Administration were services – working on the streets of the city. conducted, with investments of around R$ 800 million And this scene may repeat more and more in to expand sewage collection and treatment coverage, the next years. consolidate the water supply and improve the quality of In the last quarter of last year, São Gabriel services provided. Saneamento received funds of R$ 43 million In 2013, one more important step was taken towards – through “Saneamento para Todos”, a service universalization, with the signature of the federal government program – to invest in protocol of intent between the state government and the improvements in the service provided, starting city administration for the operation of public consortium with infrastructure work. The fund is the first Proama (Water for Manaus Program), which will benefit portion of an agreement that exceeds R$ 110 around 500,000 people who live in the East and North million. Besides this amount, other R$ 7 million areas of the capital. According to the agreement, have already been invested, in just a little more Manaus Ambiental should provide the interconnection than one year, by São Gabriel Saneamento, in of the Proama Complex – which includes the treatment, renovation in the distribution system, sewage storage and distribution of drinking water to five system expansion, technical studies and reservoirs in Manaus – to the distribution system. development of projects; actions that allowed an increase in the number of homes connected to the sewage system, from 13% to 15% in the city. But the final objective is the universalization of sewage collection (96%) and treatment (100%) by 2020. And, to achieve this goal, the following implementations are foreseen: 211,000 m collection system, and the construction of 11 lifting units and a new Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP), which may start in 2014. The main projects of Solví COMMITMENT At the same time, São Gabriel Saneamento Sanitation includes the gradual launched, in a partnership with the Federal University of Pampa (Unipampa), a project expansion of the sanitation system. In the city of São 2014 of incentive to cooking oil collection and Gabriel, it will allow, some recycling, using collection points. The purpose years from now, 100% of local is to prevent the incorrect disposal of this population with access to this service. material, contaminating rivers and streams, and Today, this service is available to 60% of the generating high cost and more time to treat the population only. This city will also have the water. The company is also starting to recover construction of a new treatment station, the riparian forest near Vacacaí River, located in with the capacity to receive and treat 13 the municipality. million liters of wastewater a day 59 SOLVÍ ENERGY VALORIZATION Solví Energy Valorization (SVE) is the Group’s arm exclusively dedicated to searching for alternative, economically viable, environmentally aware sources of energy. Today, it is especially focused on the construction and operation of biogas-powered thermal power plants biogas is a by-product of organic waste decomposition. SOLVÍ ENERGY VALORIZATION Termoverde, located in Salvador (BA), is the first Future Vision biogas-powered thermal power plant implemented The mediumand long-term goal is to reach total in the Northeast region of Brazil.With capacity installed capacity of 300 MW for energy generated to generate around 20 MW, since 2012, it has from biogas collected from landfills managed by the received biogas collected from a landfill in the Group’s companies. Other important projects in this metropolitan region of the capital of Bahia – area are: the construction of the first thermal power managed by Battre, which belongs to the Solví plant using incineration of solid waste in Brazil, a Group. It processes and uses biogas as fuel to result of a public private partnership between the City power turbines that will produce electric energy. Administration of São Bernardo do Campo (SP) and the consortium that includes Revita, a company that With this system, it prevents the emission of belongs to the Solví Group. gases such as methane (CH2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) – the main components of biogas and that cause the greenhouse effect – in the atmosphere. In 2013, the main focuses of Solví Energy Valorization (SVE) were consolidate the operations of Termoverde, increasing efficiency 2013 COMMITMENT and reducing costs, and find Fulfilled ways to replicate the model adopted in other landfills managed by the Group and other landfills of partners. In this process, the agreement with Italian AB Energy was extremely important, as it allowed the installation of engines of biogas-powered thermal plants in containers, for increased profitability and easy installation and mobility. This new technology will be implemented by SVE COMMITMENT at the biogas-powered thermal power plant that will be built in the landfill of Minas do Leão, located 2014 The consolidation of Termoverde’s operation to around 90 km from Porto Alegre (RS) and that reach 15.4 MW will allow may start operating in 2015, generating 8 MW. A Solví Energy Valorization to start operating in the similar project will be implemented at the Caieiras spot market, increasing its Treatment and Environmental Valorization Center, profitability. The company also plans to located in the redesign the operation model from a fixed to variable value per mW/h. New thermal power plants will also be implemented. 63 SOLVÍ ENGINEERING Solví Engineering is the Group’s arm focused on heavy civil construction segment. Its operation in Brazil and in Peru is through GPO Engenharia (Gestão de Obras e Projetos), which participates in public and private construction works, always observing the Solví Group’s quality and sustainability policies and standards. SOLVÍ ENGINEERING GPO (Gestão de Obras e Projetos) is present units, developed by the company. These five units in today in 20 municipalities, with operations construction in the state of São Paulo use concepts in Peru as well. Its broad expertise allows such as better use of the area, thermal and acoustic diversified operation, with projects in progress comfort, better use of natural light, reduction of and already concluded in the segments of maintenance costs and environmental impact. civil construction, sanitation, embankments, infrastructure and power generation and transmission. In 2013, 53% of the contracts in progress involved the private segment, an important change in the company’s profile. This change brought increased work complexity and operations in new markets. For instance, GPO, in a consortium with Spanish Comsa, is participating in the construction of a shipyard of EBR (Estaleiros do Brasil), in the city of São José do Norte, in Rio Grande do Sul. This project will have marine platforms for pre-salt exploration and will be the largest naval complex in Brazil. This construction may be concluded in 2015, and it requires specialized services, such as sounding. In sanitation, GPO concluded, in the first half of last year, the expansion work of the Sanitary Sewage System for the city of Vitória COMMITMENT Consolidate the position da Conquista (BA), with the construction of seven lifting units and 21,000 homes connected of GPO in the market of midsize construction 2014 to the system. Also in the state of Bahia, GPO companies, expanding its headed the construction of a new pipeline from operation in long-term and São Francisco River, which will ensure water structured projects. The purpose is to reach supply for the microregion of Irecê, located in the moderate growth, above the annual inflation semiarid area of Bahia. index. Internally, the company may invest in workforce training and leadership training, GPO is also focused on sustainability and to improve its services. Another goal will savings. It is reflected in the construction project be the unification of operations in Brazil for the new generation of Sesi/Senai educational and Peru. 67 5 OUR PERFORMANCE Context of operation Solví Panorama Economic performance Contributions to sustainable development 2014 Panorama The Solví Scenario 68 69 our performance I 2014 annual report OUR PERFORMANCE ensuring benefits that were already granted to other will take place in 2014. The Brazilian teamwon the The Solví Group has more than 25,000 employees, who act as categories, such as unemployment allowance, dismissal competition in crowded Maracanã Stadium, in a wellfund, additional payment for night work and 40-hour disputed final against Spain. environmental agents, seeking solutions for life. The operation of these employees workweek. Another important fact was the visit of Pope Francis to is based on solid values – shared by the company – such as entrepreneurship, Another good news was announced by the Food and Brazil during the World Youth Day, attracting 355,000 innovation and proactivity. Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the United Nations. people from 175 countries. That was the first international event with the participation of the new Pope since he was According to FAO, since 1990, Brazil has reduced by chosen to replace Pope Benedict XVI. 53% the proportion of hungry people, achieving before Context of operation mobilization, and the goal of reduced deforestation the deadline the Millennium Development Goal, which may be achieved before the deadline, with less than 4,000 km of deforested area a year before 2020. This proposes that, by 2015, the nations should reduce by half ECONOMY the number of hungry people. ENVIRONMENT estimate is from the Secretariat of Climate Change and Environmental Quality, linked with the Ministry of But there is still a lot of work to be done: data show that around 7% of the Brazilian population are hungry people, • Aneel reduces tariffs to residential and high Environment. voltage consumers. corresponding to 13 million people. • International Year of Water On the other hand, the implementation of the In August, the attention was to Syria, where, more than • Copom increases the basic interest rate Cooperation (UN). National Solid Waste Plan (Law 12.305/10) has not 1,400 civilians died in the local civil war started in 2011 (Selic) six times. progressed as expected. Little has been done, despite • Approval of the National Plan for Basic – including hundreds of children – after attacks with the deadlines planned for the implementation of the • Dollar gets stronger in relation to real. Sanitation. measures described in the new policy – such as the chemical weapons in the outskirts of capital Damascus. • Publication of the first report of the Brazilian • The Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ends end of open-sky waste deposits. The international pressure forced the approval of a the year with 2.3% increase. Panel on Climate Change. Most Brazilian municipalities have not been able to resolution of the UN Security Council, requesting the • Little progress in the implementation of the find solutions that change problems related to waste chemical arsenal of the country to be destroyed by mid National Solid Waste Plan management into opportunities for the population, the 2014.And, on the last days of the year, the world was sad environment and businesses. Several factors contribute with the death of South African leader Nelson Mandela. The measures announced by Aneel (the Brazilian to that situation: lack of technical and economic Icon of the battle against the apartheid – regime of Electricity Regulatory Agency in early 2013 support, structural and political issues, and even the racial segregation in force between 1948 and 1994 in (Law 12.783), extended concessions of electric The year of 2013 was considered by the United absence of a municipal fee or tax exclusively for waste South Africa –, Mandela was in jail for 27 years and energy generation and reduced sectorial duties Nations (UN) as the “International Year of Water management – a practice adopted by few municipal became the first president elected in the democratic and to lower tariffs to both residential and high voltage Cooperation”, emphasizing the importance of governments –, among other issues. multiracial phase of his country. He received the Nobel consumers. The intention behind that was to sustainable use of water resources and mobilizing The year ended with the 19th Climate Change Peace Prize in 1993. control the inflation, avoiding corrections of sogovernments, companies and the civil society Conference of the Parties (COP19), conducted in late called administered costs, such as electricity, fuel, around this theme. November, in Warsaw, Poland. However, the meeting public tariffs, etc. Coincidently, in Brazil, the National Plan for Basic Sanitation was approved in the second half of the was criticized by analysts for not receiving the urgency that it deserves. SOCIETY Also attempting to reach the inflation target, Copom (the Monetary Policy Committee) increased the year, through a ministerial directive that establishes basic interest rate (Selic) six times in 2013. guidelines, goals and actions for basic sanitation in the country in the next 20 years (2014-2033). The • Protests on the streets of Brazil. The year also had strengthening of the US proposal foresees investments of around R$ 508.4 HUMAN RIGHTS • The Confederations Cup is held in Brazil. economy, which – combined with greater suspicion billion in the period to increase the levels of coverage of investors in the Brazilian economy – led to high and better quality in services provided to the Brazilian dollar rate in relation to real. population. This scenario affected the country’s growth rate, • The constitutional amendment that gives Climate change was another theme in discussion. household workers the same rights as which ended the year with 2.3% GDP, according In 2013, the Brazilian Panel on Climate Change other professionals is approved. to IBGE (the Brazilian Institute of Geography and A movement against the increase in the public presented its first report, the most complete Statistics). • Brazil reduces by 53% the proportion of transportation fare in São Paulo started a number of diagnosis produced about future trends of climate protests that took millions of people to the streets, However, it did not impact the unemployment rate, hungry people since 1990. change in the country. The document shows unhappy with corruption and quality of public services which reached 7.1%, according to IBGE, lower that, considering the current levels of pollutant . in Brazil. Several manifestations ended in conflict with than the rate reported for 2012 (7.4%). concentration in the atmosphere, the temperature in the police. Brazil will increase between 2°C and 3°C, In the international scenario, the Eurozone The year of 2013 starts with a constitution amendment Despite the protests, the Confederations Cup was showed that it is leaving the recession period, and in 50 years. that affects millions of Brazilians: it gives household held in Brazil, an opportunity for the country to show unemployment started to reduce more The good news is that the country has been in a workers the same rights as other professionals, its organization ability for the Football World Cup that consistently in the United States. 70 71 our performance I 2014 annual report Solví Panorama The Solví Group’s activities are directly focused on the environment and Whereas the trajectory and entrepreneurial vision of In the area of energy, although climate Solví makes the Group see the slow progress towards change has been a widely discussed quality of life. Thus, the Group’s companies followed the 2013 scenario with the PNRS implementation with sadness, on the other theme, indicating the need to rethink the attention, identifying opportunities and challenges. The main challenge is in hand, it allows the Solví Group’s groups to support predominant energy matrix, in Brazil, public and private organizations in the demands governmental support that used to be the implementation of the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS). In the 1970s, generated with the new policy, offering expertise and a allocated to innovative sources only – such even before the world mobilization around themes such as sustainability diversified portfolio of services. as energy generation from biogas – were extended to the other segments, with a and global warming, Solví saw the importance of actions related to waste Another important challenge in 2013 was the Brazilian pack announced by Aneel (the Brazilian recycling and valorization, and it had a recycling plant in the country. This economic situation, characterized by economic Electricity Regulatory Agency) in early 2013, slowdown, high interest rate, currency depreciation in an attempt to reduce the price of energy initiative was followed by many other actions, also considered innovative, and inflation pressure. This panorama, although it has in the country. But innovative and alternative in the areas of sanitation, energy generation and valorization, infrastructure brought a more careful approach to investments of the sources of energy generation still involve Group, has boosted further initiatives of management high cost, and therefore, without support, its and waste collection, handling and final destination, always with focus on efficiency that had been developed in the last years. competitive may be affected. Yet, the Solví sustainability. Group understands that it is important to invest in this sector, which may consolidate and expand in the next years, due to the increasingly urgent demand. The year of 2013 had positive milestones that bring development opportunities for the country and the sanitation segment of the Solví Group. After years being discussed by the National Congress, the National Plan for Basic Sanitation was approved, setting up sanitation guidelines, goals and actions for the country in the next 20 years (2014-2033). The plan approval brings great expectation to the sector, which shows significantly poor access to basic sanitation services, and the Solví Group is, once again, prepared to operate in partnership with state and municipal governments in this new structuring phase, which may leverage the quality of life of thousands of Brazilians. Another positive factor was the excellent performance in the farming sector, which reported 7% increase – the greatest in its history in the sector, started in 1996 –, driving the Brazilian GDP up. That was exactly in the same year the Solví Group started in the market of organic fertilizers, when Organosolví started operating, with positive impact on product acceptability. 72 73 GRI 2.8; EC1 GRI 2.8; EC1 our performance I 2014 annual report Economic performance NET PROFIT (in thousand R$) INVESTMENTS (in thousand R$) SHARE IN ASSETS AND GROSS REVENUE (%) NET EQUITY (in thousand R$) 300,000 300,000 287,250 273,295 250,000 250,000 Public Assets 212,844 229,418 3,190,502 73% 200,000 Private Net equity 180,575 200,000 150,000 181,587 27% 150,000 844,724 100,000 100,000 50,000 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 DISTRIBUTION OF THE VAS (%) GROSS REVENUE (in thousand R$) EBTIDA (in thousand R$) TAXES AND CHARGES (in thousand R$) Government 2,599,915 350,000 348,620 550,000 480,517 5.12% 0.85% 2,500,000 2,445,582 507,148 11.79% 326,115 500,000 Employees 480,517 300,000 719,989 2,000,000 1,719,338 450,000 291,432 32.92% Shareholders 400,000 1,500,000 250,000 12,384 350,000 Financial supporters 1,000,000 49.32% 200,000 300,000 295,362 172,056 500,000 250,000 Retained 150,000 74,881 200,000 0 2011 2012 2013 150,000 100,000 100,000 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 74 75 our performance I 2014 annual report Contributions to sustainable development When providing environmental engineering services – in the areas of sanitation, urban and industrial waste and energy valorization –, promoting the involvement of the population in socio-environmental actions developed and performed by voluntary employees, and sharing its knowledge to CREATION OF strengthen public policies, Solví understands that it contributes to social and LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS sustainable development of the places where its companies operate. Every operation has the primary responsibility of permanently searching for ways to mitigate environmental impacts and that can generate and promote human DEVELOPMENT AND VALUATION and professional development of its employees. OF EMPLOYEES, HUMAN RIGHTS IN SUPPLIERS AND THE WORKPLACE COMMUNITIES SOLVÍ SUSTAINABILITY PLATFORM In 2013, Solví Participações implemented SOLVÍ an important tool for a socially responsible ENVIRONMENTAL way to conduct its business: the Solví PRESERVATION SUSTAINABILITY BUSINESS ETHICS Sustainability Platform. PLATFORM Developed after a broad internal discussion, with the creation of a Sustainability Goal Program for all companies of the Group, this instrument brings the most relevant themes regarding the company’s operation convergence with the sustainable development of the society, thus allowing longevity of the Group’s businesses. HEALTH AND SUSTAINABILITYSAFETY ORIENTED This platform is also aligned with the CULTURE guidelines of ISO 26000, which has been in implementation phase since 2012 in the organization, and it is an important tool INNOVATION, to measure progress in corporate social EXCELLENCE responsibility. Then, the indicators in this AND CUSTOMER report are grouped according to the platform RESPONSIVENESS themes, as follow: 76 77 GRI 3.5; 3.6; 4.14; 4.15; 4.16 our performance I 2014 annual report CREATION OF LONG-TERM PARTNERSHIPS HUMAN RIGHTS IN THE WORKPLACE The expectations of stakeholders are the Platform and the Risk Matrix, both instruments The Solví Group understands that the cultural, sexual, religious, educational and age evaluated through systematic satisfaction developed with the participation of employees variety of employees expands the organization’s scope of ideas, promoting opportunities surveys and meetings to evaluate the services and leaders – in the process of materiality matrix of innovation. That’s why the Group promotes diversity and equality in the workplace of its provided. The employees are also encouraged construction, an important tool for the identification of companies, mapping and acting in situations of vulnerability. to act as active players, collaborating – with macro themes that should permeate the organization’s their participation in internal committees – to plans, policies and practices. the company’s policy and practice formulation. The materiality matrix also allows to map and match In 2013, the Solví Group also conducted themes of greater impact on the management of the EMPLOYEES BY GENDER WOMEN AT THE SOLVÍ GROUP an assessment survey regarding the last Solví Group’s companies with the subjects of greater annual report published by the organization. relevance for the stakeholders, in relation to the 6,000 The opinions collected were later used with Group’s operations. Male 5,051 5,000 4.849 20,366 81% Female 4,000 4,849 3,746 3,000 Total 19% 2,374 25,215 2,000 1,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Economic Performance Innovation People Management Information management ACTIVE WOMEN AFTER Influence on the evaluations and decisions of Social Responsibility Management WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT FUNCTIONS MOTHERHOOD Ethics Management Risk Management 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Accessibility to Services stakeholders Environmental Performance 23.02% 22.36% 20.94% 36.28% 87% 90% 71% 78% Maintenance Stakeholder Engagement Logistics Communication Compliance Quality of Products and Services Property Security Image and Reputation Influence of impacts on Solví management 78 79 GRI LA13; LA14 GRI HR4; SO3; SO5 our performance I 2014 annual report EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP BUSINESS ETHICS EDUCATION LEVEL Ethics is a guiding principle for the Solví Group’s companies. In 2013, new 1.48% 0.73% Up to 25 years old elements were included in the Code of Conduct, and the Integrity Program Postgraduate 3.06% was developed, whose objective is to optimize and create synergy between 186 0.67% 3,896 9.73% 15.45% the departments of Communications and Organizational Development and the Higher education concluded 5% 26-34 years old Conduct Committee. 1,261 6,865 Higher education – not 30.13% 19.37% concluded or attending 35-44 years old 27.23% 773 7,116 High school 34.63% (15-17 years old) 45-54 years old 28.22% 8,734 24.26% 4,885 Middle education II (10-14 years old) Over 55 years old 6,119 2,453 Elementary education I Illiterate Not (6-9 years old) 169 informed 7,599 374 BLACK EMPLOYEES OVER EMPLOYEES 45 YEARS OLD 7,338 3,000 7,000 6,518 2,389 2,392 2,249 6,000 2,000 5,000 4,869 11,6% 1,060 increase 4,000 1,000 3,000 2,889 0 2,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 1,000 0 CODE OF ETHICS 2010 2011 2012 2013 Solví, just as any other company that seek loyal However, this update was not only made in the EMPLOYEES BY REMUNERATION EMPLOYEES WITH competition and value transparency, considers corruption document, it was extended to other initiatives for the relation between the highest and the lowest SPECIAL NEEDS an offense to business, and the Group supports the Code dissemination and incorporation by employees, Anti-Corruption Act (12.846) that came into effect in creating a parameter of implementation. For instance, February 2014. On the other hand, it is aware of the workshops were conducted about the themes 250 risk it is exposed to duet to the nature of its operations addressed in the Solví Code of Conduct, with the 250 150 146.77 participation of mediumand high-level leadership. 126.27 that involve expressive contracts with public authorities 200 185 in the areas of sanitation, public and private waste All leaders of the organization also received a copy of 120 175 management and engineering. In addition, it has a high the new Code, and by signing a term of commitment, 104.09 108.59 they ensured their compliance and dissemination 144 number of employees, from all its companies, totaling 150 142 among their staff members. 90 more than 25,000 professionals that have to be aligned 125 with the organization’s principles and values. That brings In total, 250 copies of the Solví Code of Conduct 100 a constant concern about ethics in the organization, with were distributed. The publication was also the theme 60 a revision conducted in 2013 in its Code of Conduct, to 75 of a roundtable discussion, conducted by specialists incorporate the requirements of the Anti-Corruption Act. in the Solví Annual Meeting. 50 30 20 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 80 81 our performance I 2014 annual report SUSTAINABILITY-ORIENTED CULTURE INNOVATION, EXCELLENCE AND CUSTOMER In the adopted structure of decentralized administration, the Solví Group provides guidelines and required support RESPONSIVENESS to help all business units identify priorities in the communities where they operation and find ways to mitigate the The Solví Group’s companies – each in its own area of operation – are always seeking problems identified, while encouraging the practice of voluntary actions. innovations that can renew their portfolio of services and fulfill the demands of their customers and the society. PROJECTS SUBMITTED TO THE INNOVATION AWARD 90 10 83 9 62 19 26 Commercial 8 Administrative BALANCE – VOLUNTARY DAY 2013 NUMBER OF VOLUNTARY PARTICIPATIONS (%) 7 April and May October and November Total 39 Operational 39 0 360 12 10.23 32 2008 Technical 360 10 8.80 8.64 8.42 909 2009 1,024 81,933 7.66 1,028 615 16 15 2010 1,192 2,220 42011 2012 2013 1,034 2011 1,145 21.43 2,179 01,406 2012 1,174 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 WASTE IN THE WEB 2,580 928 2013 1,196 2,124 satisfaction rate 99% Salvador Inert Waste Landfill, managed by Revita Group, is located in the city of Itaquaquecetuba, in Greater engagement rate 98% Águas Claras – a company that belongs to the Solví São Paulo. It receives waste from civil construction (Class II-B), Group – receives on average 2,500 metric tons of civil dredging and silt removal activity, as well as organic waste construction waste every day. This amount corresponds (Class A), with the capacity to receive up to 2,000 trips/day. (would recommend and participate in other actions) to around 50% of total urban waste generated in the The unit – just like the others of the Solví Group – values the BENEFITTED PEOPLE metropolitan region of the capital of Bahia. respect for the environment and health and safety of everyone To speed up the material receipt process, the company involved in the processes developed there, ensuring truck 4% has developed the Prepaid System for Inert Waste unloading in a short time, regardless of the month of the year 0-12 years old Disposal Credit Acquisition. Thanks to this tools, it is and weather condition, and seeking partnerships that promote The revitalization of parks has benefitted 8% possible to use the website of Revita Águas Claras the inclusion of population in situation of social vulnerability. everyone – children, young people, (www.revitaac.com.br) to buy in advance credits related 12-19 years old adults, old people – providing a more to the waste amount that will be taken to the landfill, and The partnership with Instituto Terra Meio Ambiente e 19% Inclusão Social (IT+) is a adequate, pleasant and safer place for register the vehicles that will take the waste to the landfill. reference. According to Adults (homeless and leisure, sport and learning (environmental Besides ensuring fast service and convenience to the agreement, recyclable women who are victims education) activities. Congratulations for customers, this new system has reduced billing costs, waste is offered to this of violence) 58% 11% the organization and all volunteers on the eliminated the risk of default and allowed to improve NGO, which uses to Old people initiative, dedication and enthusiasm while the administrative routine activity, generating increased generate revenue, applying productivity. For these and other reasons, this initiative the resources in actions of performing the tasks.” received the Solví Innovation Award, which aims to social investment. Others Tathiana Popak, administrator of Parque encourage professionals from the Group’s companies to Vila dos Remédios, in São Paulo – the find different and innovative ways to perform daily tasks. park received interventions from the Itaquareia Inert Waste Landfill, managed by the Solví Solví’s employees 82 83 GRI LA6; LA7; LA8 GRI EC8; EN26; EN30 our performance I 2014 annual report HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENTAL PRESERVATION One concern of the Solví Group refers to the safety of its employees while they perform their functions. Their The Solví Group keeps a systemic vision regarding its own operations, identifying potential impacts diversified operation profile requires specific measures for each segment, considering that the Group has a that can be generated by its production activities, and it develops and conducts prevention and considerable number of operational employees working outside the companies’ facilities, generating additional mitigation actions. risk. For this reason, training actions and initiatives to promote health and safety are strategic measures. SEVERITY RATE (number of accidents with FREQUENCY RATE (number of accidents with Increase in investments in environmental protection medical leave every 1 million hours worked) medical leave every 1 million hours worked) INVESTMENTS IN 700 626 25 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION (thousand R$) 600 510 527 20 200,000 500 15 180,000 178,369 400 10.13 11.77 10.20 160,000 33,511 148,951 10 9.54 137,199 140,000 300 18,874 5120,000 100,188 20,389 61,486 200 100,000 15,199 100 0 80,000 28,852 24,067 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 60,000 14,096 125,984 2011 2012 2013 40,000 101,611 20,000 57,240 63,398 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 It is important to emphasize that the safety training is considered a priority by the Water treatment Private waste collection, Public waste and distribution management, treatment collection, treatment organization and it has been increasingly and sewage and final disposition and final disposition In 2013, the improved. Many companies of the Group are Severity Rate already conducting their Workplace Health presented 16% and Safety Management System according reduction. I PROTECT THE NATURE to OHSAS 18001. This certification, which is compatible with ISO 9001 and ISO 14001, helps a business unit comply with its health and safety obligations in an efficient and Estimates say that every liter of vegetal oil – the Every liter of oil produces resources (R$ 0.30 per integrated manner. same oil used in food preparation – that is in the liter) for the Parent-Teacher Associations from sewage system can pollute up to 20,000 liters of schools that participate in the project, allowing the Actions of mobilization and support to water. Aware of this situation, in 2013, São Gabriel implementation of collection reservoirs at these employee health promotion are routinely Saneamento, in a partnership with the Federal units. The resources are used in the acquisition conducted by the companies of the Solví Group, including immunization campaigns, University of Pampa (Unipampa), launched the “I of school supplies, such as books, electronic awareness taskforces about various diseases, Protect the Nature” project. devices, toys, sporting goods, among others. and insertion of related themes in the Daily The purpose of this initiative is to encourage And, to encourage the participation of everyone, Safety Dialogs. In addition, in 2013, 17,541 the population of São Gabriel (RS) to properly lectures are conducted at schools, addressing employees received health and safety training, eliminate used cooking oil. Special reservoirs themes like water treatment process and with the participation of members from CIPA were installed at eight collection places in the city, environmental awareness, with the distribution (Internal Commission of Accident Prevention). prepared to receive this material. The collected of supporting material. The idea is to gradually In total, 1,982 professionals from the Solví oil is sent to a company that will recycle it and expand this project, implementing collection Group’s companies are CIPA members, later use it to manufacture many items, such as reservoirs at community associations, churches, which corresponds to 7.8% of all employees, representing their work colleagues and closely cosmetics, cleaning products and animal ration. coffee shops and restaurants of the city. following the initiatives in the safety area and their results. 84 85 GRI EC8; EN3; EN5 GRI EC8; EN6; EN22 our performance I 2014 annual report Increased efficiency in the use of natural resources Increase in the amount of waste collected – several types of waste ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VOLUME OF DISTRIBUTED WATER (MWh/Mm3) WASTE COLLECTED (t) | 2013 850 845 Total household solid waste collected: 4,464,482 815 household collection (t) 800 The Solví Group’s Total household solid waste collected: sanitation companies 30,099 selective collection (t) 750 have reduced, year 716 after year, the energy Total health service waste collected (t) 25,586 702 700 consumption in water Total health service waste collected (t) 371,204 650 distribution. Total in general 4,891,372 The increase in the 0 selective waste collection in 2013 is mainly due 2010 2011 2012 2013 to the expansion of the service in the metropolitan region of Salvador. The WASTE COLLECTED (t) start of Solví’s operations in Rosario (Argentina) had a direct impact on 4,500,000 the increase in household ENERGY CONSUMPTION PER VOLUME OF 4,000,000 collection. COLLECTED AND TREATED SEWAGE (MWh/Mm3) NETWORK 3,500,000 EXTENSION (km) 3,000,000 100 2,500,000 93 2,000,000 90 4,500 80 1,500,000 4,000 70 1,000,000 3,500 60 3,000 500,000 50 2,500 0 40 35 2.000 2010 2011 2012 2013 30 1.500 20 1,000 Public Public waste Health Commercial/ waste – – selective service industrial 10 500 household collection waste waste 3 2 collection 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Water distribution Sewage collection and treatment MORE DETAILS ABOUT Waste The waste dangerousness is classified according Class I (dangerous) and Class II (non-dangerous), 61 pumping stations for water production and distribution. to the physical, chemical or infectious/contagious and they may be non-inert (Class II – A) or properties of the waste, which may present risks to inert (Class II – B). The physical and chemical public health and the environment when the waste is composition and characteristics of inert waste 163,341 water quality control analyses. improperly handled or eliminated. do not present physical, chemical or biological NBR 10.004, a standard of September 1987, changes, the waste remains unaltered for a long classifies industrial solid waste in two categories: period. Examples of inert waste: civil construction debris, iron scrap and steel. 86 87 GRI EC8 GRI EC8; EN6; EN16; EN18; EN24; EN26 our performance I 2014 annual report Increase in the treatment of waste before final Increase in the amount of waste disposed of in sanitary and disposition industrial landfills RECYCLING RECYCLING PLANT INPUT (t) PLANT OUTPUT (t) AMOUNTS DISPOSED OF IN SANITARY 350,000 200,000 AND INDUSTRIAL LANDFILLS (t x thousand) (per waste class) A global increase of 15.24% was reported in relation to 2012, regarding the amount of waste 300,000 298,027 180,000 disposed of in landfills prepared with environmental impact 12,000 11,250 mitigation techniques. Around 8 million metric tons of 9,762 household public waste were disposed of in properly 250,000 160,000 10,000 7,937 licensed sanitary landfill, corresponding to an increase of 20.87% 8,000 6,820 200,000 140,000 6,000 in relation to 2012. 150,000 90,236 121,689 120,000 4,000 2,000 This amount represents around 19% of total 100,000 100,000 waste correctly disposed of in sanitary landfills in Brazil 68,689 0 (source: Diagnóstico Resíduos Sólidos Urbanos – Ipea/ 50,000 80,000 2010 2011 2012 2013 MMA 2011). 0 60,000 Household Non-dangerous Dangerous waste (t) waste (t) commercial and industrial waste (t) Inert waste (t) 2010 2011 2012 2013 40,000 20,000 0 With the implementation of the inert waste recycling plant in Itaquaquecetuba (SP) and the 2010 2011 2012 2013 Control of greenhouse gas emission from vehicles and growth in the Group’s businesses, an increase of equipment 144.9% Others and Tonnage of Tonnage of metal recycled glasses (t) materials (t) waste The numbers below show emissions from vehicles and equipment used in the activities of waste collection and in capacity to receive materials for recycling was from civil Tonnage of paper/ Tonnage of plastic reported, from 121,000 tons in 2012 to over 298,000 construction carton (t) materials (t) landfilling at Solví’s units, between 2010 and 2013. Note: the emissions increase, as they are directly related to tons in 2013. the increased amount of waste collected and transported to landfills. On the other hand, when correlating the amount of emission and the amount of waste collected and landfilled, a substantial reduction is observed, a result of the actions adopted by the Group’s companies to increase operation efficiency. BEHIND THE NUMBERS ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN WASTE EMISSION PRODUCED BY VEHICLES AND COLLECTION AND LANDFILLING ACTIONS EQUIPMENT USED IN WASTE COLLECTION AND Solidary Recycling (per metric ton collected and landfilled – t CO2 e q/t) LANDFILLING ACTIONS In 2014, the “Moda Cidadã e Cultural” Project The idea is to prepare them for the production will start a new phase. Last year, thanks to of accessories and clothes using Battre 2010 2011 2012 2013 the initiative, 15 women from the Community of uniforms that would be otherwise disposed of. GHG emission Capelão, located in Salvador, a city that has the The course will also address management and 0.008 from vehicles 69,754 80,201 93,520 93,000 services of Battre (Bahia Transferência e Tratamento entrepreneurship skills. The final objective is and equipment to create a cooperative to generate resources (t CO² e q/t) de Resíduos) – a company of the Solví’s Group – participated in the Industrial Sewing course, and mobilize the community, ensuring project 0.007Collected sustainability. waste 3,896,426 4,003,332 4,428,586 4,891,372 receiving a certificate issued by SESI. (t) – all types Besides Battre, the Community Forum of Landfilled Now, a new group from the same community 0.006 waste 6,820,846 7,937,073 9,762,107 11,250.384 will attend the Professional Qualification Course Human Rights and Citizenship, SESI and (t) – all types for Industrial Modeling, as well as thematic Termoverde are supporting the initiative. workshops. 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 88 89 GRI EC8; EN17; EN19 GRI LA11 our performance I 2014 annual report Control of greenhouse gas emission in Solví’s waste DEVELOPMENT AND VALUATION OF EMPLOYEES, treatment and valorization plants SUPPLIERS AND COMMUNITIES The continuous increase in household waste landfilled along the years has required constant efforts of the Solví Group to ensure the energy efficiency of its operations, resulting in an substantial reduction of greenhouse gases per collected and landfilled ton, as illustrated below. Employees People are the competitive differentiation of the organization. Responsible for designing and conducting initiatives of human and professional development, the Solví Group’s Excellence METHANE EMISSION AVOIDED AT CTVRS Academy develops programs for people training, encouraging the search for qualification and skill OF THE SOLVÍ GROUP (t CO2 e q/t) improvement, leading to stronger corporate culture that attracts new talents. 2,211,584 2,200,000 2,000,000 Competence 2011 2012 2013 1,800,000 1,658,354 1,600,000 Cultural alignment 6,721 8,333 1,400,000 1,365,206 Multi-competences interns 115 156 191 1,200,000 1,101,713 1,000,000 Multi-competences trainees 12 28 21 800,000 Technical skills 568 960 3.015 600,000 400,000 Managerial skills 41 259 322 200,000 Business skills 20 196 49 0 Behavior performance 5 17 21 2010 2011 2012 2013 Project management and follow-up N/A 13 50 Human development – several Consolidation of the technological model of energy knowledge areas N/A 40 3,346 valorization of waste Development of successors 2 48 79 The Solví Group is the leader in Brazil in energy generation from solid waste, operating Termoverde, Employees with support for a 20 MW plant, in the sanitary landfill of Battre, in Salvador. This business model has grown in such professional improvement N/A N/A 41 way that the organization plans to implement two other plants: the first in Minas do Leão (RS), of (scholarship) 8 MW capacity, to start operating in 2015, and one in Caieiras (SP), of 30 MW capacity, to start Employees with support for operating in 2016. professional improvement (language N/A N/A 14 courses) ELECTRIC ENERGY GENERATION (MWh) 120,000 111,640 110,000 110,257 Suppliers We have unique expertise 100,000 in Brazil for biogas use and For operating in different business segments in Regardless of the area in charge of 90,000 84,776 treatment, and for the plant Brazil and other Latin American countries, the supplier selection in the Solví Group, 80,000 operation and maintenance. Group has a very diversified number of suppliers this process is based on technical, 70,000 that provide goods and services. Small amounts professional and ethical criteria and 60,000 Vicente Linhares, are purchased directly by the companies and, for its procedures seek to select the best 50,000 Chairman, Solví Energy large amounts, the Group has a centralized area business partners. The company has 40,000 Valorization of Supplies, managed by the Center for Shared a system of confirmation, qualification 30,000 Services (CSS), which is responsible for coordinating and support to the development of its 20,000 large purchases, to optimize the cost-benefit ratio of suppliers, conducting random audits. 10,000 these operations. 0 2011 2012 2013 90 91 GRI EC8 our performance I 2014 annual report Community Since 2010, the United Nations (UN) has recognized Group’s companies can have a direct impact on the the access to drinking water and basic sanitation as quality of life of population, which turns the society into a universal human right, an essential factor to reduce the organization’s end customer. poverty and for sustainable development. In addition, In this sense, Solví increasingly seeks to strengthen and PRIVATE SOCIAL INVESTMENT water and sanitation are indispensable items to improve the relationship with communities of the places ensure other human rights, such as right to life, health, where it operates, either through efficiency and expansion education and work. 6% 1% of services or actions of private social investment. Volunteer That shows how the services provided by the Solví work Communities served/ locations benefitted 105 Education Projects / actions performed – 395 Revenue 26% Benefitted people – 168,358 POPULATION BENEFITTED BY ESSENTIAL generation Volunteers – 2,326 SERVICES FOR LIFE Environmen67% Social investment – R$ 4,220,118.03 10.45%, tal education An increase of 25,000,000 was reported in collected waste in 20,989,709 2013, due to the expansion of the 19,586,350 20,259,948 service provided in Salvador (BA) and 20,000,000 19,054,420 the start of household collection in 16,351,793 Argentina. 15,000,000 10,000,000 5,000,000 The increase of 10.3% reported in selective collection BEHIND THE NUMBERS represents an important progress. 0 However, it is still necessary to leverage 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 this service to have an effective Human Rights and Environment sustainable management of waste Water Sewage Household Selective generated in the country. waste collection Alfenas Ambiental – a company The activity supported by Alfenas Ambiental is the collection that belongs to the Solví Group and course to produce ecological brooms from PET operates in Minas Gerais – is supporting bottles. After learning the technique, it is possible the Inmate Reintegration Project to produce and sell these items, generating developed by Associação de Proteção resources for personal and family expenses. In e Assistência aos Condenados (APAC) addition, at the end of the project, the participants NUMBER OF PEOPLE WITH HOUSEHOLD in Alfenas. The objective of this initiative may be invited to act as voluntary instructors, COLLECTION SERVICE (excluding selective collection) is to provide education and professional transferring the knowledge acquired to other Last year, almost skills to inmates, through technical inmates. 16.000 16 million people received services of household workshops that teach a new profession or a professional qualification, preparing The project is for convicted people in closed, semi-open and open regimes, and it is aligned them to social reintegration and with the urban cleaning, waste collection 14.000 waste collection offered by several encouraging them to rescue their dignity and treatment services developed by Alfenas 12.000 companies of the Solví Group, which represents and self-esteem. Ambiental in the city. 10.000 8.000 6.000 10% of total Brazilian urban population with 4.000 access to this service*. 2.000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Source: Pesquisa Nacional de Saneamento Básico, PNSB, 2008 92 93 our performance I 2014 annual report THE SOLVÍ SCENARIO One of the focus of the Solví Group in 2014 will be project self-financing. The idea is to generate its own financial volume and cash flow, to 2014 PANORAMA expand investments and amortize shortand long-term debts. The search At a global level, the expectation for for management excellence will remain 2014 is of global economy growth, across all companies of the Group. In which, according to estimates of the this scenario, an axis that should be International Monetary Fund (IMF), encouraged is innovation. Solví believes may reach 3.7%. This result will be that sustainable results are achieved through innovation, based on new ways driven by the end of recession in the to do and think, that help win obstacles United States and greater stability in and increase productivity and efficiency. the Eurozone. On the other hand, the In this context, business managers Chinese economy may keep slowing will have a key role to reach results, down, but steadily. administering contracts, interacting with Then, a more optimistic global teams, listening to demands, managing suppliers, and assuring delivery quality. economic scenario is expected, in Communication skills will also be relation to the last four years. required to negotiate and engage all But such stability makes capital flow stakeholders in co-creation processes more selective, which may generate that lead to the Group’s growth – transfer of resources from emerging estimated to be 10% for 2014 – and countries, such as Brazil, to more strengthen their ability to work for the good, delivering solutions for life. attractive markets. However, that will not necessarily cause a negative scenario for the country, which is in a year of election. The growth in consumer market and The year of 2014 shows a positive population revenue are expected panorama. In a year of election, we to drive governmental investments will have a good scenario for project in sanitation and waste treatment, expansion. Understanding the policy a tendency that may occur in and its meanders and aligning with the organization’s business strategies infrastructure projects, which are will be our challenge. This year will be required to effectively leverage the similar to 2013, with low GDP and high development of the country. Many of interest rates, which may affect the these initiatives may be implemented routine of companies. The Group will through public-private partnerships. keep defending and investing in publicprivate partnerships as a good solution to leverage the economy. The company have to take initiatives and propose projects to public managers within this scope.” Emerson Kapaz, Council member 94 95 our performance I 2014 annual report Equipment • Paramotor to capture aerial images in remote areas. • ROV to capture images and data in deep waters. • High-speed internet, IP Another interesting initiative for 2014 is the the Group operates, it is always possible to streaming and telephony 24 support provided by the Solví Group to the mitigate environmental impacts. hours a day Schurmann Family in their new adventure, the One of the technologies used by Solví will Size Orient Expedition. According to the theory of be a mini-compacter that will allow them Length: 80 feet; English author Gavin Menzies, the Chinese width: 6.65 m. to collect and store recyclable waste and people would have arrived in the American properly eliminate them at scheduled stops continent 71 years before Christopher Weight inland. In addition, an electric composting Dagger board: 18.5 tons. Columbus, in 1421, and were the first to machine will be installed, which will allow Around 67 tons in total navigate the world. The Schurmann intend to to change organic waste into fertilizer to be reproduce exactly the same route in a sailboat used at two sites in the boat. All wastewater that will leave in the second half of 2014. will also be treated before they are thrown One of the differentiations of this trip – their in the sea. And alternative energy sources third expedition around the world – is that it will be used to power the engine, which will use a boat especially designed and built will be required for port maneuvers. With for this expedition, which will have sustainable this objective, Solví developed four different technologies. The objective is to generate the systems of energy generation: a wind power smallest possible impact to the environment system, solar panels, two hydrogenerators during the trip, by using, for instance, lowand two exercise bikes with turbine. energy light bulbs (LED), modern systems of In addition, the engine lining and the heat water desalinization and energy generation, insulation of the boat lining were made of storage and saving. recycled material, from modern systems of Solví is collaborating with this process, seeking waste recycling, also developed by Solví. innovative solutions of waste valorization that During the expedition, the family will check fit the small space of the boat. The idea is the water condition and the communities in to show that, in a small place, just like the terms of sustainability. Schurmann’s boat, or in larger places, such as the reality of big cities and industries where 96 97 GRI 3.12 GRI Index I 2014 annual report GRI INDEX AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX, ISO 26000 60 GRI GRI PROFILE INFORMATION PAGE | ANSWER GLOBAL ISO 26000 GRI GRI PROFILE INFORMATION PAGE | ANSWER GLOBAL COMPACT ISO 26000 COMPACT 1. Strategy and Analysis 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 1.1 CEO Statement 8, 9 7, 8, 9 6,2 Governance Description of key impacts, risks and 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 22, 23 6,2 1.2 opportunities 28, 29, 30, 31 -1 6,2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest 2. Organizational Profile 4.2 22 6,2 governance body is also an executive officer 2.1 Name of the organization 12 Number of members of the highest 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 15 4.3 governance body that are independent and/ 22 6,2 or nonexecutive members 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 12, 13 6,2 Mechanisms for shareholders and 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 102 4.4 23 6,2 employees to provide recommendations Countries and regions where the Processes in place to ensure conflicts of 2.5 organization operates 18 ,19 4.6 22, 23 and 24 10 interest are avoided. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Private Company Statements of mission and values, codes of 4.8 14 2.7 Markets served 18, 19 conduct and relevant internal principles. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 15, 34, 74, 75 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s Significant changes during the reporting 4.9 identification and management of economic, 25 2.9 period 17 environmental, and social performance, 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period 30 including relevant risks. 3. REPORT PARAMETERS Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 7 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is 22 Principle 7 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 2013 addressed by the organization 3.3 Reporting cycle 6 Externally developed economic, Contact point for questions regarding the environmental, and social charters, 3.4 102 4.12 38 report or its contents principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 3.5 Process for defining report content 78 Memberships in associations and/or 3.6 Boundary of the report 78 4.13 38 national/international organizations State any specific limitations on the scope 3.7 or boundary of the report None Approach to stakeholder engagement 3.8 Basis for reporting 18,19 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 78 6,2 Data measurement techniques and the Basis for identification and selection of 3.9 bases of calculations None 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage. 78 6,2 Explanation of the effect of any 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 78 6,2 3.10 restatements of information provided in None earlier reports Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods None Table identifying the location of the 3.12 Standard Disclosures in the report 98 There was no external Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13 seeking external assurance for the report. verification, except for the economic performance data 98 99 índice GRI I relatório anual 2014 GRI GRI PROFILE INFORMATION PAGE | ANSWER GLOBAL COMPACT ISO 26000 GRI GRI PROFILE INFORMATION PAGE | ANSWER GLOBAL COMPACT ISO 26000 ECONOMIC INDICATORS SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance Social – Labor Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and 74, 75 6.8 – 6.8.3 Employment distributed 6.8.7 – 6.8.9 Total workforce by employment type, Market Presence LA1 employment contract and region 34, 35 6.4 – 6.4.3 6.8 – 6.8.5 Occupational Health and Safety EC7 Local hiring 35 Principle 6 6.8.7 Percentage of total workforce Indirect Economic Impacts LA6 represented in formal joint management. 84 1 6.4 – 6.4.6 6.3.9 – 6.8 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, EC8 Infrastructure investments and services 85, 86, 87, 88, 6.8.3 – 6.8.4 6.8.5 LA7 lost days, and absenteeism, and number 84 1 6.4 – 6.4.6 provided primarily for public benefit 89, 90, 92 – 6.8.6 6.8.7 – of work related fatalities. 6.8.9 6.4 – 6.4.6 Education, prevention and risk-control LA8 programs. 84 1 6.8 – 6.8.3 6.8.4 – 6.8.8 Training and Education ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Programs for skills management and 6.4 – 6.4.7 LA11 lifelong learning 91 6.8.5 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption 86 Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.4 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Energy saved due to conservation and Composition of governance bodies and EN5 efficiency improvements. 86 Principle 8,9 6.5 – 6.5.4 breakdown of employees per category 6.3.7 – 6.3.10 LA13 according to gender, age group, minority 80 Principle 1,6 6.4 – 6.4.3 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient group membership, and other indicators or renewable energy based products of diversity EN6 and services, and reductions in energy 87, 89 Principle 8,9 6.5 – 6.5.4 requirements as a result of these 6.3.7 – 6.3.10 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by initiatives LA14 employee category 80 Principle 1,6 6.4 – 6.4.3 6.4.4 Emissions, Effluents and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas EN16 89 Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.5 emissions HUMAN RIGHTS Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Total number of incidents of EN17 emissions. Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.5 HR4 81 Principle 1,6 6.4 discrimination and actions taken Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas EN18 emissions. Principle 7,8,9 6.5 – 6.5.5 SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Emissions of ozone-depleting EN19 substances Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.3 Community EN22 Total weight of waste Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.3 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of SO1 anyprograms and practices that assess 29 6.3.9 – 6,8 Weight of transported waste deemed andmanage the impacts of operations 6.8.5 – 6.8.7 EN24 Principle 8 6.5 – 6.5.3 hazardous. oncommunities Products and Services Corruption IInitiatives to mitigate environmental 6.5 – 6.5.4 SO3 Anti-corruption training 81 6,6 EN26 impacts. 85, 89 Principle 7,8,9 6.6.6 Public Policies Overall Public policy positions and participation Total environmental protection SO5 in public policy development and 81 6.6 – 6.6.4 EN30 expenditures and investments. 85 Principle 7,8 6.5 6,8,3 lobbying 100 101 GRI 3.4 2014 annual report CONTACTS The Solví Group SOLVÍ SANEAMENTO (SANITATION) Chairman: Carlos Leal Villa Chairman: Luiz Gonzaga Alves Pereira CFO: Celso Pedroso Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 10º andar Organization and People Director: Delmas Abreu Penteado Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 10º andar Tel.: 55 11 3124-3500 Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) email: solvi@solvi.com Tel.: 55 11 3124-3500 www.solvi.com email: solvi@solvi.com www.solvi.com SOLVÍ VALORIZAÇÃO ENERGÉTICA – SVE (ENERGY VALORIZATION) Chairman: Vicente Ferreira Linhares Júnior VEGA ENGENHARIA AMBIENTAL Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 10º andar Chairman: Lucas Feltre Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 9º andar Tel.: 55 11 3124-3500 Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) email: sve@solvi.com Tel.: 55 11 3124-3600 www.solvi.com/sve email: vega@vega.com.br www.vega.com.br GPO CFO: Gina Marques Duarte KOLETA AMBIENTAL Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 9° andar Chairman: Ronaldo Gaspar Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) Av. Pastor Martin Luther King Júnior, 8745 Tel.: 55 11 3124-3600 Colégio – 21530-012 – Rio de Janeiro (RJ) email: gpo@gposolvi.com.br Tel.: 55 21 3278-9300 – Fax: 55 21 3278-9331 www.gposolvi.com.br Solutions for life email: koletarj@koleta.com.br www.koleta.com.br CSC CENTRO DE SERVIÇOS COMPARTILHADOS (CENTER FOR SHARED SERVICES – CSS) Design and development RELIMA AMBIENTAL – INNOVA PERU Director: Mauro Costa KF Comunicação Chairman: Marcello Mello Buzzetto Av. Maria Coelho Aguiar, 215 – Bloco B, 8º andar www.kfcomunicacao.com.br Av. Tomas Marsano, 432 Surquillo – Lima 34 – Peru Jardim São Luiz – 05804-900 – São Paulo (SP) General coordination Tel.: (511) 618-5400 – Fax: (511) 618-5429 Tel.: 55 11 3748-1200 Claudia Sérvulo e Luana Viana email: informes@relima.com.pe email: comunicacaocsc@solvi.com Interviews and text www.relima.com.pe Ieda Pessolato THE SOLVÍ INSTITUTE ESSENCIS SOLUÇÕES AMBIENTAIS Chairman: Eleusis Bruder Di Creddo Editing Chairman: Carlos Roberto Fernandes Rua Bela Cintra, 967 – 10º andar Claudia Sérvulo R. Itapeva, 538 – 11° ao 13° andar Bela Vista – 01415-000 – São Paulo (SP) Artwork Bela Vista – 01332-000 – São Paulo – SP Tel.: 55 11 3124-3500 KF Comunicação Tel.: 55 (11) 3848-4500 – Fax: 55 11 3848-4551 email: institutosolvi@solvi.com www.institutosolvi.com Art directors email: essencis@essencis.com.br Monica Deliberato Baptista www.essencis.com.br Photos GRI – GERENCIAMENTO DE RESÍDUOS INDUSTRIAIS Flávio Sampaio and Solví image database Chairman: Ciro Cambi Gouveia We would like to thank all Soví employees Rua Presidente Almeida Couto s/nº – especially those with direct participation Mooca – 03108-020 – São Paulo (SP) in the provision of information, data and Tel.: 55 11 2065-3500 – Fax: 55 11 2065-3741 photos – for their contribution and support email: gri@solvi.com in the production of this Annual Report. www.grisolvi.com.br 102 103 104
