VIYELLATEX group UN Global Compact Communication on Progress Report 2014 Reporting Period: May 2013 April 2014 Page | 1 Message from the CEO At VIYELLATEX, one of the meanings of sustainability is being able to create the most innovative, tailor made solutions for our customers while creating a social, environmental and economic value. We believe that the investment in innovation is an investment in our future, and that in order to get to this future we must conduct our business in a sustainable manner. ‘Total Innovation’ forms an integral part of our sustainability framework. It is an innovation stimulating culture which inspires us to aspire – no matter it is for a holistic change or some minimal improvements. ‘Total’ in our innovation culture means we are open to any ideas from internal and external stakeholders including the collaboration with our customers for synergized innovative opportunities for improvement. We continue to make progress in the different fields of corporate social responsibility in accordance with our sustainability commitments, together with interested parties, and to support the United Nations Global Compact we are part of. I would like to take this opportunity and thank all of VIYELLATEX employees, suppliers and everyone else that took part in all of the activities elaborated in this report, and still take part in our ongoing efforts to create continues improvement in our performance. David Hasanat Chairman & CEO Page | 2 Table of contents The Ten principles 04 Introduction 05 Human Rights 06 Labor Standards 07 Environment 08 Anti-corruption 09 Page | 3 The 10 Principles HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Page | 4 Introduction Welcome to the fifth Communication on Progress (COP) report of VIYELLATEX. Noteworthy progress has been made in respect to the four principles – Human Rights, Labor Standards, Environment and Anticorruption. Attendance rate and training sessions have vastly improved in quality, raising general awareness on aspects such as firefighting, first aid, etc. Improvements has been made in the area of Human rights, with more health related camps and free medical services available to all employees and also to the local community. These medical camps, receive a good number of workers and their children. Now, workers are more aware of the need to stay healthy. In the reporting period, there has been no incidence of discrimination of any form (promotion, hiring, etc.). These principles and policies are ingrained in the VIYELLATEX’s culture and everyone knows how important these codes of conduct are in the workplace. Page | 5 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 & 2 In VIYELLATEX, employees health and safety is given utmost importance, and the organization goes to great lengths to ensure that the workforce have a congenial atmosphere to work and excel at their respective workstation. In this respect, cleaning personnel are available and ready to keep floors, toilet and other places clean and sanitized. Moreover, evaporative cooling pads are installed in every floor so that the work place is cool and pleasant. Also, the drinking water that is provided is regularly tested by “International Centre for Diarrheal Disease Research, Bangladesh (ICCDR,B)” to check purity of the water. Additionally, there is in-house medical center where a professional medical team is available throughout the day to provide medical assistance, care and medicine free of cost. The medical center is also equipped to handle emergencies and carry out basic treatment. In the reporting period, VIYELLATEX has organized 10 Expanded Program on Immunization (EPI) camps, where a total of 1391 people comprising of women and infants, availed the service free of cost. The EPI camp is a program where vaccinations (such as OPV, etc.) are given to infants and pregnant women receive pre & post natal medical services. Also, blood donation program is held every year and this year it is being planned to donate blood to Thalassemia patients, via a medical center. In the last event, about 126 bags of blood were collected. The 0-5 clinic which is held every quarter, about 67 children availed the free medical check-up, while in the Vitamin A plus campaign, a total of 557 children received vitamin capsules. Similarly, a ‘measles and rubella’ camp was organized and the camp received a total of 2950 people. In supplement to ensuring a safe working place, training sessions are arranged regularly. In the reporting period, 1598 workers received training on firefighting, 171 workers on first aid, 118 workers on chemical management, and 1607 workers on Ethical Model Factory (EMF). Also, VIYELLATEX provide educational opportunities to children of workers and local community through the Early Childhood Development (ECD) and BIKASH project. In the ECD (pre-primary school) project, about 7 schools are administered in collaboration with PVH, Save the Children and USAID. Currently, the schools have 210 students. BIKASH is a school for the physically challenged and underprivileged children of the local community. A total of 150 students are currently enrolled in the BIKASH School. Principle 2 VIYELLATEX has strict non-discrimination and anti-harassment policies. These are enforced by the respective Unit HR Department. All our regulations, procedures and actions are formulated so that it Page | 6 ensures that all persons connected with our operation and business, be they customers or employees, are treated fairly and with due consideration of their feelings and rights. Labor Standards Principle 3 & 4 VIYELLLATEX on a bi-monthly basis arranges meetings and discussions with workers and their representatives, in the form of Participation Committee. The worker’s representatives are chosen by the workers themselves via election. Such committees have proven to be effective in building a fruitful relationship between the management and the workers and also been instrumental in driving improvements. Such an initiative helps in upholding freedom of association. Furthermore, the Participation Committee helps in the livelihood of the workers. Other benefits include measures for improvement of welfare services for the workers and their families; helps in fostering a sense of discipline and improving & maintaining safety, occupational health and working condition. Additionally, employment of labor and staff by force is strictly prohibited. Human resource policies are designed in alignment with the 10 principles of UNGC and are being implemented across all supervisory levels. For overtime work, workers are duly compensated by providing double their basic salary and other benefits and facilities such as attendance bonus and free medicine are also available for all employees. Principle 5 Recruitment of workers below the age of 18 is strictly prohibited. During recruitment, all employees (management staff, workers, and staff) are required to provide identification documents. Moreover, the medical team conducts examination and tests to verify that the individual is of the required age and possess physical characteristics to perform the designated job. Principle 6 VIYELLATEX abides by policies that assure on-going improvement in the company’s corporate responsibility performance. The policy is designed by centering on the principles of United Nations Global compact and the Bangladesh labor law. Henceforth, recruiting, hiring, training and promoting the most qualified individuals or employees are done regardless of race, religion, age, gender, marital status, nationality, or physical disability. Page | 7 The recruitment process consists of several steps starting from aptitude tests, stress and panel interviews and final selection. Job analysis is further carried out to ensure that the task is appropriately assigned to the right person. On a different note, VIYELLATEX has so far recruited about 79 physically challenged individuals through various programs such as ILO-TVET, Marks & Start. The ‘Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) Reform Project’ is run with assistance from CRP, International Labor Organization (ILO) and PVH. Environment Principle 7 & 8 In VIYELLATEX, the environmental policy contains three principles which include safeguarding the natural resources, prevention of pollution and striving for continual improvement. While, the environmental objectives is written taking these policies into consideration. The environment policy and objectives are both integrated with the Environmental Management System (EMS) which is ISO 14001:2004 certified. The internal audit team conducts audit in respect to the environment on a regular basis to ensure that the ISO standard is followed. Additionally, the organization profusely promotes the concepts of 3R (Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle). Paper recycling is done with the assistance from Center for Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed (CRP) who takes waste paper from us and uses them to make greeting cards, visiting cards, etc. Also, kitchen waste (from the lunch we provide) is being re-used in making compost fertilizer, and the waste fabric is also provided during lunch, to be used as handkerchief. Principle 9 To safeguard natural resource (gas, water) VIYELLATEX has developed several heat recovery programs (e.g. using condensed steam & Exhaust gas boiler) in regenerating energy. Rain water is stored with the help of rainwater harvesting system, to re-use the water in production processes, (e.g. washing, dyeing, etc.). Also, the treated water from the Effluent treatment plant is reused for toilet flushing in bathrooms for about 7500 workers in the factory premises. Also, more than 7000 bulbs have been replaced with energy savings bulbs, and sewing machines are equipped with servo motor, which is widely known for its low energy requirement. Lastly, the environmental standards and different mechanism have enabled VIYELLATEX to save roughly 97 million liters of ground water, 4.5 million of m3 of natural gas resources every year and also have reduced our energy bill by 35%. Page | 8 Also, metal roofs at different sites are coated with ASTEC Re-ply roofing system that helps in reducing energy costs, and brings in additional benefits such as Seamless Wind and Weather Protection, Allclimate Stability, and many more. It can also be noted that VIYELLATEX have been able to reduce carbon footprint by 25% from the base line year of 2009. This is further aided by a report compiled by Systain Consulting GMBH. The carbon footprint of VIYELLATEX Spinning Ltd (VSL) has been 24,214 tons of CO2e from January to December 2013. The output related carbon footprint at VSL has been at 2.467 Kg CO2 in 2013 while in 2009 it was 3.139 kg CO2, with total percentage change being -21.4% The carbon footprint of Interfab Shirt Manufacturing Ltd (ISML) is 2667 tons of CO2e in 2013. The output carbon footprint of ISML stood at 0.322 kg CO2e per piece in 2013 while in 2009 it was 0.411, with a total percentage change being -21.6%. The total carbon footprint of VIYELLATEX Limited accumulated to an amount of 15,197 tons CO 2e in 2013, for Garments, Knitting, dyeing and washings units. The emissions per produced per output (in kg CO2e) at the Garments unit in 2009 was 0.266 while in 2013 it is 0.128, at knitting unit in 2009 was 0.322 while in 2013 it is 0.111, at dyeing unit in 2009 was 2.376 while in 2013 it is 1.696 and in washing unit in 2009 it was 1.776, while in 2013 it is 0.230. The emissions resulted from three sources – natural gas and diesel, both used for producing electricity on site as well as electricity from the grid. Anti-corruption Principle 10 Good corporate governance is given vital importance as it promotes the long term interests of shareholders, strengthens board and management accountability and helps in building public trust. We conduct periodic anti-bribery audits of our business to raise overall awareness, detect potential misconduct and monitor compliance with anti-corruption laws and Company policy. The use of ERP software’s such as SAP has helped to infuse a culture of transparency and accountability. Moreover, internal audit team conducts investigations, detects misconduct and monitors compliance with anti-corruption laws and company policy. The team appraises significant locations for risks related to corruption and reviews activities in order to reveal any gross misconduct. For further aid in auditing, all high important places are monitored by close circuit security cameras. Also, all new employees recruited in VIYELLATEX attend on-boarding program where the aim is to familiarize with the organization’s policies, code of conduct and other commitments. Page | 9
