magnekon® José Luis Ramos Vázquez Human Resoures Manager Phone + 52 (818) 030 8000 jlramos@viakable.com.mx www.cmsa.com.mx January 27th, 2014 www.magnekon.com.mx H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary-General, I am pleased to confirm that Conductores Monterrey, S.A. de C.v. and Magnekon S.A. de C.v. of the Xignux Group consortiumfrom Xignux Group, supports the ten principies of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principies within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principies part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Conductores Monterrey, S.A. de C.V. and Magnekon, S.A. de C.V. will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principies. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely José Luis Ram a quez Human Resources Director.+ Ave. Conductores505 + Col Constituyentesde Oro. 505, San Nicolás,N.L. 66493 MÉXICO + Tel + (52) 81·8·030·8000 + blopez@magnekon.com + www.magnekon.com+ www.viakon.com 2013 Unit edNations Global Compact . .. Compliance Report Jan 2014 + Ave. Conductores 505 + Col Constituyentes de Qro. 505, San Nicolás, N.L. 66493 MÉXICO + Tel + (52) 81·8·030·8000 + blopez@magnekon.com + www.magnekon.com+ www.viakon.com ..--------------------magnekon ~ Reference: 2011 U.N. Global Compact Compliance Report to all our valued Customers, Suppliers, Employees and Shareholders: This report is issued in order to highlight our continued support of UN Global Compact initiatives as we strive to provide a safe working environment and a sustainable business model. Segment: Principie 1: Busiri~sses should-support and respect the protection of . internationally pr-oclaimed human rights. Principie 2: Make sure that thev are not in c.omplicit in human rights abuses. Principie 10: Businesses should work against corruption inall its forrns, .~_ ing e~tC)rt~b~~~ . Advances: During the second trimester of 2013 our company was certified as an Inclusive Industry (Industria Incluyente) by Mexico's Department of Labor for the inclusion of people with impairments, older adults, women and HIV-positive individuals into its workforce. During the last trimester of 2013 our company distributed an updated corporate-wide Ethics Code to all employees in the organization, as well as including a presentation about the current status of the program by the Ethics Committee. The Ethics Code delineates the proper behavior in the following activities: 1. Respect for the individual 2. Relationships with customers, suppliers, governments and communities 3. Conflicts of interest 4. Management of information 5. Gifts and hospitality 6. Asset protection 7. Environment protection 8. Occupational health and safety The program provides a format for interested parties to submit comments via this link: www.magnekon.com/Pages/English/ethics.htm. The Ethics code can be found at: www.magnekon.com/Files/CodigoEtica.pdf. + Ave. Conductores 505 + Col Constituyentes de oro. 505, San Nicolás, N.L. 66493 MÉXICO + Tel + (52) 81-8-030-8000 + blopez@magnekon.com + www.magnekon.com+ www.viakon.com · .. '. . During Septernber 2013 our companv. was re-certtfied urider the Industria Limpia (Clean Industry) 'program of the Mexican Federal Environrnent Protection Agency (PROFEPA). This program is aimed to írnprove the envlronmental performance of companies, where those who voluntarily meet all requirements are awarded by the certification. This requires that the cornpanles, in addition to demonstrate compliance with the Mexican environmental regulations, also meet environmental performance levels based on international standards and good englneering practlces. AdditionaUy, during October 2013.our company was re-certified under the ISO 14001 standard. An Environmental Management System (EMS) which meets the requirements oflSO 14001 is a managementtool thát enables an organization to identify and control the environrnental impact of its activities,. products or services: improving its environmental performancecbntinually, and helping to implement a systematic approach in setting environmental objectives and targets. Over the course of 2014 we will continue to work on the development and fulfillment of the ten rincipals of the UN Compact as we pledge our continued adherence to the progra . José Luis Ra ázquez Human Resources Director.+ Ave. Conductores 505 + Col Constituyentes de Qro. 505, San Nicolás, N.L. 66493 MÉXICO + Tel + (52) 81-8-030-8000 + blopez@magnekon.com + www.magnekon.com+ www.viakon.com
