Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2013 CONTENTS This is Swedavia page Swedavia in brief 3 The year in brief 4 Important events 5 Statement of the President and CEO 6 Strategy, objectives and targets Our strategy 8 Strategic priorities 9 In 2013, we set a new record in passenger 6 13 numbers and also achieved the highest Swedavia’s business is based on longBusiness model 11 term growing demand for efficient travel. passenger satisfaction results measured Objectives and targets 12 since Swedavia was formed, which is Read more about market trends and our very gratifying. Read more on pp. 6–7 offering on pp. 13–20 Customers Focus: Connect Sweden 13 The market and external driving forces 14 Our offering 17 Social development Focus: Stockholm Arlanda development plan 21 Our role in society 23 Safety and security 27 Our employees 28 Environmental concern Focus: Stockholm Arlanda’s environmental permit 32 Swedavia’s most important contribution is Swedavia is an international role model 21 32 Our environmental responsibility 33 to support Sweden’s economic and social today for developing climate-smart development through increased access. airports. Read more about our Economy Read more about our social responsibility environmental responsibility Focus: Property development 38 on pp. 21–31 on pp. 32–37 Our economic responsibility 39 Report of the Directors 44 In a successful 2013, Swedavia conti38 nued to develop the business, especially Group financial reports 51 through continued capital spending at Parent Company financial reports 56 the airports. Read more about our economic responsibility on pp. 38–41 Notes 61 Signatories to the Annual Report 92 Audit Report 93 Statement of Compliance 94 Corporate Governance Report 95 GRI Index 106 UN Global Compact 109 Definitions 110 About Swedavia’s reporting This is Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report for the financial year 2013. Information about sustainability is integrated in the Annual Report. The report is aimed primarily at Swedavia’s owner, credit analysts and partners but also at other stakeholders, and is focused on our strategy as well as our objectives, targets and results for the past year. It covers the entire Group, unless otherwise indicated. Swedavia also reports sustainability results in compliance with Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines in a separate Statement of Results, which is available on our website. Reported indicators have been chosen based on our stakeholders and reflect our shared view of what is important for developing Årsredovisning och hållbarhetsredovisning 2013 long-term sustainable operations. This is a translation of the Swedish original. In the event of any discrepancy between the two versions, the Swedish version takes precedence. Sustainability Report 2013 – Statement of Results » Annual Report and Read more at www.swedavia.se/about-swedavia/this-is-swedavia/ Sustainability Report 2013 Contact person Henrik Kelfve, Head of Public Communications, tel +46 (0)10 109 00 65 henrik.kelfve@swedavia.se This is swedavia » Swedavia in brief Swedavia in brief Swedavia owns, operates and develops ten airports across Sweden, and the company is wholly owned by the Swedish state. The business is run as airport operations and real estate operations. Our role is to create the access Sweden needs to facilitate travel, business and meetings – in Sweden, elsewhere in Europe and around the world. A focus on customers, sustainable development, and safety and security are the basis of everything Sweden does, both in our own operations and in society in general. Swedavia is a world leader in developing airports with the least possible environmental impact. In 2013, Swedavia had revenue of about 5.2 billion Swedish kronor and some 2,400 employees. A total of 33.5 million passengers flew via our airports in 2013, which is an increase of 3.5 per cent. Swedavia also owns the property Göteborg City Airport and is a minority shareholder in the company that operates the airport. Our offering Strategy, objectives and targets Swedavia’s services are aimed at meeting the needs of our The overall direction of Swedavia’s strategy is a focus on customcustomers and partners for efficient, long-term sustainable ers, sustainable development, and safety and security. We drive travel. Sweden is a country that depends on the export of goods operations in this direction with the help of various concrete targets. and services, which constitute almost 50 per cent of GDP. In an To achieve these, we have developed a number of strategic prioriincreasingly globalised society, there is a growing need for fast, ties based on the four perspectives customers, social developefficient travel to, from and within Sweden. ment, environmental concern and economy. These perspectives » Read more about our offering on p. 17 and related targets are illustrated in our sustainability wheel. » Read more about our strategy on p. 8 9% return on 80% satisfied equity passengers, 2014 0 tonnes of fossil 80% satisfied carbon dioxide employees, 2014 emissions, 2020 Swedavia 2013 | 3 This is swedavia » THE YEAR IN BRIEF Performance in 2013 Swedavia's airports had 33.5 million (32.4) passengers during In June, Swedavia acquired the outstanding shares in the the year, an increase of 3.5 per cent company Nordic Airport Properties from GE Capital Net revenue totalled SEK 5,233 M (4,965), an increase of In June, Sundsvall Härnösand Airport was sold to the 5.4 per cent ­Municipalities of Sundsvall and Timrå Operating income increased to SEK 946 M (831) and profit for the year increased to SEK 501 M (447) Passenger volumes, to and from Swedavia’s airports1) Carbon dioxide emissions per passenger from Swedavia’s operations1) Millions Kg 35 0.30 30 0.25 25 0.20 20 0.15 15 10 0.10 5 0.05 0 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 International Domestic Total 1) Comparative figures for periods prior to April 1, 2010, are pro forma, based on operations previously run under LFV. Consolidated SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2013 2012 2011 Net revenue 5,233 4,965 4,693 Operating profit 946 831 781 Operating margin, % 18.1 16.7 16.6 Profit before tax 686 554 556 Profit for the period 501 447 438 Earnings per share, SEK 0.35 0.31 0.30 Return on equity2),% 10.9 10.8 11.2 Return on capital employed3), % 6.9 7.0 7.4 Equity/assets ratio, % 30.5 29.1 32.7 Cash flow from operating activities 1,339 1,493 1,178 Capital spending 2,413 3,418 1,057 Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % 73 68 68 Satisfied employees (ESI), % 80 76 64 Average number of employees4) 2,369 2,380 2,265 Carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 3,800 5,400 4,600 2) Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity for rolling 12 months. Figures have been restated for comparative periods. 3) Operating profit plus financial income for the period as a percentage of average capital employed for rolling 12 months. Figures have been restated for comparative periods. 4) Average number of employees is calculated based on hours worked. Average number of employees is restated as total number of hours worked divided by normal annual working hours as ­specified by the Swedish Accounting Standards Board. Historical data have been restated. 4 | Swedavia 2013 THIS IS swedavia » IMPORTANT EVENTS I M P O R TA N T E V E N T S Record passenger volume for Swedavia New intercontinental routes Major investment in terminal development Five of Swedavia’s airports set records for At Stockholm Arlanda Airport, seven new Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Luleå Airport, Stockholm the number of passengers in 2013, which intercontinental routes were established during Arlanda Airport and Umeå Airport inaugurated refurbished also means a new record for Swedavia. the year. Swedavia is working with the business terminals in 2013. Kiruna Airport has also undergone This trend is driven mostly by increased community to establish at least five international modernisation. A number of terminals now have more international travel. non-stop routes within a three-year period efficient flows and a broader offering of shopping, food through the initiative Connect Sweden. and beverage outlets. Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit In November, the Land and Environment Court announced its decision on a new environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Swedavia’s interpretation of the new permit is that it risks limiting the airport’s, and thus Sweden’s, development potential. Swedavia has appealed some of the conditions in the new permit. World-leading environmental efforts continue All ten airports were certified at the highest level of the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme for 2013. Accreditation at this level means, among other things, that the airports are completely climateneutral in terms of carbon dioxide emissions from their own operations. Acquisition of properties Swedavia acquired the outstanding shares and participation rights in the company Nordic Airport Properties (NAP) in June 2013. NAP owns and Sale of Sundsvall Härnösand Airport manages office and cargo buildings at Göteborg In June 2013, Swedavia sold Sundsvall Härnösand Airport to the Municipalities of Sundsvall and Timrå. Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm As a result, Swedavia operates Sweden’s basic national infrastructure of ten airports, from Malmö in the Arlanda Airport. south to Kiruna in the north, which is the task Swedavia has been entrusted with. Swedavia 2013 | 5 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO Investing in future access 2013 was a successful year for Swedavia. A record Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Umeå Airport. In addition number of passengers flew to or from our airports to providing potential for business development and growth for our airline customers and tenants, the airports now provide a during the year, while more airlines chose to increase more attractive atmosphere and a wider offering of restaurants their number of routes. To meet future demand for and shops. A modernisation of Kiruna Airport is being carried out, airport capacity, Swedavia is making extensive inand once this is completed, we hope to further increase passenvestments in order to support Sweden’s continued ger satisfaction. develop­ment and growth. Through focused work, Swedavia recently decided on a long-term development plan we have succeeded in producing good economic for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The airport’s capacity will be further enhanced in the coming years to meet future travel needs. results for the year but remain humble in the face of We also see great potential for additional property developments the macro­economic factors and major challenges in the vicinity of the airports that Swedavia intends to carry out in ­affecting our operations. collaboration with partners. Through our real estate operations, we improve the land around Passenger record the airports while also creating better conditions for developing our We set a new record in passenger volume at our airports in 2013. airports. We see the growing strategic importance of companies A total of 33.5 million passengers flew to or from one of Swedavia’s setting up operations close to an airport. That is especially true of airports. That corresponds to an increase of 1.1 million passencompanies with high requirements for efficient, reliable connecgers or 3.5 per cent compared to our last record year, 2012. This tions with the rest of the world. Increased demand for this kind of growth is driven mostly by increased international travel, both business set-up provides good potential for further property develwithin Europe and beyond, which also creates better conditions opment, and Swedavia has planned ventures within the scope of for continued growth in Swedish domestic traffic. Among the the airport cities taking shape at Göteborg Landvetter Airport and airports serving Scandinavia’s capitals, passenger growth was Stockholm Arlanda Airport. greatest at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, where it rose 5 per cent. At the end of the year, the Swedish Transport Agency approved One of Swedavia's most important objectives is to increase Swedavia’s application for a higher classification of Bromma Stockpassenger satisfaction. So it is very gratifying that our capital holm Airport. Approval means that the work to transform Bromma spending to increase capacity and improve the atmosphere at our Stockholm into a modern city airport can continue since today’s airports is producing the desired results, in the form of the highest aircraft and future aircraft are both allowed to permanently operate passenger satisfaction results recorded since the company was out of the airport. formed. Passenger satisfaction increased 5 percentage points in 2013 for a full-year result of 73 per cent. The target of 80 per cent Ensure national and international access satisfied passengers in 2014 remains a challenge but is within A growing Swedish economy creates good potential for attracting reach. We are especially pleased with the 2013 results since the new air routes to and from Sweden. During the year, a number growing number of passengers place higher demands on our of airlines decided to expand their number of connections via operations and employees. our airports. This growth is most apparent at Stockholm Arlanda As a result of passenger growth, Swedavia’s revenue increased Airport, which has seven new intercontinental non-stop routes as 5 per cent during the year to SEK 5,233 M, while operating profit well as more non-stop flights to European destinations. Göteborg rose to SEK 946 M (831). This earnings growth is also attributable Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund in part to acquisitions carried out in the Real Estate segment. With Airport have also been successful in attracting new routes, includa return on equity of 10.9 per cent, we exceeded our return target. ing domestic ones. As a result, all of our airports have at least two airline customers, which expands passengers’ options and High rate of investment continues enhances the attractiveness of air travel. In order to meet future demand for airport capacity from both Passenger demand for international non-stop routes is sharply passengers and airlines, Swedavia is carrying out a major capital on the rise. Being able to fly directly to a destination instead of spending programme. As part of this programme, refurbished changing planes saves time and also reduces carbon dioxide terminals were inaugurated at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Luleå emissions. So it is very gratifying to know there is broad agree6 | Swedavia 2013 STATEMENT OF THE PRESIDENT AND CEO ment on the importance of additional non-stop routes. During the year, Connect Sweden – a joint initiative between the private and public sector – was presented. This initiative bolsters » A record number Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s role as a hub for Nordic air travel, and the aim is to establish at least five non-stop routes to Asia, North America and Europe within a three-year period. of passengers flew to or from Environmental permit with constraints for Sweden To ensure Sweden’s continued opportunities for national and international exchanges, Swedavia’s airports Swedavia has applied for a new environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport. However, we believe that some of the conditions that the Land and Environmental Court during the year « announced in November entail a risk that it will no longer be possible to fly over Upplands Väsby, which is still possible today. This is necessary in order to be able to land on Runway 3 from the south. This places significant constraints on the airport’s ability to meet demand for air connections and thus restricts Sweden’s continued potential for development and growth. In contrast to Swedish and international regulations, the Court apparently believes it is possible to perform curved approaches in high traffic which, in Swedavia’s case, avoid the densely populated areas of Upplands Väsby. Swedavia has appealed the ruling to the court of higher instance. A world leader in operating climate-smart airports Swedavia is a world leader in operating and developing climate-smart airports, and we are working with great focus to achieve our objective of zero emissions of fossil carbon dioxide by 2020. Renewable fuel plays a critical role in achieving this objective, and among the measures taken during the year we made capital spending decisions concerning our vehicle fleet. An important step was taken when we decided to invest in new snow removal equipment that runs on biogas. With a reduction in carbon dioxide emissions of about 1,600 tonnes or 30 per cent in 2013, we are well on our way to achieving our objective by 2020. Increased employee satisfaction Swedavia’s employees are the foundation of this good performance. Satisfied, dedicated employees – with their top-quality service and customer care – are an essential requirement for Swedavia’s work to produce even more satisfied passengers. It is with pride that I note we achieved our target of 80 per cent satisfied employees in 2013. The year’s positive ­results do not mean we will be content with this. Rather, the work with employee satisfaction will continue so that we can achieve even better results in the coming years. Continued development together with our partners All in all, our efforts and investments have really paid off, both economically and in terms of passenger and employee satisfaction. However, that does not mean Swedavia does not face any challenges. Our entire focus will be placed on further increasing passenger satisfaction, ensuring airport capacity through capital spending and appropriate environmental permits, and carrying out aggressive efforts to attract more routes. With a strong ­foundation to stand on, we enter the new year with good potential to continue, together with our ­partners, to enhance Sweden’s access. Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO Swedavia 2013 | 7 STRATEGY, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS » OUR STRATEGY Our strategy Task Swedavia is a state-owned company that owns, operates and develops Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of airports – a system of airports that connects all of Sweden to the rest of the world. Our role Vision is to create the access Sweden needs to “Together we bring the world closer” facilitate travel, business and meetings. Swedavia’s operations make Sweden accessible and enable people who live in Sweden to experience the world. Together with our partners and employees, we create an experience Mission that makes passengers return, time We at Swedavia create added value for and time again. Swedavia’s developour customers through attractive airports ment brings the world closer. and access. Together with our partners, we continuously develop our business. Swedavia’s sustainability targets 80% satisfied passengers, 2014 Values 80% satisfied employees, 2014 Swedavia’s values are: 9% return on equity Reliability 0 tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide Commitment emissions, 2020 Innovativeness A warm welcome STRATEGIC FOCUS A focus on customers, sustainable development, and safety and security are the basis of Swedavia’s strategic development. Customers Social development Environmental concern Economy Swedavia’s most important Swedavia’s work in social development is Swedavia works to reduce our own Swedavia shall develop airports in customers are passengers, airlines aimed mainly at creating the access Sweden environ­mental impact, with a focus on a sustainable way based on sound and tenants, with passengers being needs. Swedavia gives priority to passenger fossil carbon dioxide, and is a driving business principles. This means the primary customer group. With a safety and security and to developing a force in reducing the environmental that we shall develop operations focus on customers, we create the sustainable work environment and satisfied impact of the entire air journey. To be through good investment planning right business controls to bring employees. We comply with the social successful, significant technological and operational efficiency that are about satisfied customers as well responsibility requirements specified in the advances and collaboration between profitable in both the short and long as profitable business development Swedish State’s ownership policy. business, research and politics are term while creating value for our in our operations. needed. One of the most important customers. issues is access to renewable fuels. 8 | Swedavia 2013 STRATEGY, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS » STRATEGIC PRIORITIES Strategic priorities Swedavia’s vision is to bring the world closer. Together with our partners, we are an essential requirement for Sweden’s prosperity and growth. As an infrastructure operator, Swedavia has a special responsibility to develop operations that are sustainable over the long term. To achieve this, we have developed a number of strategic priorities. Access is the main benefit we contribute to society and meetings. Based on what passengers want, we ensure an Swedavia shall always take an active role in society. We work to attractive offering and continued growth. We do this by developing increase access through more routes to and from our airports, our commercial premises in the terminals for retail and restaurant thus creating value in the short and long term. We also drive the operations and work with car parking and advertising. Swedavia development of public transport to and from the airports. Our gives priority to high quality of delivery from our airline customers. airports shall be hubs for growth and meetings. In this way, we In light of the passenger growth in recent years and in order to contribute to Sweden’s economic and social development as well meet the long-term demand for increased capacity, we are now as to the creation of many jobs, both directly and indirectly. in a period of extensive capital spending. With our investments, Swedavia can create a more modern infrastructure which better Business development with the focus on customers meets the needs of passengers, airlines and ground handling Satisfied customers are an important basis of everything we do companies. On-time service and operational excellence are and an essential requirement for developing a better business. especially important. Swedavia’s most important customers are passengers, airlines We maintain a regular dialogue with a large number of airlines and tenants, with passengers being our primary customers. for new or expanded service to more of our airports. In that way, Together with the airlines, we work to facilitate travel, business we can increase Sweden’s access. Swedavia 2013 | 9 STRATEGY, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS » sTRATEGIC PRIORITIES Broader funding  atisfied employees are an essential S Swedavia’s operations are long-term and capital-intensive. Access requirement for satisfied customers to capital is thus an essential requirement for ensuring the Group’s To increase employee satisfaction, we shall create participation development. Operations generate a strong cash flow that funds and dedication in different ways in the corporate culture that we most of the Group’s investment needs. Capital is obtained through want to characterise our actions. We are working with a number of traditional borrowing in the capital market, but real estate operations measures to create diversity in the company. We also give priority are also an important source of funding in the long term. to preventing harassment and discrimination through training and We therefore own and operate properties at and adjacent to monitoring. the airports. We also create potential to offer more and even better premises especially in logistics, retail, offices and hotels for our High level of safety and security makes tenants. Through our real estate operations, we can benefit from passengers feel safe value growth at an early stage, from detailed development plans Swedavia’s airports shall be characterised as safetyand securityto the construction and leasing of buildings. conscious, with aviation safety and security being the highest priority and integral to all parts of operations. By working systemMeasures to reduce our environmental impact atically using standardised methods and offering customer care Swedavia shall reduce the environmental impact of operations that is based on our core values, we help to ensure that passenthrough the efficient use of resources. Reduced emissions of fossil gers are safe at our airports. Swedavia takes part in work at both carbon dioxide and reduced energy use are priority areas. the national and international level to influence and contribute to Swedavia is working to convert our vehicle fleet to run on fossilregulations developed for this purpose, which can be efficiently free fuel. We are reducing the use of fuel, electricity and heating in implemented to maintain or increase the level of security in operaexisting facilities and vehicles. For new construction, we set higher tions. Our work in safety and security will also continue to have the energy requirements than current Swedish building standards. highest priority and be aimed at improving efficiency and customer Swedavia also continues to create solutions that meet society’s satisfaction at all of Swedavia’s airports while maintaining or in­ need to reduce noise and the impact on water, and furthermore creasing the level of safety and security. works to safeguard biological diversity. To bring about change in the industry, Swedavia takes part in Common control processes for increased efficiency both national and international environmental development projects. Swedavia shall achieve long-term stable profitability. In view of our As an infrastructure operator, we also drive the development of capital-intensive operations, it is a constant challenge to create a increased mass transit to and from the airports. more flexible cost structure. We carry out work on a continuous basis to achieve efficiency gains by taking advantage of economies of scale and identifying opportunities for coordination between the airports. 10 | Swedavia 2013 STRATEGY, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS » BUSINESS MODEL Swedavia’s business model Swedavia’s business model is aimed at generating We supplement Swedavia’s own organisation with external added value for passengers, airlines and other expertise and capacity. A number of partners assume partial responsibility for providing security screening and some ground customers through our offering of attractive airports handling, terminal and en route services. and high degree of access. Our business consists of By maintaining an ongoing dialogue and good collaboration with airport operations and real estate operations. airlines and ground handling companies, Swedavia can develop the products and services on offer based on sound business principles Airport operations are Swedavia’s core activity, whereas real estate and deliver them efficiently and safely to our customers. operations are to generate additional capital, which is crucial. Real estate operations include the development and manageIn the current situation, with Swedavia facing major investment ment of properties and land adjacent to our airports. These operaneeds, business that generates capital in real estate operations tions have different conditions to some extent, which more easily is an essential requirement for the Group to achieve our financial allow for joint ownership and disposals. targets. Swedavia’s main task is to own, manage and develop the Change in pricing model ten airports in Sweden’s national basic infrastructure over the Many regulations directly affect how prices are set in Aviation long term. A basic component of the business model is to take Business and indirectly control the entire business model. New advantage of the synergies that result from running a coordinated regulations have been added since Swedavia was formed, for network of airports. One cornerstone, given Swedavia’s task, is to instance, the Swedish Act on Airport Charges (2011:866). In brief, combine long-term profitability with support for increased growth regulations are based on the principle that prices should correin air traffic and more non-stop routes that contribute to Sweden’s spond to the cost of the infrastructure and service entailed, includgrowth and development. ing remuneration to the owner. Work is continuously ongoing to develop incentives based on Reliable delivery of airport services sound business principles and find the right long-term balance for Airport operations sell services in Aviation Business and Commerhow efficiency measures and business development will benefit cial Services. The diagram below shows the main services included Swedavia’s owner and the airlines. Furthermore, the intention is in each business area. Airports are complex operations with a for the pricing model to ensure long-term competitive charges variety of functions that have to work together. The control and for airlines and ground handling companies. As part of this work, stability that result from long-term commitment from the owner are beginning April 1, 2014, revenue and costs in the Real Estate thus an advantage. ­segment will no longer affect pricing in Aviation Business. Swedavia’s business model Two business segments Airport operations Real estate operations Aviation Business Commercial Services Real Estate • Passenger services • Leasing of premises for shops, restaurants, • Take-off and landing services offices, storage and logistics • Infrastructure for ground handling services • Car parking • Security screening • Terminal and en route services • Services in advertising, computers etc. • Assistance services, PRM1) • Ground handling services Owns, operates and manages properties and developable land at and adjacent to Swedavia’s Owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports all across Sweden airports 1) People with a disability or reduced mobility. Swedavia 2013 | 11 STRATEGY, OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS » OBJECTIVES AND TARGETS 80% satisfied passengers, 2014 Objectives and targets Swedavia shall be a driving force in sustainable social development and therefore drives operations in this direction by using a number of concrete targets. With sustainable development as the basis, the company will be attractive to the owner, customers, employees and other stakeholders. In 2013, three of the four targets were met. 80% satisfied employees, 2014 Passengers’ views of our operations are monitored through regular surveys. Our objective for 2014 is to increase passenger satisfaction (ASQ) from 73 per cent to 80 per cent. The 5 percentage point increase in 2013 indicates that we have good potential to meet this target. Satisfied employees are an essential requirement for satisfied passengers. Our employee objective for 2014 is to reach a satisfied employee index (ESI) of 80 per cent. In 2013, we achieved this target, and the focus in 2014 will be to maintain the positive attitude and ­commitment of employees. 9% Swedavia’s financial objectives were established at the Annual General Meeting in 2011. The financial objective is return on equity of 9 per cent over a business cycle. Swedavia shall also have an equity/assets ratio of at least 35 per cent. Once the equity/assets ratio target is met, an annual dividend of 30–50 per cent of earnings for the year shall be paid out. With return on equity ­return on equity of 10.9 per cent in 2013, we achieved our target. The equity/assets ratio target was not met, since the actual ratio was 30.5 per cent. Swedavia shall reduce the environmental impact of operations through efficient resource use. Our environmental objective is to reduce atmospheric emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from 0 Swedavia’s own operations. The target for 2020 is zero missions. Carbon dioxide emissions in 2013 totalled just over 3,800 tonnes, which means Swedavia met the target for the year. tonnes of fossil carbon Target 2013 Actual 2013 Actual 2012 Actual 2011 dioxide emissions, 2020 Satisfied passengers (ASQ), % 78 73 68 68 Satisfied employees (ESI), % 79 80 76 64 Return on equity1), % 9.0 10.9 10.8 11.2 Fossil carbon dioxide emissions, tonnes 5,300 3,800 5,400 4,600 1) Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity for rolling 12 months. Figures have been restated for comparative periods. 12 | Swedavia 2013 CUSTOMERS » Connect Sweden – vital collaboration for additional direct routes and increased access It is in the mutual interest of the private and public sector that A clear indicator of the region’s attractiveness is Stockholm Sweden and the Stockholm region are competitive and attractive so Arlanda Airport’s substantial passenger growth in 2013 compared that people will want to live and carry out activities here. So, since with the other major Nordic airports. As many as seven new interOctober 2013, Swedavia has taken part in the initiative Connect continental routes were established at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Sweden, a collaboration involving the business community, public It is rare to have so many new intercontinental routes established sector organisations, the City of Stockholm, the region and other at the same airport in one year. Connect Sweden is intended to key stakeholders. maintain this trend to the greatest extent possible. The region’s good macroeconomic performance should attract The ultimate objective is to establish at least five new internanew non-stop routes to Sweden, bolster Stockholm Arlanda tional non-stop routes from Stockholm Arlanda Airport to elseAirport’s role as a hub for Nordic air transport and thus enhance where in Europe, North America and Asia within three years. New the region’s and the country’s long-term competitiveness. With direct routes are defined as destinations for which there are no this collaboration, there is better potential to market Sweden as a flights to/from Stockholm Arlanda Airport. This venture maintains destination abroad. and enhances Stockholm’s position as a growth engine, creates Stockholm is currently one of the fastest growing capitals in new jobs in Stockholm and Sweden, cuts travel time and reduces ­Europe, and Stockholm Arlanda Airport is well positioned to handle the environmental load. increased international traffic. At the same time, only 16 per cent A similar initiative was launched at Göteborg Landvetter Airport of intercontinental trips from Stockholm Arlanda Airport are nonthrough the project Go:Connect. The findings in the report stop to the passenger’s final destination. Since 2002, Sweden’s produced within the scope of the project indicate that ten new direct air connections have deteriorated relative to neighbouring routes to Göteborg Landvetter Airport would provide 1.3 billion countries, and Stockholm’s global ranking in the category “City Swedish kronor in direct benefits to passengers and the region. Gateway” has fallen from 17 to 22. Swedavia 2013 | 13 CUSTOMERS » THE MARKET AND EXTERNAL DRIVING FORCES The market and external driving forces After limited traffic growth in late 2012 and early 2013, growth in air traffic ­rebounded, especially international traffic. Among the factors behind this trend reversal are a number of new non-stop routes from Sweden, including seven intercontinental additions, but also a somewhat more stable global economic situation. The market situation and outlook International studies show that knowledge-intensive companies The global economy slowly recovered in 2013, and a certain tend to locate their operations close to airports with good internadegree of optimism returned. This benefited air traffic, particularly tional access. The recruitment base for such companies is global, in the second half of the year. and their customers have high demands for rapid deliveries. In The economic situation has a direct impact on the demand other words, it is not by chance that the IT cluster in Kista and the for air travel. In an economic downturn, the consequences have biotech cluster in Uppsala are both located within a comfortable been limited in part by the fact that Sweden has a steadily growdistance from Stockholm Arlanda Airport. ing number of inhabitants with friends and relatives elsewhere in Swedish tourism set a new record during the year, both for the world. One out of five inhabitants comes from an immigrant ­people coming to Sweden and for Swedes travelling elsewhere in background. This demand for good connections, which often can the world. Popular destinations in Sweden such as ­Liseberg only be met by air travel, constitutes a growing share of the travel Amusement Park in Gothenburg and the Vasa Museum in Stockto and from Swedavia’s airports. holm continued to attract visitors, while new destinations elsewhere around the world such as Casablanca, Morocco, and the Dominican Republic, drew visitors. New routes from Stockholm Arlanda Airport to Bangkok and New York with Norwegian Air Shuttle quickly became popular. New records were also set for passenger numbers in 2013 for both domestic and international travel. Some 33.5 million passengers flew to or from one of our airports during the year, an increase of just over 1 million passengers or 3.5 per cent compared to 2012. The increase in passenger volume was particularly apparent in international travel, which grew 6 per cent. The increase in passenger volume for domestic travel was 1 per cent. Air cargo volume at all of Swedavia’s airports fell by almost 4 per cent to 228,000 tonnes compared to 2012. In 2013, a number of new intercontinental passenger routes from Stockholm Arlanda Airport were added, which also bolsters cargo growth. This contributed to an increase of almost 5 per cent in cargo volume to and from Stockholm Arlanda Airport during the second half Stockholm Arlanda Airport as a hub of the year compared to the same period in 2012. Accelerating intercontinental traffic is increasing trade and exchanges between The Nordic aviation market is Swedavia’s home market. Our aim is to develop Stockholm Arlanda Airport as a hub for Nordic air traffic. countries, and also promotes Sweden as a tourist destination. 14 | Swedavia 2013 CUSTOMERS » THE MARKET AND EXTERNAL DRIVING FORCES Driving forces and trends in the aviation market Swedavia and the aviation market are affected by various mega­ Economic globalisation largely involves potential for increased trends. Some of the most important are globalisation, urbanisation traffic, both for passengers and air cargo. However, the increasand climate change. In the longer term, these megatrends will lead ingly connected global economy entails certain risks. A collapse to a number of changes in our business conditions. It also means in the financial markets in one part of the world is no longer an passengers and society will have different and higher demands on isolated phenomenon but can instead lead to a global recession, our operations. which we clearly experienced following the 2008 financial crisis. This calls for robust finances and flexible operations that can Globalisation quickly adjust to a change in demand. Globalisation has different components – political, economic, Social and cultural globalisation are positive for Swedavia. It cultural and social. In political terms, globalisation is taking place is clear that our connected society does not lead to fewer trips – mostly in regional constellations, with the EU being one of the rather, the opposite. It contributes to an increased desire to visit clearest examples. Economically, it mainly means expanding new places, peoples and cultures. trade in both goods and services, which is driven increasingly by harmonised regulations and free trade agreements. A growing Urbanisation global middle class has the potential to demand travel on a greater Urbanisation and the growth of urban centres is one trend that has scale than ever. The number of guest-nights that Chinese tourists, gained momentum. A milestone was passed as early as 2007, for instance, spend in Sweden has increased 62 per cent just in when for the first time, from a global perspective, more people lived the last five years. Technological advances have also enabled in cities than in rural areas. One factor behind this urbanisation increased contact with the rest of the world. This in turn has driven is the transition from agrarian to industrial and service societies. cultural and social globalisation, which means among other things Cities are often considered attractive environments to live in. At the that everyone can learn about news, culture and experiences in same time, environmental problems arise in the form of emissions large parts of the world on a daily basis. and waste, and social problems can sometimes also develop. Political globalisation is generally positive for air traffic. All other Urbanisation means that our passenger base at our larger things being equal, free mobility for people leads them to take airports is growing, but this also creates challenges for some of more trips across borders. At the same time, there is a growing our smaller airports, especially where passenger volume fluctuates degree of political uncertainty in many parts of the globe. That sharply between seasons. Swedavia’s task is especially evident requires continuously updated business intelligence and an ability and important at these airports. More airlines have chosen to to quickly adapt in a crisis situation, in collaboration with governincrease their number of flights to and from our regional airports, ment authorities and partners. with direct charter flights among others on the rise in recent years. The world’s exports as a Urban and rural population percentage of global GDP Climate change Millions Per cent Deviations in degrees Celsius 7,000 35 0.8 6,000 30 0.6 5,000 25 0.4 4,000 20 0.2 3,000 15 0 2,000 10 -0.2 1,000 5 -0.4 0 0 -0.6 1950 1970 1990 2010 2030 2050 1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 1890 1920 1950 1980 2010 Urban population Source: UN Source: WTO and IMF Source: National Oceanic and Atmospheric Rural population Administration, NOAA Swedavia 2013 | 15 CUSTOMERS » THE MARKET AND EXTERNAL DRIVING FORCES Climate change together with the airlines and air traffic management to develop Climate change is the greatest environmental challenge of our methods for reducing fuel use in take-off and landing. In the long time. Emissions of greenhouse gases continue to rise, and time term, a global solution is required for managing emissions of fossil is running out for there to be any chance of achieving the United carbon dioxide from aviation. Unilateral national solutions run ­Nations’ two-degree climate target1). The greatest sources of emisthe risk of distorting competition and having traffic relocate to sions globally are agriculture, electricity generation and transport. neighbouring countries. Aviation accounts for about 2 per cent of the global emissions of fossil carbon dioxide. Even though this is a small fraction of total Consumer trends emissions, it is crucial for the sector’s long-term survival to reduce There are a number of consumer trends that it is important to the environmental impact of aviation. understand for Swedavia to develop operations in a beneficial Swedavia has direct responsibility for emissions of fossil carbon way. Time continues to be increasingly valuable, which leads to dioxide produced as a result of our operations at the airport, as expectations for us to design our airports so that queues and well as indirect responsibility for emissions that the air traffic there other procedures that take time are minimised. There is also generally gives rise to. All of Swedavia’s airports are climate-­ growing demand for unique experiences, and our airports are neutral, and the target is zero tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide designed with this in mind. Technological advances mean, among ­emissions by 2020. Stockholm Arlanda Airport has reduced its other things, that passengers are increasingly connected and that own fossil carbon dioxide emissions by 75 per cent since 1990. they also expect us to deliver relevant content and user-friendly Most of the airport’s buildings are heated with district heating from services. biofuel, and all electricity purchased is produced from renewable 1) The objective to limit the world’s temperature increase to two degrees Celsius, agreed at the sources such as solar, wind and hydropower. Swedavia works 2010 UN Climate Change Conference in Cancun. 16 | Swedavia 2013 CUSTOMERS » Our offering Our offering Swedavia’s business is based on long-term growing Airport operations demand for efficient travel in Sweden as well as to and Airport operations are Swedavia’s core business and include both Aviation Business and Commercial Services. In Aviation Business, from elsewhere in Europe and the rest of the world. we offer take-off, landing and passenger services as well as ground handling services and aircraft parking for airlines in passenger Swedavia’s offering consists of services related to airport operations traffic and air cargo. This also includes airport infrastructure for at ten airports across Sweden as well as the development of propground handling services and aviation security for airlines. erties and developable land at and around the airports. We operate In Commercial Services, we have a broad range of premises our business as airport operations and real estate operations. at our airports mainly for retail, restaurants and offices but also In order to create the greatest possible benefits for our cusfor storage and logistics. It is becoming increasingly important to tomers, during the year we took a number of steps to provide be able to offer an attractive selection of restaurants and shops, increased access. This includes establishing new international a nice atmosphere and services for smoother flows, based on routes, refurbishing terminals at a number of our airports and what passengers want. In that way, we can create an experience ­increasing the focus on our real estate business. These ventures that makes passengers want to return to our airports. We work are all intended to ensure that our airports fulfil their role as transcontinuously to further develop the attractiveness of our airports in port hub in their region. order to draw exciting new customers and partners. Examples inThe trend is to see travel more as an overall experience than clude international chains such as Victoria’s Secret and Starbucks, simply as transport. By offering modern terminals, better parkwhich decided to open their first Swedish outlets at our airports. ing options, attractive hotels, newly built office premises, exciting During the year, we inaugurated a brand-new Terminal 2 at shopping and cultural experiences, we try to realise the full potenStockholm Arlanda Airport, which was expanded by more than tial of our airports and live up to our customers’ expectations. 2,000 square metres and now offers a wide selection of shopping, food and beverage outlets. In 2015, a new baggage sorting facility will also be inaugurated; once it is completed, Swedavia will have invested a total of about SEK 400 M in the refurbishment of Terminal 2. Our objective is for Stockholm Arlanda Airport to be the most modern meeting place and airport in Scandinavia which best meets passenger needs. Service portfolio, % of net revenue We also inaugurated a refurbished terminal at Luleå Airport and Aviation revenue 54% an international hall at Göteborg Landvetter Airport. The internaCar parking 13% tional hall added 1,000 square metres of space and consists of a Retail, food & beverage 12% shopping thoroughfare with bright, open-plan areas for new and Other property revenue 14% larger shops while passengers get a better overview of the offering Advertising 1% and of where their flight departs from. Göteborg Landvetter Airport Other 6% also has a new security checkpoint which provides more efficient flows, contributing to more satisfied passengers. » Read more about the development plan for Stockholm Arlanda Airport on p. 21 Swedavia 2013 | 17 CUSTOMERS » OUR OFFERING We are always working hard to stay on top of advances in work to establish more intercontinental routes, which resulted in digital technology. This means, among other things, that we have seven new routes during the year from Stockholm Arlanda Airport. updated Swedavia’s mobile app with a number of services that One example of how we have worked actively to attract new make it easier for passengers to navigate at our airports. What airlines is the establishment of Emirates’ service between Dubai passengers wanted most was information about gates and boardand Stockholm, which was launched in September. ing for departing flights that is updated in real time. Other functions are baggage arrival times and a travel planner for public transport Real estate operations to and from the airport. The establishment of real estate operations is part of Swedavia’s We also consider the potential of introducing new technical work to develop the areas adjacent to the airports in order to solutions. It should be easy for passengers to check in no matter enhance their competitiveness and that of the regions. The task of where they are. Travel should be made smoother to the greatest real estate operations is to own, manage and develop properties extent possible, thus making it easier for passengers. and developable land at and around our airports, with the objective The development of infrastructure for transport to and from of adding value and enhancing the airports’ attractiveness. By our airports is crucial. With new and better routes, it will be easier owning properties at and adjacent to the airports, Swedavia has and more environmentally sustainable to take mass transit to the expanded the potential to further develop the Group’s portfolio of airport. That benefits passengers and is an essential requirement properties as the demand for travel grows. One result is that this for us to reduce our environmental impact. At many of our airports, creates opportunities to provide premises that are better adapted including Bromma Stockholm Airport and Göteborg Landvetter to the needs of our tenants. Airport, work is under way to improve public transport service. Real estate operations are an important part of Swedavia’s Over 50 per cent of people who fly from Stockholm Arlanda Airport comprehensive offering to customers. They contribute materially today already take public transport to the airport. to funding the development of our airports and creating attractive Many large companies set up their main Nordic office in Sweden, places that add a little something to the airport. The construction especially in the Stockholm region. To ensure this trend continues, of more properties adjacent to the airports means that more it is important that we maintain and expand access between customers can take advantage of the airports for travel, meetings Sweden and the rest of the world. So at our larger airports we and consumption. 18 | Swedavia 2013 CUSTOMERS » OUR OFFERING In order to continue our long-term efforts to develop our airports for both passengers and tenants, we made a number of property acquisitions, such as the acquisition of properties A sustainable petrol station from SAS in 2012 and the outstanding 50 per cent of shares in the property company NAP With the establishment of in 2013. These acquisitions are part of the work to enhance the airports’ competitiveness OKQ8 at Airport City, Swedavia and make Swedavia’s position at the airports clearer, as well as create new opportunities for is taking the next step in the property development. development of Göteborg It is important to have the right type of establishments at our airports in marketing our Landvetter Airport. The new brand to our customers. At Göteborg Landvetter Airport, OKQ8 and McDonald’s are the first station was built with the aim companies to set up operations at the entrance to the airport. Since there is demand for a of operating with the least retail centre for people travelling between Borås and Gothenburg, Swedavia hopes to be able possible environmental impact to develop the area next to the airport by attracting more operations. and consumes 50 per cent The completion of Clarion Hotel Arlanda Airport in 2012 was the kick-off for the continued less energy than a traditional establishment of properties at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. There is now also a mini-mall station. The building is also between the hotel and the airport, SkyBridge, which connects the hotel with the airport and environmentally optimised with offers shopping in retail space that is open to everyone. Planning is also under way for the Sky maximum use of sustainable City Office One complex at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. materials, being built of lamiIn February 2014, Swedavia decided to initiate the process of selling the hotel property nated timber instead of steel, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The aim of the sale is to realise the value and reinvest this in and has solar panels as an airports in line with the strategic focus adopted. energy source as well as quick What our current and future properties have in common is that they will all be built with a charge points for electric cars. clear environmental focus. New buildings are to be environmentally certified, based on the function and purpose of each property. An inventory is currently being made of our portfolio of properties to ensure that we will be able to achieve our objective of zero tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions by 2020 and facilitate the inclusion of real estate operations in Swedavia's certified environmental management system. In conjunction with the inventory, an evaluation of energy use for our buildings is also being carried out to ensure efficient energy work. » Read more about Swedavia’s property development on p. 38 Swedavia 2013 | 19 Target, 2014 80% satisfied 2013 passengers 73% satisfied 2012 passengers 68% satisfied passengers Passenger satisfaction Satisfied customers are the foundation of our business and thus To achieve this passenger objective, we have focused on the basis of everything we do. Passenger satisfaction trended t­ erminal development at a number of airports. In that way, we better positively in 2013, with an increase of 5 percentage points for meet passengers’ demands for basic functions like cleanliness and a result of 73 per cent. That means our objective of 80 per smooth flows. We also work to train our employees so that they can cent satisfied passengers in 2014 is within reach and that the best handle customer care at their airport. measures we are implementing to develop more attractive and There will also continue to be a focus on the airports’ basic funcefficient airports are appreciated by passengers. tions, spaces adapted to passengers’ needs and customer care. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » The Stockholm Arlanda Airport development plan – crucial investment for increased capacity Ensuring long-term capacity at Stockholm Arlanda Airport is vital furthermore invest in new areas for security screening and baggage to ensuring Sweden’s opportunities for national and international handling as well as more space for shops, restaurants and car exchanges and is thus one of Swedavia’s most important efforts parking. At Stockholm Arlanda Airport, some 7 billion kronor will right now. be invested by 2025. All in all, it means capital spending of 13 billion In early 2014, Swedavia decided at a general level on the kronor over the next 30 years. direction of Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s continued development In a later phase, two new piers are planned for Terminal 2 while over the next 30 years. The development plan includes measures Terminal 3 will disappear and regional air service will move to Terminal to increase capacity and efficiency as well as improve the experi4. With these expansions, we bolster Stockholm’s and Sweden’s ence of customers. At present, the airport has almost re­ached its long-term growth. Since we are also focused on making travel easier peak capacity. The terminals therefore need to be further develfor passengers, we are looking at possible measures to simplify oped to ensure growth potential and create conditions to establish transfers between the domestic and international terminals and to more non-stop routes. create better transfer products for airlines. In view of Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s very good growth in A common feature of all our investments in terminals is that they recent years, especially in international traffic, we are focusing first are intended to increase passenger satisfaction. We are always on measures in Terminal 5. By ensuring future capacity for internaworking to ensure that passengers feel welcome and want to tional traffic, we also create better potential for domestic traffic and ­return to our airports. We also carry out important collaborative thus for businesses and the tourism industry throughout Sweden. work with the airlines to ensure that the development of the termiIn Terminal 5, we will build a brand-new pier to receive more nals will benefit them. passengers as well as more and larger aircraft models. We will Swedavia 2013 | 21 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Our role in society As an infrastructure operator, Swedavia has a particular responsibility to society. Our most important contribution is to support Sweden’s economic and social development through increased access – to, from and within Sweden. We contribute to the creation of many jobs, directly and indirectly. In dialogue with our partners at the local, regional and national level, we develop our operations and work with others to improve public transport service. Access is an essential requirement for well-functioning internatio­ things, maintaining and increasing the number of national routes. nal trade and international competitiveness. With Stockholm Through close collaboration with regional companies and organiArlanda Airport as a hub for Swedish domestic traffic, we create sations, we also develop local tourism and business operations. greater support for direct routes to destinations beyond Sweden We are a key part of the infrastructure that makes both Sweden and open up the international market to regional businesses. and the world available to everyone. We provide this access for the valuable exchange of knowledge To further improve Sweden’s access, in 2013 the venture Conand culture, which strengthens international understanding and nect Sweden was launched, with the aim of enhancing Stockholm cooperation. Arlanda Airport’s role as a hub for Nordic air travel and attracting Sweden is a country that depends on exports, with such trade more international air routes. There are many reasons why new growing faster than the economy as a whole. Air cargo accounts non-stop routes from Stockholm Arlanda Airport are important to for 25 to 30 per cent of the value of Swedish exports, which means the Swedish economy, with the top three being that they maintain that goods worth 1 billion Swedish kronor are sent by air each day. and strengthen Stockholm’s position as a growth engine, they It is estimated that about 10 to 25 per cent of sales by Swedish create new jobs in Stockholm and Sweden, and they reduce travel companies are directly dependent on smoothly functioning air times and the environmental load. Connect Sweden is a collaboconnections. In other words, efficient air connections to commerration between the private sector, the public sector, national and cial centres and rapidly growing markets are crucial in order for local political leaders, and the Swedish Parliament and governSweden to compete globally. ment with the aim of attracting new non-stop routes and marketWith airport operations in many parts of a long, narrow country ing Sweden as a destination in selected markets. that is sparsely populated, we play a critical role in regional » Read more about Connect Sweden on p.13 development. We take regional responsibility for, among other The role of the aviation sector Each year, Swedish aviation contributes about 53 billion kronor been significant technological advances to reduce the environto Sweden’s GDP, and additional non-stop air routes to Sweden mental impact of air transport. The sector does a great deal, but would have a direct positive effect on GDP. Air transport also much of the responsibility also falls to others. Cooperation and generates direct tax revenue of over 9 billion kronor annually to dialogue are essential requirements to ensure development that the Swedish government’s budget. is beneficial to both the environment and society. The aviation sector’s great responsibility to society, along As part of its social responsibility, the aviation sector also with providing the access society needs, is mainly in the helps to generate many jobs around Sweden. Swedish air environmental area. The sector has an important role to play in transport creates more than 80,000 jobs in the country as well reducing the environmental impact of air transport. The solution as another 100,000 jobs in the tourism industry. In all, passenis not to fly less, since that has other negative consequences gers arriving in Sweden spend some 60 billion kronor annually in for society such as reduced access and growth potential, but the country.1) rather to fly smarter. Over the past few decades, there have 1) Source: Oxford Economics, Economic Benefits from Air Transport in Sweden, 2011. Swedavia 2013 | 23 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Examples of partnerships Efforts to increase public transport Swedavia works in partnership with the tourism Every mode of transport has its strengths and weaknesses. When this understanding guides industry and market development companies to traffic planning, there will be the greatest benefits and the best coordination between different attract more visitors to Sweden. An increased transport modes. Planes, trains, buses and other modes of traffic are necessary complements number of visitors provides a basis for new routes, which in turn improves access. to one other to ensure that all of Sweden is accessible. Since air transport is part of mass transit, Swedavia works together with bus and train Swedavia promotes and collaborates with operators. Bus traffic also provides vital service to a number of Swedavia’s airports. We the children’s rights organisation ECPAT, the World Childhood Foundation, Doctors Without support the development of mass transit solutions for our airports and work to increase the ­Borders, the Red Cross, the Swedish Childnumber of passengers who take public transport to and from the airports. The opening of hood Cancer Foundation and the Paralympics. the commuter train station at Stockholm Arlanda Airport has been a key factor in more than Connect Sweden is an initiative that works to half of passengers now taking public transport to the airport. enhance Sweden’s international access through In addition, the Kista branch of the Tvärbanan cross-town rail service will open before more direct routes. This collaboration consists of representatives from Swedish business, ­ 2020. The station will be located next to Bromma Stockholm Airport, which means passenthe City of Stockholm, national and regional gers will be able to take public transport to this airport. organisations, and Swedavia. Construction is set to begin on the railway to Göteborg Landvetter Airport in 2020, and Swedavia was involved in the work to produce the aim is for it to be completed in connection with the West Link, a tunnel for commuter rail the report Take Off Västsverige. The report service in Gothenburg. In the long term, this will make it more convenient as well as more is part of a joint effort between the region, environmentally friendly for passengers to get to Göteborg Landvetter Airport. Extension of local authorities, businesses, culture, higher education and Göteborg Landvetter Airport to the railway also means that the airport will be an even more attractive place for companies make the region internationally accessible. This to establish operations. collaboration was then further developed in Go:Connect. Collaborative efforts Nordic airlines and airports, together with By taking part in strategic collaborations, Swedavia contributes benefits to society while at government authorities and aircraft manu­ the same time enhancing our brand. We demand the same kind of responsibility from our f­acturers, work together under the Nordic ­Initiative for Sustainable Aviation to find an partners as we do from ourselves. Swedavia takes responsibility for the entirety of such effective supply of renewable jet fuel. The arrangements even though other parties contribute. aim is to establish three pilot facilities for the For instance, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, we arrange a Partners Day for ground handling production of renewable jet fuel in the Nordic companies, security contractors and cleaning firms in order to create a single view of the work countries by 2016. at the airport and to see how we can best develop operations together. The objective is to The Arlanda Forum for local and regional build mutual confidence and for Swedavia to be seen as a clear choice for our partners. ­decision makers, both civil servants and politicians, discusses how access to Stockholm Together with our partners at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, we have launched a campaign Arlanda Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport to involve young people through a speed-dating scheme as part of the project “Zero vision for can be improved while reducing the environyoung unemployed people in the Municipality of Härryda”. In 2013, 25 young jobseekers got mental load, for instance, from traffic to and from the airports. to experience different operations at the airport in order to find internships. The airport is the largest workplace in the municipality and thus has a responsibility and an opportunity to affect Swedavia is a member of the Swedish Air youth unemployment. The Municipality of Härryda, the Swedish employment service Arbets­ Transport Society. The aim of the trade ­association’s activities is to enhance trust förmedlingen and Swedavia all collaborate in the project through Göteborg Landvetter Airport. in commercial aviation and the air transport industry so that they have the potential to work and develop in Sweden. Swedavia works together with the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences, in part within the scope of Tekniksprånget, a programme for upper secondary students, in order to ensure that Sweden continues to be at the forefront of research, development and entrepreneurship. In a partnership between the Swedish public employment service Arbetsförmedlingen and Swedavia, unemployed youth are offered internships at our airports across Sweden. 24 | Swedavia 2013 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR ROLE IN SOCIETY Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis Each year, Swedavia holds a dialogue with a number of relevant Our most important stakeholders are our owner, passengers, stakeholder groups that influence or are influenced by our airlines, tenants, employees and society. In conjunction with this operations. This dialogue is an important part of our continued year’s dialogue with them, a number of important questions development, since it helps to increase our understanding of were raised, which are presented in the table below. The issues how our stakeholders perceive our operations and sustainability raised in this Annual Report and Sustainability Report are work, our offering and our sustainability work. We analyse our based in part on these dialogues. stakeholders’ questions and views on a regular basis. In 2013, Swedavia decided to carry out a more systematic Swedavia’s materiality analysis is based on the stakeholder survey of stakeholders. The results will be presented in our dialogues we conducted during the year. We also carried out a ­Annual Report and Sustainability Report for 2014. number of surveys. Stakeholder dialogue in 2013, a selection Stakeholder Dialogue Monitoring Important issues Owner and political Via the Annual General Meeting and in Interim reports, Annual Report and Value creation, financial stability, sustain­ decision makers discussions and meetings Sustain­ability Report and other reports. able business practices, provision of Annual survey of political decision makers socio-economically efficient and long-term and their attitudes to Swedavia, aviation sustainable transport and relevant issues Passengers Meetings in the day-to-day operations at Regular measurements of passengers’ Access, safety and security, cleanliness, Swedavia’s ten airports attitudes to the airport smooth flows and customer care Airlines and tenants Ongoing dialogue, mainly via the airports Regular surveys of airlines’ and tenants’ Reliability and modern infrastructure attitudes to the airports Employees Employee reviews and employee dialoAnnual employee survey to identify Focus on customers and skills developgues strengths and areas for improvement ment, with a focus on leadership, the work environment and impact Society Discussions and meetings with neighbours Annual sustainability survey of how Access, climate change and noise and local authorities at the airports passengers and the general public view Swedavia’s airports Swedavia 2013 | 25 New European regulations In 2014, the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) will ­introduce European regulations for civil airports. That means Swedavia’s airports will convert their certifications in 2014–2016 to comply with this new standard. The change applies to all ­European airports and is to be completed by 2017 at the latest. This involves a more harmonised application of regulations in ­Europe. Swedavia’s airports are already well advanced in their work with safety and security, which will facilitate implementation of the EASA’s new regulations. SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » Safety and security High level of safety and security The work with aviation safety and security is to be In 2013, a security management system (SMS) was introduced characterised by the highest quality conceivable so for aviation security at all airports and in all air traffic management services that Swedavia is certified to provide. As a result, Swedavia that passengers and employees always feel safe at has effective monitoring to ensure our development and quality Swedavia’s airports. Our passengers demand smooth, improvement work. efficient flows without compromising safety or security. We have a zero vision for the number of accidents and serious This is something that is integral to Swedavia’s safety incidents at our airports. In 2013, there was one accident with and security culture in the day-to-day work and in the a small single-engine aircraft in general aviation at Bromma continued development of our airports. Stockholm Airport. At Stockholm Arlanda Airport, one smaller aircraft skidded off the tarmac. There were no injuries involved. Aviation safety and security have the highest priority and provide According to a transport policy decision by the Swedish Parliaa foundation for all our operations. It is also a key factor in creating ment, Swedish aviation standards shall, at a minimum, be on par long-term trust in our customers. Our airports shall guarantee with those of other well-developed aviation countries. In light of the a high level of safety and security, which helps passengers feel results for our key figure for aviation safety and security, Swedavia safe and enjoy a positive experience. The customer care and the helps to meet this transport policy objective. safety and security culture of our employees and partners play a critical role in this work. Regulated safety work Swedavia’s safety work is largely regulated by EU laws inter­ Methodical security work preted by the Swedish Transport Agency in the form of regulations When we develop our Group-wide security, consideration is also (TSFS). The Swedish Transport Agency also carries out oversight given to cost-effective solutions, with one essential component of the airports’ safety work. In addition, Swedavia carries out being the use of effective IT support. We develop Group-wide regular self-inspections and quality controls at the airports, which methods with similar processes in order to create long-term, are ­reported to the executive management. Our aim is also to systematic thinking. We also work to take advantage of techno­influence national and international legislation to establish apprological advances being made to create smoother, more efficient priate safety regulations. flows for our customers. At Bromma Stockholm Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, one of our partners is responsible for security screening. We therefore maintain an ongoing dialogue to ensure there is a shared approach to security work. We have also develChange in regulations for future access oped a Group-wide assessment system to continuously monitor In order for the aviation sector to meet future demands quality and further develop this work. and create good access as air traffic increases, changes Since 2006, long-term development work in technology and are needed in current regulations. In Europe, there is a staffing has been carried out to direct security work at Bromma long-term shift under way towards a risk-based view of Stockholm Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. This work has EU laws for airport and passenger safety and security. resulted in an effective, one-of-a-kind security solution for these Swedavia is involved in this work, which is being carried airports. Technology and staffing have been combined in a way out by Airport Council International Europe (ACIE) in that makes security screening more proactive and passengercooperation with the EU. focused. The positioning of resources and real-time information about security work are key factors in this development. Swedavia 2013 | 27 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR EMPLOYEES Our employees Dedicated employees with the right competencies and At Swedavia, we have two compulsory leadership programmes, the desire to develop are critical for our future. We work one of which is aimed at training new leaders in Swedavia’s processes and procedures. This training was carried out for the to be an attractive employer that promotes development first time in 2013 with very favourable results. The other leadership in order to retain and recruit competent employees. programme is aimed at further developing current leaders in how Our work is carried out with a focus on sustainability they can develop and strengthen their leadership. We also highlight and based on ambitious objectives in the priority areas the importance of good leadership by rewarding talented leaders of employeeship, leadership, health and diversity. and role models at the company. Leadership Health Leaders at Swedavia have a vital role in motivating all employees The work environment and employee health are high priorities to take responsibility for the company achieving our objectives at Swedavia, because we strive to ensure that our employees and targets. Leaders are the key to our vision and values being experience quality of life, happiness and inspiration. We take carried out into operations. Together with employees, our leaders responsibility for the physical and psychosocial development of are responsible for connecting Group objectives and targets to the workplace. individual objectives and targets. Leaders are to be role models Among other things, we work actively with work-related that create the right conditions for employees to develop. ­rehabilitation with repeated short-term absences due to illness We work continuously to strengthen our leaders. We do this, as well as longer such absences. In 2013, the rate of absence due in part, by developing communication tools to help leaders in the to illness was 4.9 (4.8) per cent. important dialogue with employees. We also have a number of Group-wide and local Leadership Days each year. 28 | Swedavia 2013 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR EMPLOYEES 2013 Target 2014 80% satisfied 80% satisfied employees employees 2012 76% satisfied employees More satisfied employees Our employees are the key to satisfied customers and represent e ­ mployee satisfaction, and we always strive to achieve better our brand. So we work continuously to enhance their comperesults. The result for the communicative leadership index (CLI) tencies and customer care skills. Measures include an online was 68 (66). introductory programme so that our new employees can quickly The results from the employee survey are the basis of many become part of Swedavia. of the issues we focus on. In order to achieve even better survey Each year we conduct an employee survey. In 2013, we results and reach our target for communicative leadership, we reached our employee satisfaction index (ESI) target of 80 per are putting considerable resources into areas with poorer survey cent, which we had set for 2014. Even though we have already results. reached our target, the work will continue to further increase SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR EMPLOYEES We also work to develop measures and tools that prevent Swedavia has a zero tolerance policy for bullying and harassinjuries. This is important since many of our employees have ment. Swedavia has established procedures to deal with any physically demanding duties. discrimination experienced. One example is the employee survey, Swedavia offers occupational health service for all employees. which includes questions about bullying and sexual harassment. Employees have access to crisis management support through Human rights are very important to Swedavia’s strategic this service, day or night. We support and encourage employees diversity work and are increasingly seen as an investment that to take responsibility for their health by subsidising fitness activiproduces beneficial results for the business. Maintaining a diverties. All employees have an insurance programme for illness and sity perspective in the choice of suppliers will be an increasingly rehabilitation via Swedavia which is aimed at quickly providing the important issue in order to enhance Swedavia’s benefits to society. help they need. Swedavia has included social requirements in our procurement documents for temporary hiring and recruitment services to Diversity ensure that we and our partners share the same perspective on For us at Swedavia, diversity is a strategic issue and a priority. diversity work. Having carefully prepared, inclusive diversity work is critical to our Swedavia has a diversity group that is responsible, together business because we operate from the assumption that people’s with Swedavia’s leaders, for dealing with these issues. The diversity differences enrich us. group works as a knowledge bank and represents Swedavia Leadership and employeeship principles Swedavia’s vision of leadership is broken down into five leadership principles aimed at providing a common platform on which to base our day-to-day work. These principles are based on The best possible work environment for our employees Swedavia’s vision, values and Code of Conduct and are focused Our employees are to be provided with a physical and on the following areas: psychosocial work environment that enables them to work A focus on customers and business and perform at their best. That requires advanced leadership One Swedavia which takes responsibility for the work environment and A good role model develops working aids and tools. As part of this work, we Courage to be better carry out compulsory training in the work environment with Clear communication a knowledge test for all leaders at the end of the programme. 30 | Swedavia 2013 SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT » OUR EMPLOYEES Managers Group management 66% 2,883 65% men 57% men 34% number of employees1) 35% women 43% women 1) Number of employees at the end of 2013 regardless of the form of employment. externally. The employees in the group have been trained in basic order to best expand the collaboration and provide jobs at Swedavia discrimination law and diversity work in general. We have also to more people with disabilities. developed guidelines for diversity in the recruitment process. The In 2013, Swedavia took part in the internship programme diversity group also carries out work for Swedavia’s participation Tekniksprånget for recent upper secondary school graduates in the Pride Festival. specialising in technology and the natural sciences, in order to Swedavia is collaborating with the state-owned employment give them insight into what the engineering profession entails. company Samhall under a pilot project aimed at involving more Swedavia took in a total of 19 interns. Swedavia’s participation in people with disabilities in work. People from Samhall will work for Tekniksprånget is part of our strategy to recruit the right employees twelve months in Swedavia’s operations. The idea is that both over the long term. Swedavia plans to take part in the programme companies will gain knowledge about how it works in practice in during the spring and autumn of 2014. Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct constitutes our Group-wide, ethical guidelines and is used to supplement and develop common values and ethical attitudes. This provides a clear foundation of our vision – Together we bring the world closer – and sets out how we should conduct ourselves in fulfilling the requirements placed on our operations with an attitude we are proud of. Our Code of Conduct includes the areas of human rights, ­methods for responsible corporate behaviour, the work environment and our role in society. It states that all of Swedavia’s employees are free to join any association or organisation of their choice. We state in our Code of Conduct that Swedavia supports the UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights and related conventions. That means we respect personal dignity, integrity and the rights of every human we come in contact with in our work. No one shall take part in violating or circumventing human rights. Swedavia 2013 | 31 Environmental concern » Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit – an essential requirement for tomorrow’s access Air transport is an essential requirement for national and internaperform curved approaches that avoid densely populated areas tional exchanges, both economic and social. Stockholm Arlanda of Upplands Väsby in high traffic. This condition means that the Airport is the hub of Sweden’s air traffic and in 2013 some 21 million possibility of performing approaches to Runway 3 from the south passengers flew via the airport. With around 170 destinations on will in principle no longer be available after January 1, 2018. As offer, passengers can efficiently get elsewhere in the world. for the other conditions connected with approach and departure On November 27, 2013, the Swedish Land and Environmental routes that Swedavia has decided to appeal, the court – without Court announced its decision on a new environmental permit for providing any reason for this – has rejected the national standard Stockholm Arlanda Airport. Swedavia believes there is a significant for outdoor maximum noise level of 70 dB(A) and has instead risk that the new permit entails constraints on the development ruled that the level of 65 dB(A) should apply. Consequently, the potential of the airports and of Sweden. In order to continue concourt has formulated more stringent conditions than the national tributing to Sweden’s opportunities for national and international ­standard for outdoor noise that the Swedish Parliament and exchanges, Swedavia has appealed ten of the total 36 conditions ­government have backed and which society aims to achieve in in the new permit. On March 13, 2014, the Land and Environmental the long term. Court of Appeal granted an appeal for Swedavia’s application for The carbon dioxide emissions cap has been replaced with an an airport operations permit. action plan for lower emissions. This favourable ruling means that A large share of the complaints submitted concern how the responsibility for carbon dioxide emissions from road traffic is approach routes to the airport should be laid out. Based on the no longer to be assumed solely by Swedavia but rather that we will court’s opinion, it is the court’s view – in contradiction to Swedish instead work with other companies and organisations in order to and international regulations and experts – that it is possible to continue reducing emissions in the airport area. 32 | Swedavia 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our environmental responsibility Swedavia has given priority to environmental issues for many years. Economising on resources and minimising our environmental impact today allows us continued air travel and development tomorrow. Swedavia is an international role model in developing climate-smart airports. Reducing the environmental impact of aviation is an essential requirement for the survival and development of the air transport industry, and thus also for our operations. Our environmental work focuses on reducing emissions of green­ Towards zero tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions house gases such as carbon dioxide, minimising energy use and by 2020 reducing atmospheric emissions and discharges to water from our Our Group-wide objective is to produce zero emissions of fossil own operations. We also work systematically with noise issues. carbon dioxide by 2020 from our own operations. That requires, In addition to concrete measures to reduce the impact of our among other things, technological advances in general and colown operations, we take a broader perspective on environmental laboration with our partners. This target is more ambitious than issues. We consider the overall environmental impact of air the industry’s objective to reduce global carbon dioxide emissions transport and are a driving force in the work focused on aviation by half in 2050 compared to 2005 and to achieve growth that is emissions and noise exposure. carbon dioxide neutral beginning in 2020. Swedavia has a number of objectives connected to this longClimate work at the highest level term objective of zero emissions by 2020, for instance concerning In 2006, Swedavia was one of the first major Swedish companies the use of renewable energy and fuel. To achieve this long-term to become climate-neutral. All ten Swedavia airports are certified objective, there will be a large-scale replacement of and investment at the highest level of Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA). Swedavia in vehicles as well as energy efficiency measures. is thus the airport group that has come furthest in the world in its In 2013, carbon dioxide emissions totalled just over 3,800 work to develop climate-smart airports. tonnes, which is a decrease of 30 per cent compared to 2012. We achieved our target thanks to a greater percentage of renewable Swedavia’s fossil carbon Emissions of fossil carbon dioxide from dioxide emissions by area, % Swedavia AB’s operations1) Visby Airport awarded Environmental Tonnes Prize for 2013 15,000 In April 2013, Visby Airport was awarded Gotlandsflyg’s newly established Environ12,000 mental Prize. Among the reasons given, 9,000 emphasis was placed on Visby Airport’s ACA certification, reduced use of electric6,000 ity, water and oil, and the collection of 3,000 waste with a high nitrogen content, which 0 is used to fertilise and water a nearby golf 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 course. Vehicles and fuels 77.1% Employee business travel 17.3% Carbon dioxide Emissions target Energy 5.0% emissions Fire & Rescue Service 0.7% 1) Excluding employee business travel. Swedavia 2013 | 33 MENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Swedavia’s energy use by energy source, % Swedavia’s total energy use1) New bicycle garages at Bromma GWh Stockholm Airport and Umeå Airport 120 Bromma Stockholm Airport and Umeå Air100 port provide their passengers better oppor80 tunities to bike to and from the airport. For Bromma Stockholm Airport, the inaugura60 tion of the new bicycle garage is one step 40 to get more travellers to bike to the airport. 20 At Umeå Airport, a bicycle garage was built Electricity 58.3 0 under the project Green Citizens of Europe, 2010 2011 2012 2013 District heating 31.8% which is intended to inspire more people to Heating Electricity Biofuel 9.7% Oil 0.1% 1) Heating is adjusted for a normal year. choose that environmentally friendly transport mode, the bicycle. fuel used in fuel as well as a mild autumn and winter in 2013. Since important to take an active part in these discussions even though 2005, Swedavia has reduced carbon dioxide emissions by 69 per it is individual countries or the EU that in the end decide what cent. We continue our efforts to reduce carbon dioxide emissions requirements will be set on the fuels of the future. especially at the larger airports. We have made them a priority To offset the carbon dioxide emissions we have not been able since carbon dioxide emissions are greatest there and the effects to eliminate on our own, Swedavia purchases certificates from have a greater impact on our overall results. projects in developing countries. The certificates guarantee that equivalent reductions in emissions are made through the projects Strategy for a fossil-free vehicle fleet and under the framework for the UN’s climate work. In that way, Our carbon dioxide objective is critical in driving our environmental we achieve climate neutrality. Projects that meet Gold Standard work. One important measure has been the development of a criteria (developed by organisations such as World Wildlife Fund strategy for a fossil-free vehicle fleet. Resolving the issue of renew­ and Greenpeace) will also contribute to social and economic able fuel is the decisive factor in us reaching our objective, since development in developing countries. the vehicle fleet accounts for 90 per cent of the fossil emissions On Swedavia’s website, passengers also have an opportunity from our own operations, excluding employee business travel. to carbon-offset their air travel. The money goes to climate projects We are working to gradually replace our vehicles, with the aim of in developing countries and contributes to sustainable development. having the entire vehicle fleet run on biogas, electricity or biodiesel. Following a successful pilot project, we have now decided to Lower energy use invest in snow removal equipment (ploughing, sweeping and blowing Swedavia works continuously to improve our resource and energy or PSB machines) that run on alternative fuel for the entire Group. efficiency as well as promote recycling and renewable energy. Our These machines will run mostly on biogas and therefore constitute objective is to reduce total energy use, excluding new acquisitions an important step in the development of a more environmentally and property sales, by an average of 2 per cent over a three-year sustainable vehicle fleet. The first machines will be available on our period, with 2010 being the base year. The target for 2013 was take-off and landing runways in 2014. The PSB machines were reached, with a margin of 0.5 GWh. developed by Swedavia in partnership with Volvo and Aebi Schmidt. At Göteborg Landvetter Airport, we have installed three new The introduction of fossil-free fuel is also being done in collabopellet-fuelled boilers. Each boiler has a capacity of 3 MW, which is ration with our partners. Together we are developing infrastructure equivalent to heating for about 950 single-family dwellings for one for electricity and biogas at the airports and preparing plans for year. By switching from oil to pellets, we reduce our fossil emishow to make all diesel used the airports renewable. sions and come one step closer to our objective of zero tonnes of Swedavia is also taking part in discussions with fuel companies fossil carbon dioxide emissions by 2020. In conjunction with the to involve them in the development of new fuels. We believe it is expansion of Airport City, there will be a greater need for district 34 | Swedavia 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY heating, which is also one of the reasons why we are now investing and does not have a negative impact on the surroundings. Under to increase the airport’s heating capacity. a 2008 Swedish Environmental Court decision, the airport must At Stockholm Arlanda Airport, we have installed some 12,000 have a surface water treatment facility. Another requirement is that LED light fixtures since 2009, which has reduced the need for at least 70 per cent of the glycol used for de-icing is collected. electricity for lighting by 3,500,000 kWh/year. At Åre Östersund Water from the airport is conveyed to three ponds for treatment Airport, we installed LED lighting for our aircraft parking stands. By using sedimentation and anaerobic breakdown. switching to LED technology for lighting, we reduce Swedavia’s There is oil and some heavy metals in the wastewater from our energy use and help improve our resource efficiency. airports. Polluted water from our workshops, firefighting exercise sites, vehicle cleaning facilities and water from aircraft lavatories Biodiversity is conveyed via wastewater pipes to water treatment facilities. Swedavia has made inventories of the flora and fauna on the land Through inspections of chemical management and grease sepaaround Bromma Stockholm Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport and rators at the airport, we minimise our environmental impact from Visby Airport. A number of species are on the Swedish Species discharges into the wastewater system. Information Centre’s Red List of endangered species. The work has For more than four years, a research project has been under way resulted in three reports that describe how valuable the land around concerning perfluorooctane sulfonate (PFOS) in the environ­ment, in the airports is. The reports also describe the symbiosis between part at Swedavia’s initiative. We are taking our social responsibility the land and listed species in order to ensure their s­ urvival. The to investigate and map its presence, spread and risks to humans way we manage the landing strip areas by the runways is beneficial and the environment as well as exploring potential measures to to biodiversity. A number of places of interest were also identified treat perfluoridated compounds. The previous use of firefighting because of their high natural value. foam containing PFOS is the likely source of this substance in the land and water adjacent to the airports’ firefighting exercise Water sites. Swedavia has taken water samples and conducted chemical Swedavia works to achieve and ensure a good ecological and analyses at the airports. The results for this year’s samples indicated chemical status for the waterways and lakes affected by our the presence of PFOS in some cases. operations. Our objective is to have all Swedavia airports that affect a body of water comply with the criteria in the EU Water Noise Framework Directive. For a number of years, Swedavia has worked to limit the impact At Göteborg Landvetter Airport, extensive work is under way of aviation noise, which is always a germane issue for the sector to ensure that surface water from airport maintains good quality as well as for a number of our stakeholders. Most of this work is Swedavia 2013 | 35 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY carried out at our larger airports, where the issue is most relevant. in the region and about how approaches and departures must be We carry out noise assessments on a regular basis to ensure that performed in a certain way. we are within the limits of the airports’ environmental permits. Swedavia insulates buildings and homes that are most exposed Collaboration with neighbours and municipal authorities for the to noise. Swedavia has insulated just over 1,700 residences. Some airports with the highest noise levels is crucial and has resulted 15,000 residents are exposed to aviation noise from Swedavia’s in building planning and permits being issued based on forecast airports exceeding the value of the national standard, 55 dB(A). noise curves, known as influence area contours. We maintain an About 90 per cent of those exposed live near Bromma Stockholm ongoing dialog with our neighbours, and surveys show that the Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport. An important measure to environmental issues given highest priority are the climate, followed reduce aviation noise and atmospheric emissions is the continued by noise. The objective of our collaboration with neighbours is to work to develop the conditions required for curved and green increase understanding about the airport’s role in creating access ­approaches at all our airports. Swedavia’s environmental objectives and targets, 2013 In addition to the overall environmental objective of zero tonnes of fossil carbon dioxide emissions by 2020, Swedavia has adopted a number of objectives and targets for selected focus areas in our environmental efforts. With these objectives and targets, we give ­concrete form to, guide and evaluate our environmental work. Area Objectives Measures Actual, 2013 Atmospheric Swedavia shall reduce its own fossil carbon dioxide emisIn 2013, emissions shall be at most 5,300 tonnes (excluding emissions – fossil sions, with the ultimate target being zero by 2020. our employee business travel). carbon dioxide Energy Swedavia shall improve its resource and energy efficiency. In 2016, energy use shall be 170 GWh, excluding expansion, which is equivalent to an average decrease of 2% a year for the period 2011–2016. Discharges to Swedavia shall contribute to achieving and ensuring a good The oxygen content in the water measured at the airport’s 1) water ecological and chemical status in the recipient waterways water release point shall be at least 5 mg/l by 2013. affected by the company. Aviation noise Swedavia shall work actively to achieve acceptable noise Every airport that has aviation noise as a significant environexposure relative to aviation’s benefits to society. mental aspect shall be categorised as proactive in the noise classification system by 2015 at the latest. Use of chemical Swedavia shall work actively to reduce the use of toxic In 2013, all chemical products that contain substances in the products chemical products in operations. ECHA candidate list of substances of very high concern shall 2) be phased out. Waste for Swedavia shall work to increase materials recycling In 2016, the percentage of waste that goes to materials­ materials throughout the Group. recycling shall increase to 50%. In 2013, the percentage of recycling waste that goes to materials recycling shall increase to 34%. Passengers’ view Swedavia shall measure whether passengers consider the In 2016, at least 90% of passengers shall consider the airports to take environmental responsibility and act in an ­environmental impact of aviation and the airport to be environmentally way. ­acceptable relative to their benefits to society. In 2013, the percentage shall be at least 80%. General public’s Swedavia shall influence relevant organisations and In 2016, at least 90% of the general public shall consider view companies through effective dialogue to establish future the environmental impact of aviation and the airport to be environ­mental objectives that are appropriate for their accept­able relative to their benefits to society. In 2013, the purposes. percentage shall be at least 80%. 1) Achieved by six out of eight airports 2) Achieved by eight out of ten airports Target achieved Target partly achieved Target not achieved 36 | Swedavia 2013 ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Environmental permits To operate an airport, an environmental permit is required for basic operations. The authority issuing such permits for most of Swedavia’s airports is the Swedish Land and Environmental Court. Different conditions are also attached to the permit. A change in conditions is made when there is a change in operations, for instance, when approach and departure routes are to be modified. For a minor change in operations, an application is submitted, for instance, when an airport places a new parking area in service or replaces a de-icing agent. The application is submitted to the oversight authority, which is usually the county administrative board. During the year, Göteborg Landvetter Airport applied for a new environmental permit, as did Visby Airport. Forecasts for Göteborg Landvetter Airport indicate that more people will be using the airport. Today’s environmental permit allows for 80,000 aircraft movements a year. With the current rate of traffic growth, the limit will be reached within a few years. The airport is thus preparing for the future and in 2013 submitted an application for a new environmental permit for a total of 120,000 aircraft movements a year. In November, the Land and Environment Court announced that Swedavia’s application for a new environmental permit for Malmö Airport was approved, which means potential for continued develop­ment of Malmö Airport’s operations for a long time to come. We are currently involved in a case concerning Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit, which is vital to Stockholm’s and Sweden’s access. » Read more about Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit on p. 32 Forecast need for access in 2038. Number of aircraft movements per hour – scheduled and charter operations 140 120 Today Stockholm Arlanda Airport and 100 Bromma Stockholm Airport meet the Estimated capacity Stockholm Arlanda Airport based on the current permit Swedish capital’s need for access. 80 Forecasts to 2038, when the agreement with Bromma Stockholm Airport expires, 60 indicate that there will not be sufficient 40 capacity, even if both airports are operating. Estimated capacity at Stockholm Arlanda 20 Airport assumes that Runway 3 can be 0 used for landings from the south. 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 Time of day Bromma Stockholm Airport Stockholm Arlanda Airport Forecast high traffic week, 2038 Swedavia 2013 | 37 ECONOMY » Property development – for a vibrant airport city There is a growing need to develop Swedavia’s airports given the Our vision is to create a regional, national and international increasing number of passengers. By providing good mass transit airport city with a vibrant city core and attractive work areas. near the airports at the same time, conditions are created for There are currently about 20,000 people working at or adjacent growth, jobs and local entrepreneurship. to Stockholm Arlanda Airport, but given the pace of Stockholm’s Various projects are currently under way at Swedavia to develop growth, according to our estimates it is possible that this figure will the area around our airports into so-called airport cities. This be 50,000 as early as 2030. phenomenon can be found in many places around the world, and For companies, the location at the airport provides good airport cities have been established at a number of international infra­structure within walking distance to the rest of the world. The airports. airport’s potential and the companies’ needs create good opporIn conjunction with Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s increasing tunities to together develop an airport city inspired by international growth as a hub for the Nordic air transport market, there is models. growing interest in developing the land around the airport. The One project that has begun is the SkyCity Office complex, area around Stockholm Arlanda Airport is one of Sweden’s most which will consist of a number of buildings with a total of more important communication centres and an important junction for than 20,000 square metres of floor space. SkyCity Office One, the entire Mälardalen valley. The airport area is suitable for property designed by the architect Thomas Sandell, will be the first office development thanks to its connections to the rest of the country building constructed in the complex. and the short distance to central Stockholm. Similar work focused on developing an airport city at Göteborg Landvetter Airport has also been launched. 38 | Swedavia 2013 ECONOMY » OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Our economic responsibility 2013 was a successful year for Swedavia. During the year, we continued to develop our business, especially through continued investments in our airports. We also achieved our return target. In order to fulfil our task and achieve our objectives in the long term, we need to continue developing our operations and improving their efficiency. Swedavia’s task is to safeguard and develop Sweden’s access through our network of ten airports across the country. With long-term sustainable operations, we create the conditions needed to meet passengers’ growing demand for both domestic and international air connections. We enhance our competitiveness through initiatives that reduce our environmental 10.9% impact and strengthen social values. Financial performance A total of 33.5 million passengers flew to or from Swedavia’s airports, an increase of 3.5 per Return on equity, 2013 cent. Consolidated net revenue increased just over 5 per cent to SEK 5,233 M (4,965) compared to the previous year. The increase in revenue is largely attributable to real estate 30.5% ­operations. Operating profit was SEK 946 M (831). Cost-effectiveness and operational development During the year, a new management model was introduced with the aim of creating economies of scale and facilitating the transfer of competencies between Swedavia’s airports. This new Equity/assets ratio as of model also creates potential for more effective business development. December 31, 2013 Swedavia 2013 | 39 ECONOMY » OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Net revenue and operating profit Cash flow from operating activities Capital spending SEK M SEK M SEK M 6,000 1,000 1,500 3,500 5,000 3,000 1,200 4,000 2,500 900 2,000 3,000 800 600 1,500 2,000 1,000 1,000 300 500 0 600 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 Net revenue Operating profit Capital spending The acquisition strengthens Swedavia’s position and creates In order to meet the long-term need for increased capacity and new potential for property development at these airports. terminals better suited to our customers, major investments are In 2013, capital spending totalled SEK 2,413 M, with 45 per being carried out in the terminals at the airports. Airport operations cent of this going to airport operations and 55 per cent to propneed extensive investments to ensure compliance with regulatory erty development. requirements concerning the environment, safety and security. Extensive investments are also needed for us to achieve our Funding environ­mental objectives. Swedavia’s operations, infrastructure and capital spending are We foresee a need for significant capital spending in both our funded by revenue generated directly or indirectly from air traffic, ­airport and real estate operations. Such investments increase the passengers and tenants. That means operations are not financed attractiveness of the airports and are an essential requirement in by taxes, but rather the opposite – Swedavia is to pay a dividend ­order to continue attracting airlines and tenants and to meet our to the owner, the Swedish state. passengers’ needs and aspirations. In our capital spending Swedavia’s aim is to meet long-term investment needs with ­programme for airport operations, we are also focused on enhancour own cash flow while meeting the owner’s return target. In ing the commercial offering at the airports. That means a larger the shorter term, we need to secure our financial needs through selection of shops and restaurants as well as new services that will ­various funding sources. Real estate operations also constitute benefit passengers. an important source to fund capital spending at our airports. During the year, we acquired the outstanding shares and parDuring the year, Swedavia issued two 5-year notes totalling ticipation rights in the property development company NAP from SEK 1,500 M through our Swedish medium-term note programme. GEGAC Viking AB. NAP owns and manages office and cargo We also issued a 2.5-year note totalling SEK 1,000 M. The notes buildings at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and are listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm exchange. These Stockholm Arlanda Airport, In all, the company has the equivanote programmes are part of our work to refinance previous bank lent of 81,000 square metres of cargo terminal and office space. borrow­ing with more efficient capital market funding. 40 | Swedavia 2013 ECONOMY » OUR ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY Socio-economic contribution Swedavia’s most important contribution to sustainable development is mainly from a social and economic perspective, since we help provide access and contribute to regional and national growth. Our success in strengthening access to, from and within Sweden is an essential requirement for export and tourism industries. Tourism is sharply on the rise and is considered a new Swedish basic industry. Overall, 64 per cent of foreign visitors to Sweden arrive by air. Furthermore, the more than 80,000 jobs created by the air transport sector help add another 100,000 jobs in the tourism industry. The aviation sector also contributes about SEK 53 billion to Sweden’s GDP.1 Economic value generated and distributed Swedavia has a positive economic impact on society. In 2013, Swedavia generated a total economic value of SEK 5,245 M (4,987), according to GRI’s definition. After distributing the economic value to different stakeholders, the total economic value distributed was SEK 1,432 M (1,306). Of the investments Swedavia made in 2013 (and 2012), excluding the Group’s major real estate acquisitions of NAP and SAS’s portfolio, it is estimated that 87 per cent (53) was in infrastructure and services largely for the benefit of the general public, according to GRI’s definition. This capital spending consists of investments to maintain and expand our capacity as well as investments arising from new laws and regulations. 1) Source: Oxford Economics, Economic Benefits from Air Transport in Sweden, 2011. Economic value generated and distributed by Swedavia according to GRI’s definition1) SEK M 2013 2012 2011 Direct economic value generated Revenue 5,245 4,987 4,715 Economic value distributed Operating costs –1,976 –1,890 –1,821 Staff expenses and remuneration –1,397 –1,412 –1,267 Payments to capital providers –255 –271 –247 Payments to the public sector –185 –108 –118 Economic value distributed 1,432 1,306 1,262 (Economic value retained, calculated as economic value generated less economic value distributed) 1) Pertains to the Swedavia Group. Figures have been restated for comparative periods. Swedavia 2013 | 41 Bakvagn 42 | Swedavia årsredovisning 2012 Financial reports Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Financial reports Contents Report of the Directors 44 Note 14 Investment properties 76 Note 15 Field structures 77 Consolidated accounts 51 Note 16 Biological assets 78 Consolidated income statement 51 Note 17 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 78 Consolidated balance sheet 52 Note 18 New construction in progress related to Changes in equity 54 tangible fixed assets 79 Consolidated cash flow statement 55 Note 19 Holdings in Group companies 79 Note 20 Holdings in associated companies 80 Parent Company’s accounts 56 Note 21 Financial assets and liabilities 81 Parent Company income statement 56 Note 22 Other long-term receivables 82 Parent Company balance sheet 57 Note 23 Materials and stocks 82 Changes in equity 59 Note 24 Receivables from Group companies 83 Parent Company cash flow statement 60 Note 25 Receivables from associated companies 83 Note 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 83 Note 27 Equity 84 Notes 61 Note 28 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 84 Note 1 Corporate information 61 Note 29 Provisions for deferred taxes 86 Note 2 Accounting principles 61 Note 30 Other provisions 87 Note 3 Segment reporting 66 Note 31 Liabilities to credit institutions 88 Note 4 Net revenue 67 Note 32 Overdraft facilities 88 Note 5 Transactions with related parties 68 Note 33 Accrued liabilities and prepaid income 88 Note 6 Remuneration and compensation for auditors 69 Note 34 Financial risks 89 Note 7 Employees and staff expenses 69 Note 35 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities 91 Note 8 Depreciation, amortisation and Note 36 Cash flow 91 impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 73 Signatories to the Annual Report 92 Note 9 Financial income and expenses 73 Note 10 Allocations and untaxed reserves 74 Audit Report 93 Note 11 Tax 74 Note 12 Intangible non-current assets 75 Statement of Compliance 94 Note 13 Buildings and land 76 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 43 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors The Board of Directors and the President and CEO of Vision and Mission Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number Swedavia’s vision is “Together we bring the world closer”, and its mission statement is “We at Swedavia create added value for our 556797-0818, hereby submit their annual accounts for customers through attractive airports and access. We continually Swedavia AB and the consolidated financial accounts develop our business together with our partners”. for the Swedavia Group for the year of operations 2013. The Report of the Directors is for the Group and Parent Important events during the year Company, unless otherwise indicated. The year was dominated by continued good passenger growth, with an increase of 3.5 per cent compared to the previous year, All amounts are in million Swedish kronor, SEK M, unless otherwise which means a new record in passenger volume for Swedavia. A indicated. Rounding differences may occur. number of Swedavia’s airports set passenger records during the year, including Göteborg Landvetter Airport, which passed the five Operations million mark, and Stockholm Arlanda Airport which had almost 21 Swedavia AB is submitting this Report of the Directors for its fourth million passengers. year of operations, which is identical to the 2013 calendar year. On November 27, the Land and Environmental Court announced Operations in the Swedavia Group began on April 1, 2010, when its decision on a new environmental permit for Stockholm Arlanda the Swedish State converted airport operations, which were carried Airport. The new permit could entail constraints on the airport’s out under the Swedish State-owned enterprise Luftfartsverket development potential. To contribute to Sweden’s continued (LFV), into a limited liability company. This was accomplished opportunities for national and international exchanges, Swedavia through Swedavia’s acquisition of 14 airports, corporate functions has decided to appeal some conditions in the new permit to the and subsidiaries from LFV. Since it was formed, Swedavia has sold Land and Environmental Court of Appeal. four airports and now operates the national basic infrastructure of In November, the Land and Environmental Court announced ten airports that are included in its task. The airports are managed that Swedavia’s environmental permit for Malmö Airport was as and consolidated into an integrated airport system with shared approved, which means potential for continued growth in Malmö corporate functions. The past year was characterised by good Airport’s operations for a long time to come. passenger growth and continued property development. At the end of the year, the Swedish Transport Agency approved Swedavia’s application for a higher classification of Bromma Task Stockholm Airport. Approval means that the work to transform Swedavia is a State-owned company that owns, operates and Bromma Stockholm into a modern city airport can continue since develops the State-owned airports in Sweden. At year-end 2013, today’s aircraft and future aircraft are both allowed to operate Swedavia ran operations at the ten airports included in the national permanently out of the airport. basic infrastructure decided by the Swedish Government, consistOn June 4, Swedavia acquired the outstanding shares and ing of Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, participation rights in the company Nordic Airport Properties (NAP) Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, from GEGAC Viking AB. NAP owns and manages office and cargo Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Göteborg Landvetter AirÖstersund Airport. Swedavia also owns the property Göteborg port and Malmö Airport. The total investment was SEK 1,284 M. City Airport and is a minority shareholder in the company that The acquisition strengthens Swedavia’s position and creates new operates the airport. opportunities for property development at these airports. Swedavia’s task from the Swedish State includes working On June17, Sundsvall Härnösand Airport was sold to the actively based on sound business principles and with long-term Municipalities of Sundsvall and Timrå. As a result, Swedavia profitability to develop the transport sector and help achieve the operates Sweden’s national basic infrastructure of ten airports, from Parliament’s transport policy objectives. The overall objective of Malmö in the south to Kiruna in the north, which are included in Swedish transport policy is to ensure the socioeconomically Swedavia’s task. efficient, long-term sustainable provision of transport to citizens In order to meet future demand for airport capacity from both and businesses throughout the country. Operations are funded by passengers and airlines, Swedavia is carrying out a major capital the revenue generated from operations. spending programme. As part of this programme, refurbished 44 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors terminals were inaugurated at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Luleå income from the sale of conference facilities at Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, while a modernisation Airport in 2012. The operations sold also meant that income in programme is being carried out at Kiruna Airport. 2013 fell by SEK 23 M. Other comparable revenue fell by SEK As a result of more airlines deciding to increase their number of 25 M, which was largely the effect of leases cancelled in conjunction air routes at our airports, Sweden’s access was enhanced during with the acquisition and consolidation of NAP. In the Real Estate the year. New carriers have also entered the Swedish air transport segment, the comparison for the period was affected by the fact market. This trend was most apparent at Stockholm Arlanda that operations were launched during the third quarter of 2012. Airport, but Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport and Åre External costs increased by SEK 86 M in 2013 compared to Östersund Airport have also been successful in attracting new air the previous year. Of this increase, SEK 50 M consists of costs routes. attributable to the Real Estate segment arising during the second All of Swedavia’s airports were recertified at the highest level half of 2012. That means the increase in costs for the Airport of the Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) programme. ACA is a Operations segment was SEK 36 M. Adjusted for non-recurring standard for airports’ climate work. costs, the comparable cost increase was SEK 16 M. Staff expenses fell by SEK 24 M, which is explained by large The Group in brief non-recurring costs the previous year. SEK M, unless otherwise indicated 2013 2012 2011 Depreciation, amortisation and loss impairments increased by Net revenue 5,233 4,965 4,693 SEK 90 M, with SEK 56 M of this attributable to the Real Estate Operating profit 946 831 781 segment. The remaining increase of SEK 34 M is the result of the Operating margin, % 18.1 16.7 16.6 increased investment rate for the Airport Operations segment and Profit before tax 686 554 556 non-recurring costs totalling SEK 24 M. Profit for the year 501 447 438 Net financial items totalled SEK –260 M (–277). Swedavia’s Earnings per share, SEK 0.35 0.31 0.30 more efficient capital market funding had a positive effect on Earnings per share1), % 10.9 10.8 11.2 interest expense and offset the higher interest expense resulting Return on capital employed2), % 6.9 7.0 7.4 from increased borrowing. Equity/assets ratio, % 30.5 29.1 32.7 Cash flow from operating activities 1,339 1,493 1,178 Liquidity and financial position Capital spending 2,413 3,418 1,057 Equity in the Group at year-end totalled SEK 4,915 M (4,300) Average number of employees3) 2,369 2,380 2,265 and the equity/assets ratio was 30.5 per cent (29.1). At year-end, Swedavia had unused credit facilities totalling SEK 682 M divided 1) Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity over rolling 12 months. Comparative periods have been restated. between credit lines of SEK 500 M and unused overdraft facilities 2) Operating profit for the period plus financial income as a percentage of average capital of SEK 182 M. During the year, Swedavia continued to refinance employed for rolling 12 months. Comparative periods have been restated. 3) Average number of employees was recalculated in 2013 based on hours worked. previous bank borrowing with capital market funding through Average number of employees is restated as total hours worked divided by normal commercial paper and notes. Bank borrowing fell during the year annual working hours as specified by the Swedish Accounting Standards Board. Historical data have been restated. from SEK 6,903 M to SEK 2,918 M, while borrowing via commercial paper and notes increased from SEK 750 M to SEK 5,586 M. Net revenue and income Total external borrowing at year-end was SEK 8,504 M. Consolidated net revenue for the year totalled SEK 5,233 M (4,965), an increase of 5.4 per cent. Operating profit was SEK Cash flow 946 M (831), an increase of 13.8 per cent. The operating margin Cash flow for the year was negative, totalling SEK –77 M (–12). was 18.1 per cent (16.7). Profit before tax was SEK 686 M (554), Cash flow from operating activities was SEK 1,339 M (1,493). an increase of 23.8 per cent. Profit for the period totalled SEK Investing activities used cash flow of SEK –2,258 M (–3,341) while 501 M (447), an increase of 12.1 per cent. financing activities generated cash flow of SEK 842 M (1,836). Revenue was up SEK 268 M, an increase of 5.4 per cent compared to the previous year. SEK 65 M of this is revenue from Capital spending Airport Operations and SEK 203 M is rental income from the Real During the year, capital spending totalled SEK 2,413 M (3,418). Estate segment. Of this amount, SEK 467 M (629) was allocated to investments in In Airport Operations, higher passenger volume meant that electrical installations, vehicles and equipment, and SEK 1,946 M Aviation revenue increased by SEK 60 M, car parking increased by (2,789) to buildings and land. Disposals totalled SEK 79 M (31). SEK 44 M and rental income from retail, food and beverage The single largest investment during the year, SEK 1,284 M, increased by SEK 44 M. Revenue from other Commercial Services is attributable to the buildings acquired in conjunction with the fell by SEK 96 M, with SEK 48 M of this consisting of non-recurring acquisition of the outstanding shares and participation rights in Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 45 Report of the Directors NAP. The rest of the capital spending consists of investments to during the rest of the year offset the decline in the first quarter. The maintain and increase capacity at the airports. passenger trend in 2013 entailed new records for a number of Swedavia’s airports, including Göteborg Landvetter Airport, which Financial targets passed the five million mark, and Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Swedavia’s financial targets through 2014 were adopted at its which had almost 21 million passengers. The increase in pasAnnual General Meeting on April 28, 2011. The requirements are senger volume in 2013 is due to a number of interrelated factors. a 9 per cent return on equity over a business cycle and an equity/ The macroeconomic situation in Sweden and around the world assets ratio target of 35 per cent. improved modestly in 2013 and was also dominated by low inflation and favourable interest rates, bolstering disposable household Dividend policy income in real terms, which allowed for increased consumption. When the equity/assets ratio is achieved, an annual dividend of More room for consumption was a strong contributing factor in 30–50 per cent of net profit after adding back fair value changes the higher demand for flights for leisure travel in 2013. Airlines for the year that do not affect cash flow and related tax shall be capitalised on this increased demand, mostly for leisure travel, and paid out. expanded their offering, with increased capacity on existing routes but also service to new destinations. This expanded offering was Shares aggressively marketed by the airlines, which also contributed to Swedavia AB (publ) has issued 1,441,403,026 shares, which the higher passenger volume. In Aviation Business, the increase in comprise a single share class, and all shares have equal voting passengers meant higher revenue in the form of charges related rights in the company. All shares are held by the Swedish State; to passengers and aircraft movements. In Commercial Services, the State’s holdings in Swedavia are administered by the Ministry higher passenger volume generated increased revenue from car of Finance. The par value of a share is SEK 1. parking as well as rental income for premises in Retail, Food & Beverage operations, which is revenue-based. Acquisitions and disposals Real Estate is affected by the occupancy rate of leased On June 4, Swedavia acquired the outstanding shares and participroperties. In 2013, the portfolio of properties in Real Estate pation rights in the property company NAP from GEGAC Viking AB was expanded through the acquisition of the outstanding shares through its subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate AB. NAP owns and and participation rights in the property company NAP, which is manages office and cargo buildings at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, now consolidated in the Group. The trend has been stable in the Göteborg Landvetter Airport and Malmö Airport. The total investmarket for properties close to airports, with good demand for ment was SEK 1,284 M. The acquisition strengthens Swedavia’s premises. Acquisitions carried out and a low vacancy rate meant position and creates new opportunities for property development at higher revenue and improved earnings for Real Estate. these airports. Swedavia already owns the land the buildings are on. On June 17, Sundsvall Härnösand Airport was sold to the Significant risks and uncertainty factors Municipalities of Sundsvall and Timrå. Risk management at Swedavia is aimed at ensuring the Group’s ability to achieve its business objectives and be well prepared to The market meet change both internally and externally. Carrying out pro­active Swedavia runs airport operations under Airport Operations and risk management is an important tool in our drive to provide property development under Real Estate. Both types of operations greater access for our customers. Through continuous, systematic are sensitive to the business cycle and affected by the trend in the risk management, we direct decisions, priorities and change work number of aircraft movements and passengers. Airport Operations toward our overall objectives. During the year, the risk work at is directly affected by changes, whereas Real Estate is indirectly Swedavia resulted in analyses and measures for a number of risks affected. related to our sustainability objectives – customers, social In 2013, the number of aircraft movements increased, and the develop­ment, environmental concern and economy. number of passengers flying to or from one of Swedavia’s airports totalled 33.5 million (32.4), an increase of 3.5 per cent compared Customers to the previous year and a record for Swedavia. The number of Swedavia strives to continuously develop, improve and create international passengers increased 5.7 per cent while the number flexibility in operations in order to have the focus on customers. of domestic passengers was essentially unchanged. The year There is a risk that Swedavia will not be able to translate insights began with a sharp drop in domestic traffic and zero growth in and customer needs into new ventures and business opportuniinternational travel. During the second quarter, the trend was ties quickly enough, which could lead to declining profitability. To reversed, with domestic and international travel both subsequently ensure increased growth and the potential to take advantage of increasing during the rest of the year. The rise in domestic travel business opportunities, extensive business intelligence is carried 46 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors out. With a function-based organisation and a new Innovation There is a risk of insufficient quality in the planning process and & Development unit, customer views and business intelligence in the assessment of long-term future development and capacity analysis are taken into account in order to create conditions for needs, which could produce flawed data for decision-making. In proactive business and product development. order to mitigate and control this risk and to manage and give priority to the company’s investment funds, the investment process Social development has been refined and developed. Events such as extreme weather conditions, terrorist acts or Swedavia’s customers operate in a market subject to intense labour disputes could entail a shutdown or disruption in airport competition, with a small number of major airline customers and operations and commercial services. The airports’ aviation safety where changes occur rapidly. The risks that Swedavia faces and security work is aimed at preventing and minimising the because of uncertainty about the economy and airlines in financial effects of any incidents in Swedavia’s operations. With effective imbalance include the risk of lower revenue as a result of lower safety and security work combined with effective risk work, profitability if costs cannot be reduced to the same extent and the disruptions in airport operations should never affect aviation safety risk of credit losses as a result of airlines or other customers going and security. Swedavia works actively with crisis management and bankrupt. continuity plans combined with realistic exercises to increase our Swedavia strives to increase flexibility in costs, create action employees’ risk awareness and competency levels. plans to handle a decline in traffic and bolster its business Being an attractive employer that attracts and keeps the right intelligence about the economic situation of customers in order to employees is an important part of Swedavia’s drive to secure the minimise credit losses in conjunction with any bankruptcy. The supply of future competencies and thus minimise dependence on Group’s and the Parent Company’s financing activities and key people at all levels of the Group. With a precise breakdown of management of financial risks are centralised in the Group Finance targets and clear leadership, we motivate and engage our emfunction. ployees and work to improve our employer satisfaction index (ESI). Operations are carried out based on a financial policy adopted by the Board of Directors which is characterised by a low risk level. Environmental concern The aim is to minimise the Group’s capital costs through effective One cornerstone in running airport operations is an environmental financial solutions and effective management and control of the permit that complies with the Swedish Environmental Code. In the Group’s financial risks. For more information about definitions and current permit for Stockholm Arlanda Airport, there is a conditional the management of financial risks, see Note 34 on pages 89–90. emissions cap that includes both air traffic and ground transport to and from the airport as well as a condition that prohibits straight Sensitivity analysis approaches to Runway 3 from the south over built-up portions of A sensitivity analysis shows how a change in different parameters, Upplands Väsby after January 1, 2018. That means constraints both internal and external, affects the company’s performance on current operations and continued expansion, and could have or financial position. The three general parameters that have the a significant detrimental effect on Swedavia as well as on access greatest impact on performance are passenger volume, staff for all of Sweden. During the year, the main hearing was held in the expenses and interest rates. Swedavia’s situation can generally be Land and Environmental Court, and a ruling was issued. Swedavia described as one where revenue essentially is variable while costs has appealed the ruling, and a final ruling from the court of appeal are relatively fixed. That means flexibility is limited in terms of the is not expected until 2015 at the earliest. This is Swedavia’s most ability to adjust costs in case revenue should fall. important strategic issue, and the risk associated with Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit is being handled as the Parameter –/+ % Impact on profit SEK M/year highest priority. Further information about Swedavia’s environPassenger volume –1 –31 mental responsibility can be found in the section on environmental Salary level +1 –14 information on pages 49–50. Interest rates +1 –29 Economy Passenger trend Swedavia carries out work on a continuous basis to make operaThe number of passengers travelling to or from one of Swedavia’s tions more efficient and thus make the cost savings necessary to airports constitutes the basic condition for all revenue the meet performance targets and over time build a high equity/assets company generates. About half of Swedavia’s revenue comes ratio to withstand periods of decelerating growth in traffic and from Aviation Business and consists of infrastructure services passengers. Very complex infrastructure investments are needed aimed at airlines and ground handling companies. Revenue from as a result of increased demand and a fast pace of change. That Aviation Business consists of airport charges, including passenger constitutes a challenge in terms of priorities as well as funding. and take-off charges, which are related to the number of passengers Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 47 Report of the Directors and aircraft movements. A change in the number of aircraft Interest rate changes also affect Swedavia’s pension liability, movements and the number of passengers directly affects which means that if the discount rate falls, Swedavia must add Swedavia’s revenue. Swedavia’s other revenue comes from funds to the provision for its pension liability. Commercial Services, which is revenue from commercial services Swedavia is also sensitive to policy decisions that can affect air connected with the airport. This consists of revenue from car traffic as well as changes in the general public’s attitudes to air traffic. parking and the leasing of premises for shops, offices, restaurants and logistics. Rental revenue is based largely on its customers’ Ongoing litigation and disputes revenue, which means Swedavia’s revenue depends on its Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. The disputes tenants’ sales, which depend directly on the number of passenhave arisen as part of the day-to-day business operations carried gers at the airport. out by Swedavia. Legal proceedings and disputes are unpredictable An increase in passenger numbers means that Swedavia’s by nature, and the actual outcome may deviate from the assessrevenue immediately rises while a decrease means revenue imments Swedavia has made. mediately falls. The correlation between percentage change in passenger volume and percentage change in revenue is not linear; Corporate Governance Report instead there is some difference due to route development disThe Corporate Governance Report is a separate document from counts, differentiated charges for domestic and international traffic the Annual Report and is released in conjunction with the publicaand rental revenue, which depends partly on customer revenue. A tion of the Annual Report. negative change in passenger growth of 1 per cent has a negative impact on Swedavia’s revenue of SEK 31 M on an annual basis. Work of the Board of Directors Under the Articles of Association, Swedavia AB’s Board of Staff expenses Directors shall consist of at least six and at most nine regular With an average of 2,369 (2,380) employees, Swedavia’s staff Board members. In addition, there are two regular employee expenses totalled about SEK 1,370 M (1,394). A 1 per cent change representatives plus their two deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal in staff expenses would have a SEK 14 M impact on costs on an Counsel is the Board secretary. The CEO is not included on the annual basis. Board but presents reports at the Board meetings. The Board is responsible for the organisation of the company and the Group Interest expenses and for the administration of the company’s affairs. None of the As of December 31, 2013, Swedavia had external borrowings Board members is part of the executive management. of SEK 8,504 M (7,653), which is 53 per cent (52) of the balance During the financial year 2013, 13 meetings were held. Particular sheet. This means the company is sensitive to changes in interest attention was paid during the year to strategic development, rates, which affect the company’s financial expenses. Through Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit, Swedavia’s long-term borrowings and the use of financial instruments, sustainability objectives and targets, access and new routes for Swedavia works actively to achieve a balance between fixed and Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Bromma Stockholm Airport, and floating interest rates. As of December 31, 2013, 66 per cent the development plan for Real Estate operations. of its borrowings were hedged via financial instruments and the The Board has two committees set up. The Audit Committee’s remaining 34 per cent were exposed to interest rate changes. A tasks include taking responsibility for preparing the Board’s work to 1 per cent change in interest rates would have a SEK 29 M (23) quality assure the company’s financial reporting and maintaining an effect on Swedavia’s interest rate expense. Current lock-in periods ongoing dialogue with the company’s auditors. The Remuneration and financial instruments are taken into account in calculating the Committee has the task of preparing matters pertaining to remusensitivity analysis. The analysis thus reflects the actual risk on the neration and other employment terms for senior executive officers. balance sheet date. Further information about corporate governance, the composition of the Board and internal control can be found in the Corporate Other factors affecting performance Governance Report. There are also other factors that could affect performance in both the short and long term. One critical factor, especially in the long Employees and Swedavia term, is the environmental permits required for Swedavia’s operaSwedavia’s values, leadership and sustainability work constitute tions. A change in these could affect operations on a large scale. the foundation of our corporate culture. Swedavia should be and In the short term, any extreme weather conditions or natural disasbe seen as an attractive employer, and our airports are “airports ters constitute the main factors that have an immediate impact on people look forward to visiting”. Dedicated employees with the air traffic and thus a negative impact on revenue. right competencies and a desire to develop are critical to our 48 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Report of the Directors future. Our work is carried out with a focus on sustainability and Leadership and employeeship principles ambitious objectives in the areas of employeeship, leadership, Swedavia’s vision of leadership is divided into five leadership occupational health and safety, and diversity. Each year, we principles which are aimed at giving us a common platform to work conduct an employee survey to measure employee satisfaction. from in our day-to-day operations. These principles are a focus We have gradually increased our employee satisfaction index (ESI) on employees and business, one Swedavia, a good role model, each year. Even though we have already achieved our goal, we will courage to be better, and clear communication, which are based on continue the work to further increase employee satisfaction, and Swedavia’s vision, values and Code of Conduct. we always strive to achieve better results. At year-end 2013, the number of employees, regardless of Remuneration to executive officers the form of employment, was 2,883 (2,973). Restated as average The term executive officers refers to the people who, together with number of employees during the financial year (see definition on the President and CEO, constitute the executive management page 45), the number was 2,369 (2,380). The breakdown by gender and/or report directly to the President and CEO. The Swedish is 66 (66) per cent men and 34 (34) per cent women. Further inforGovernment has established guidelines for remuneration to execumation about employees can be found in Note 7 on pages 69–72. tive officers. Guidelines for remuneration to executive officers were adopted at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) held on April 26, Leadership 2013. Swedavia follows the Government’s guidelines for terms A crucial role for the leaders at Swedavia is to motivate all of employment for executive officers in State-owned companies. employees to take responsibility for the company achieving our There is an individual agreement for one executive officer that objectives and targets. These leaders are the key to our vision and deviates from the State’s guidelines and from the guidelines values extending into our operations. Together with employees, adopted at the AGM with respect to pension provisions, which is Swedavia’s leaders are responsible for connecting overall objecattributable to the transition from operations at LFV. For 2014 the tives to individual targets. Board proposes that the guidelines for remuneration to executive We work continuously to strengthen our leaders. We do this officers remain unchanged. The principles are presented in the in part by developing communication tools to use in the dialogue Corporate Governance Report. Information about those involved with employees. We also carry out compulsory leadership training and the Company’s process for handling remuneration to executive to create a common platform for our leadership but also potential officers is presented in Note 7 on pages 69–72. for individual development. Environmental information Occupational health and safety Swedavia carries out operations in Sweden subject to the Occupational health and safety have high priority at Swedavia. Our conditions of its environmental permits under the Swedish employees shall have a physical and psychosocial work environEnvironmental Code. These consist primarily of operations that are ment that enables them to be healthy and thus work and perform hazardous to the environment under Chapter 9 (airport operations) to their best potential. We work actively with occupational rehabiliand water operations under Chapter 11 (ponds, treatment facilities tation in case of repeated short-term absences due to illness as and groundwater redirection). Swedavia must therefore have an well as longer such absences. environmental permit for each airport in order for the company to We also work to develop measures and tools to prevent injury. be allowed to operate the airports. At year-end 2013, Swedavia was This is important since many of our employees have physically responsible for eight airports subject to conditions in its environdemanding tasks. Swedavia provides occupational health care mental permits under the Swedish Environmental Code. The service and crisis management. We support and encourage Swedish Armed Forces was responsible for the environmental employees to take responsibility for their health by subsidising permits for the remaining two, Luleå Airport and Ronneby Airport. fitness activities. All employees have an employee insurance proSwedavia’s primary environmental impact is atmospheric gramme for illness and rehabilitation via Swedavia aimed at quickly greenhouse gas emissions, mainly carbon dioxide. The largest providing the help they need. Swedavia has a zero tolerance policy source of the Company’s emissions is exhaust from vehicles and on bullying and harassment. the operation of terminals and other buildings. Another significant environmental impact is discharges into the ground and water, Diversity mainly of oxygen-depleting substances from the de-icing of Having carefully prepared, inclusive diversity work is critical to our runways and aircraft. The vicinity of the airports is also affected by business because we operate from the assumption that people’s aviation noise as a result of airport operations. differences enrich us. Having a diversity perspective in the choice During the year, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport, of suppliers is also an increasingly important issue in enhancing Stockholm Arlanda Airport and Visby Airport worked on applicaour benefits to society. tions for brand new environmental permits for their own airport. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 49 Report of the Directors On November 27, Stockholm Arlanda Airport was issued a new Swedavia decided on February 18 to launch a process to sell environmental permit which has not yet entered into force in part the hotel property at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The hotel is opersince Swedavia has decided to appeal the ruling. Its current permit ated by Clarion. The aim of the sale is to realise the value in order contains two restrictive conditions that make it impossible to fully to reinvest it in the airports under the strategic direction adopted. take advantage of the actual production permitted of 372,100 The Land and Environmental Court announced on March 13 movements. The conditions limiting operations are the “emissions that a higher court will consider an appeal for case M 11706-13 cap” (conditions from the Government’s decision to grant approval concerning the application for a permit for airport operations at in 1991) and special condition 6 from the National Licensing Board Stockholm Arlanda Airport. for Environmental Protection’s decision in 1993 concerning overSwedavia’s financial objectives are being reviewed and will be flights of Upplands Väsby. adopted at the Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2014. In the new permit, the emissions cap was removed and replaced with an action plan for atmospheric emissions of fossil Parent Company carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides and particulate matter. The acThe Parent Company’s net revenue for the year totalled SEK tion plan shall include Swedavia’s operations and the operations 4,932 M (4,868). Operating profit totalled SEK 713 M (685) and of other companies and organisations at the airport as well as the operating margin was 14.5 per cent (14.5). Profit before tax ground transport and air traffic. was SEK 398 M (108). Profit for the year was SEK 284 M (44). The condition regulating overflights of Upplands Väsby entails Allocations to untaxed reserves consist of the maximum tax­exempt a ban on straight approaches over the built-up portions of amount allowed of SEK 205 M (212), and the tax allocation reserve Upplands Väsby on a regular basis after January 1, 2018. The was SEK 160 M (49). The Parent Company’s equity at year-end new permit includes a condition that, strictly interpreted, could was SEK 3,598 M (3,314) with an equity/assets ratio of 29.3 per mean the same restriction on approaches over Upplands Väsby cent (27.0). The Parent Company had negative cash flow of SEK to Runway 3 from the south. According to the ruling, approaches –88 M (–14). Cash flow from operating activities was negative and that avoid the built-up portions of Upplands Väsby are to be used. totalled SEK –2,096 M (1,772). Investing activities generated SEK In practice, this means that landings on Runway 3 from the south 1,157 M (–3,634), while financing activities generated SEK 851 M will not be allowed in high traffic since there is no way of handling (1,848) through increased borrowing. these approaches avoiding Upplands Väsby that meets approved safety standards. The way the condition is designed could lead to Proposed distribution of profit a significant constraint on the airport’s capacity. Preliminary asThe following unrestricted equity is at the disposal of the Annual sessments indicate the highest possible production will be about General Meeting, SEK: 200,000 movements, that is, the same traffic volume as in 2010. Share premium account 2,161,354,539 Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airport, Malmö Airport and Retained earnings –288,484,858 Visby Airport have old permits under the Swedish Environmental Profit for the year 283,504,892 Act, and operations at the airports have changed over the years. 2,156,374,573 The airports have therefore decided to apply for new environmental permits. The application for Malmö Airport was submitted to the The Board proposes that the profit and share premium of the Parent court in April 2012, and in June 2013, the airport received a new Company, totalling SEK 2,156,374,573, be brought forward. permit from the Land and Environmental Court. The permit has Annual General Meeting now entered into force. Göteborg Landvetter Airport submitted its Swedavia AB’s Annual General Meeting takes place on April 29, application in April 2013 and Visby Airport submitted its application 2014, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual Report and other in July 2013. Kiruna Airport plans to submit its application in the financial reports are available on Swedavia’s website autumn of 2014. www.swedavia.se/om-swedavia/this-is-swedavia/ Events after the balance sheet date Calendar Swedavia decided on February 17, 2014, on an organisational Annual Report 2013 March 31, 2014 change, which means that current operations under Commercial & Annual General Meeting 2014 April 29, 2014 Marketing will be divided into separate business areas. Alongside Quarterly report Q1 2014 April 30, 2014 the organisational change, a review of Swedavia’s management Quarterly report Q2 2014 August 15, 2014 structure is being carried out. As a result, the Director of Strategy Quarterly report Q3 2014 October 30, 2014 Year-end report 2014 February 13, 2015 will henceforth be included in the executive management with responsibility for Strategy and Sustainability, while the Procurement For other matters concerning the company’s results and position, and Quality Assurance functions will be taken away. see the income statements and balance sheets below. 50 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 INCOME STATEMENT Consolidated income statement Amounts in SEK Note 2013 2012 Net revenue 3, 4, 5 5,233 4,965 Operating expenses External expenses 6 –1,976 –1,890 Staff expenses 7 –1,370 –1,394 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 –940 –850 Operating profit 946 831 Income from financial items 9 Income from holdings in associated companies 8 19 Interest income and similar items 4 3 Interest expenses and similar items –272 –299 Profit after financial items 686 554 Tax 11 –185 –108 Profit for the year 501 447 Attributable to non-controlling interests 10 10 Earnings per share Earnings per share before and after dilution, SEK 0.35 0.31 Number of shares 1,441,403,026 1,441,403,026 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK Note 2013 2012 Profit for the year 501 447 Other comprehensive income: Items that can be reclassified to the income statement Change for the period in the fair value of cash flow hedges 112 –62 Tax –25 –1 Items that cannot be reclassified to the income statement Revaluation of defined benefit pensions 47 –81 Tax –10 18 Total other comprehensive income, net after tax 124 –126 Comprehensive income for the year 625 320 Attributable to non-controlling interests 10 10 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 51 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 Goodwill 352 352 Other intangible non-current assets 100 105 Total intangible non-current assets 452 457 Tangible fixed assets Buildings and land 13 5,110 5,111 Investment properties 14 3,847 2,474 Field structures 15 2,249 2,412 Biological assets, standing timber 16 87 91 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 17 2,158 1,999 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 18 1,074 953 Total tangible fixed assets 14,524 13,040 Non-current financial assets 34 Holdings in associated companies 20 1 79 Other long-term receivables 22 146 132 Total non-current financial assets 147 211 Total non-current assets 15,122 13,708 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and stocks 23 46 38 Current receivables Trade receivables 492 555 Receivables from associated companies 25 6 10 Tax assets 0 56 Other receivables 192 40 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 222 252 Cash and bank holdings 21, 32 52 129 Total current assets 1,011 1,080 TOTAL ASSETS 16,133 14,788 52 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 BALANCE SHEET Consolidated balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 27 Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 Other paid-in capital 2,162 2,162 Hedge reserve –93 –170 Retained earnings 1,395 857 Total equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders 4,904 4,290 Non-controlling interest 11 10 Total equity 4,915 4,300 Non-current liabilities Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 28 749 784 Provisions for deferred tax 29 332 242 Other provisions 30 134 133 Liabilities to credit institutions 31 2,400 3,000 Medium-term notes 31 3,895 – Derivative instruments 21 186 218 Liabilities to leasing companies 17 13 13 Other non-current liabilities 16 22 Total non-current liabilities 7,724 4,413 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31, 32 518 3,903 Notes and commercial paper 31 1,691 750 Liabilities to leasing companies 17 7 8 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Derivative instruments 21 13 13 Trade payables 490 606 Liabilities to associated companies – 4 Current tax liabilities 9 – Other liabilities 30 118 157 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 33 646 634 Total current liabilities 3,492 6,075 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,133 14,788 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Pledged assets 35 – 0 Contingent liabilities 35 6 6 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 53 EQUITY Changes in equity CONSOLIDATED Other paid-in Hedge Retained Non-controlling Amounts in SEK Share capital capital reserves earnings interest Total capital 2012 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –115 492 9 3,989 Dividend paid – – – – –9 –9 Comprehensive income for the year – – –55 365 10 320 Equity, closing balance 2012-12-31 1,441 2,162 –170 857 10 4,300 2013 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –170 857 10 4,300 Dividend paid – – – – –9 –9 Transfer – – –9 9 – – Comprehensive income for the year – – 86 529 10 625 Equity, closing balance 2013-12-31 1,441 2,162 –93 1,395 11 4,915 54 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Consolidated cash flow statement Amounts in SEK Note 2013 2012 Operating activities 36 Profit after financial items 686 554 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow etc. 812 634 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,498 1,188 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in materials and stocks –8 –2 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in operating receivables –55 –83 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in operating liabilities –95 390 Cash flow from operating activities 1,339 1,493 Investing activities Acquisition/disposal of intangible non-current assets –11 –38 Acquisition/disposal of tangible fixed assets –2,333 –3,383 Acquisition/disposal of financial assets 86 80 Cash flow from investing activities –2,258 –3,341 Financing activities Borrowings raised 12,493 4,135 Borrowings repaid –11,642 –2,290 Dividend paid –9 –9 Cash flow from financing activities 842 1,836 Cash flow for the year –77 –12 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 129 141 Liquid assets at the end of the period 52 129 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 55 INCOME STATEMENT Parent Company income statement Amounts in SEK Note 2013 2012 Net revenue 4 4,932 4,868 Operating expenses External expenses 6 –1,976 –1,909 Staff expenses 7 –1,355 –1,418 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets 8 –888 – 856 Operating profit 713 685 Income from financial investments 9 Income from holdings in Group companies 14 13 Income from holdings in associated companies 9 20 Interest income and similar items 81 34 Interest expenses and similar items –245 –366 Profit after financial items 571 385 Appropriations 10 Accelerated depreciation –205 –212 Change in tax allocation reserve –160 –49 Group contribution 193 –16 Profit before tax 398 108 Tax 11 –115 –63 Profit for the year 284 44 Parent Company statement of comprehensive income Amounts in SEK 2013 2012 Profit for the year 284 44 Other comprehensive income – – Comprehensive income for the year 284 44 56 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 BALANCE SHEET Parent Company balance sheet Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 ASSETS NON-CURRENT ASSETS Intangible non-current assets 12 Goodwill 401 426 Other intangible non-current assets 100 105 Total intangible non-current assets 501 531 Tangible fixed assets Buildings and land 13 5,018 5,162 Field structures 15 2,249 2,412 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 17 2,158 1,999 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 18 1,043 953 Total tangible fixed assets 10,468 10,526 Financial non-current assets Holdings in Group companies 19 963 882 Receivables from Group companies 24 – 1,947 Holdings in associated companies 20 1 87 Other long-term receivables 22 68 65 Deferred tax assets 29 25 34 Total financial assets 1,058 3,015 Total non-current assets 12,026 14,072 CURRENT ASSETS Materials and stocks 23 41 35 Current receivables Trade receivables 454 470 Receivables from Group companies 24 3,529 705 Receivables from associated companies 25 6 10 Tax assets 2 68 Other receivables 177 36 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 221 241 Cash and bank holdings 21, 32 14 102 Total current assets 4,444 1,667 TOTAL ASSETS 16,470 15,739 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 57 BALANCE SHEET Parent Company balance sheet (cont.) Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 27 Share capital (1,441,403,026 shares) 1,441 1,441 Share premium 2,162 2,162 Retained earnings –289 –333 Profit for the year 284 44 Total equity 3,598 3,314 Untaxed reserves 10 Accumulated accelerated depreciation 1,357 1,152 Tax allocation reserve 210 49 Total untaxed reserves 1,567 1,201 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar obligations 28 1,069 1,085 Other provisions 30 133 191 Total provisions 1,202 1,276 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31 2,400 3,000 Medium-term notes 31 3,895 – Liabilities to leasing companies 13 13 Other non-current liabilities 12 22 Total non-current liabilities 6,320 3,035 Current liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 31, 32 518 3,903 Notes and commercial paper 31 1,691 750 Liabilities to leasing companies 17 7 8 Non-interest-bearing liabilities Trade payables 480 596 Liabilities to Group companies 447 1,011 Liabilities to associated companies – 4 Other liabilities 80 60 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 33 559 581 Total current liabilities 3,783 6,913 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 16,470 15,739 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Amounts in SEK Note 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Pledged assets 35 – 0 Contingent liabilities 35 6 6 58 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 EQUITY Changes in equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted reserves Unrestricted reserves Amounts in SEK Share capital Share premium Retained earnings Total capital 2012 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –336 3,267 Profit on merger – – 3 3 Profit for the year – – 44 44 Equity, closing balance 2012-12-31 1,441 2,162 –289 3,314 2013 Equity, opening balance 1,441 2,162 –289 3,314 Profit for the year – – 284 284 Equity, closing balance 2013-12-31 1,441 2,162 –5 3,598 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 59 CASH FLOW STATEMENT Parent Company cash flow statement Amounts in SEK Note 2013 2012 Operating activities 36 Profit after financial items 571 385 Adjustments for items not included in cash flow, etc. 766 882 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,337 1,267 Cash flow from changes in working capital Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in inventories –6 0 Increase (–)/Decrease (+) in operating receivables –2,732 –692 Increase (+)/Decrease (–) in operating liabilities –695 1,197 Cash flow from operating activities –2,096 1,772 Investing activities Paid-in shareholder contribution –81 –785 Long-term receivables, subsidiaries 1,947 –1,897 Acquisition of intangible non-current assets –11 –38 Acquisition of tangible fixed assets –1,202 –1,006 Disposal of fixed assets 418 – Acquisition of financial assets 86 93 Cash flow from investing activities 1,157 –3,634 Financing activities Profit from merger – 3 Borrowings raised 11,579 4,135 Borrowings repaid –10,728 –2,290 Cash flow from financing activities 851 1,848 Cash flow for the year –88 –14 Liquid assets at the beginning of the period 102 117 Liquid assets at the end of the period 14 102 60 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Notes (Amounts in SEK unless otherwise indicated) Note 1 Corporate information Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818, has port, Luleå Airport, Malmö Airport, Ronneby Airport, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, its registered officer in the Municipality of Sigtuna, Sweden. The address of the Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Swedavia also owns company’s head office is: 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda, Sweden. The company the property Göteborg City Airport and is a minority shareholder in the company is wholly owned by the Swedish State and was part of LFV until April 1, 2010, that operates the airport. when LFV’s airport operations were converted into a limited liability company. In this report, Swedavia AB is referred to either by its full name or as the Parent The company’s task is to own, operate and develop the national basic infraCompany, and the Swedavia Group is referred to as Swedavia or the Group. structure of airports decided by the Swedish government. That consists of ten Reporting for the Group and the Parent Company is in millions of Swedish airports: Bromma Stockholm Airport, Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Kiruna Airkronor, SEK M, unless otherwise indicated. Note 2 Accounting principles General Change in IAS 1 Presentation of financial statements. The change means The consolidated accounts have been prepared in conformity with the that items in other comprehensive income have been divided into two categories International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and International Accounting – items that have been or can be reclassified to profit for the year and items that Standards (IAS) issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), cannot be reclassified to profit for the year. Examples of items that have been or to the extent these have been adopted by the EU, as well as with interpretations can be reclassified to profit for the year are gains/losses on cash flow hedges. given by the EU of current standards issued by the IFRS Interpretations Items that cannot be reclassified are revaluations of defined benefit pension Committee (IFRIC). plans. Comparative figures are reported following the new presentation. Swedavia applies IFRS as of January 1, 2012. The date of transition to IFRS Change in IFRS 7 Disclosures: Offsetting financial assets and financial was established as January 1, 2011. Accounting principles in conformity with IFRS liabilities. The change entails new disclosure requirements for offsetting financial are given below. The Group previously applied the Swedish Financial Accounting assets and liabilities. Standards Council’s recommendations and statements. The transition to IFRS has IFRS 13 Fair value measurement. A brand new standard for measuring fair proceeded in conformity with IFRS 1 First-time adoption of international financial value and improving disclosure requirements. The new disclosure requirements reporting standards. mean, among other things, that information shall be given about the hierarchy for The Parent Company applies Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act and the assets and liabilities for which fair values are reported. Information in accordance Swedish Financial Accounting Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 with IFRS 13 can be found in Notes 14, 16 and 21. Accounting for legal entities. The differences arising between Parent Company and consolidated accounting principles are due to restrictions in the possibility of New and amended standards and interpretations that enter into force in applying IFRS in the Parent Company as a result of Sweden’s Annual Accounts 2014 or later Act and Pension Obligations Vesting Act as well as, in some cases, the connec• IFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements. The standard outlines uniform tion between accounting and taxation. rules for which entities are to be consolidated and will replace IAS 27 Consolidated and separate financial statements and SIC 12, which addresses New accounting principles Special Purpose Entities. The standard is not expected to have any material Below is a description of what changes in accounting principles the Group impact on the financial statements applies as of January 1, 2013. Other changes in IFRS applied to previous years • IFRS 11 Joint arrangements. The standard addresses the reporting of what are and in 2013 have not had any material impact on the Group’s financial reports. known as joint arrangements and will replace IAS 31 Interests in joint ventures. As a result of the EU’s adoption of the revised IAS 19, Swedavia decided to At present Swedavia has no entities included under the new standard apply this standard in advance in its annual accounts for 2012, which entails a • IFRS 12 Disclosure of interests in other entities. Increased requirements for change in accounting principles compared to reports published earlier in 2012. information about subsidiaries, joint arrangements and associated companies The changes pertain mainly to recognition and disclosure of defined benefit have been gathered in one standard and are expected to lead to some pension plans. Items attributable to pension rights accruing from defined benefit increase in information contained in Swedavia’s annual report pension plans, gains and losses arising in the settlement of a pension liability and • IFRS 9 Financial instruments. The standard is being issued in phases and net financial income are recognised in the income statement. Actuarial gains and will replace IAS 39 Financial instruments: Recognition and measurement. It losses are recognised in other comprehensive income. The bulk of Swedavia’s has not net been possible to assess the effects of the new IFRS 9 standard, defined benefit pension commitments are in the form of paid-up pension policies which will be applied in 2015. The EU has not yet adopted any part of the new and no new pension rights accrue to these. standard Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 61 Notes Consolidated financial accounts Depreciation begins when the assets are ready for their intended use. The The consolidated financial accounts include the Parent Company and all the useful life and residual value are revised on an annual basis. companies over which the Parent Company directly or indirectly has a controlling interest. Controlling interest is assumed to arise when ownership entails at least New construction in progress related to tangible assets 50 per cent of the votes in the subsidiary, but can also be achieved if controlling Cost includes expenditures directly attributable to the asset in order to convey interest can be exercised over the operational and financial management. The it to the site and in the condition it is to be used according to the purpose for Parent Company in all cases owns, directly or indirectly, shares/holdings in the which it was acquired companies included in the consolidated financial accounts. Subsidiaries are New expenditures are added to the cost for the share of improvement in the included in the consolidated financial accounts starting from the time controlling asset’s performance compared to the level that applied when it was originally interest is achieved and are excluded from the consolidated financial accounts acquired. Other new expenditures are recognised as a cost in the period they from the time controlling interest is no longer exercised. Where necessary, occur. adjustments are made in the subsidiaries’ financial statements to adapt their accounting principles to those used by the Group. All intra-Group transactions, Depreciation principles for tangible fixed assets dealings, income and expenditures are eliminated in consolidation. Scheduled depreciation is based on cost minus estimated residual value. Depreciation is on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the asset. Useful Classification life is estimated as: Non-current assets, non-current liabilities and provisions consist in all essential respects only of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid after more Buildings and investment properties 10 – 60 years than twelve months calculated from the balance sheet date. Field structures 10 – 60 years Current assets and current liabilities consist in all essential respects only Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 3 – 10 years of amounts that are expected to be recovered or paid within twelve months Equipment, land 10 – 60 years calculated from the balance sheet date. Equipment, buildings 10 – 60 years Valuation principles Impairment losses Assets, provisions and liabilities have been recognised at cost unless otherwise On each balance sheet date, the Group analyses the book values of tangible indicated below. Financial assets and liabilities have been recognised at fixed assets to determine whether there is anything to indicate that these assets amortised cost, apart from certain financial assets and liabilities which are have decreased in value. If there is an indication of this, the replacement value is recognised at fair value. Financial assets and liabilities that are recognised at fair calculated in order to determine the value of any impairment loss. value consist entirely of derivative instruments. Biological assets are valued at In valuation of the airports, a systems approach is applied. Since the airports fair value; see Note 16. For information about valuation and fair value disclosure included in the national basic airport infrastructure are operated as a system, under IFRS 13, see Note 21. integrated and mutually dependent, the individual airports have been valued according to their systemic useful life rather than based on recognised profit. Intangible non-current assets Operating the airports as a system means that it is not possible to isolate cash The Group has goodwill and other intangible non-current assets. Goodwill arises flow attributable to the individual airports included in the system on a meaningful when the cost for the acquisition of shares in a subsidiary exceeds the fair value basis. Therefore the system of airports that are included in Sweden’s national of the identifiable net assets of the company acquired. Goodwill is recognised at basic infrastructure is treated as a single cash-generating unit. cost less any impairment loss. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful An impairment loss is recognised immediately in the income statement. If an life, and an impairment review is carried out at least once a year. impairment loss is reversed, it is done so only to the extent that the book value of Other intangible non-current assets consist of noise insulation for the the asset does not exceed the book value, minus depreciation, if no impairment properties of others. Straight-line amortisation is used over an expected useful loss had been made. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately life of 10 years. in the income statement. A reversal of an impairment loss is never recognised for goodwill. Tangible fixed assets Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost minus accumulated depreciation Biological assets – standing timber and any accumulated impairment losses. In conformity with IFRS, forest assets are to be divided into standing timber, Cost comprises the purchase price, costs directly attributable to the acquisiwhich is recognised as a biological asset, and land, which is recognised as a tion and expenditures for arranging the transfer of the asset until the time it is tangible fixed asset. This means that standing timber is to be valued and recogready to be placed in service. Subsequent costs are only included under electrical nised at fair value on each reporting date. Changes in fair value are recognised in installations, vehicles and equipment or recognised as a separate asset when the income statement. Fair value has been calculated as the present value of the it is likely that future economic benefits attributable to the item will benefit the discounted future return from long-term sustainable forest operations, that is, Group and the cost of this can be reliably estimated. All other costs for repair the expected future cash flow from forest operations. and maintenance as well as future expenditures are recognised in the income statement for the period in which they occur. Stocks Depreciation is recognised based on the expected and estimated useful life Stocks are recognised at the lower of cost using the first-in first-out method or using the straight-line depreciation method. For cases where parts of electrical fair value. As a result, obsolescence risks are mitigated. installations, vehicles and equipment consist of different components where each part has an expected useful life that differs significantly from the asset as a whole, depreciation of such components occurs on an individual basis using the estimated useful life of each component. 62 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Financial instruments calculated at the time the amount was borrowed. This means that discounts/ A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the balance sheet when premiums and the direct costs of share issues are allocated over the maturity an asset or liability arises under the terms of the instrument stipulated in the of the loan. Trade payables have short expected maturities and are recognised contract. A financial asset is derecognised from the balance sheet when the without discounting on their nominal amount. contractual rights are realised, expire or when the company loses control over it. Non-current liabilities have an expected maturity of more than one year A financial liability is derecognised from the balance sheet when the contractual whereas current liabilities have a maturity less than one year. obligation has been fulfilled or in any other way eliminated. All financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value plus or minus Business combinations transaction costs, except for those financial assets belonging to the category Acquisitions of businesses are recognised using the acquisition method. Cost is of financial asset or liability recognised at fair value through profit or loss and calculated as the total fair value of assets purchased, liabilities that have arisen all derivatives. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net or are assumed and equity instruments issued as payment in exchange for a amount in the balance sheet when there is a legal right of offset and when there controlling interest over the acquired entity on the transaction date. Identifiable is the intention to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the asset and assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired are recognised at fair value settle the liability simultaneously. on the acquisition date. The premium that consists of the difference between On each balance sheet date, the Group evaluates whether there are the cost of the acquired holdings and the total fair value of the identifiable net objective indications that an impairment loss needs to be taken on a financial assets acquired is recognised as goodwill. A discount is charged to the income asset or group of financial assets as a result of events that have occurred. statement. Objective indications could be a breach of contract as well as default or delay of payment of interest or capital, significant financial difficulties for debtors or Associated companies deterioration in the creditworthiness of customers. Shareholdings in associated companies are recognised in the consolidated The book value after impairment losses on assets is calculated as the future accounts using the equity method. The equity method entails that the carried cash flow discounted by the effective interest rate that applied when the asset amount of shares in the associated company is equivalent to the Group’s share was recognised for the first time. Assets with a short maturity are not discounted. of the associated company’s equity and any residual value of the consolidated An impairment loss is charged to the income statement. The asset is eliminated premiums or discounts. The Group’s share of the associated company’s profit from the balance sheet in the event of bankruptcy. adjusted for any amortisation on or liquidation of premiums or discounts on acquisitions is recognised in the consolidated income statement as holdings in Financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss associated companies. This category consists of two sub-groups, and only the sub-category “held for trading” applies to the Group. This sub-category includes derivatives with a posiTransactions eliminated on consolidation tive fair value if they are not intended for hedge accounting. Financial instruments Intra-Group receivables and liabilities and transactions between Group in this category are measured at fair value with value changes recognised in the companies as well as unrealised gains in conjunction with these are eliminated profit for the year. in full. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with associated companies Fair value is the amount for which an asset could be exchanged or a liability and joint ventures are eliminated to the extent that the Group owns shares in the settled between knowledgeable, independent parties who have an interest in company. Unrealised gains arising as a result of transactions with associated carrying out the transaction. companies are eliminated against holdings in associated companies. Unrealised In determining fair value, the official price listing in an active market or other losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains as long as there is no observable market data are preferably used. If these do not exist, fair value is need for impairment losses. calculated with the aid of the methods that can be considered on each occasion to give the best estimate of fair value. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies Receivables and liabilities in foreign currencies have been translated at the Loans receivable and trade receivables exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Exchange rate differences for operating Loans receivable and trade receivables are financial assets that are not derivatives, receivables and operating liabilities are included in the operating profit, while are specified or determinable amounts and are not listed on an active market. such differences for financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in financial These assets are recognised at amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined items. based on the effective interest rate calculated at the time of purchase. Trade receivables are recognised at the amount that is expected to be received minus Liquid assets any bad debts, which are judged on an individual basis. Liquid assets comprise cash and banking holdings that are immediately available. Financial liabilities recognised at fair value through profit or loss Trade payables This category consists of two sub-groups, and only the sub-category “held for Trade payables have a short expected maturity and are valued without discounting trading” applies to the Group. This sub-category includes derivatives with a their nominal amount. negative fair value if they are not intended for hedge accounting. Financial instruments in this category are measured at fair value with value changes Hedge accounting recognised in the profit for the year. General Derivative instruments are recognised in the balance sheet on the contract date Other financial liabilities at fair value, both initially and in subsequent revaluations. The method for recogBorrowings and other financial liabilities, apart from derivatives, are recognised at nising profit or loss arising from revaluation depends on whether the derivative amortised cost. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective interest rate has been identified as a hedging instrument and, if so, the nature of the item Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 63 Notes hedged. The Group identifies some derivatives as a hedge of a given risk which is recognised in the balance sheet as a provision. The company’s obligations is connected to a recognised liability or a very likely forecast transaction (cash are calculated at least once a year by independent actuaries. An obligation flow hedge). consists of the present value of expected future payments. The discount rate The Group uses derivative instruments, interest rate, currency and used corresponds to the interest rate on government bonds with a maturity that commodity swaps or currency futures, mainly to limit exposure to fluctuations in corresponds to the average maturity of the obligation. The assumption on the interest rates, commodity (electricity) prices and foreign exchange rates that discount rate is made quarterly, which affects the recognised pension liability. qualify for hedge accounting. The Group bears the risk of ensuring that the payments determined are effected. When the transaction is entered into, the relationship between the hedging The accounting principles described are applied only in the consolidated instrument and the item hedged is analysed and assessed against the Group’s financial accounts (see below, Parent Company accounting principles). A receivrisk management objectives for hedging. The analysis is documented at the able/liability that is part of the pension obligation is recognised for the special inception of the hedge and on a continuous basis, to ensure that the derivative payroll tax if the pension expense is lower/higher than the pension expense instruments used in hedging transactions are effective in evening out changes in stipulated for a legal entity. The receivable or liability is based on the difference fair value or changes in cash flow for hedged items. Gains and losses on hedges between these amounts and the present value is not calculated. are recognised in the profit for the year at the same time the gains and losses on The defined contribution plan applies as of the date of the Group’s formation the items hedged are recognised. and is secured through payments to insurance companies or managed funds. Changes in fair value for derivative instruments that do not meet the criteria A defined contribution pension plan is a pension plan for which a company pays for hedge accounting are recognised directly in the income statement (see fixed contributions to a separate legal entity. The company subsequently has no description above under “Financial instruments”). legal or informal obligations to pay additional contributions to the employee’s accrued pensions. Cash flow hedges To hedge uncertainty in highly likely forecast interest cash flows related to Tax borrowings at floating interest rates, interest rate swaps – in which the company The Group’s total tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Tax is recognised receives a floating rate and pays a fixed rate – are used. Interest rate swaps in the income statement except when the underlying transaction is recognised are recognised at fair value on the balance sheet. The interest coupon portion immediately in other comprehensive income. Current tax is tax that is to be paid is recognised directly in the profit for the year as part of interest expenses. or received for the period in question. This also includes adjustments in current Unrealised changes in fair value on the interest rate swaps are recognised in tax attributable to previous periods. Deferred tax is calculated using the balance other comprehensive income and are included in the hedge reserve until the sheet method based on the temporary differences between book and tax values hedged item affects the profit for the year and as long as the criteria for hedge of assets and liabilities. The amounts are calculated based on how the temporary accounting and effectiveness are fulfilled. The gain or loss attributable to the differences are expected to even out and by applying tax rates and tax regulations non-effective portion of unrealised value changes on the interest rate swaps is that are decided or advised on the balance sheet date. Temporary differences recognised in profit for the year. are not taken into account in consolidated goodwill and normally nor are differHedge accounting has also been applied to derivative instruments that ences attributable to holdings in subsidiaries and associated companies that effectively offset fluctuations in cash flow from projected sales and electricity use. are not expected to be taxed within the foreseeable future. Untaxed reserves Currency futures have mostly been used as hedging instruments for projected including deferred tax liabilities are recognised for legal entities. However, in the sales and electricity derivatives that are identified as hedging instruments and consolidated financial accounts, untaxed reserves are divided between deferred fulfil the criteria for hedging the future cash flow recognised in other comprehentax liability and equity. Deferred tax credits for tax-deductible temporary differsive income and accumulated in the hedge reserve under equity. The accumulated ences and deductions for deficits are recognised only to the extent it is likely gains or losses in the hedge reserve are reclassified to the income statement these will entail lower tax payments in the future. and recognised under sales or costs for goods sold in the same period that the Reported income tax is the total of current and deferred tax. Current tax is projected sale or consumption of electricity affects profit. calculated based on the taxable profit for the year. Taxable profit is distinguished When a hedging instrument or hedging relationship is terminated but the from profit recognised in the income statement. The difference concerns hedged transaction is still expected to occur, the accumulated gains and losses revenue that is subject to tax and expenses that are deductible in other years in the hedge reserve remain and are recognised in the profit for the year when (temporary differences) as well as items that are not subject to tax or are taxthe contracted or projected transaction is recognised in the income statement. deductible (permanent differences). The Group’s current tax liability is calculated However, if the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the accumuusing the tax rates that have been decided or are in practice decided on lated gains and losses in the hedge reserve are immediately reclassified to profit the balance sheet date. Deferred tax liabilities are normally recognised for all for the year. temporary differences subject to tax, and deferred tax liabilities are recognised to the extent it is likely that a taxable profit occurs against which tax-deductible Pensions temporary differences can be used. The Group has both defined contribution and defined benefit pension plans. The transfer of agreed assets and liabilities for airport operations in LFV included Provisions the assumption of a defined benefit pension liability. Most of the defined benefit A provision is recognised in the balance sheet when the company has a formal pension obligations after the transfer are in the form of paid-up pension policies, or informal obligation as a result of an event occurring and it is likely that an and no new pension rights accrue for these. The remaining defined contribution outflow of resources is required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of plans consist mostly of pension obligations under collective agreements and the amount can be made. pension obligations as specified in transitional provisions adopted in conjunction A present value calculation is made to take into account significant time with the conversion into a limited liability company of operations run previously effects of future payments. Provisions are further divided into non-current and under LFV. The expected present value of the defined contribution obligations current provisions. 64 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Restoration reserve which owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports, and Real Estate, which In conformity with the Group’s published environmental principles and applicable owns, develops and manages properties and developable land at and around legal requirements, a reserve to restore contaminated assets shall be recognised Swedavia’s airports. Until July 1, 2012, Swedavia’s operations consisted solely when the asset is contaminated. of the Airport Operations operating segment. The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors Reserve for onerous contracts and executive management mainly use operating profit by segment in A provision for onerous contracts is recognised when the expected economic accordance with Swedish accounting principles for their monitoring. Financial benefits the Group expects to receive from a contract are lower than the expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the Group level. unavoid­able costs of fulfilling the terms of the contract. Leases Restructuring reserve Leases are classified in the consolidated financial accounts as either financial A provision is recognised when a detailed restructuring plan has been adopted leases or operating leases. Financial leases arise when the economic risks and and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. benefits associated with ownership in all essential aspects are transferred to the lessees; if not, then it is the case of an operating lease. The Group’s contracts Contingent liabilities are classified as financial leases and have been recognised as assets in the A contingent liability is recognised off the balance sheet when there is a possible consolidated balance sheet. The obligation to pay future leasing fees has been obligation resulting from past events and whose occurrence is confirmed only by recognised as a current or non-current liability. The leased assets are depreciated the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events, which according to a set schedule while lease payments are recognised as interest and are not entirely in the company’s control, or there is an obligation resulting from principal payments on the liabilities. past events but which is not recognised as a liability or provision since it is not likely that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, or the Discontinuing operations size of the obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient accuracy. No In the accounting of discontinuing operations, discontinuing operations are accounting is necessary when the likelihood of an outflow of resources is considered to be a clearly delimited part of the Group’s operations which have extremely limited. been discontinued or shut down or are being discontinued according to a single coherent plan. Revenue Revenue is recognised as the fair value of what has been received or will be Other received. Deductions are made for discounts provided. Rental revenue entails The figures reported have in some cases been rounded off, which means that that the revenue is divided evenly over the rental period. The total cost of tables, charts and calculations do not always add up. In texts and tables, figures benefits provided is recognised as a straight-line reduction in rental revenue over between 0 and 0.5 are reported as 0. If there is no value, a dash is used. the rental period. Deliveries of goods are recognised as revenue when significant risks and benefits associated with ownership of the goods have been transferred Significant judgements and assumptions to the buyer. Revenue is only recognised if it is likely that economic benefits will In the preparation of financial reports in conformity with IFRS, the executive accrue to the Group and these benefits can be reliably estimated. If there is later management is required to make judgements and assumption that affect the uncertainty as to the likelihood of receiving payment for amounts already recogapplication of the accounting principles and the amounts recognised for assets, nised as revenue, the amount for which payment is no longer likely is recognised liabilities, revenue and costs. These judgements and assumptions are based on as a cost instead of as an adjustment in the amount of revenue originally recoghistorical experience and a number of other factors that seem reasonable under nised. prevailing conditions. The results of these judgements and assumptions are then used to assess the book values of assets and liabilities that are not otherwise Financial income and expenses clear from other sources. The actual outcome may differ from these assumptions Financial income consists of income on invested funds, dividends, the gain on a and judgements. change in value in financial assets recognised at fair value through profit or loss Judgements and assumptions are reviewed on a regular basis. Changes in and such gains on hedging instruments as are recognised in net financial items. assumptions are recognised in the period the change is made if it only affected Financial expenses consist of interest expenses on borrowings, effects of this period, or in the period the change is made and future periods if the change reversing provisions calculated at their present value, the loss on a change in affects both the current period and future period. value in financial assets recognised at fair value via profits and losses and such losses on hedging instruments as are recognised in net financial items. Disputes Interest income and interest expenses on financial instruments are recogExecutive management’s best judgement has been used in the accounts of nised using the effective interest method. Dividend income is recognised when disputed amounts, but the actual future outcome may differ from the amounts the right to receive a dividend is established. Foreign exchange gains and losses assessed. are recognised in net financial items. Segment reporting A business segment is defined as a part of a company that carries out operations from which it can generate revenue and incur costs, whose operating profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest executive officer and for which there is independent financial information. Swedavia is organised and run as of July 1, 2012, based on two business segments, Airport Operations, Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 65 Notes Parent Company accounting principles Parent Company has goodwill from the acquisition of assets that have an The Parent Company prepares its financial reports in conformity with Sweden’s expected useful life of 20 years. Useful life reflects the company’s estimation of Annual Accounts Act (1995:1554) and the Swedish Financial Accounting the period under which future economic benefits that goodwill and other Standards Council’s recommendation RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. The intangible non-current assets represent will flow to the company. Straight-line differences between the consolidated and Parent Company accounting amortisation is applied over the expected useful life of the asset. principles are presented below. The accounting principles specified for the Parent Company have been applied consistently in all the periods presented in Associated companies the Parent Company’s financial reports. Holdings in associated companies are recognised in the Parent Company using the cost method. Dividends received are recognised in the income statement Financial instruments provided that they arise from a share of the profit earned after the acquisition. The Parent Company does not apply IAS 39; instead, financial instruments are Holdings in limited partnerships are recognised at cost. The book value for recognised based on their cost in conformity with Sweden’s Annual Accounts the holdings changes annually with Swedavia’s share of the limited partnership’s Act. This means that non-current financial assets are recognised at cost minus net profit as well as any withdrawals or contributions during the year. any impairment loss and current financial assets are valued based on the lower of cost or market rule. Untaxed reserves Interest rate swaps that effectively hedge cash flow risk for interest payments In the Parent Company, untaxed reserves are recognised in their entirety without on liabilities are recognised at the net of the accrued asset on floating interest being divided between equity and deferred taxes. However, in the consolidated and accrued liability on fixed interest, and the difference is recognised as an accounts, untaxed reserves are divided between deferred tax liability and equity. interest expense or interest income. Group contributions Pensions Group contributions received and paid are recognised as appropriations in Pension commitments are recognised in the Parent Company in conformity with accordance with RFR 2. the provisions in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations. See also the description in Note 28. Equity Equity is divided between unrestricted and restricted reserves in accordance Intangible non-current assets with the Annual Accounts Act. Group contributions paid are recognised by the Intangible non-current assets with an indeterminable useful life are not amortised donor as an increase in holdings in Group companies. The recipient recognises in the consolidated accounts. There is amortisation in the Parent Company. The the contribution as unrestricted equity. Note 3 Segment reporting An operating segment is defined as a part of the company that carries out expenses, financial income and income tax are handled at the Group level. The business operations from which it can derive revenue and expenses, whose accounting principles conform with those applied in the consolidated financial operating profit is examined on a regular basis by the company’s highest accounts, with the exception of amortisation on goodwill, unrealised value executive officer, and for which there is separate financial information. Swedavia changes that are not covered by hedge accounting, actuarial gains and losses is organised and run as of July 1, 2012, as two operating segments, which are on pensions and valuation changes for standing timber. Swedavia is managed Airport Operations and Real Estate. Until July 1, 2012, Swedavia’s only operating and reported based on the following two business segments. segment was Airport Operations. • Airport Operations owns, operates and develops Swedavia’s airports The basis of segment reporting is internal reporting. The Board of Directors • Real Estate owns, develops and manages properties and developable land and executive management mainly use operating profit by segment in at and around Swedavia’s airports accordance with Swedish accounting principles for monitoring. Financial 66 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations Total Swedavia Income statement Jan–Dec 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue from external customers 4,927 4,862 306 103 – – 5,233 4,965 Revenue from other segments 30 9 6 0 –36 –9 – – Total revenue 4,957 4,871 312 103 –36 –9 5,233 4,965 Operating expenses –3,256 –3,299 –76 –27 –15 42 –3,347 –3,284 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses –896 –863 –75 –19 31 32 –940 –850 Operating profit 805 709 161 57 –20 65 946 831 Airport Operations Real Estate Eliminations Total Swedavia Balance sheet 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Non-current assets 11,858 13,867 3,983 2,474 –719 –2,632 15,122 13,709 Current assets 4,252 1,707 508 1,099 –3,749 –1,726 1,011 1,080 Total assets 16,110 15,574 4,491 3,573 –4,468 –4 ,358 16,133 14,788 Equity 4,912 4,330 821 815 –818 –846 4,915 4,300 Liabilities 11,198 11,244 3,670 2,757 –3,651 –3,513 11,218 10,487 Total equity and liabilities 16,110 15,574 4,491 3,573 –4,468 –4,358 16,133 14,788 One customer accounted for 15 per cent (14) of total revenue in 2013, allocated to both segments. Note 4 Net revenue Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Revenue by source Aviation Business Passenger-related revenue 1,930 1,849 1,930 1,849 Aircraft movement-related revenue 596 593 596 593 Ground handling and aircraft parking 271 296 271 296 Other aviation 12 11 12 11 Total Aviation Business 2,809 2,749 2,809 2,749 Commercial Services Car parking 665 621 665 621 Retail, food and beverage 645 601 645 601 Other real estate revenue 731 535 423 432 Advertising 73 69 73 69 Other commercial services 215 307 214 320 Total Commercial Services 2,329 2,134 2,020 2,045 Other revenue 96 81 104 74 Total other revenue 96 81 104 74 Total net revenue 5,233 4,965 4,932 4,868 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 67 Notes Note 5 Related party transactions Related party transactions involve State-owned companies or operations that Transactions with the Swedish State conduct business in which the State has a controlling interest. Transactions are Swedavia AB is wholly owned by the Swedish State. The Swedavia Group’s carried out on market terms, and operations are subject to competition. products and services are provided to the State, government agencies and Related parties also include companies over which Swedavia may exercise State-owned companies in competition with other suppliers on commercial a controlling interest or significant influence in terms of operational and financial terms. Similarly, Swedavia AB and its Group companies purchase products decisions made. Concerning Swedavia AB’s receivables from and liabilities to and services from government authorities and State-owned companies at Group companies, see Note 24 “Receivables from Group companies” and Note market prices and on commercial terms. Transactions with the Swedish State 25 “Receivables from associated companies”. Shares in Group companies are concerning taxes and payroll fees have not been included. Costs reported specified in Note 19 “Holdings in Group companies” and in Note 19 “Holdings in under other related parties consist mostly of meteorological services, fees to associated companies”. government authorities and air navigation services, which are largely included For information about remuneration to executive officers and Board in the costs covered via remuneration from the Swedish Transport Agency for members, see Note 7 “Employees and staff expenses”. There are no securities security screening and parts of air traffic management services. pledged by or contingent assets from Swedavia for executive officers or Board members. Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Sale of goods and services Subsidiaries – – 32 7 Associated parties 6 1 6 26 Other related parties 585 620 585 620 Total sale of goods and services 591 621 623 653 Sale of immovable property or other assets Subsidiaries – – 422 658 Associated companies – – – – Other related parties – – – – Total sale of immovable property or other assets – – 422 658 Purchase of goods and services Subsidiaries – – 68 59 Associated companies – – – 1 Other related parties 7 – 7 5 Total purchases of goods and services 7 – 75 65 Interest, net Subsidiaries – – 75 31 Associated companies – – – – Other related parties – – – – Total interest – – 75 31 68 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 6 Remuneration and compensation for auditors Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Ernst & Young Auditing assignments 3 3 3 3 Tax consultancy 0 0 0 0 Other services 1 2 1 2 Total 4 5 4 5 Auditing assignments refers to the statutory auditing of the annual accounts and audits or the performance of other such duties. Tax consultancy refers to all the administration of the Board of Directors and the President and CEO as well consultancy pertaining to taxes. as auditing and other examination performed in accordance with agreements or Other services refers to advice on accounting issues as well as advice on contracts. processes and internal auditing. This includes other duties incumbent upon the company’s auditors as well as advice or other assistance stemming from observations made during such Note 7 Employees and staff expenses Average number of employees1) 2013 Of which women 2012 Of which women PARENT COMPANY Sweden 2,355 34% 2,368 34% Total in the Parent Company 2,355 34% 2,368 34% SUBSIDIARIES Sweden 14 50% 12 34% Total in subsidiaries 14 50% 12 34% Group total 2,369 34% 2,380 34% 2013-12-31 2013-01-01 2012-12-31 2012-01-01 Executive management, breakdown by gender Share of women Share of women Share of women Share of women PARENT COMPANY Board of Directors 63% 56% 56% 44% Other executive officers 38% 36% 36% 36% GROUP TOTAL Board of Directors 47% 38% 38% 23% Other executive officers 33% 31% 31% 28% 1) Average number of employees is calculated based on hours worked. Average number of employees is restated as total number of hours worked divided by normal annual working hours as specified by the Swedish Accounting Standards Board. Historical data have been restated. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 69 Notes 2013 2012 Salaries and Salaries and Salaries, other remuneration and payroll fees remuneration Payroll fees remuneration Payroll fees PARENT COMPANY 904 402 927 451 (of which pension expenses) (110) (251) SUBSIDIARIES 9 5 6 3 (of which pension expenses) (2) (1) GROUP-RELATED ADJUSTMENTS – 1 – –33 GROUP TOTAL 913 408 933 421 (of which pension expenses) (112) (252) Remuneration to the Board of Directors Parent Company Base salary, Remuneration 2013 SEK thousand Board fee Audit Committee Committee Other benefits Chairman of the Board Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 Board members Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Adine Grate Axén 220 – – – Lars Backemar 220 – – – Anders Ehrling1) 183 – – 5 Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Jenny Lahrin – – – – Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – Total 1 943 55 45 5 Remuneration to the Board of Directors Parent Company Base salary, Remuneration 2012 SEK thousand Board fee Audit Committee Committee Other benefits Chairman of the Board Ingemar Skogö 440 – 25 – Board members Karin Apelman 220 35 – – Adine Grate Axén 220 – – 4 Lars Backemar 220 – – – Anders Ehrling 220 – – 4 Anna Elgh 220 20 – – Hans Jeppsson 220 – – – Jenny Lahrin2) – – – – Christopher Onajin3) – – – – Magnus Skåninger4) – – – – Lottie Svedenstedt 220 – 20 – Total 1,980 55 45 8 1) Anders Ehrling resigned from his duties as Board member of Swedavia in October 2013 after he was appointed the new CEO of Braathens Aviation. 2) Jenny Lahrin was elected as a Board member on December 20, 2012. 3) When Christoffer Onajin resigned from his position at the Ministry of Finance, he also resigned from his duties at Swedavia in conjunction with the Board meeting held on February 13, 2012. 4) Magnus Skåninger resigned from his duties at Swedavia at an Extraordinary General Meeting on December 20, 2012. Remuneration to the Board of Directors consists of a fee decided at the Annual General Meeting. The Board fee is paid as a salary or as an invoice from the Board member’s sole proprietorship or company. In cases where the Board fee is invoiced, an amount equivalent to the payroll fees that Swedavia AB does not have to pay as a result is added. 70 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Guidelines for remuneration to the Board of Directors Swedavia follows the State’s guidelines for remuneration to the Board. A fee is Remuneration for the Audit Committee is based on a decision taken at the paid to the Chairman and Board members based on a decision at the Annual AGM held on April 26, 2013. Since the AGM, the Audit Committee includes the General Meeting (AGM) on April 26, 2013. No pension contribution is paid for Board members Karin Apelman as Chair and Anna Elgh and Jenny Lahrin as Board members. No remuneration is paid to Board members who are employed members. in the Swedish Government Offices. No Board fee is paid to employee representRemuneration to the Remuneration Committee is based on a decision taken atives or their deputies. Board fees are paid as salary or are paid to the Board at the AGM held on April 26, 2013. The Remuneration Committee includes member’s company. No Board fee is paid to Board members in any subsidiary Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Board members Jenny Lahrin and Lottie Svedenstedt since all members are employees of companies in the Swedavia Group. as members, and Robert Olsson as employee representative. Remuneration to executive officers* Parent Company Changes during Variable Other Pension 2013 SEK thousand the year Base salary remuneration benefits expenses Chief executive officer Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO 3,169 – 27 936 Total 3,169 27 936 Other executive officers Karl Wistrand Deputy CEO CEO Swedavia Real Estate Starting Jan 25, 2013 Chief Financial Officer Until Feb 3, 2013 2,200 – 13 650 Per Arenhage Chief Technical Officer 1,520 – 19 452 Lennart Bergbom Strategy Director 1,076 – 11 229 Athanassios Boukas Chief Procurement Officer Starting Jan 1, 2013 1,170 – 10 328 Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel 1,327 – 12 358 Jan Egenäs CEO Swedavia Real Estate Until Jan 25, 2013 1,291 – 1 226 Fredrik Frimodig Chief Information Officer Starting Jun 12, 2013 512 – 0 96 Bodil Garneij Chief Quality Officer From Feb 1 to Nov 20, 2013 776 – 5 169 Michael Persson Gripkow Chief Commercial and Marketing Officer 1,517 – 9 422 Peder Grunditz Airport Director, Regional Airports Until Dec 15, 2013 Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Starting Dec 16, 2013 1,359 – 17 367 Anders Hjertman Acting HR Director From Jun 12 to Oct 13, 2013 446 – 5 119 Charlotta Hyldal HR Director Until Jun 11, 2013 1,997 – 4 452 Lars Johansson Chief Financial Officer Starting Mar 18, 2013 1,640 – 8 469 Anders Lennerman Director of Security and Safety 1,255 – 13 378 Charlotte Ljunggren Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport 1,678 – 2 457 Susanne Norman Director of Regional Airports Starting Dec 16, 2013 55 – 0 12 Linda Sjödin Chief Communication Officer 1,217 – 9 323 Olle Sundin Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Until Dec 15, 2013 1,457 – 4 817 Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport 1,617 – 32 488 Marie Wiksborg HR Director Starting Oct 14, 2013 338 – 1 79 Total 24,448 – 175 6,891 * Remuneration has been reported based on the period each executive officer has been part of the executive management team. Base salary reported is based on a fixed monthly salary, statutory holiday entitlement, any salary increase and severance pay. Base pay does not take into account any exchange of salary for benefits. Severance pay was paid out to the former CEO of Swedavia Real Estate AB and to the former HR Director, totalling SEK 435 K and SEK 377 K respectively; this severance pay was charged in its entirety to 2013. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 71 Notes Remuneration to executive officers Parent Company Changes during Variable Other Pension 2012 SEK thousand the year Base salary remuneration benefits expenses Chief executive officer Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO 3,005 – 31 886 Total 3,005 – 31 886 Other executive officers Karl Wistrand Deputy CEO and Chief Financial Officer 2,124 – 17 679 Per Arenhage Chief Technical Officer 1,438 – 44 414 Lennart Bergbom Strategy Director Starting Jan 1, 2012 1,026 – 0 223 Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel 1,291 – 0 352 Jan Egenäs CEO Swedavia Real Estate 1,357 – 22 374 Bodil Garneij Chief Information Officer Until Jan 31, 2012 82 – 0 13 Peder Grunditz Director of Regional Airports 1,221 – 17 312 Charlotta Hyldal HR Director 1,531 – 7 436 Anders Lennerman Director of Security and Safety 1,214 – 7 342 Charlotte Ljunggren Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Starting Aug 13, 2102 675 – 1 180 Linda Sjödin Chief Communication Officer Starting Jan 16, 2012 1,163 – 7 310 Michael Persson Gripkow Chief Marketing Officer 1,468 – 0 405 Olle Sundin Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport Until Aug 12, 2012 Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport Starting Jan 1, 2012 1,593 – 25 888 Peter Weinhandl Airport Director, Malmö Airport 1,024 – 0 272 Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport 1,615 – 48 486 Total 18,822 – 196 5,685 Remuneration to executive officers LFV to Swedavia on April 1, 2010, are also covered by an age-related graduated The team of executive officers refers to the people who together with the CEO pension premium for the ITP plan 1 as determined through a collective agreeconstitute the company’s executive management or report directly to CEO. The ment. An extra pension contribution in addition to the defined contribution plan executive management is appointed by the CEO. under the ITP 1 plan was agreed for some executive officers not covered by the Remuneration to the CEO and Deputy CEO is determined by Swedavia’s graduated pension premium for ITP 1. The Airport Director of Bromma StockBoard of Directors after the matter has been prepared in the Remuneration holm Airport who resigned in 2013 was also covered by a defined contribution Committee. The CEO proposes remuneration to other executive officers. direct pension agreed in conjunction with negotiations to arrange the transition The Board’s proposed principles for remuneration and other terms of of operations from LFV to Swedavia AB as of April 1, 2010. The retirement age employment for the company’s executive management entail that Swedavia AB for the CEO and other executive officers is 65. (publ) shall strive for remuneration and terms of employment that are reasonable and well informed. Remuneration shall be characterised by reasonableness Severance pay and transparency as well as contribute to good ethics and corporate culture. The President and CEO has six months’ notice of termination by mutual consent Remuneration shall not be such that it drives salaries relative to comparable and is entitled to all employment benefits during that period. For the President companies but shall instead be characterised by moderation. and CEO, an agreement on severance pay has been signed in the event the For matters concerning remuneration and other terms of employment, company gives notice of termination. Severance pay is equivalent to the officer’s Swedavia applies the principles decided in the Guidelines for Terms of Employfixed salary for twelve months beyond the notification period. Severance pay is ment for Executive Officers in Companies under State Ownership adopted by not pensionable income. the Government on April 20, 2009. These guidelines shall result in remuneration Executive officers have six months’ notice of termination by mutual consent, that is competitive, capped, reasonable and appropriate. The principle is a fixed with the exception of one person, who must give four months’ notice of terminabase salary, which means that there is no incentive programme or other variable tion. All executive officers are entitled to all employment benefits that apply salary component for executive officers. during the notification period. For the Deputy CEO and the CEO of Swedavia Real Estate AB, severance Pensions pay agreements have been signed in the event the company gives notice of The President and CEO’s pension is paid via a premium-based pension plan, termination equivalent to the officer’s fixed salary for a maximum of six months the provision for which corresponds to 30 per cent of fixed salary. The Airport beyond the notification period. For the Financial Director and Chief Procurement Director of Göteborg Landvetter Airport also has an agreement for a premiumOfficer, severance pay agreements have been signed in the event the company based pension, the provision for which corresponds to 30 per cent of fixed gives notice of termination equivalent to the officer’s fixed salary for a maximum salary. Pensions for other executive officers are included under the ITP 1 defined of three months beyond the notification period. Severance pay is not pensioncontribution plan. Executive officers who were employed in the transition from able income. 72 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 8 Depreciation/amortisation and impairment losses on tangible fixed assets and intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Depreciation and amortisation Goodwill – – 24 25 Other intangible non-current assets 16 16 16 16 Buildings and land 321 299 316 298 Investment properties 73 18 – – Field structures 153 153 153 153 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment 371 361 371 361 Impairment losses, new construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 6 3 6 3 Total 940 850 888 856 Note 9 Financial income and expenses Group Parent Company Financial income 2013 2012 2013 2012 Income from holdings in Group companies – – 14 13 Income from holdings in associated companies 8 19 9 20 Interest income 3 3 80 34 Net changes in foreign exchange rates 1 0 1 0 Total 12 22 104 67 Group Parent Company Financial expenses 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest expenses, financial liabilities –209 –237 –190 –237 Derivative instruments –34 –34 –49 –22 Portion of interest on pension expenses for the year –27 –18 –4 –96 Other financial expenses –2 –5 –2 –7 Net changes in foreign exchange rates – –4 – –4 Total –272 –299 –245 –366 Interest expense on financial liabilities is attributable to bank borrowings, medium-term notes and commercial paper. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 73 Notes Note 10 Appropriations and untaxed reserves Parent Company Appropriations 2013 2012 Change in accelerated depreciation –205 –212 Change in tax allocation reserves –160 –49 Group contribution paid –20 –16 Group contribution received 213 – Total appropriations –173 –277 Untaxed reserves Accumulated accelerated depreciation and amortisation 1,357 1,152 Tax allocation reserves 210 49 Total untaxed reserves 1,567 1,201 In calculating excess depreciation, the maximum amount of allocations allowed under Swedish tax law was taken in the Parent Company for 2013 and 2012. Accumulated depreciation and amortisation pertains to other intangible assets, electrical installations, vehicles and equipment. Note 11 Tax Group Parent Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Current tax expense (–) /tax income (+) Tax expense [/tax income] for the year –112 –58 –106 –40 –112 –58 –106 –40 Deferred tax expense (–) /tax income (+) Deferred tax for temporary differences –73 –50 –9 –23 Total tax expense recognised –185 –108 –115 –63 2013 2012 Group Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Reconciliation of effective tax Profit before tax 686 554 Tax calculated using Swedish tax rate in effect 22.0 –151 26.3 –146 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year 2 –1 Tax effect of amortisation of Group goodwill 2 –5 Tax effect of non-deductible costs –34 –31 Tax effect of non-taxable revenue 4 – Tax effect of loss carryforward – 1 Other –8 8 Effect of new tax rate – 66 Recognised effective tax 27.0 –185 19.5 –108 2013 2012 Parent Company Per cent Amount Per cent Amount Reconciliation of effective tax Profit before tax 398 108 Tax calculated using Swedish rate for the Parent Company 22.0 –88 26.3 –28 Tax pertaining to taxation for the previous year –1 –1 Tax effect of non-deductible costs –32 –31 Tax effect of on-taxable revenue 6 3 Effect of loss carryforward – –7 Recognised effective tax 28.9 –115 58.3 –63 74 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 12 Intangible non-current assets Group Parent Company Goodwill 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 377 377 493 493 Closing balance 377 377 493 493 Accumulated scheduled amortisation Opening balance –25 –25 –68 –43 Scheduled amortisation for the period – – –24 –25 Closing balance –25 –25 –92 –68 Book value, closing balance 352 352 401 426 Goodwill Goodwill impairment testing In conjunction with the conversion of airport operations into a limited liability Goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units that are expected to benefit company on April 1, 2010, assets and liabilities from LFV were transferred to from the acquisition. Goodwill has an indeterminable expected useful life. An Swedavia at an estimated market value. In conjunction with the transaction, impairment review is carried out at least once a year or more frequently if there is goodwill of SEK 493 M arose in the Parent Company. any indication of a decrease in value. Goodwill has been tested for impairment In the consolidated accounts, defined benefit pension commitments are based on the cash-generating unit, Airport Operations, from which the goodwill recognised in accordance with IAS 19, and the difference in accounting principles is derived. The recovery value is based on calculations of the value in use. means that goodwill in the consolidated accounts totalled SEK 289 M. Together Calculations are based on estimated cash flows in the business plan adopted with goodwill from the acquisition of assets pertaining to the subsidiary Arlanda and cover a four-year period. Budgeted income and expenses are based on Schiphol Development Company AB, total goodwill of SEK 377 M was recogprevious profit, experience and expectations of the market trend. It has been nised in the consolidated accounts. assumed that cash flows beyond the four-year period have annual growth equivalent to 2 per cent per annum. The discount rate before tax used was 7.5 per cent. The impairment review has not entailed any impairment loss on goodwill, and reasonable changes in the assumptions would not lead to any need for impairment. Group Parent Company Other intangible non-current assets 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 143 109 143 109 Reclassifications for the year 11 35 11 35 Closing balance 154 143 154 143 Accumulated scheduled amortisation Opening balance –38 –22 –38 –22 Scheduled amortisation for the year –16 –16 –16 –16 Closing balance –54 –38 –54 –38 Book value, closing balance 100 105 100 105 Other intangible non-current assets pertains to noise insulation on the properties of others. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 75 Notes Note 13 Buildings and land Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 5,910 5,478 5,956 5,406 Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 486 2,931 405 557 Reclassification to investment properties –177 –2,492 – – Disposals/divestments for the year –41 –7 –277 –7 6,178 5,910 6,084 5,956 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Opening balance –799 –507 –794 –503 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 40 7 44 7 Reversal of depreciation, reclassifications 12 – – – Scheduled depreciation for the year –321 –299 –316 –298 –1,068 –799 –1,066 –794 Book value, closing balance 5,110 5,111 5,018 5,162 Of which land Opening balance 426 442 426 390 Acquisitions for the year 79 36 79 36 Sales for the year – – –223 – Reclassification from field structures and new construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets 31 – – – Reclassification between investment properties/ operating properties –177 –52 – – Book value, closing balance 359 426 282 426 A property reallotment is under way and the application for a title is being processed by the Swedish land registration authority, Lantmäteriet. The cost of the buildings includes SEK 7 M (6) for acquisitions of another party’s property at Ronneby Airport. Note 14 Investment properties Swedavia recognises the properties classified as investment properties at time. The cash flow consists of the income and operating costs of each property, cost. Investment properties are found in the Real Estate operating segment. that is, net operating income. To estimate net operating income, estimates are The portfolio consists of hangar, cargo, hotel and office properties as well as made of inflation, rents, vacancies, and operating and maintenance costs. land at Göteborg Landvetter Airport, Malmö Airport and Stockholm Arlanda Valuation assumptions for the calculations include an assumed inflation rate Airport. Income from the investment properties totalled SEK 306 M (103) and of 1 per cent for 2014 and 2 per cent for the remainder of the calculation period. direct costs totalled SEK 76 M (27); see also Note 3. For information about the The discount rate for the cash flow is estimated based mainly on the certainty depreciation method and useful life, see Note 2 Accounting principles. of the leases in the income stream, but also the complexity and condition of the The portfolio of investment properties is valued annually by external properties. The risk entailed by the property portfolio is reflected in the required independent, qualified appraisers. The properties are valued to determine their rate of return and depends in part on the contract length and stability of the tenant. fair value, that is, their estimated market value. The external appraisals for 2013 The capitalisation rate for the different properties valued varies between 6.7 and were carried out by DTZ. 11.4 per cent. For the required rate of return on total capital, the capitalisation rate is a Valuation method nominal required rate of return for total capital before tax. The required rate of The valuation of properties is based on the cash flows the asset is expected to return is based on empirical estimates of the market’s required return for similar generate, discounting the operating surplus. The value of the property is based properties and has been set between 7.6 and 11.4 per cent to estimate the on the expected cash flows of each property appraised over the next ten years. residual value. For properties with rental contracts or leaseholds longer than ten years, the All investment properties are included in the classification based on Level 3, calculations have been extended. For the last year of the calculation period, a rewhich means that the fair value of the investment properties cannot be directly sidual value is calculated, which shall constitute an estimated market value at that attributed to observable market data. 76 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Group 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 2,492 – Acquisitions/reclassifications for the year 1,446 2,492 3,938 2,492 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Opening balance –18 – Scheduled depreciation for the year –73 –18 –91 –18 Book value, closing balance 3,847 2,474 Fair value 4,736 2,576 Operational leases – the Group as lessor All investment properties are rented through operational lease agreements and generate rental income. Future rental income attributed to non-cancellable operational leases are broken down as follows: Group 2013 2012 Expiry Within 1 year 377 258 Between 1 and 5 years 1,324 901 More than 5 years 2,501 2,344 Total 4,202 3,503 Note 15 Field structures Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 2,819 2,692 2,819 2,692 Reclassifications for the year –21 128 74 128 Disposals/divestments for the year –2 –1 –97 –1 2,796 2,819 2,796 2,819 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Opening balance –407 –255 –407 –255 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 13 1 13 1 Scheduled depreciation for the year on cost –153 –153 –153 –153 –547 –407 –547 –407 Book value, closing balance 2,249 2,412 2,249 2,412 Net field structure assets acquired have been treated for tax purposes as land. Field structures consist mostly of take-off and landing runways. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 77 Notes Note 16 Biological assets Group 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 91 88 Change in fair value –4 3 Book value, closing balance 87 91 Swedavia’s biological assets consist of large forest holdings adjacent to potential harvestable volume in accordance with the Swedish Forestry Act’s Swedavia’s airports, with standing timber assessed at fair value. Estimates of fair restrictions on clear-cutting, and discount rates based on the age of the forest. value are made each year by an external appraiser. The valuation method used is A change in fair value is recognised in the income statement as other external in accordance with the Swedish land registration authority Lantmäteriet’s forest costs. Biological assets on the balance sheet date are included in Level 2 assets, valuation method. This method is based on a discounted cash flow valuation of which means that important input in the valuation are based on observable expected future cash flows from long-term sustainable forestry. Important input market data. There has been no change in valuation methods compared to are local pricelists for timber and pulp with average prices for the past ten years, previous years. Note 17 Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 2,960 2,632 2,960 2,632 Reclassifications for the year 534 351 545 351 Disposals/divestments for the year –36 –23 –47 –23 3,458 2,960 3,458 2,960 Accumulated scheduled depreciation Opening balance –962 –623 –962 –623 Reversal of depreciation on disposals 33 23 33 23 Scheduled depreciation for the year on cost –371 –361 –371 –361 –1,300 –962 –1,300 –962 Book value, closing balance 2,158 1,999 2,158 1,999 Leases Swedavia’s leases pertain to the leasing of vehicles. Leased items that the Group has under leasing agreements are recognised under the item “Electrical installations, vehicles and equipment” for the following amounts. Consolidated leasing fees for the year totalled SEK 6 M (8) in the Group. Group Book value 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Cost – capitalised financial leases 35 31 Accumulated depreciation –20 –16 Book value 15 15 The Group leases a number of vehicles; the leasing periods run between 2 and 9 years. 2013 2012 Present value of Present value of Future minimum future minimum Future minimum future minimum Future leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees leasing fees Within 1 year 6 6 7 6 Between 2 and 5 years 11 11 13 12 More than 5 years 0 0 1 1 Total 17 17 21 19 78 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 18 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Opening balance 953 981 953 981 Capital spending for the year 1,121 1,629 1,114 1,629 Disposals – – –89 –658 Reclassifications –1,000 –1,658 –935 –999 Book value, closing balance 1,074 953 1,043 953 New construction in progress related to tangible fixed assets mostly consists of investments in infrastructure and terminals as well as landing runways and baggage handling systems. A reclassification of the asset is made when the asset is placed in service. The asset is reclassified as the type of asset it constitutes. Note 19 Holdings in Group companies Parent Company Parent Company holdings in Group companies 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 882 161 Acquisitions 81 785 Sales – –64 Accumulated cost, closing balance 963 882 Specification of the Parent Company holdings of shares in Group companies Book value Book value Subsidiary/Corporate identity number/Registered office Number of shares Ownership in %1) 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB, 556653-6628, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 10,000 60 93 93 Swedavia Real Estate AB, 556858-9872, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna 500,000 100 870 789 Book value, closing balance 963 882 1) Pertains to ownership of the capital, which also corresponds to the holding of voting rights for the total number of shares. Other important Group companies wholly owned by Swedavia Real Estate AB Subsidiary/Corporate identity number/Registered office TreDhotell AB, 556810-8996, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Altuna Hangar KB, 969655-5706, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Landvetter Hangar KB, 969655-7322, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Landvetter Cargo Terminal KB, 969655-6605, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Nordic Airport Properties KB, 969673-0143, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Tor Viking Sverigehuset AB, 556891-5523, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Tor Viking Flygfastighet AB, 556891-5556, Stockholm County, Municipality of Sigtuna Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 79 Notes Note 20 Holdings in associated companies Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 79 121 87 127 Acquisitions – 0 – 0 Share of profit in the associated companies for the year 0 19 – 20 Reclassifications1) –78 – –86 – Dividend for the year – –60 – –60 Book value, closing balance 1 79 1 87 Profit for the Specification of the Parent Company’s and Adjusted equity, year, Book value Group’s holdings in associated companies Swedavia’s Swedavia’s Number of Ownership Value of holding in the Parent 2013-12-31 share share shares in % in the Group Company Subsidiary/Corporate identity number/Registered office Directly owned Citygflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, 556195-5823, Västra Götaland County, Municipality of Gothenburg 1 1 5,244 40 0 – Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB, 556318-2574, Stockholm County, Municipality of Stockholm 1 0 400 20 0 1 Total 1 1 1) During the year, Swedavia AB’s holdings in the associated companies Nordic Airport Properties AB and Nordic Airport Properties KB were acquired by Swedavia Real Estate Group. This took place in conjunction with Swedavia Real Estate Group acquiring the remaining shares and participation rights from GEGAC Viking AB. 80 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 21 Financial assets and liabilities Group Book value Fair value Financial assets 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Other long-term receivables 146 132 146 132 Trade receivables 492 555 492 555 Receivables from associated companies 6 10 6 10 Other receivables 74 24 74 24 Liquid assets 52 129 52 129 Total 770 850 770 850 Book value Fair value Financial liabilities 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 6,295 3,000 6,300 3,014 Current interest-bearing liabilities 2,209 4,653 2,209 4,676 Derivative instruments1) 199 231 199 231 Liabilities to leasing companies 20 21 20 19 Other non-current liabilities 16 22 16 22 Trade payables 490 606 490 606 Liabilities to associated companies – 4 – 4 Other liabilities 34 59 34 59 Accrued interest expenses 40 39 40 39 Total 9,303 8,635 9,308 8,670 1) Derivative instruments in 2013 pertain to derivatives for hedge accounting. Of the derivative instruments in 2012, SEK 218 M was derivative instruments for hedge accounting and SEK 13 M was financial liabilities valued at fair value through profit or loss. Net financial items for hedge accounting 2013 2012 Financial assets/liabilities valued at fair value* 15 1 Total 15 1 * The sub-category “Held for trading”. Valuation at fair value 2013 Fair value hierarchy levels for valuation and fair value information Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Derivative instruments2) – 199 – Non-current interest-bearing liabilities3) – 6,300 – Investment properties (Note 14)3) – – 4,736 Biological assets (Note 16)2) – 86 – Total – 6,585 4,736 2) Recognised at fair value 3) Recognised at cost Level 1: Listed prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Level 2: Other observable input for the asset or liability than listed prices included in Level 1. Either direct or indirect price listings based on available market data. Level 3: Input for the asset or liability that is not based on observable market data. No change in levels in 2013 compared to 2012. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 81 Notes Parent Company Currency futures The Parent Company recognises its financial instruments at amortised cost. For Fair value of currency futures is calculated by discounting the difference between information about fair value concerning derivative instruments, see the consolithe contracted forward rate and the forward rate that can be contracted on the dated valuation. balance sheet date for the remainder of the contract period. Discounting is done at a risk-free interest rate based on Swedish sovereign bonds. Derivative instruments No financial assets or liabilities are offset in the balance sheet in accordance with Long-term receivables IAS 32. For derivatives, the Group has ISDA agreements, which allow offset in For information purposes, fair value of long-term receivables is calculated by the event of a bankruptcy. As of December 31, 2013, there were no significant discounting future cash flows by the current interest rate. financial liabilities or assets that should be offset in the event of a bankruptcy. Interest-bearing liabilities Interest rate swaps For information purposes, fair value is calculated for interest-bearing liabilities. For interest rate swaps, fair value is calculated as the present value of expected The fair value of a loan is calculated by discounting future cash flows. future cash flows based on current market interest rates. The calculation also takes into account any change in Swedavia’s credit risk since the loan was taken out. Electricity derivatives For some borrowings, the book value is considered to reflect the fair value, For electricity derivatives, fair value is calculated based on listed rates. If there given the short remaining maturity of the liabilities. are no listed rates, fair value is calculated by discounting the difference between the contracted forward rate and the forward rate available on the balance sheet Other receivables and liabilities date for the remainder of the contract period. For current receivables and liabilities such as trade receivables and trade payables, with a remaining useful life of less than six months, the book value is considered to reflect the fair value. Note 22 Other long-term receivables Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accumulated cost Opening balance 132 94 65 30 New receivables 10 41 5 38 Receivables settled –1 0 –1 0 Reclassifications 5 –3 –1 –3 Book value, closing balance 146 132 68 65 Note 23 Materials and stocks Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Supplies 31 26 31 26 Gravel stocks 7 8 4 5 Supplies, building and land 2 2 2 2 Other stocks 6 2 3 2 Total 46 38 41 35 82 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 24 Receivables from Group companies Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Swedavia Real Estate AB 3,173 2,651 Tor Viking Komplementären AB 159 – Altuna Hangar KB 74 – TreDhotell AB 65 – Tor Viking Flygfastigheter AB 25 – Office Arlanda AB 18 – Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB 1 1 Other Group companies 14 – Book value, closing balance 3,529 2,652 Since 2013, Swedavia’s wholly owned Group companies have been financed through a Group structure, which is why previous intra-Group non-current assets and liabilities have been reclassified. Note 25 Receivables from associated companies Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Nordic Airport Properties KB1) – 6 – 6 Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB 6 4 6 4 Book value, closing balance 6 10 6 10 1) On June 4, 2013, Swedavia acquired the outstanding shares and participation rights in the associated companies Nordic Airport Properties AB and Nordic Airport Properties KB through the subsidiary Swedavia Real Estate. Swedavia thus owns 100 per cent of the companies. Note 26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Accrued income, ground handling 1 8 1 8 Accrued income, retail, food and beverage 139 96 139 96 Accrued income, advertising – 13 – 13 Accrued income, energy 13 16 13 16 Accrued income, parking 8 45 8 47 Prepaid material and maintenance costs 8 5 8 5 Prepaid operational services 6 7 6 7 Prepaid interest expense 4 – 4 – Prepaid property and rental costs 2 1 2 1 Prepaid insurance premiums 1 2 1 2 Other accrued income and prepaid expenses 41 59 40 46 Total 222 252 221 241 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 83 Notes Note 27 Equity Group accounting is applied, which means that the change in value has been charged Share capital to equity in the balance sheet via Other comprehensive income. As of December 31, 2013, registered share capital consisted of 1,441,403,026 shares at a stated value of SEK 1 each. Retained earnings Retained earnings includes profit for the year and the portion of untaxed Other paid-in capital reserves that constitutes equity. This also includes revaluations of defined benefit Other paid-in capital pertains to the premium in connection with the new share pensions in accordance with IAS 19 (net of deferred tax). issue. Transfer pertains to deferred tax as a result of a change in the tax rate. Hedge reserve The reserve for cash flow hedging consists of unrealised changes in the value of interest rate derivatives (net of deferred tax). For interest rate derivatives, hedge Note 28 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension Pension commitments are recognised as a provision on the balance sheet commitments under the item “Provisions for pensions and similar obligations”. In the Parent Company, there are other bases for calculating defined benefit Defined benefit plans than those specified in IAS 19. The Parent Company complies with the Most of the defined benefit pension commitments pertain to PA91 and PA03 statutes in the Swedish Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the instructions government employee pension agreements that were taken over from LFV in of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority since that is a requirement for conjunction with the division of operations. No new pension rights accrue for making tax deductions. The significant differences compared to the regulathese commitments; instead the commitments are in the form of paid-up pentions in IAS 19 are the way the discount rate is determined, the fact that the sion policies. calculation of the defined benefit obligation is calculated based on the current The actuarial bases for calculating the value of capital are the provisions in salary level without any assumption of future salary increases, and the fact that FFFS 2007:24 adopted by the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, which actuarial gains and losses are recognised in the income statement. The Parent include interest rate assumptions. Company’s total commitments for defined benefit pensions are covered by Beginning in 2011, unvested pension commitments are entered as a liability credit insurance with FPG/PRI. at 60 per cent in both the Parent Company and the Group. The future conditional commitments pertain to a small number of employees who have the option of taking early retirement at the age of 63. Group Parent Company The Group has both defined benefit and defined contribution pension commitments 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Actuarial assumptions The following important actuarial assumptions have been applied in calculating the obligations: (weighted average values) Discount rate 3.75% 3.50% 0.40% 0.40% Future changes in price base amount (inflation) 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% 2.00% Changes in the present value of defined benefit obligations Obligations as of January 1 784 734 1,085 1,021 Change in liability due to merger with LAC – – – 3 Payments made for the year –26 –26 –26 –26 Cost of vesting, current period 1 1 1 1 Interest expense 27 28 4 11 Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) –37 65 5 108 Benefits taken over – 6 – – Other changes – –24 – –33 Obligation as of December 31 749 784 1,069 1,085 84 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Group Parent Company Cost recognised in profit for the year 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Defined benefit plans Cost of pensions vested during the year 1 1 1 1 Interest expense 27 28 4 11 Actuarial cost – – 5 108 Special payroll fee 7 10 3 29 Effect of change in liability, unvested pensions – – – – Cost of defined benefit plans 35 39 13 149 Cost of defined contribution plans 80 80 78 80 Payroll fee 19 22 19 22 Cost of defined contribution plans 99 102 97 102 Total cost of remuneration after termination 134 141 110 251 of employment in the profit for the year Group Cost recognised in other comprehensive income 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Defined benefit plans Revaluation including special payroll fee Actuarial gains (–)/losses (+) on change in financial commitments –36 72 Empirically based adjustments –11 9 Tax 10 –18 Recognised in other comprehensive income –37 63 Group Sensitivity analysis Increase Decrease Change in discount rate 0.5 percentage point 0.5 percentage point Effect on obligation –53 59 Group Present value of obligation broken down by members in the plans as follows 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Active members 195 212 Paid-up pension policyholders 2,856 2,895 Pensioners 422 521 Total number of obligations 3,473 3,628 The remaining vesting period for active members is 6.9 years (7.4 years). Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 85 Notes Note 29 Provisions for deferred tax Group 2013-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference, goodwill –22 – Temporary difference, tangible fixed assets –41 – Temporary difference, biological fixed assets – 8 Temporary difference, non-current financial assets –44 – Temporary difference, untaxed reserves – 345 Temporary difference, pensions – 86 Net accounting 107 –107 Total – 332 Group 2012-12-31 Temporary difference, goodwill –29 – Temporary difference, tangible fixed assets –34 – Temporary difference, biological fixed assets – 9 Temporary difference, non-current financial assets –51 – Temporary difference, untaxed reserves – 264 Temporary difference, pensions – 83 Net accounting 114 –114 Total – 242 Parent Company 2013-12-31 Deferred tax asset Deferred tax liability Temporary difference, tangible fixed assets 25 – Total 25 – Parent Company 2012-12-31 Temporary difference, tangible fixed assets 34 – Total 34 – 86 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 30 Other provisions Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Restructuring costs, opening balance 80 54 80 54 Provisions for restructuring costs 3 44 3 44 Reversal of restructuring costs –63 –18 –63 –18 Restructuring costs, closing balance 20 80 20 80 Social security fund, opening balance 17 17 17 17 Provisions for social security fund – – – – Reversal of social security fund – – – – Social security fund, closing balance 17 17 17 17 Other provisions, opening balance 116 135 92 111 Provided to other provisions 5 45 5 46 Reversal of other provisions –4 –65 –1 –65 Other provisions, closing balance 117 116 96 92 Of which current portion –20 –80 – – Total other provisions 134 133 133 191 SEK 20 M (80) of provisions pertains to restructuring costs which are considered to be current; the remaining provisions are considered to be non-current. Other provisions consists mostly of costs for any restoration of land. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 87 Notes Note 31 Liabilities to credit institutions Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Bank borrowings 2,918 5,985 2,918 5,985 Loans from Swedish National Debt Office – 918 – 918 Medium-term notes 3,895 – 3,895 – Commercial paper 1,691 750 1,691 750 Total 8,504 7,653 8,504 7,653 Breakdown of non-current and current portion of interest-bearing liabilities 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Current portion of interest-bearing liabilities 2,209 4,653 2,209 4,653 Non-current interest-bearing liabilities 6,295 3,000 6,295 3,000 Total 8,504 7,653 8,504 7,653 The average maturity on borrowings as of December 31, 2013, was 2 years with an average interest rate of 2.7 per cent. As of December 31, 2013, the share of borrowings at a fixed rate was 66 per cent and the average lock-in period was 2.9 years. Note 32 Overdraft facilities Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Overdraft facilities approved 200 200 200 200 Unutilised portion 182 132 182 132 Credit amount used 18 68 18 68 As of December 31, 2013, Swedavia had overdraft facilities of SEK 200 M at Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken (SEB), SEK 18 M of which was utilised on the balance sheet date. Note 33 Accrued expenses and prepaid income Group Parent Company 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Incentive provisions to airlines 37 59 37 59 Accrued expenses, construction projects 50 72 50 72 Accrued staff-related expenses 155 168 153 168 Accrued interest 47 39 47 39 Accrued property costs 71 22 49 14 Prepaid property income 141 128 60 63 Prepaid income retail, food and beverage 39 37 39 37 Prepaid parking revenue 13 18 13 18 Prepaid advertising revenue 10 9 10 9 Other accrued expenses and prepaid income 83 82 101 101 Total 646 634 559 581 88 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 34 Financial risks The Group is exposed to a number of different financial risks in its operations, Commodity price risks which in turn have an impact on the company’s profit, cash flow and valuation. Swedavia’s commodity price risk is concentrated on the purchase of electricity, Financial risks arise when there is a change in foreign exchange rates, and the way this is handled is governed in its financial policy. There is continuous commodity prices and interest rates or when prevailing market conditions and hedging of electricity prices in accordance with the financial policy. Hedging is capital structures give rise to refinancing and credit risks. The Group’s financial done through electricity derivatives on the Nasdaq OMX power exchange as operations and risk management are centralised in the Corporate Finance unit, well as through bilateral agreements with producers. The hedge ratio was 74 per and operations are carried out following a financial policy adopted by the cent (86) of predicted use over the next 12 months. Board of Directors and characterised by a low risk level. The aim is to minimise the Group’s capital cost through effective financial solutions and the effective Hedge accounting management and control of the Group’s financial risks. To reduce the Group’s The Group applies cash flow hedging for its interest rate risk, foreign exchange exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, electricity prices and exchange rates, risk and electricity price risk. The effective portion of the changes in fair value various types of derivatives are used. recognised in other comprehensive income during the year was SEK 112 M (–62). The ineffectiveness recognised in the income statement during the year Exchange rate risks was SEK 0.2 M (2). Exchange rate risk refers to the risk that movements in currency prices will have A 1 per cent increase/decrease in the price of the unhedged volume of a negative impact on the Group’s profit, financial position and/or cash flow. Since electricity would not have a material effect on profit, less than SEK 0.1 M, given all subsidiaries are Swedish and use the Swedish krona (SEK) as their currency, the current level of hedging. there is no translation exposure. Liquidity and refinancing risk Transaction exposure Liquidity and refinancing risk refers to the risk that financing opportunities will Most revenue is not affected by any foreign exchange fluctuations since invoices be limited and the cost will be higher when loans are to be re-negotiated. It also are largely denominated in SEK. When invoicing is in a foreign currency, an comprises payment obligations that cannot be met due to insufficient liquidity. internal match against supplier invoices is made in the corresponding foreign The Group’s target capital structure is to have the Group’s fixed assets funded currency. For other payments in foreign currencies, currency hedges are entered by equity and have no more than 40 per cent of borrowings maturing in the same into that match the foreign flow. Currency hedges are entered into in conjunction twelve-month period. with the signing of a contract or upon receipt of an invoice. The liquidity risk is minimised by Swedavia having a diversified loan portfolio, which ensures access to capital and flexibility. In accordance with the financial Interest rate risks policy, the Group has overdraft facilities of SEK 500 M (500). Interest rate risk refers to the risk of changes in market interest rates having a On the balance sheet date, there was an unutilised bank loan guarantee of negative impact on the Group’s net interest income/expense. SEK 500 M (500) and overdraft facilities of SEK 200 M (200), SEK 18 M of which As of December 31, 2013, Swedavia had external borrowings of SEK was utilised (68). 8,504 M (7,653), which is almost half of the balance sheet. This means the comThe following tables show the discounted cash flows for financial liabilities as pany is sensitive to changes in interest rates. To reduce the sensitivity to interest well as net settled derivatives at the prices on the reporting date. Floating interrate changes, Swedavia works actively to hedge the risk exposure on some of its est rates on borrowings and interest rate swaps in effect on the reporting date borrowings through interest rate swaps. On the balance sheet date, the nominal are assumed to apply for the remaining maturity of the respective instruments. amount of interest rate swaps was SEK 4,403 M (4,325) and the fair value was SEK –199 M (–231). Based on those hedges, a 1 per cent increase/decrease in the interest rate would have a SEK 29 M (24) effect. Under Swedavia’s financial policy, interest rates shall be fixed for a period of 3 years ± 1 year. On the balance sheet date, the fixed rate period was 2.9 years (2.5). Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 89 Notes Group 2013-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 2,312 3,494 753 48 2,038 206 8,852 Liabilities to leasing companies 7 14 – – – – 21 Trade payables 490 – – – – – 490 Other liabilities 118 – – – – – 118 Derivative liabilities 86 85 76 62 48 62 420 Total 3,013 3,593 830 111 2,086 269 9,901 2012-12-31 Financial liabilities (including future interest expenses and derivative instruments) – Maturity structure < 1 year 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years > 5 years Total Interest-bearing liabilities 4,707 967 1,536 604 – – 7,814 Liabilities to leasing companies 8 13 – – – – 21 Liabilities to associated companies 4 – – – – – 4 Trade payables 606 – – – – – 606 Other liabilities 157 – – – – – 157 Derivative liabilities 54 54 51 44 37 51 291 Total 5,536 1,034 1,587 648 37 51 8,893 Credit risks and counterparty risks Credit risk in trade receivables The Group’s commercial and financial transactions give rise to credit risks against The credit risk for commercial transactions arises when there is a risk that its counterparties. Credit risk or counterparty risk refers to the risk of loss if the customers will not meet their payment commitments to the Group. This risk is counterparty does not meet its obligations agreed. The credit risk that Swedavia is managed by the Group assessing customers’ creditworthiness on a frequent exposed to consists of financial credit risk and credit risk in trade receivables. basis. For trade receivables, operations are run in accordance with a provision regulating credit terms and working methods. Terms of payment are in most Financial credit risk cases net 30 days. As of December 31, 2013, there was no significant credit The credit risk for financial transactions arises when the Group invests liquid risk. assets as well as in the form of counterparty risks when the Group enters into The quality of credits appears to be good based on credit assessments carried an agreement on financial instruments with banks. The maximum credit risk out in accordance with the Group’s credit policy. consists of the book value of financial assets including derivatives with a positive market value. The Group’s policy is to work with banks with a good credit rating, and Swedavia has entered ISDA master agreements with its counterparty banks. Group Parent Company Age analysis, receivables past due, not written off 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Trade receivables not due 462 510 441 429 Trade receivables past due 1–30 days 26 42 15 39 Trade receivables past due 31–90 days 6 9 3 9 Trade receivables past due >90 days 9 3 6 3 Total 503 564 465 480 Provisions account 2013 2012 2013 2012 Provisions account, opening balance 10 7 10 7 Provisions for expected losses 1 3 1 3 Provisions account, closing balance 11 10 11 10 90 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Notes Note 35 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Pledged assets 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 SEB bank guarantees – 0 – 0 Utilised credit amounts – 0 – 0 Group Parent Company Contingent liabilities 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 2013-12-31 2012-12-31 Company-owned endowment insurance 6 6 6 6 Swedavia has contingent liabilities (contractual liabilities in the Parent Company) in the form of pension commitments in company-owned endowment insurance plans. Swedavia also has a guarantee to cover losses in the associated company Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB, for which it is not possible to measure the value of the commitment. Swedavia also has contingent liabilities stemming from environmental requirements for running airport operations. Swedavia is a party to ongoing litigation and disputes. The disputes have arisen as part of the business operations carried out by Swedavia. Legal proceedings and disputes are unpredictable by nature, and the actual outcome may deviate from the assessments Swedavia has made. Note 36 Cash flow Group Parent Company SEK M 2013 2012 2013 2012 Adjustments for items not included in the cash flow Less share of profit from holdings in associated companies –8 –19 – – Depreciation/amortisation 940 850 888 856 Provisions, pensions –35 50 –16 64 Change in other provisions –57 –64 –57 8 Change in value of financial instruments –32 75 – – Other 4 –258 –49 –46 Total 812 634 766 882 Interest paid and dividend received Dividend received – 60 14 73 Interest received 4 5 3 5 Interest paid –259 –254 –240 –254 Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 91 SIGNATORIES TO THE ANNUAL REPORT Signatories to the Annual Report The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and The Report of the Directors gives a true and fair picture of the Annual Report have been prepared in conformity with international performance of the Group’s and Parent Company’s operations, financial reporting accounting standards (IFRS) such as have financial position and results and describes significant risks been adopted by the EU in line with generally accepted accounting and uncertainty factors faced by the companies included in the principles and give a true and fair picture of the financial position Group. and results of the Group and the Parent Company. Stockholm-Arlanda March 25, 2014 Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Lars Backemar Board member Board member Board member Anna Elgh Hans Jeppsson Jenny Lahrin Board member Board member Board member Lottie Svedenstedt Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member Board member Board member Employee representative Employee representative Torborg Chetkovich President and CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 25, 2014 Ernst & Young Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised public accountant The income statements and balance sheets of the Group and the Parent Company will be subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting on April 29, 2014. 92 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 AUDIT REPORT Audit Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), Swedish corporate identity number 556797-0818 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in all material respects, a true and fair picture of the Group’s financial position as We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of of December 31, 2013, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the Swedavia AB (publ) for the year 2013. The annual accounts and the consoliyear then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards dated accounts are included in the printed version of this document on pages such as have been adopted by the EU and the Annual Accounts Act. The Report 43–92. of the Directors is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President for the annual We therefore recommend that the Annual General Meeting adopt the Income accounts and consolidated accounts Statement and Balance Sheet for the Parent Company and the Group. The Board of Directors and the President are responsible for the preparation of annual accounts that give a true and fair picture in accordance with the Annual Report on other legal and regulatory requirements Accounts Act, for the preparation of consolidated accounts that give a true and In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we fair picture in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards such have examined the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and as have been adopted by the European Union and the Annual Accounts Act, the administration of the Board of Directors and the President of Swedavia AB and for the internal control the Board of Directors and the President determine (publ) for the year 2013. is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the President The Board of Directors is responsible for proposing appropriations of the Auditor’s responsibility company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and President are Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and responsible for administration under Sweden’s Annual Accounts Act. consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted Auditor’s responsibility auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and on the administraassurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are tion based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally free from material misstatement. accepted auditing standards in Sweden. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. of the company’s profit or loss, we examined whether their proposal is in The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the accordance with the Swedish Companies Act. assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we examined assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s significant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the President is accounts to give a true and fair picture in order to design audit procedures that liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an Directors or the President has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also Swedish Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. President, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. Opinions We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and We recommend to the Annual General Meeting that the profit be appropriated in appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. accordance with the proposal in the Report of the Directors and that the members of the Board of Directors and the President are discharged from liability for the Opinions financial year. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, a true and Stockholm March 25, 2014 fair picture of the financial position of the Parent Company as of December 31, Ernst & Young AB 2013, and of its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have also Magnus Fagerstedt been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, Authorised public accountant Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 93 STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE Auditor’s Review Report on Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report To the readers of Swedavia AB’s Sustainability Report with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures Introduction performed in a review consequently do not enable us to obtain We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of Swedavia assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters AB to review Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for the year 2013. that might be identified in an audit. The conclusion expressed Swedavia AB has defined the scope of the Sustainability Report based on an examination thus does not have the assurance of a as those areas referred to in the GRI index on pages 106–107. conclusion based on an audit. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the The Board of Director’s and executive management’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global responsibility for the Sustainability Report Reporting Initiative (GRI), that are applicable to the Sustainability The Board of Directors and the executive management are Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that responsible for ongoing activities regarding the environment, the Company has developed and disclosed. These are presented health and safety, quality, social responsibility and sustainable on page 106. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation development, and for the preparation and presentation of the of the Sustainability Report. Sustainability Report in accordance with the applicable criteria, We believe that the evidence we obtained during our review which are presented on page 106 in the Sustainability Report, is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion and consists of those parts of the Sustainability Reporting G3 below. Guidelines (issued by the GRI) that are applicable to the Sustainability Report, and by the accounting and valuation principles Conclusion produced by Swedavia AB. Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information in the Sustainability The auditor’s responsibility Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordOur responsibility is to express a conclusion on the Sustainability ance with the above-stated criteria. Report based on our review. We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review Stockholm March 25, 2014 consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for Ernst & Young AB the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review procedures. A review has another aim and is Magnus Fagerstedt Charlotte Söderlund substantially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance Authorised public accountant Authorised public accountant 94 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report Swedavia AB (publ) applicable Swedish laws, the State’s ownership policy and the Swedavia AB is a Swedish limited liability company Swedish Code of Corporate Governance (the Code). The Government conveys its position on important matters of principles with its registered office in the Municipality of Sigtuna. concerning corporate governance of all State-owned companies in Swedavia’s operations are described in the company’s its ownership policy. Among other things, the decision has been Articles of Association as financing, owning, managing, made that all companies in which the State owns a majority shall operating and developing airports with their appurtenant apply the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. The overall buildings and facilities. Swedavia shall also take an objective of the Code is to contribute to the improved governance active part in the development of the Swedish transport of Swedish limited liability companies. The Code is applied based on the “comply or explain” principle, which means that deviations sector and help achieve the transport policy goals set from the Code are allowed but must be explained. by Parliament based on sound business principle. The Board of Directors is responsible under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code for Swedavia’s internal control. All shares in Swedavia AB are owned by the Swedish State. The Board has decided that Swedavia shall apply a framework for The Ministry of Finance represents the Swedish State’s shares documentation and analysis of internal control issued by the at Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting and thereby nominates Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Board members in Swedavia. Commission (COSO). Swedavia’s structure for corporate governance is illustrated in Corporate governance the picture below. Swedavia’s corporate governance is regulated by external legal frameworks such as the Swedish Companies Act and other Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 95 Corporate Governance Report Deviations from the Code Swedavia is wholly owned by the Swedish State, and the The State’s ownership policy also deviates in reporting the principles that the Swedish State applies in its ownership policy independence of Board members relative to major shareholders. are generally in agreement with the rules in the Code. However, The State’s ownership policy specifies that the relevant provisions under the State’s ownership policy, Code regulations regarding in the Code are primarily aimed at protecting minority shareholders the selection of Board members and auditors are replaced by a in companies with dispersed ownership so there is no reason to special nomination process that applies to companies wholly report such independence. owned by the State. The primary reason for deviations from the Code is that Swedavia has only one owner whereas the Code is aimed at listed companies with dispersed ownership. Code requirement Deviation Explanation/comment Code rules 1.3-1.4, 2.1-2.7, 8.1 and 10.2 No Nomination Committee has been set up. The Nomination Committee has been replaced by The company has a Nomination Committee that the owner’s nomination process. represents the company’s shareholders. Code rules 4.5 and 4.6 Dependency relationship with major shareholders is The State’s ownership policy states that the relevant The Corporate Governance Report shall include not reported. provision in the Code is mainly aimed at protecting information about whether Board members are minority owners in companies with dispersed ownerindependent of major shareholders. ship. In State-owned companies, there is no reason to report such independence. Annual General Meeting Swedavia’s Annual General Meeting 2013 will be held on April 26 The nomination process for Board members is managed at Stockholm Arlanda Airport. The Annual General Meeting (AGM) and coordinated by the State ownership unit at the Ministry of is the company’s highest governing body, where shareholders Finance. A working group analyses the need for talent based exercise their influence. The matters considered at the AGM are on the composition of the Board and the company’s operations regulated by the Swedish Companies Act. and situation. After this, it is determined whether there are any According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Annual General recruitment needs and recruitment work is initiated. Members Meeting shall be held annually no later than April 30. Members of are selected from a broad recruitment base. Once the process Parliament are entitled to take part in the meeting and ask questions has ended, the nominations are announced in accordance with in conjunction with this. The general public shall also be given the the provisions of the Code. opportunity to take part in the meeting. The AGM shall, among other activities, appoint the Board and auditors, decide on remuBoard of Directors neration to them and adopt the income statement and balance According to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors sheet. The Board shall also present principles for the remuneration shall consist of at least six and no more than nine members, to executive officers at the AGM. excluding deputy members. Under Swedish law, employee The decisions of the AGM are made through a simple majority organisations are also entitled to appoint regular members and vote. However, for any change in the Articles of Association, a their deputies. Swedavia’s Chief Legal Counsel is the Board qualified majority is needed. secretary. The President and CEO is not included on the Board but makes presentations at the Board meetings. None of the Board The nomination process for the Board of Directors members is on the executive management team. For information For companies that are wholly owned by the Swedish State, a about the appointment and removal of Board members, reference nomination process that complies with the Swedish State’s is made to the Swedish State’s ownership policy. Information ownership policy is applied, replacing the Code’s rules for concerning the appointment and removal of Board members is appointing Board members and auditors. not available in the Articles of Association. 96 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Corporate Governance Report The work and responsibilities of the Board the company and number of years as a member of Swedavia’s According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Swedish Board. The AGM elected nine Board members, of which four are State’s ownership policy, Swedavia’s Board is responsible for men and five are women. The employee representatives in 2013 the company’s organisation and management of the company’s were two men. The average was 53. operations. The Board establishes the Rules of Procedure each year for the Board’s work, instructions for the division of labour Chairman of the Board and responsibilities between the Board and the President and The Chairman of the Board is elected at the AGM. Under the Rules CEO, and instructions for economic reporting to the Board. The of Procedure for Swedavia’s Board of Directors, the Chairman shall Board’s Rules of Procedure also regulate the Chairman’s duties ensure that the Board’s work is managed effectively and that the and information to the Board. Board fulfils its duties. The Chairman’s duties include organising Under the Board’s Rules of Procedure, at least eight statutory and managing the Board’s work, keeping in regular contact with Board meetings apart from the statutory Board meeting shall be the President and CEO and ensuring that the Board is given held per calendar year. Additional meetings may be held when sufficient information and material to make decisions in its work. justified by events of major importance. The Board is responsible The Chairman is also responsible for coordinating the Board’s for financial reporting and has regular meetings through the Audit views in relation to the owner on issues of critical importance to Committee with the company’s auditors. In addition, the auditors the company, and for receiving the owner’s views and conveying meet the full Board at least once a year without the presence of them to the Board. the President and CEO or any other person from the executive management. The Board’s work in 2013 The Board assesses the President and CEO’s work on a In 2013, the Board held 13 meetings, one of which was statutory. continuous basis and gives particular consideration to this matter at least once a year, when no one from the executive management The main issues in 2013 were: team may be present. • Strategic development • Stockholm Arlanda Airport’s environmental permit Composition of the Board • Sustainability objectives and targets In 2013, Swedavia’s Board consisted of nine members elected at • Access and new routes the AGM, including the Chairman. In addition, the Board had two • Development plan for Stockholm Arlanda Airport regular employee representatives and their two deputies. An • Development plan for Bromma Stockholm Airport account is given on pages 102–103 of each Board member’s age, • Development plan for Real Estate operations education, main work experience, other important duties outside Facts about the Board Attendance, Year Attendance, Attendance, Members elected at the AGM Main Board Board meetings elected Audit Committee Remuneration Ingemar Skogö Chair 13/13 2010 8/8 Karin Apelman Member 12/13 2010 5/5 Lars Backemar Member 13/13 2010 Anders Ehrling1) Member 8/11 2010 Anna Elgh Member 11/13 2010 4/5 Adine Grate Axén Member 10/13 2010 Hans Jeppsson Member 13/13 2010 Jenny Lahrin Member 13/13 2012 5/5 8/8 Lottie Svedenstedt Member 13/13 2010 8/8 Employee representatives Lars Andersson Member 13/13 2010 Robert Olsson Member 13/13 2010 Mats Abrahamsson Deputy member 0/13 2010 Agne Lindbom Deputy member 0/13 2010 1) Anders Ehrling resigned from his duties as Board member of Swedavia in October 2013 after he was appointed the new CEO of Braathens Aviation. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 97 Corporate Governance Report The Board’s committee work management of the company in conformity with the Board’s Swedavia’s Board of Directors has two established committees guidelines and instructions. Within the bounds determined by the – an Audit Committee and a Remuneration Committee. The Board, the President and CEO manages operations and keeps committees prepare matters for the Board meetings. Guidelines the Chairman of the Board continuously informed about significant for the committees’ work are found in the Rules of Procedures for business matters. The President and CEO shall organise the each committee. company’s management to meet the aims set for governance and The Audit Committee’s tasks include being responsible for control of operations. Other executive officers are appointed by preparing the Board’s work to quality assure and prepare the the President and CEO. The executive management team is a company’s financial reports and maintain an ongoing dialogue forum for information, discussions and decisions for Group matters. with the company’s auditors. Minutes for each committee meeting The team’s meetings are chaired by the President and CEO and are attached to the minutes for the following Board meeting. In are held every two weeks. Swedavia’s executive management, 2013, the Audit Committee held five meetings for which minutes including the President and CEO, is presented in more detail on were kept, which were all attended by the company’s auditors. pages 104–105. The members of the Audit Committee since the AGM include the Board members Karin Apelman as Chair, and Anna Elgh and Remuneration to executive officers Jenny Lahrin as members. At Swedavia’s AGM on April 26, 2013, the owner decided on the The Remuneration Committee’s task is to prepare matters principles for remuneration and other terms of employment for concerning remuneration and other terms of employment for executive officers. For remuneration and other terms of employexecutive officers. Minutes for each committee meeting are ment, Swedavia shall apply the principles decided in the “Guideattached to the minutes for the following Board meeting. In 2013, lines for Terms of Employment for Executive Officers in Companies the Remuneration Committee held eight meetings for which under State Ownership” adopted by the Government. Similar minutes were kept. The members of the Remuneration Committee principles are applied in Swedavia’s subsidiaries. Swedavia does since the AGM include Ingemar Skogö as Chair, Jenny Lahrin and not use variable remuneration for executive officers. Lottie Svedenstedt as members, and Robert Olsson as employee representative. Subsidiaries and associated companies Swedavia had two subsidiaries at year-end 2013 – Swedavia Real Evaluation of the work of the Board of Directors, 2013 Estate AB and Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB (60 During the year, the Board’s work was evaluated through a per cent ownership). Swedavia also has two associated companies methodical, structured process which among other things is aimed – Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB and Svensk Destinationsutveckling at developing a good basis for the Board’s own development work. AB. There is an officer from Swedavia’s executive management represented on the Board of every subsidiary and associated Remuneration to the Board company in the Group. Compensation to the Board is decided by the AGM. The Swedavia’s owner directive is applied for all subsidiaries in Chairman of the Board is paid a fee of SEK 440,000, and order to have uniform management principles in the Group. each member is paid SEK 220,000. It was also decided at Swedavia’s AGM that no specific remuneration should be Auditors paid to the Board’s employee representatives or members External auditing employed in the Swedish Government Offices. It was decided Under the Swedish State’s ownership policy, responsibility for at Swedavia’s AGM that remuneration should be paid to electing auditors in companies owned by the State always lies with committee chairs and members. The Chair of the Audit the owner. The final decision on the choice of auditors is made by Committee is paid a fee of SEK 35,000 and the committee the owner at the AGM. The auditor’s duties are to examine the members are each paid SEK 20,000. A fee of SEK 25,000 financial reporting of the company and the Group as well as the was decided for the Chair of the Remuneration Committee administration of the company by the Board and the President and and SEK 20,000 each for the members. CEO. At Swedavia’s AGM on April 26, 2013, the auditing firm Ernst & Young was elected as auditors. Auditing duties are to be The President and CEO and the executive management performed until the end of the AGM being held in 2014. Authorised The Board of Directors appoints the company’s President and CEO. public accountant Magnus Fagerstedt was elected as the principal The President and CEO is responsible for the day-to-day auditor. Magnus Fagerstedt has no duties at the company that 98 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Corporate Governance Report affect his independence as an auditor for Swedavia. Remuneration The Board has decided that Swedavia shall follow the estabhas been paid to the auditors and auditing firm for auditing and lished COSO (Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the other statutory examination as well as for advice and other Treadway Commission) framework for internal control. The COSO assistance resulting from observations in the examination. framework consists of five interdependent components: control environment; risk assessment; control activities; information and Internal auditing communication; and monitoring and assessment. The Board has a special internal auditing function at Swedavia to support the Board in carrying out its oversight and assessment of Control environment the company’s operations which reports to the Board. The Board The basis of Swedavia’s internal control consists of the control has adopted instructions for internal auditing, which in 2013 environment, which consists mainly of the organisational structure consisted of three auditors. and governing documents. The control environment is aimed at providing operations with the conditions for carrying out their tasks The Board’s reporting on internal control over financial reporting in a clear way in accordance with the Board’s objectives, targets Under the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, the Board is and intentions as well as influence control and risk awareness in responsible for internal control of financial reporting. Under the the organisation. This is done by delegating responsibility and Code and the Annual Accounts Act, the Board must submit a authority to the managers and employees of the company. The description each year of the most important features of the control environment consists essentially of external documents company’s system for internal control and risk management over such as laws, agreements, generally accepted accounting princifinancial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is aimed ples, the Swedish State’s ownership policy and guidelines as well at providing reasonable assurance as to the reliability in the as other internal governing documents. The control environment external reporting in the form of financial statements, quarterly also consists of the Board’s Rules of Procedure and instructions reports and annual reports and that the external financial reporting to the President and CEO. In addition, the Board has adopted is prepared in compliance with laws, appropriate accounting two policies that have an effect on financial reporting, a financial principles, specific requirements from the owner and other policy and a credit policy. The company’s President and CEO has requirements for limited liability companies. delegated responsibility and authority to members of the executive This Corporate Governance Report has been prepared management team in specific rules of procedure concerning their in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code of mandate to enter agreements, make decisions on investments Corporate Governance and is restricted to internal control over and authorise invoices. The executive management has also financial reporting. adopted additional governing documents in the form of policies and guidelines aimed at the company’s employees. All governing documents are available on the company’s intranet, which all employees have access to. Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 99 Corporate Governance Report Risk management in the Audit Committee before they are adopted by the comThe Board has ultimate responsibility for the company’s risk pany’s Board of Directors and then published. In addition to the management and has assigned the President and CEO the task of Annual Report, at least one of the interim reports is examined by managing this operationally. Swedavia’s risk management is aimed the company’s auditors, who report on their review work to the at identifying potential events that can affect the organisation’s Audit Committee and the Board of Directors. Swedavia’s internal ability to achieve the objectives and targets set. The method used audit function also conducts reviews in different areas in order to by the company for risk management is based on a model with ensure quality in financial processes and in the financial reporting. three lines of defence. The first line of defence consists of the The Audit Committee also has the possibility to conduct in-depth company’s operations, in the form of airports and Group-level dialogue and follow-up on accounting matters with the company’s functions that have responsibility for identifying, assessing and CFO and auditors taking part in the committee’s meetings. reporting risks on a continuous basis. The second line of defence consists of the company’s Risk Manager, whose task is to facilitate and develop support for the risk management processes and Information and communication methods used in operations as well as consolidate and report on Swedavia is a State-owned company and under the Swedish the company’s risks. The third line of defence consists of the State’s guidelines shall follow the same regulations for accountcompany’s internal auditing, which examines Swedavia’s risk ing and reported as publicly listed companies. Swedavia has also management work on a continuous basis and reports on this to issued financial instruments listed on the Nasdaq OMX exchange, the Board. Risks are monitored on a continuous basis by the which means the company is obliged to apply Nasdaq OMX’s airports and corporate functions and are reported to the Risk regulations for issuers as well as other regulations that arise reManager, who together with the Risk Committee consolidates garding this. Swedavia has therefore developed a Communication, them on a quarterly basis. Swedavia’s greatest risks are then Information and Insider Policy that regulates the spread of informacompiled in a risk report which is approved by the President and tion internally and the dissemination of information to the market. CEO and then prepared by the Audit Committee before it is Swedavia’s public financial reports consist of four interim reports adopted by the Board. Financial risks are always reported as part and an Annual Report and Sustainability Report. External financial of the risk report. A more detailed description of Swedavia’s risk reporting shall be characterised by openness and transparency management process can be found in the Annual Report 2013 on and is aimed at giving the company’s different stakeholders a pages 46–47. relevant picture of operations. Control activities and monitoring Monitoring and assessment Swedavia’s control activities for financial reporting consist of three The executive management team meets every two weeks and parts, monitoring and analysis of economic results, the risk report reviews operations and related risks. The Board also evaluates and monitoring of key controls in the process. the development, economic results, financial position and cash The CFO monitors and analyses economic results on a monthly flow of operations on a monthly basis. At the Group level, there basis and reports this to the President and CEO. The CFO also are corporate functions, including a control and accounting unit, monitors and analyses processes for bookkeeping, financial that analyse and monitor results compared to the budget and statements and financial reports on a quarterly basis through a forecasts which are reported to the company’s President and CEO special monitoring programme in which key controls are selfand to the CFO. All people with responsibility for business units assessed and reported. regularly report results and annual forecasts to the company’s Swedavia’s Board of Directors receives reports of economic President and CEO and to the CFO. The Board evaluates the results with analysis and comments from the company’s President information provided by the President and CEO on a continuous and CEO on a monthly basis. Swedavia’s public reports are basis. There is also an internal auditing function that serves as an compiled by the CFO and the President and CEO for preparation independent examination function. 100 | Swedavia Annual Report 2013 Corporate Governance Report Stockholm-Arlanda March 25, 2014 Ingemar Skogö Karin Apelman Adine Grate Axén Chairman of the Board Board member Board member Lars Backemar Anna Elgh Hans Jeppsson Board member Board member Board member Jenny Lahrin Lottie Svedenstedt Board member Board member Lars Andersson Robert Olsson Board member, Board member, Employee representative Employee representative Auditor’s report on the Corporate Governance Report To the Annual General Meeting of Swedavia AB (publ), corporate identity number 556797-0818 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Corporate This means that our statutory examination of the Corporate Governance Report for 2013 and for ensuring that it has been Governance Report is different and substantially less in scope than prepared in accordance with the Swedish State’s Ownership an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on Policy and Guidelines for State Ownership and thus in accordance Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. with the relevant parts of the Swedish Code of Corporate GovernIn our opinion, the Corporate Governance Report has been ance and the Annual Accounts Act. prepared and its statutory content, in accordance with the We have read the Corporate Governance Report and, based Swedish State’s Ownership Policy, is consistent with the annual on that reading and our knowledge of the company and the accounts and consolidated accounts. Group, we believe that we have a sufficient basis for our opinions. Stockholm March 25, 2014 Ernst & Young AB Magnus Fagerstedt Authorised public accountant Swedavia Annual Report 2013 | 101 Board of Directors Board of Directors Ingemar Skogö Chairman of the Board (elected 2010); Chair, Remuneration Committee Born: 1949 Other Board duties: Fordonsstrategisk Forskning och Innovation (Chair) and Sensys Traffic AB. Education: BS in Economics, Lund University. Work experience: Governor, Västmanland County Board. Formerly Director-General, Vägverket; Director-General, Luftfartsverket; Undersecretary of State, Ministry of Communications; Mayor, Municipality of Södertälje; department advisor, energy, Ministry of Industry; administrator, Budget Department, Ministry of Finance; Swedish National Audit Office. Karin Apelman Member (elected 2010); Chair, Audit Committee Born: 1961 Other Board duties: EKN (Swedish export promotion agency), Swedish Credit Insurance Association (KFF), financing delegation for Swedish Radiation Safety Authority; advisory council for Swedish Legal, Financial and Administrative Services Agency (Kammarkollegiet). Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Director-General, EKN. Formerly CFO, Luftfartsverket; Deputy CEO, Saab Aircraft Leasing; Manager Leasing and Project Financing, Scandinavian Airlines. Adine Grate Axén Member (elected 2010) Born: 1961 Other Board duties: BSkyB Ltd, Sampo OY, 3 (HI3G Scandinavia), Swedish Orphan Biovitrum AB, Sjunde AP-fonden (Deputy Chair), Madrague AB etc. Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics; Executive MBA (AMP), Harvard University. Work experience: Chair, NASDAQ OMX Listing Committee. Formerly Executive Vice President and Managing Director, Investor AB; Vice President Corporate Finance, Gota Group and Hägglöf & Ponsbach. Formerly member of Swedish Securities Council, Carnegie Investment Bank AB, Gambro AB, Grand Hotel Holdings, Ericsson Project Finance AB, EDB ErgoGroup A/S, Spray Ventures BV, Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee and Government Council for Reduced State Ownership. Lars Backemar Member (elected 2010) Born: 1950 Other Board duties: Backemar Consulting AB (Chair), City i Samverkan AB (Chair), Villa Azur AB (Chair), Retailmentorerna (Chair), Arosgruppen Fastigheter Fjärdingen AB, Arosgruppen Holding AB and Fastighets AB Velocipeden. Education: Business administration and marketing, Köpmannainstitutet, Stockholm; marketing and consumer policy, Uppsala University. Work experience: Senior Advisor, Backemar Consulting AB. Formerly various executive positions at Hufvudstaden and Jones Lang LaSalle. Anna Elgh Member (elected 2010); member, Audit Committee Born: 1963 Other Board duties: None. Education: Master’s of Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm; Executive MBA, Instituto de Empresa Madrid. Work experience: CEO Svenska Retursystem AB. Formerly Business Area Manager, Elder Care Private Management Vardaga, Vice President Supply Chain and Group Logistics Director, Lantmännen; Supply Chain Director, SAS Component; various executive positions at Svenska Statoil AB. 102 | Swedavia 2013 Board of Directors Hans Jeppsson Member (elected 2010) Born: 1956 Other Board duties: Jeppson Business & Government Consulting AB and Stockholm Business Region AB (deputy member). Education: BS in Economics, Lund University; MA in Economics, UCLA. Work experience: Senior Advisor, Vinnova; consultant, Jeppson Business & Government Consulting AB. Formerly special investigator, Innovation Procurement, Government Official Report, Ministry of Health and Social Affairs and Innovation Procurement, Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications (international trade), Undersecretary of State, Ministry for Foreign Affairs; Director, Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. Jenny Lahrin Member (elected 2012); member, Remuneration Committee; member, Audit Committee Born: 1971 Other Board duties: Vattenfall Aktiebolag and AB Göta kanalbolag. Education: Bachelor of Laws, Uppsala University; Master of Laws in European Business Law, Amsterdam School of International Relations; Executive MBA, IFL, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: Deputy Director, Division for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of Finance. Formerly commercial lawyer, Division for State-Owned Enterprises, Ministry of Finance; Chief Legal Counsel, Veolia Transport Northern Europe AB; and a lawyer. Lottie Svedenstedt Member (elected 2010); member, Remuneration Committee Born: 1957 Other Board duties: MiL Institute (Chair), Clas Ohlson AB, Stampen AB, Global Health Partner AB, Byggmax AB, ITA B Shop Concept AB, Liberala Tidningar i Mellansverige AB, Mediabolaget Promedia i Mellansverige AB, Vanna AB, Thule Group AB and Decidokompetensor AB. Education: Law degree, Uppsala University. Work experience: Formerly CEO, Kid Interiör A/S; Business Area Manager, IKEA of Sweden; Deputy General Manager, IKEA Systems BV; CEO, Inter IKEA Systems A/S; Regional Director, H&M AB. Lars Andersson Employee representative (elected 2010)) Born: 1953 Other Board duties: Chair, SEKO Group trade union, Swedavia. Education: First repairman. Robert Olsson Employee representative (elected 2010) Born: 1966 Other Board duties: Section Chair ST. Education: High school, trade union training etc. Safety officer/security guard, Swedavia. Deputy members (not shown): Auditor (not shown): Agne Lindbom Magnus Fagerstedt Principal auditor Ernst & Young AB Born: 1961 Born: 1957 Mats Abrahamsson Born: 1958 Swedavia 2013 | 103 Executive management Executive management Torborg chetkovich President and CEO since August 2010 Born: 1967 Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala University; MBA, IMD Lausanne, Switzerland. Work experience: Formerly CEO, MTR Norden; Deputy CEO, Veolia Transport Sweden AB; Division Director, Veolia Transport Sweden AB; Marketing Director, ConnexTunnelbanan AB; various executive positions, SJ. Board duties: Chair, Swedavia Real Estate AB; Board member, Almega and ACI Europe; deputy member, Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB. Karl Wistrand Deputy CEO of Swedavia since July 2012 and CEO of Swedavia Real Estate AB since January 2013 Born: 1957 Education: Degree in corporate and business management law, School of Business, Economics and Law, University of Gothenburg. Work experience: Formerly CEO, Coop Sverige AB; Deputy CEO and CFO, ICA AB; various positions at ICA. Board duties: Board member, Cityflygplatsen i Göteborg AB; Swedavia Real Estate AB and Airport City i Stockholm AB. . Per Arenhage Chief Technical Officer since July 2011 Born: 1956 Education: MS in Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Technology, Stockholm. Work experience: Chief Operating Officer and Chief Technical Officer, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; CEO, Uppsala Stadsnät Song; Head of Business Area, City Systems Vattenfall Connection; Chief Technical Officer, Uppsala Energi. Board duties: None. Athanassios Boukas Chief Procurement Officer since November 2012 Born: 1968 Education: Technical college engineer, Åsö gymnasium Stockholm. Work experience: CEO, NCC Purchasing Group AB, CPO, NCC AB and Emerson Energy Systems AB. Board duties: None. Anna Bovaller Chief Legal Counsel since April 2010 Born: 1963 Education: Law degree, Lund University; IHM Master in Leadership. Work experience: Chief Legal Counsel, LFV; Assistant Chief Legal Counsel, Posten AB; commercial lawyer, Posten AB; lawyer, Dahlman Magnusson Advokatbyrå; law clerk, Nacka District Court; legal assistant, Michelsons Advokatbyrå. Board duties: None. MiCHael Persson Gripkow Chief Commercial and Marketing Officer since August 2011 Born: 1961 Education: BS in Economics, Uppsala University; Advanced Management Program, Stockholm School of Economics; Executive Program, EMI, Stockholm; Brand Strategy RMI-Berghs School of Commerce, Stockholm. Work experience: Director of Marketing, VisitSweden AB; Director of Global Marketing Communications, Volvo Cars Corp; Senior Director Marketing, The Absolut Company; Brand Manager SAS and Product Manager, SAS Flight Shop, Scandinavian Airlines; Service Manager, Vingresor AB. Board duties: Chairman, Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB and Svensk Destinationsutveckling AB. Peder Grunditz Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport since December 2013 Born: 1963 Education: Executive MBA, M-gruppen. Work experience: LFV since 2002, including Airport Director, Visby Airport; interim Head of Division, Director of Passenger Services, Malmö Aviation; Director of Ground Operations, Braathens Sverige; Head of Traffic, Transwede Airways. Board duties: None. 104 | Swedavia 2013 Executive management Lars Johansson Chief Financial Officer since March 2013 Born: 1959 Education: BS in Economics, Stockholm School of Economics. Work experience: CFO/COO, TV4 AB; acting CEO, deputy CEO/COO and CFO, Orc Software AB; partner and joint owner, TIME Ventures AB; CFO, AssiDomän Packaging AB; CFO, AssiDomän AB and SpectraPhysics AB; deputy CEO, BCB Broker Ltd; Deputy Group Treasurer, AGA AB. Board duties: Board member, Proffice AB and Bonnier Solutions AB. Anders Lennerman Director of Security and Safety since October 2010 Born: 1953 Education: Swedish National Police Academy; Criminology, Stockholm University. Work experience: Head of Security, Stockholm Arlanda Airport; Management consultant, Mercuri Urval International, various positions with the Swedish Security Service, particularly in counterespionage; various positions with the Swedish Police in Stockholm County. Board duties: Chair, ACI Europe Aviation Security Committee; Board member, mp3Consulting AB. Charlotte Ljunggren Airport Director, Göteborg Landvetter Airport since August 2012 Born: 1967 Education: Controls & Law, IHM Business School, Gothenburg. Work experience: Route Director and Onboard Manager, Stena Line Scandinavia AB; Route Director, SeaCat AB; Finance & HR Manager, Sea Containers LTD, various positions at B&B Fondkommission AB. Board duties: Board member, Swedish Exhibition and Congress Centre and Thomas Concrete Group AB; co-opted member, Göteborg & Co träffpunkt AB. Susanne Norman lAirport Director, Regional Airports since December 2013 and Airport Director, Åre Östersund Airport since November 2008 Born: 1966 Education: BS in Information Systems, Mid Sweden University, Östersund. Work experience: CEO, Recall AS Oslo; Head of Production/Site Manager, Recall AB Sverige; Head of Sales, Central Region, Cap Gemini AB; operations developer, Jämtkraft AB. Board duties: Chair, Destination Östersund AB; Board member, Peak Business & Sports AB, Mid Sweden Science Park AB and Visit Östersund. Linda Sjödin Chief Communication Officer since January 2012 Born: 1976 Education: Communication Executives Program, Stockholm School of Economics; Masters of Media in IT, Stockholm; BS in Media and Communication, University of Gävle; political science and sociology, Örebro University. Work experience: Head of Communication Services at Vattenfall; various positions in the SAS Group, including Head of Information, SAS Sverige AB; journalist on the news and sports desks, TV4. Board duties: Board member, Svenskt flyg Intresseaktiebolag. Kjell-Åke Westin Airport Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport since September 2011 Born: 1957 Education: Aviation College of Sweden, FTS Swedish Air Force, War College F20. Work experience: Swedish Air Force; SAS Flight Academy; CEO, Skyways Express AB; CEO, Direktflyg AB, President, Aviation College of Sweden; CEO, Örebro Airport AB; Airport Director, Bromma Stockholm Airport. Board duties: Board member, Arlanda Schiphol Development Company AB and Destination Sigtuna AB; deputy member, Airport City Stockholm AB. Marie Wiksborg Chief Human Resources Officer, Swedavia since October 2013 and HR Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport since August 2013 Born: 1965 Education: BS in Economics, School of Business, Economics and Law, Gothenburg University. Work experience: HR Director, Stockholm Arlanda Airport, Director of HR and Employees, KF Group, including Coop; Business Support Director, KF Fastigheter AB; HR Director, Sheraton Stockholm Hotel & Towers; Training Director, Sheraton Stockholm Hotel & Towers. Board duties: None. Swedavia 2013 | 105 GRI index Cross-reference table Swedavia’s Sustainability Report for 2013 is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 guidelines for sustainability reporting. The indicators that Swedavia has chosen to report for 2013 and where the information can be found are shown in the cross-reference table below, Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2013 and a separate Statement of Results. The Sustainability Report applies GRI’s C+ level and has been subject to a general review by Ernst & Young AB. Reported Reported in part AR: This Annual Report and Sustainability Report SR: The Statement of Results 2013 Scope of G3 information Description Page report Comment 1. Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker about the relevance of AR 6–7 sustainability to the organisation and its strategy. 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation. AR 44 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services. AR 17–19 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating AR 61, 67, companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 79–80 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters. AR 61 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and the names of countries AR 3 with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. AR 3, 61 2.7 Markets served. AR 14–16 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation. AR 3–4 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or AR 44, 61, ownership. 79–80 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. AR 33 106 | Swedavia 2013 GRI Index Scope of G3 information Description Page report Comment 3. Information about the report 3.1 Reporting period for the information provided. SR 2 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. SR 2 3.3 Reporting cycle. SR 2 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its content. AR 2, SR 19 3.5 Processes for defining report content. AR 25 3.6 Boundary of the report. SR 7–9 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. AR 2, SR 7–9 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced AR 62–63, 65 operations and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period SR 7–9 to period and/or between organisations. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier SR 7–9 Explanation given for reports and the reasons for such re-statements. indicators where a change has occurred. 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or SR 7–9 measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. AR 106–108 4. Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the AR 95–100 highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive AR 96–97 officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and AR 96 gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations AR 25, 96 The Swedish State owns all or direction to the highest governance body. shares in the company. Employees are represented by employee representatives in the company’s Board of Directors. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. AR 25 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. AR 25 Swedavia 2013 | 107 GRI index Scope of Indicator Description Page report Comment 5. Performance indicators Economic impact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating AR 41, costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, SR 10 retained profit and payments to capital providers and governments. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided AR 40–41, primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. SR 10 Environmental impact EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. SR 11 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source. SR 11, 13 Quantity of primary fuel and primary energy used to produce converted energy that Swedavia purchases is not reported. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. AR 34, SR 12 Not reported for Real Estate AB. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. SR 12–13 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. SR 12–13 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. AR 33–34, SR 12 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. AR 35, SR 14 Not all recipients or parameters reported. EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and SR 15 Emissions from all transport or materials used for the organisation’s operations and transporting members of the emissions from employee workforce, including employee business travel. business travel not reported. AO7 Number and percentage change of people residing in areas affected by noise. AR 35–36, SR 15 Social impact Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region. AR 31, SR 16 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and the number AR 28, SR 17 of work-related fatalities by region. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee AR 31, 69–70, Minority groups not reported. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership. SR 16 Human rights HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. SR 17 Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are AR 27, Health aspects and life cycle assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services SR 18 perspective not reported. categories subject to such procedures. CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling schemes for SR 18 Only certification of new new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. buildings reported. PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring AR 20, 25, customer satisfaction. SR 18 108 | Swedavia 2013 UN Global Compact cross-reference table UN Global Compact cross-reference table Starting in 2012, Swedavia supports the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2013 also constitutes Swedavia’s Communication on Progress (COP), which is an annual update on how the Group complies with the ten principles. The table shows where each Global Compact principle can be found in Swedavia’s Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2013. UN Global Compact: Ten principles Page and comments Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in the spheres they can influence 31 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 31 Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 31 4. Businesses should work to eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour 31 5. Businesses should work to abolish child labour Swedavia complies with the regulations in effect in laws and agreements for the protection of underage workers in the labour market. Children under the age of 15 are not employed at Swedavia. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 31 Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 33–36 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 33–36 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 33–36 Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 31 Swedavia 2013 | 109 Definitions Definitions ANL Operating margin Aircraft noise level, a weighted equivalent noise level in which day-time and Operating profit as a percentage of net revenue. night-time noise events are assigned a heavier weight in the calculation. Passenger ASQ A passenger is defined as a statistical event, in which a person has departed from Airport Survey Quality, a passenger survey administered by ACI in which some or arrived at an airport by air. A traveller is defined as an individual who departs 150 airports around the world take part. from or arrives at an airport. Example: An individual flies from Luleå via Stockholm to Malmö. This journey is carried out by one (1) traveller, but is equivalent to four Aviation Business (4) passengers: one departing passenger at Luleå Airport, one arriving passenger Services and infrastructure aimed at airlines and ground handling companies, at Stockholm Arlanda Airport, one departing passenger at Stockholm Arlanda such as take-off and landing services and security screening. Airport and one arriving passenger at Malmö Airport. Cabin factor Profit for the period Cabin factor is a measure of the aircraft’s utilisation rate and is calculated by Profit after tax. dividing the number of passengers by the number of aircraft seats available. Regional airports Capital employed Swedavia’s regional airports consist of Kiruna Airport, Luleå Airport, Malmö Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities (including deferred tax liability). Airport, Ronneby Airport, Umeå Airport, Visby Airport and Åre Östersund Airport. Commercial Services Return on capital employed Services connected to the airports such as rental of premises for commercial Operating profit for the period plus financial income as a percentage of average activities, offices, hotels, storage and logistics as well as leaseholds, parking capital employed for rolling 12 months. operations and rental of advertising space. Return on equity Comparative data Profit for the period as a percentage of average equity for rolling 12 months. In contexts where Swedavia is mentioned before the Group was formed on April 1, 2010, refers to airport operations under LFV. This has been done to obtain SCI comparative data. Satisfied Customer Index. Earnings per share Swedavia Real Estate Profit after tax divided by the average number of shares. Owns, develops and manages properties and developable land at and in the vicinity of Swedavia’s airports. Equity/assets ratio Adjusted equity as a percentage of total assets on the balance sheet date. Traveller See definition of “Passenger”. ESI Employer Satisfaction Index. TSFS The Swedish Transport Agency’s regulations. GRI The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) sets guidelines for what a sustainability report UN Global Compact should include and how it should be prepared as well as what indicators should The UN Global Compact consists of ten principles based on the UN’s Universal be reported. Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s conventions on human rights in working life, the Rio Declaration and the UN’s Convention IFRS against Corruption. Under the UN Global Compact, businesses are encouraged Beginning January 1, 2012, Swedavia prepares its consolidated financial reports to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core in conformity with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB). anti-corruption. ISO 14001 ISO 14000 is an umbrella term for the internationally accepted standards for environmental management. National basic infrastructure Sweden’s national basic infrastructure consists of the ten airports the Government has determined Swedavia should own. The decision is aimed at securing long-term operations under the auspices of the State and a long-term sustainable air transport system that guarantees basic inter-regional access throughout the country. 110 | Swedavia 2013 Swedavia’s airports National basic infrastructure Kiruna Airport is the region’s gateway to the world and the world’s gateway to the Nordic Arctic. 226,282 (+14%) passengers, 2013 Luleå Airport is northern Sweden’s biggest airport, with ­ access to Stockholm and the rest of the world. 1,106,638 (+2%) passengers, 2013 Umeå Airport is Västerbotten’s leading airport, with the easiest way to Stockholm and out into the world. Åre Östersund Airport is Jämtland’s gateway to the world and 989,094 (+1%) passengers, 2013 the world’s gateway to the Nordic fjelds. 408,700 (+7%) passengers, 2013 Stockholm Arlanda Airport is Stockholm’s gateway to the world and the world’s gateway to Scandinavia. 20,681,554 (+5%) passengers, 2013 Bromma Stockholm Airport is Swedavia’s fast, convenient city airport. 2,279,501 (-1%) passengers, 2013 Göteborg Landvetter Airport is the airport for all of western Sweden, with Visby Airport direct flights to elsewhere in Europe and out is Gotland’s airport and the quickest way to into the world. and from the island. 5,004,093 (+3%) passengers, 2013 352,197 (+8%) passengers, 2013 Ronneby Airport Malmö Airport is the largest airport in southeastern Sweden is the challenger in the Öresund region, and the quickest way to get to Stockholm. with fast, smooth passenger flows. 213,418 (-3%) passengers, 2013 2,127,586 (+1%) passengers, 2013 Text and production: Swedavia. Photos: Peter Phillips, Jörgen Hildebrant, Peter Knutsson, Fredrik Francke and others. Swedavia AB 190 45 Stockholm-Arlanda Sweden Visiting address: Tornvägen 1 Tel +46 10 109 00 00 Fax: +46 10 109 05 00 E-mail: info@swedavia.se Coordinates: 59°39’14.06”N 17°56’21.51”O www.swedavia.se
