Egypt Partner Business enterperneurs experience creating quality sucsess designing explore time Profesional service Printing next economic the using impact technologies image identity creative building creativity VISION Creative Image with affordable Quality to lead the market of medium local business serving mid size local companies with creative affordable quality MISSION Creative great relation with clients team and the quality they love in a family based environment serving mid size local companies with creative affordable quality GLOBAL compact In Progress Presented by BAYAN-GROUP TEAM OF EGYPT 15.8.2014 4 sister companies joined in a group. A family business starts in 1963 with Eng Bahjat Deiri the founder his success story to a very well educated and professional team managing over 400 people in 3 diﬀerent sectors. Eng. Bahjat Deiri: Father and Founder Mr. Bashar Deiri: Founder of prin ng House and CEO of BAYAN-GROUP, BA Eng. Rim Deiri: GM of Beta Construc on Mr. Feras Deiri: Founder of marke ng Agency and Media House. BETA ĈBeta: Sice1963, The construction pioneer in Saudi Arabia that built the tallest building in ALmadina 1981, The palace of Mr. Zaki Alyamani Saudi oil minister, the city of Khaldieh, Saudi air pilot residence in Jeddah, Syrian Embassy in Kuwait, Jisr AlShoghour electric station in Syria, AlRabiea residence city in Aleppo Syria, and many road and building constructions in Syria, Beta is now building a new concept of small apartments covering the gap in market for the new generation of families. YES, it counts as one of the largest construction companies in ME, with a real Vision and a very mix management team. BAYAN print house Č Printing House: Bayan Printing House was established in 1992 by Mr. Bahajt Deiri and managed by the new graduated in Business administration Mr. Bashar Deiri and still operating it till now. As a pioneer Eng Deiri equipped this printing house with a new Heidelberg printing machines building the biggest printing house in northern Syria keeping ahead of any competitor. Huge step of improvement in 2010 with a new German Heidelberg and Swiss boobst machines, a full automated printing house filling 4000 square meter is now running in Aleppo sheikh Najjar industrial city covering the market needs of fine boxes, heavy boxes, advertising newspapers, leaflets and any kind or type of Carton and Paper printing. Also, BAYAN continuous dedication in delivering the latest technologies reflects our responsibility in providing the attention needed to produce the highest quality product available for their customers. All in house starting from Prepress, Printing, laminating, and gluing to the final product BAYAN-Printing house serves their clients with a very professional team and equipments assuring the quality. BAYAN client list contain the biggest 100 companies in northern Syria from pharmaceutical industry, Food, confectionary, cosmetics, plastic, and service reflects the huge annual turnover. BAYAN media house Ċ BAYAN-Media House: Biggest turnover Northern Syria. The oldest Media house in Northern Syria created in 1993 to serve Industrialists and traders in buying and directing media for their marketing campaigns, managed by American educated manager since 2003 with a team of 73 professional employees. Since 1996 BAYAN-Media house become the sole agent of Kawalies billboards the only 3*4 m outdoor media in Syria, In 2003 BAYAN-Media house was the sole agent of SawtAlghad radio station the only available private radio in Northern Syria broadcasting from Lebanon, in 2005 with the starting of private radio stations BAYAN-Media House become the sole agent for SyriaAlghad Radio station and Arabesque radio station too. Member of IAA, an Agent for Syrian Arab Advertising Establishment. The Governmental establishment that sell the Government media, BAYAN MCA ĘĖ KĖ Í -Marketing and Communication Agency. Since 1996 BAYAN split the media house from the advertising agency so each company has its own entity, trying to serve clients with a full advertising and PR service BAYAN-MC dedicated to creating, planning and handling advertising and sometimes other forms of promotion for its clients. As independent from the client BAYAN-MC provides an outside point of view to the effort of selling the client's products or services. And can also handle overall marketing and branding strategies and sales promotions for its clients. Serving the biggest names in Northern Syria, BAYAN has more than 300 clients in many different fields that are why it’s somehow the biggest marketing and communication agency in northern Syria. Including many international brands such as Ona, Ariston, Istekbal, CamelActive, And subcontracts with many international brands such as Nestlé, BAYAN-MC also serves Iraq with many different services and has got many subcontracts with the two mobile providers Iraqna and Asiacel. BAYAN Fleet Ė Œan external investment BAYAN-GROUP starts a new company in cooperation with a great partner in 2008. Fleet LLC. A company with a transaction every 28 seconds covering 185,180 km2 Selling by 65 cash vans, Facilities and warehouses are located in 5 different cities covering the 5 different markets all over Syria and distributing to over than 16000 Selling Point. Reaching over 20000000 people from newborn starting by baby powder, Baby Shampoo, baby cream, Petroleum jelly, hand Cream, depletory cream, Adult Shampoo & Shaving cream Fleet is one of the largest distribution and logistics companies in Syria and in Middle east with a great turnover. It is cooperation between two groups, BANNA the biggest cosmetic factory owner of leader Brand Hamol for more than 45 years exporting to more than 15 countries, and the biggest marketing Agency in north Syria BAYAN for more than 17 years. As a family business based country this is cooperation between two families Banna the biggest name in cosmetic in Syria and the Deiri Family with a great history in paper printing, trading, media & marketing agency. Founders of Fleet are five experts in business educated in the state, Canada, and England with a business experience over 20 years of each. Fleet has a very professional team and using an improved ERP system to mange every transaction and to let customers fully satisfied and controlled through CRM system. BAYAN EGYPT Strategic move to Egypt was a must become a great opportunity Syrian cries reﬂects in every single person in Syria, Business in Syria is in real trouble. after suffering for 2011 and 2012 BAYAN GROUP management took the decision to start in a new market, as EGYPT is a very promising country it was the choice. BAYAN GROUP starts in Cairo 2013 with a minimum team expanding day after day with a very professional service and a long history and experience BAYAN is getting into the ﬁrst steps in a new success story in EGYPT. WE SUPPORT BAYAN-GROUP Supports the 10 principles of the united nations global compact. in many different ways, promoting the higher level of professionalism. BAYAN implement Global compact programs in all BAYAN subsideries companies in SYRIA and EGYPT. No underage, Child, slave labor involved in any BAYAN activity Working conditions is perfect in all BAYAN plants and project even in a very hard situation in SYRIA. Fair employment program implemented in any activity. Safety, healthy environment and perfect conditions are standards Human Right Section Principle1: Our Business support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle2: We make sure that we are not complicit in any human right abuses. A system has been implemented in BAYAN GROUP for checking and recording that all employees are paid a minimum wage and avoid excessive overtime hours. Employment contract stating the terms and conditions of services are availble to all employees and we did activate a monitoring program regarding labor conditions and build an annual report. No discrimination in Salaries between men or women, only the company structure and employment categories reﬂects into the salaries Efforts of all Employees are totally evaluated, paid and appreciated through a perfect HR. program Labor Right Section Principle3: Our group respects the freedom of association and upholds the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle4: we don’t allow forced or compulsory labor in any aspect within our operation or supply chain in any of our plants or activities A system has been implemented in BAYAN GROUP for checking and recording that all employees are paid a minimum wage and avoid excessive overtime hours. Employment contract stating the terms and conditions of services are availble to all employees and we did activate a monitoring program regarding labor conditions and build an annual report. No discrimination in Salaries between men or women, only the company structure and employment categories reﬂects into the salaries Efforts of all Employees are totally evaluated, paid and appreciated through a perfect HR. program My team is a running project in BAYAN Group head ofﬁce. it's a kind of sponsored school for sales, management, and English developing employees for free as well as new applicants. Labor Right Section Principle 5: BAYAN-GROUP don't allow Child or underage labor within any operation or plant. Principle 6: BAYAN-GROUP don’t allow any discrimination within any plant, Activity and operation in respect of employment and occupation An Employee manual has been published and distributed to all employed and new applecart in BAYAN-GROUP detailing every right for every employee in BAYAN-GROUP companies. A value diversity based program evaluating the efforts of each of BAYAN team and promote them to higher positions and salaries. BAYAN HR dep is taking care of every single detail related to workers, and management team. assessment surveys, in three levels used to be distributed every quarter and analyses to improve employees skills and efﬁciency by training programs. A well communication system between the Employees and management directly with an open door policy. Annual meeting and dinner is a great communication environment between high management and all the group employees. Environmental Section Principle 7: BAYAN-GROUP take a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility. due to sensitivity and responsibility toward socity and environment, BAYAN in committed to encourage and support a clean environmental and to implement appropriate measure with in production and distribution. Reducing the power consumption in our plants by emplimenting a new lighting sysytem in our new managmnet building and our new factory in Aleppo industerial city as well as our new plant in EGYPT. Central heating system installed in our management building with a ﬂoor heating will be generating a great working environment minimizing the Electric and fuel consumption. Environmental Section Principle 9: BAYAN-GROUP encourage the devalopment and diffusion of enviromental friendly Each employee can and should check energy using of his own; as this turkish made system has installed to monitor the energy use in each department for lighting, computers, heating and cooling system. BAYAN-GROUP is non smoking zone, all employees in BAYAN GROUP enjoy working in totally nonsmoking environment. Anti-Corruption Section Principle 10 BAYAN-GROUP works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Each employee can and should check energy using of his own; as this turkish made system has installed to monitor the energy use in each department for lighting, computers, heating and cooling system. BAYAN-GROUP is non smoking zone, all employees in BAYAN GROUP enjoy working in totally nonsmoking environment. BAYAN-GROUP VALUE VALUE BAYAN-GROUP clients to be treated equally regardless of the size of the company and account value. BAYAN-GROUP team promote from within whenever possibility making a continuous investment in our personal assets. BAYAN-GROUP resources are to be fully used to fulﬁll clients needs. BAYAN-GROUP Occupational health and safty is constantly striving to sustain and improve the health and safty of all employees by reducing the possibility of any workplace injury illness. BAYAN-GROUP Privacy policy is to protect the privacy of any personal information of Client, Employee, supplier or stakeholder. BAYAN-GROUP VALUE Strength CR EA WE create FAMILY TIV IT Y d an ronment, printin Client envi Employee g ng rk i 20 of Experience wo Supplier ex pert, nt, v a e er l m ag bl e c ua with any lient, time ela m tion an thank you WE LOVE EGYPT
