Page | 1 CONTENTS Introduction About this Report 04 COO's Statement 06 Organization Profile 08 Sustainability Performance Targets and Achievements 09 Compliance 11 Awards 13 Sustainability Challenges Impacts of Business Activities 14 Sustainability Trends 15 Sustainability Framework Corporate Governance 17 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Policy Framework 22 Capacity Building 23 Economic Contribution Direct Economic Contribution 25 Indirect Economic Contribution 25 Environmental Impact 27 Employee Relations 29 Community Relations 33 Product Responsibility 37 Looking to the Future 41 Page | 2 Page | 3 INTRODUCTION About this Report Reporting Period This sustainability report attempts to offer customers to valued business partners, an integrated view of Access Engineering shareholders to the nation at large become a PD 3.1 PLC’s (AE) commitment and performance on part of the AE journey. Our primary economic, environmental and social aspects sustainable development platform is in of the Company’s operations for the period infrastructure development, and we strive to st st 01 April 2011 to 31 March 2013. This is our drive our core business to contribute PD 3.2 second attempt in sustainability reporting. towards the MDGs. The report attempts to The most recent report was published in present an integrated analysis of both September 2011, covering the performance positive and negative performances of the of financial year 2010/11. We will attempt to Company in a manner, our stakeholders are PD 3.3 demonstrate our commitment to able to gain a comprehensive view of our sustainability on an annual basis, even policies, interactions and processes. The though this report covers a period of two report also enables us to critically look at years. ourselves, analyze the gaps and attempt to bridge them for a more holistic approach to Reporting Framework and sustainability. Guidelines Materiality: As outlined in the GRI guidelines, the Company acknowledges the This review is based on the Global Reporting importance of the materiality concept, in the Initiative (GRI) Reporting Framework which is process of reporting the sustainability the generally accepted guideline for performance. Materiality is defined in sustainability reporting. The report has been relation to the financial performance, reinforced with G 3.1 sustainability balance sheet values and impact on the indicators which define the contents, quality stakeholders’ interest. Thus the report and the boundaries as outlined by the GRI outlines economic, environmental and social Reporting Principles. performance that would substantially influence the assessment and decisions of This report is intended to serve as the UN our stakeholders. Global Compact Communication on Progress and the content highlights our contributions Inclusiveness: The Company recognizes that towards upholding the ten principles and it is compelled to define strategic and key contributing to the Millennium Development stakeholder groups to ensure materiality in Goals (MDGs). engagement and reporting. Therefore, the Government, the economy, customers, Reporting Content suppliers, employees, environment and community are recognized as key The report attempts to offer an integrated stakeholders. view of the company’s performance from the PD 3.5 triple bottom line precept of economic, Sustainability Context: This report presents social and environmental facets, where AE’s performance in relation to broader stakeholders from employees to community, concepts of sustainability. This involves Page | 4 discussing the performance in the context of offices and production plants are included in the limits and demands placed on the scope. environmental or social resources at the sectoral, local, regional, or global level. Data measurement and Disclosure Completeness: The material topics and Information pertaining to economic, social Indicators and definition of the report and environmental performance has been boundary are sufficient to reflect significant extracted from the audited financial PD 3.9 economic, environmental, and social impacts statements while other internal information and enable stakeholders to assess the AE’s has been obtained from Company records. performance in the reporting period. Data measurement techniques in this report have been used as per GRI Indicator Reporting Boundaries Protocols, with any deviations mentioned with the indicator. At the time of reporting AE has two subsidiaries, i.e. Access Realties (Pvt) Ltd Contact Persons for Information (100 % ownership) and Sathosa Motors PD 3.6 (84.4% ownership). Due to the vast Mr. V.K. Manatunge differences in the operations of the Senior General Manager subsidiaries, compared to the parent E-mail: csr@accessengsl.com company, sustainability issues of AE only will Tel: 2302302 be reported in this report. All operations of Fax: 2302333 AE, including administrative offices, project Page | 5 COO’s Statement Welcome to the Access Sustainability Report between the Company, its business activities 2013. This Sustainability Report is AE’s and the environment in which it operates PD 1.1 second disclosure of the Company’s provides the basis for sustainability decision performance relative to our commitment to making. A close analysis of these be a responsible, sustainable and valueinterrelations and thoughtful consideration creating corporate citizen. of the impact of these interrelations at every important decision point, has made our It was a period of continued economic sustainability efforts to be more integrated recovery that once again showed how with the overall business. placing sustainable development at the core of our business decisions is the right The diminishing quantity and quality of influx approach. This means putting consideration to the workforce is a key sustainability issue for safety, the environment and we have identified and taken action to communities at the centre of the steps we mitigate the effect. We partnered with take to design and build major construction National Apprenticeship and Industrial projects. Training Authority (NAITA) to carry out construction craftsman training in the Sustainability depends on our ability to build Eastern Province and are in the process of resilience into our plans and operations. We launching a 3-year comprehensive project to have to make sure AE remains able to tackle increase the intake of construction future challenges so that we, in turn, can technicians for their training programmes. continue to make a positive contribution to We have also looked at the quality of the society. We know that doing business engineering graduates who are coming out responsibly helps us achieve this through from the University system. In this regard, greater productivity and by creating benefits we developed, sponsored and delivered a to all. We can deliver our projects more soft skills development programme for effectively, ensure minimal harm to the students of University of Moratuwa. environment, uphold the rights of the employees and create supply chains and jobs While appreciating that construction is one for local businesses. It is a situation where of the taxing industries on the environment, everyone wins. we have initiated several programmes to counteract the effects. One is the continuing When incorporating sustainability into the tree planting programme, through which we corporate agenda, it was important to be planted over 10,000 trees during the period. clear about how sustainable development We successfully carried out two e-waste fits with the organization’s core business, collection and recycling campaigns which in objectives and activities. To effectively total recycled 6.7 tons of waste. In an effort engage and connect to economic, to encourage our employees to move into environmental and social issues, we needed sustainable home gardening, we organized a a comprehensive analysis of the organization demonstration session through Dilmah and its interface with sustainability and Conservation Center. sustainable development issues. With the new trend in the rise of nonThis involved identifying and understanding communicable diseases, cardiovascular relevant issues by establishing facts and diseases in particular, we took the initiative other information available in the public to address this issue both in our own domain, and from an analysis of the workforce and also the general public. We competitive environment. The interrelation successfully completed an internal Page | 6 programme called ‘Healthy Heart’ to assess accomplish our target in Public Private the cardiovascular risk of employees and give Partnerships (PPPs), but we are still in the them advice on how to reduce the risk. A lookout for good opportunities. follow-up is planned for end 2013. We also sponsored a series of five public workshops When looking to the future, we intend to on ‘Holistic Wellness’ in partnership with further consolidate our leadership position in Sethsads Yoga Nikethanaya. the current markets, enter into new businesses, expand into international We continue to benchmark ourselves with markets, introduce Management international standards in sustainability. We Information System (MIS) in HR and continue to be an active member of United operations and further expand our Nations Global Compact and we also investment in social development initiatives. obtained the membership of TRACE International in support of upholding antiAE’s sustainability strategy in 2013 and going corruption practices. forward will continue to be inseparable from our overall core business strategy and will be During the course of business in 2012/13, AE centered on a commitment to optimize and contributed Rs. 191.5 Mn in taxes, fees and grow shared value. In this respect I would levies to the Government of Sri Lanka (GoSL). like to reiterate that this Sustainability st As at 31 March 2013, AE provides Report is a principle instrument through employment for 3,245 people and continues which we communicate, and present for to be one of the largest employers in the review of our stakeholders, our performance construction sector. relative to the Company’s overarching commitment to sustainability and shared A key achievement during the period is value creation. completing the Initial Public Offering (IPO) which raised Rs. 500 Mn. During the period, I would like to thank the members of the we moved into the high-rise building sector Compliance Committee for their valued and consolidated our position in the contributions in producing the Sustainability infrastructure sector. Report 2013. Our Geotechnical laboratory Services My team joins me in soliciting the views and Division obtained the prestigious ISO feedback of all our stakeholders, and the 17025:2005 Testing Laboratory Quality people of Sri Lanka at large, so that we may Management certification from Sri Lanka enhance the efficacy and impact of our value Accreditation Board (SLAB). Even though we delivery in the years ahead. I invite you to had planned, we were not able to complete send your comments on the report to the certification process for OHSAS csr@accessengsl.com. 18001:2004 Occupational Health & Safety Management System. The process will be completed in September 2013. Rohana Fernando Almost all the performance targets set in the Executive Director / Chief Operating Officer previous report were met, namely, making Access Engineering PLC the Company a public entity, capacity building, consolidating in current markets, entering new markets, improving the Quality Management System (QMS) and forming a Compliance Committee. We were not able to Page | 7 Organization Profile Access Engineering PLC was incorporated in purview of a General Manager which handle Sri Lanka on July 31, 2001 under the project execution and production of PD 2.1 Companies Act No. 17 of 1982 and construction material. Reregistered under the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 on February 06, 2008. Products and Markets AE is headquartered at No.278, Access As an integrated engineering company, the Towers, Colombo 02. In addition, two of the core business of AE is the design and PD 2.4 three Project Management Divisions (PMDs) execution of large and complex PD 2.7 are located at No. 117, Dehiwala Road, infrastructure development projects by Boralesgamuwa. AE also operates utilizing innovative and state of the art temporary site offices at every location technological solutions in construction. In where it is engaged in civil engineering addition to the different types of construction activities. construction projects that are undertaken, AE also offer engineering services in The majority of the operations are carried engineering designs, geotechnical out in Sri Lanka. AE’s first overseas project laboratory services and supply of metal, PD 2.5 commenced recently, which is for asphalt and concrete. environment monitoring of the Port Lae Development Project in Papua New Guinea. AE serves both public and private sector markets in construction engineering AE is a public limited liability company listed services. The beneficiaries of AE are spread in the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE). across diverse sectors of the country and PD 2.6 Subsequent to Access Engineering obtaining include the general public who utilize roads a listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange the and highways, bridges and flyovers, water ownership structure changed from one that and wastewater schemes, public sector was closely held by the three founder institutions that develop harbours and shareholders to one that was publicly held marine structures, and private sector and widespread. Ordinary Voting Shares of institutions that benefit from Access Engineering are listed on the Main telecommunication infrastructure services Board of the Colombo Stock Exchange. provided by the company. Operational Structure Scale of Operations st As at the end of the reporting period AE had Scale of operations as at 31 March 2013 two subsidiaries namely Access Realties and for the financial year 2012/13 is as PD 2.3 (Pvt) Ltd. and Sathosa Motors PLC. follows. PD 2.7 Percentage of ownership of Access Engineering in the former was 100% while Employees 3,245 over the latter the company exerted 84.4% Operations 35 projects st Production control as at 31 March 2013. Crushed metal 258,500 m3 Asphalt 48,300 m3 AE operates with a decentralized structure Concrete 4,430 m3 having a Corporate Office which handles Sales (Rs. Mn) Private 7,871 (68.8%) strategic planning, engineering designs, Public 3,576 (31.2%) project coordinating and other support Capitalization (Rs. Mn) Equity 12,141 (99.9%) Debt 6 (0.1%) functions, and three PMDs under the Assets (Rs. Mn) 15,429 Page | 8 SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Targets set and achievements Making the company a public entity Performance In March 2012, as planned, the Company we identified that certain areas of operations listed its shares in the CSE through an IPO need centralization such as purchasing, new PD 1.2 raising Rs 500 Mn. The Company’s share integrated system for resource management performed well in the market despite the (ERP) and the need to streamline the hiring market downturn demonstrating its process of plant and machinery. We are now fundamentally strong characteristics. in the process of implementing the areas identified above as requiring improvements. Lessons Learned The IPO exposed the company to more Consolidating in current markets investor, public, regulatory and governance concerns for which the company prepared Performance itself beforehand with steps taken such as appointing relevant committees, changing We increased our turnover by Rs 3.4 Bn in company structure etc. We consider the the year 2011/12 and by a further Rs. 4.5 Bn scrutiny attached with a public entity as an in 2012/13 from our core sectors of business opportunity to sharpen our processes, through securing more projects. Further we strengthen corporate governance practices, ventured in to the building sector and sale of serve a wide stakeholder base and ensure construction related material consolidating entities sustainability. our position in the industry and building on our expertise and capacity. Capacity Building Lessons Learned Performance It was planned to build capacity though New areas of synergies were identified and increasing investments in plant and the company entered into these areas as machinery, investments in human resources mentioned above targeting related and training and development of our people diversification for risk reduction and to gear the company to take up future enhancing performance. opportunities in the booming construction industry. We lived up to this target by Entering new markets investing Rs 2.1 Bn in new plant and machinery, increasing cadre by 1,500 and Performance developing and implementing a comprehensive training program during the Company entered into the commercial past 24 months. vehicle industry through its strategic acquisition of Sathosa Motors PLC who is the Lessons Learned agent for ISUZU commercial vehicles. We acquired many new resources during the Upsurge in construction and transport sector process and this investment comes with the of the country fueled this move coupled with challenge of managing a large resource base the potential synergies of supplying to derive their full potential. In this regard Page | 9 construction equipment and the need to After successful implementation of a diversify. laboratory-specific QMS, the Geological Laboratory Service Division obtained ISO As targeted we are exploring the 17025:2005 in April 2013. opportunities in the property development sector and plan to build another state of the Lessons Learned art office complex to cater to the increasing demand for commercial space. The attitude of employees is paramount for the success of QMS. In this light, the Lessons Learned induction program was redesigned to stress on the QMS for the new recruits. Much deliberation is needed in diversifying Identification of training needs of the given the uncertain and dynamic variables in internal audit team and providing such the macro environment. Some previously training is given special consideration to recognized areas of diversification were ensure a robust adherence mechanism. shredded in this light. We are confident of selecting those market opportunities that Forming a Compliance Committee would ensure economic, environment and socially sustainability of the entity in the long Performance run through our strategic decision making process. Committee was formed with representation from the Board and corporate management. Entering into Private Public The committee’s mandate include assessing Partnerships (PPPs) objective achievement, evaluating and formulating policies, ensure compliance, Performance efficient and effective utilization of resources, successful implementation of We are still pursuing opportunities in this QMS and assist sustained value creation. sector and one opportunity previously recognized was cancelled due to Lessons Learned unforeseeable changes relating to the project. The concept of voluntary compliance was new to the construction industry, even Lessons Learned though regulatory compliance has been in existence. Therefore, the members of the PPP’s are only viable with a reliable mutually Committee had to be trained in the new beneficial partnership focusing on long term concepts before embarking on its project benefits. responsibilities. Improving Quality Management System (QMS) Performance As previously identified, new team members were recruited and existing members were trained to strengthen the internal audit function which is a key criterion for the success of our QMS. Page | 10 COMPLIANCE Due to the recent legal actions against nonthe Wages Boards Act and the applicable compliance issues, both locally and Wages Board Decisions, i.e. building trade, internationally, compliance with regulatory engineering trade, motor transport trade, requirements has become one of the most quarry and mining trade and security trade. debated topics today. It has generated huge Maternity leave and feedings intervals are concern in organizations, not only because of granted according to the Maternity Benefits the potential for financial penalties but also Act and compensation following because of the potential impact on the occupational injuries and illness is provided reputation of the organization. according to Workmen’s Compensation Act. However, we take a different approach to From a compliance perspective on health compliance. We appreciate that our and safety, we have adhered to the compliance investments can act as a provisions of the Factories Ordinance, Shop powerful lever for organizational & Office Employees Act and Workmen’s transformation, resulting in significant risk Compensation Act. As part of the legal management improvements and cost review necessitated in the Occupational reductions. To us the benefits come from the Health & Safety (OHS) Management System, understanding that compliance is not an a detailed analysis of the requirements, additional activity to the core business current status and areas for improvement functions, but an integral part of the way are being reviewed. Based on the findings, these business functions operate on a daily actions were taken to meet all these basis. requirements. A significant gap was observed in the requirement for Our compliance philosophy revolves on maintenance of the ‘General Register’ for adhering to every single statutory and recording injuries and occupational disease regulatory requirement whilst exploring, and reporting of some to the Department of developing and implementing self-imposed Labour. As a remedy, a specific procedure requirements. By adhering to self-imposed was developed under the OHS Management compliance requirements, we expect to System and the relevant officers were reduce regulatory costs, reduce risk of nontrained on this procedure. compliance, reduce operational risk, increase capital availability, achieve time-saving when The impacts of our operations on the dealing with regulators and achieve high environment are controlled by the National speed of change. Environment Act which necessitates companies to obtain approvals and licenses Statutory and regulatory to set up and maintain operations and to requirements adhere to limits set out in terms of elements causing pollution. We have ensured compliance to the requirements of this Act. All employee-related policies and procedures of the Company comply with the related We are required to adhere to operational labour laws and no exceptions are neither standards, submit reports and make approved nor tolerated. Staff-grade payments as part of regulatory employees’ letters of appointment, terms requirements. During the reporting period and conditions, working hours, etc. are there has been no cases of non-compliance decided in accordance with the Shop & and no fines or sanctions has been imposed. Office Employees Act. The terms and conditions of employment of non-staff categories are decided in accordance with Page | 11 Voluntary initiatives Apart from the statutory and regulatory ensure that we do not engage in business requirements, we have developed and activities with entities that even show a implemented compliance frameworks for slight doubt on human rights abuses. ethical conduct, human rights, control of key processes, health and safety performance As mentioned elsewhere, we have totally and environmental performance. abolished forced or compulsory labour and child labour in our operations and are in the AE became the first construction company in process of ensuring that these practices are Sri Lankan to become a signatory to the honoured in the supply chain as well. We United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), recently upgraded our policies in when it joined the initiative in November ‘Recruitment, Selection and Placement’, 2011. It is an active member of the UNGC ‘Training and Development’, ‘Disciplinary and has reported on the progress of the Ten Management’ and ‘Grievance Management’ Principles during the last year. to ensure their compliance with elimination of discrimination in respect of employment In terms of Human Rights, AE has always and occupation. stood by to uphold, respect and protect internationally proclaimed human rights. We Finally, we take great effort to work against have, through our contracted projects as corruption in all its forms, including extortion well as self-initiated community projects, and bribery. Our implicit Code of Conduct contributed to providing basic amenities to address the issue of corruption and the the people, providing for healthcare and Disciplinary Procedure identified it as a education and providing employment. In our punishable misconduct. We have also supplier and subcontractor agreements we obtained the membership of TRACE International in support of upholding anticorruption practices. Page | 12 Awards During the period of review, AE was Corporate Accountability Index, 2012 decorated with numerous awards for its  Gold status and top 10 placement. PD 2.10 efforts in carrying out the core business as well as industry advancement initiatives, Most Respected Business Entities, 2012 reporting and HR functions. Some of the  Top 25 placement. awards we won are listed below. Institute of Engineers of Sri Lanka (IESL) Institute for Construction Training & Engineering Excellence Awards, 2012 Development (ICTAD) Construction  Engineering Excellence Award for Performance Awards, 2011 Organizations  ‘Construction Performance – Civil Engineering Sector’ for construction of National Business Excellence Awards, 2012 the bridge across Maoya on Pannala Winner ‘Excellence in business and Maningamuwa road financial performance’  ‘Construction Performance – Civil  Winner ‘Construction sector’ (joint Engineering Sector’ for construction of award) Nugegoda Flyover  Second Runner Up – Extra large category  ‘Construction Performance – Civil Engineering Sector’ for construction of Charted Accountants Association of Sri Sangupiddy Bridge Lanka (CA), Annual Reports Awards, 2012  Best Annual Report in the Construction National Chamber of Commerce, National sector Business Excellence Awards, 2011  Winner ‘Best Knowledge Integrator’  Runner-up ‘Construction Sector’  Merit Extra Large Category National Engineering and Technology Awards, 2011 and 2012  Gold award for the ‘Stall with Best Display of Engineering Services’ Otherways International Research and Consultants, Berlin, Germany  Golden award for ‘Quality and Business Prestige’ Page | 13 SUSTAINABILITY CHALLENGES Business operations continuously face challenges that threaten its very existence. These challenges come in two forms. One is the impact of business activities on the outside world, which in turn pose challenges to the business. The other is the effect of trends in the outside world that pose challenges to the business. In this section we will demonstrate our thinking behind these challenges, and especially how we plan to convert these challenges into opportunities. This will give us a fresh look at the existing business challenges and a way to ensure our sustainability Impacts of Business Activities The Company is engaged in building of new project is a key criterion in identification, infrastructure (i.e. roads, highways, water selection and prioritization of projects. This towers etc) as well as refurbishments to approach helps identify impacts and assess existing infrastructure stock. The economic, related risks and opportunities in each new environment and social feasibility of a project from a sustainability point of view. Impact Challenge Opportunity Economic impacts PD 1.2 Additions and improvements to Planning and funding of projects Improvement to the standard the infrastructure of living through improved infrastructure creating more business opportunities Supply and hiring of Mass scale operations having a Develop the existing construction related material negative impact on the existing businesses as part of the small scale businesses supply chain to improve the reliability and quality Higher demand for Pricing products and services Invest in new technology for construction material (local and and achieving sustainable reducing material imported) leading to inflation margins requirements and use of alternative material Creation of business None identified Development of skilled labor opportunities with spanning of force in the industry construction activities Environmental impacts Changes to the natural Protecting the environment Research and development environment due to new (R&D) focusing on innovative constructions techniques with less impact to the environment Pollution of air, water and land Protecting the balance of Use of new construction through construction activities natural eco systems techniques Usage of many non-renewable Depletion of non-renewable R&D focusing alternative or natural resources (sand, stones natural resources, sourcing high performing material etc) material to future projects and price escalations Felling of trees to clear land for Protecting the trees Take community leadership in construction tree planting campaigns Page | 14 Impact Challenge Opportunity Social impacts Creation of many employment Procuring employees of Training and developing opportunities for the local required skill on a continuous employees community basis Developing human capital of the country Facilitate in achieving goals of MDG 1 Enhancing standard of living Meeting expected quality New projects leading to more through new or improved standards and client infrastructure developments infrastructure expectations Relocation of communities Project planning and activities Getting involved in housing resulting from construction of pressure groups and infrastructure activities Finding suitable locations for development projects for the relocation displaced communities Financial compensation Faulty constructions leading to Meeting quality standards and Strengthen quality property or human damages maintaining corporate management practices reputation Use of innovative techniques Rework and repair in construction Health and safety of employees Training employees and Positive image obtainable when engaging in risky assuring fully safe working through being a health & operations environment safety focused employer and Reputation as a preferred investments into new employer in the industry equipments and machinery Professional development of Establishing a formal Molding the future workforce employees and students programme, with resource in a manner that best suits the involved with the Company persons for their professional Company development CSR projects for mentoring and soft skills development Sustainability Trends As much as our activities impact on the appraise and respond to these trends on a economy, environment and the society, the continuous basis. We have recognized the sustainability trends governing the external following sustainability trends as having a environment affect the organization in each major say on our activities. of its decisions. We are aware and thus Trend Challenge Opportunity Economic trends Scarcity of non-renewable raw Sourcing materials for new Room for R&D , innovative material (sand, stones etc) projects and increasing prices techniques etc. Boom in the construction Capacity building to meet Availability of more business PD 1.2 industry in the short to medium demand opportunities resulting in term Industry attractiveness leading more growth and to more competition diversification potential Primary focus of the GoSL being Funding projects and capacity Rapid growth planned towards infrastructure issues requires funding from the development private sector Page | 15 Trend Challenge Opportunity Environmental trends Impact on natural eco-systems, Minimizing environmental R&D into new construction animal habitats and impact of operations techniques and material biodiversity hot spots Climate change and frequent With the changes experienced Research and Development to adverse weather conditions in climate patterns, we can come up with of new expect floods, land-slides, materials / technologies droughts, etc. which may damage or delay construction activities Cost of production will increase Use of waste products for raw due to reduction in raw materials in fuels (e.g. bio gas) materials, rising power prices, construction delays, etc. Focus on energy conservation Reducing energy usage in Use of renewable energy operations sources Reducing wastage and improving efficiency in operations More stringent environmental Impose restrictions on the Differentiate ourselves from regulations operations of the Company, the competition and stand out especially involving natural as a corporate citizen resources and waste management Social trends Growing awareness on human Need to cover wide range of Positive image and demand rights, corporate governance aspects in decision making and for products of the company and sustainability issues meeting competing demands of upholding corporate values wider stakeholder base Protection of employee rights Ensuring protection of None identified employee rights and provision of a respectable work environment The rapid expansion of construction activities into rural areas could lead to child labor/forced labor Page | 16 SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK In order to face the sustainability challenges we face, we have put in place a robust framework that includes corporate governance, stakeholder engagement, establishing a policy framework and capacity building. The initiatives that have been taken in these areas are highlighted below. Corporate Governance Constructed on a philosophy of responsible The company’s vision and mission remain governance, ethics, values, accountability firmly embedded in our future journey with and sincerity of action, AE’s Corporate the Board of Directors and Executive Governance ethos works within a culture of Management, providing the necessary performance that emphasizes a framework stewardship to our team and other of conformance and compliance. To us, stakeholders to achieve our objectives. Corporate Governance goes beyond the Evaluating and setting the direction of the tenets of conformance and compliance into Company’s strategic initiatives, performance a situation where our business is grown and objectives and targets also remain nurtured into a sustainable and equitable entrenched within the leadership. In one, presenting all our stakeholders with a addition, this leadership is tasked with future to grow with us. strengthening the overarching company principle of protecting the interests of all Maximizing shareholder wealth on a stakeholders and consolidation of business sustainable basis while safeguarding the activities to ensure continuity and rights of multiple stakeholders are sustainability. fundamentals which are permeated through all levels of our management and staff. They The Board of Directors of Access Engineering in turn work on the trusses of truth, trust, endeavors to provide entrepreneurial principles, good morals and honesty to leadership through effective formulation and ensure that the end justifies the means and execution of policies and procedures, remain strategically aligned to the core designed to attain the objectives of the principles of our Corporate Governance company. By end 2013 the Board comprises practice. ten Directors, from which five are Executive Directors, two Non-Executive Directors and Our governance and operating model three Independent Non-Executive Directors. facilitates efficient and timely decision The Independent Non-Executive Directors making coupled with pragmatic resource further entrench independent non-partial allocations. These are aligned to integrate judgment, which in turn embed the strong into a transparent, accountable and ethical fundamentals of transparency into the framework that are compliant not only with decision making process. the laws of the country but also with selfimposed codes of ethics, standards and The Company’s Strategic Planning regulations that position us on a platform of Committee, Audit Committee and critical governance features to ensure a Remuneration Committee, have been culture that goes beyond compliance. This is designed to strengthen its unwavering thus manifested in the composition of the commitment to corporate governance. corporate management team, division of powers and duties and the promotion of sound corporate ethics across the company. Page | 17 Audit Committee Appointed by the Board of Directors, the The Committee's mandate includes: Committee comprises three Independent  Formulating criteria and guidelines for non-executive Directors and one nonassessing existing and new investments executive Director of the Board.  Planning investments periodically, targeting at optimum utilization of The Audit Committee Charter formalizes the resources authority, responsibilities and specific duties  Reviewing existing investments pertaining to the Committee:  Assessing new investments for strategic  Overseeing preparation, presentation fit, risk profile, profitability and future and adequacy of disclosures in the potential financial statements  Making recommendations to the Board  Ensuring compliance with financial on investment portfolio, contingency reporting requirements planning and future corporate goals  Ascertaining the adequacy of Company’s internal controls and risk management Compliance Committee processes  Assessing the independence and The Compliance Committee is appointed by performance of the external auditors the Chief Operating Officer and is set up to  Making recommendations to the Board further strengthen good governance at pertaining to the external auditors Corporate Management level. This mechanism will bridge the gap between the Remuneration Committee senior management and the Board of Directors when important decisions are to be Comprising two independent non-executive made on operational issues. Directors and one non-executive Director of the Board, this Committee is appointed by The Committee comprises of the Chief the Board. Operating Officer and seven Corporate Management members. The Remuneration Committee Charter formalizes the authority, responsibilities and The Committee’s mandate includes: specific duties pertaining to the Committee:  Establish and monitor organizational  Company's remuneration policy being objectives effective enough to attract and retain  Evaluate company policies, formulate the best human resources new policies, advise and take the  Recommending the remuneration initiative to revise existing policies payable to the Executive Directors  Ensure that policies are in compliance  Monitoring and reviewing the with laws and regulations remuneration payable to the Corporate  Ensure that project management, Management members accounting, procurement, stores and human resource functions are carried out according to established procedures Strategic Planning Committee  Ensure that control systems are laid down and operated to promote the Essentially focusing on assessing existing and most economic, efficient and effective new investments, this Committee comprises use of resources of three executive Directors and two  Ensure the proper implementation of independent non-executive directors. management systems (ISO 9001, ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001) Page | 18  Review the performance of the internal importantly on the more strategic and audit team conceptual inputs.  Collect and review financial and operational information that is meant to Driving a team branded on excellence, be disclosed to external parties and people remain centric to our entire verify their reliability operational capabilities and engineering competencies. The experience and Governance structure and culture professionalism within our team has been the catalyst in integrating our core Access Engineering’s Corporate Management competencies into strategic partnerships. team is committed to achieving sustained Maintaining a healthy work life balance with value creation for the benefit of all an environment of superior human resource stakeholders, through adherence to a set of development via a comprehensive Quality well-defined corporate governance Management System inculcates the culture principles, coupled with maintaining of meritocracy, while performance oriented effective structures and processes within the individuals who make up an excellent team Company. The team has the input of the are driven to achieve ambitious goals. Chief Operating Officer, Board Members and Senior Management who meet regularly to The organizational structure of Access discuss the management of business Engineering is decentralized into three activities. Project Management Divisions (PMD) with clear delegation of authority and Project implementation is driven by Project responsibility. Each PMD carries out a Management Divisions, wherein the General structured impact assessment depending on Managers and Deputy General Managers the specific conditions of the projects and work on plans and targets, matching those to reports to the Compliance Committee. realistic time frames and ensuring any shortfalls or delays are speedily rectified. There are several specific mechanisms Authority is exercised within an ethical through which the Company identifies the framework of business practices established key impacts of sustainable aspects: by the Board, which demands compliance to  Monthly Progress Review Meetings held existing laws and regulations as well as best during the last week of each month at practices in dealing with employees, Head Office customers, suppliers and the community at  Project risk assessment carried out as large. part of QMS  Environmental aspect / impact We have also infused a milieu of increased assessment and Health & safety hazard participation by middle management to identification and risk assessment permeate the need for a more responsible,  Initial visits to the prospective project transparent and accountable administration, locations, discussions with the local which will strengthen the financial discipline community leaders and planning the of the Company. The permeating culture of mobilization accordingly empowerment and accountability emanates  Internal audits of QMS, EMS and quick responses to customer requirements, OHSMS, communication of findings to which has kept Access Engineering far ahead the project management and discussion of most competitors and has been the of corrections, corrective and preventive cornerstone of our competitive advantage. actions This permeation of authority and accountability has spawned empowerment even at shop-floor level and the front-line, enabling top management to dwell more Page | 19 Stakeholder engagement The quality of our relationships with internal and dealing with them proactively. The and external stakeholders, which are benefits of integrating stakeholder maintained through a process of informing engagement at the strategic level have and making decisions, has been a included pooling of resources that can help cornerstone of the sustainability efforts of all parties to gain insights and knowledge, the Company. Our ability to communicate solve problems, and reach goals and targets effectively with the key stakeholders has that none of them could reach alone. With been critical to our success thus far and will regard to sustainability, advantages of also be critical to our long-term success. effective stakeholder engagement have been to align with and capitalize on stakeholder Stakeholder engagement has helped us to values, preempt stakeholder action, sustain highlight particular interests and concerns the value chain and capture operational and also to be better at anticipating issues efficiencies Stakeholder Engagement Rationale Method Frequency PD 4.14 Board and Board and the Corporate  Corporate management Continuous Corporate Management Team are and board meetings Management responsible for the future  Board Committee Team direction of the Company. meetings Investors As GoSL is not able to finance  Periodic meetings to As and when PD 4.15 all the planned infrastructure ascertain / review project required development projects, progress investors play a key role in  Business promotion future projects. meetings PD 4.16 Shareholders They provide the capital and  Annual Report and Annual approve / reject company General Meeting strategic decisions  Extraordinary general As and when meetings required  Updated website and Continuous dedicated investor relations e-mail  Newspapers articles and other publications Bankers/ Even though it has been the  Timely settlement of dues Continuous Prospective practice not to work on debt  Providing periodic financial Lenders capital, in certain specific information instances we need financing  Responding to lenders’ As and when from external parties. queries required Employees Our vision towards  Periodical managementContinuous sustainability is driven by the employee meetings employees, who need the  ‘Open-door’ policy most up to date information  Performance review and to make a valuable and feedback informed contribution.  Training and development  Maintaining transparency in all activities  Staff welfare activities  Performance appraisal and Annual rewarding Page | 20 Stakeholder Engagement Rationale Method Frequency Government Maintaining cordial  Timely feedback through Continuous and Regulators relationships with GoSL is very submission of reports, tax important to the company returns, updates etc since most infrastructure  Ensuring compliance projects are initiated by the government and thus building confidence is paramount to business operations. Customers Business goals and objectives  Publication of Annual Annual are achieved by the projects Report and Sustainability provided by customers and Report future potential businesses  Progress review meetings Continuous are obtainable through the  Updated web site customers  Relationship Managers for each major customer Suppliers Construction is heavily  Subcontractor / supplier Continuous (includes dependent on raw material evaluation subcontractors) and, therefore, suppliers play  Regular progress review a key role in the achievement meetings of business objectives and  Updated website timely completion of projects. Business For us to be a leader in  Regular visits to / from Continuous Partners knowledge-based value business partners engineering, we need to liaise  Updated website with companies specializing in  Regular communication particular areas enabling a and periodic meetings for valuable knowledge transfer ongoing projects process.  Relationship Managers for each major customer General Public The end user of almost all our  Publishing the Annual Annual products, i.e. construction Report and the projects, is the general public. Sustainability Report Therefore, we can only get a  Updated website Continuous complete picture of the  Regular media and other customer impact is through communications with engagement with the general public public. Maintaining a positive  Participation / sponsoring public image is very important trade exhibitions to succeed in this industry.  Providing employment and internship opportunities Page | 21 Policy Framework Vision and our decisions and actions that lead to such impacts “To be the foremost Sri Lankan business  Implement practices that promote enterprise in value engineering” economic security, environmental stewardship and social betterment and Mission will strive for continuous improvement in these areas  Behave ethically based on the values of “To meet the challenges in the development honesty, equity and integrity of multi sector civil engineering projects,  Respect, consider and respond to the providing innovative solutions whilst interests of our stakeholders developing long term progressive  Respect international norms of relationships with all our stakeholders” behavior, while abiding by the rule of legislative and regulatory requirements Sustainability Framework  Respect human rights and recognize both their importance and universality  Raise awareness of our employees on sustainability issues while soliciting their full corporation in all our sustainability initiatives  Encourage our suppliers and subcontractors into the process of sustainable business by auditing and development  Be a source of knowledge for our external stakeholders on sustainability issues  Establish and constantly monitor quantifiable objectives for our Sustainability Policy sustainable performance  Make available the tools and resources In order to reach our vision of being a required to make it a reality, and will sustainable business, we will: support each employee as they live this  Be accountable for our impacts on the vision economy, the environment and society Page | 22 Capacity Building in these plants, further justifying return In order to consolidate our premier on investment. Our Asphalt plants in position in the industry and continue to Jaffna, Ibbagamuwa, Kotadeniyawa, and aggressively seek growth opportunities in Kanthale together boasts of a production the short and medium term, heavy capacity of 456 TPH. Access Engineering investment was made in modernizing and Crusher Plants holding a total capacity adding to our plant and heavy machinery, 280 TPH are located in Northern and while staff needs, both present and future North Central provinces of the country. forecast, too were focused upon. With the addition of the latest plant in Mabima, the total capacity of concrete The staff was increased by 1,500 during production increased to 145 m3/hr. the year 2011/12 with new recruitment effected mostly in operational, technical Our capacity building measures and workmen categories. During 2011/12, commenced in the previous year Access Engineering undertook an continued to be strengthened in 2012/13 investment of Rs. 8.3 Mn on training, and it contributed to the growth and both local and foreign, in addition to the expansion during the current year. The ongoing on-the-job training and job Company’s staff strength stands at 3,245 rotation. The company developed a team as at 31st March 2013 with 115 of 22 competent trainers from within the engineering professionals. High priority Company to undertake in-house training was given to training and development programmes. An ambitious in-house with the total investment in training training plan for 2012-14 with over initiatives amounting to approximately 40,000 employee training hours was Rs.16.5 Mn. The training plan launched in developed and initiated. April 2012 continued into this year with more focus on personal development. During 2011/12 and 2012/13, the most notable capacity building initiative was in In 2012/13, capacity building initiatives in plant and machinery, which amounts to plant and machinery during previous an investment of Rs. 1.2 Bn and Rs.941 years contributed to providing material Mn over a period of 24 months. This was and services to all our projects including the period in which the Company made sale of materials to outside customers. the biggest investment on plant and machinery in its entire history. This The Company continued to acquire shares coincided with the expected industry of Sathosa Motors PLC where a further growth and also planned diversifications. 440,217 shares were acquired at a cost of This included investments in crusher and Rs.103 Mn increasing it’s holdings to concrete batching plants to augment raw 84.4% as at 31st March 2013. Sathosa material sourcing for the road Motors has yet again recorded a good improvement and development projects performance for the year under review. as well as other civil engineering projects engaged island wide, eliminating The Board and Management have made a dependency on external suppliers. Any decision to implement a fully integrated excess production is made available for enterprise resource planning system purchase by external customers. The 8% during the period under review. The and 6% contribution from production implementation of the system is currently underway and is expected to be fully income towards revenue in 2011/12 and operational during the next financial year. 2012/13 is due to the investments made Page | 23 Page | 24 ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION This dimension of sustainability concerns an entity's impacts on economic conditions of its stakeholders & on economic systems at local, national & global levels. Direct Economic Contribution This is manifested through the Payment to providers of capital consequences of monetary flow between Subject to the provisions of the the company & stakeholders. Companies Act & the Articles of Association, the actual amount and timing Employee wages and benefits of dividend payments on the Ordinary AE has made a conscious effort to pay the Voting Shares of the Company is employees above the market norms. As recommended and approved by the per the salary and benefits survey carried Board of Directors of the Company. The out through KPMG Executive Search (Pvt.) dividend policy of the Company is based Ltd, monetary benefits of all the 17 job on a number of factors, including but not designations surveyed were found to be limited to the Company’s earnings, cash above market average, in some cases by flow position, future investments & over 35%. In terms of employees falling funding of growth any other factors under the purview of Wages Boards where the Board may deem relevant. Ordinance, the company minimum wage is 18%-25% above the minimum specified Payment to government in the applicable Wages Board decisions. The contribution to the GoSL is in terms Employees are eligible for Employees’ of Income Tax, Economic Service Charge Provident Fund (EPF) contribution (ESC) and Construction Industry according to the terms of the Employees’ Guarantee Fund (CIGF). The company is Provident Fund Act & for Employees Trust liable to Income Tax at the concessionary Fund (ETF) according to the terms of the rate of 12% on construction income and Employees’ Trust Fund Act. They are also 28% on other income. In addition, the entitled to retirement gratuity under the Company has made a contribution of Rs. Payment of Gratuity Act. 30.1 million to the CIGF. Community investment This was made more focused under the advancement & environmental theme of ‘More than bricks and steel’. In stewardship. In 2012/13 we carried out 2012/13, five main themes governed our 20 major community projects at an community investments, namely local investment of Rs. 46.0 Mn. Additionally community development, human capacity another Rs. 4 Mn was given away as building, health and wellness, industry donations for various causes in 2012/13. Indirect Economic Contribution Since our projects are in the sphere of Team, we have engaged in a continuous infrastructure development, there is dialogue with our clients & developers to invariably a huge indirect economic propose ways & means to maximize the contribution. Infrastructure development positive economic impacts and to projects are designed to maximize the minimize the negative ones. Working with economic impact to the local underprivileged communities we have communities & on the country as a been able to play an important role as a whole. With the inputs from our Design participant in socioeconomic change. Page | 25 Page | 26 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT While appreciating construction is the industry with the most severe impact on the environment, we have pledged to make a conscious effort to mitigate as well as reverse such impacts. We ensure that our business is in compliance with all applicable environmental regulations, to conserve resources by using them efficiently and recycling appropriately, to protect and enhance wildlife habitats around our businesses, to limit the amount of hazardous wastes produced and disposed, to improve the efficiency of our operations to reduce the amount of waste generated, and to support local environmental projects and activities. Climate change initiatives P7 Our environmental consciousness extends a tree planting and awareness building from the design to ultimate completion of programme was conducted at Boralugoda the project. This includes ground preparation Maha Vidyalaya in Kalatuwawa. In addition which may involve felling of trees, which tree saplings were distributed among school P8 becomes almost an unavoidable and teachers and our own employees to be imperative circumstance in the industry. At planted at the auspicious time of the Sinhala Access Engineering, we assume full Tamil New Year. Continuing from the good P9 responsibility for this and always liaise with work commenced way back in 2008, up to relevant parties to overcome this dilemma. now we have planted over 10,000 trees This is done in conjunction with our clients island wide. and consultants, where our design team engages in a dialogue with them to make Other notable environmental contributions design changes, where necessary to preserve were increased use of recycled material, use trees. For example, there were several of by-products and waste material, improved instances along the Kantale-Trincomalee designs to save energy and designs to road where design changes such as shift of minimize soil erosion. the centre line and diversion of drains to save a tree. When trees are felled, we ensure Other initiatives that new trees are planted in as close proximity as possible to the original location. Apart from the climate change initiatives, another green initiative was the recycling of The tree planting initiative continued during Electronic and electrical waste (e-waste). the period of reporting with over 10,000 Having realized the enormity of the harmful trees being planted in various locations. To effects of disposing e-waste in an ensure the sustainability of this programme, irresponsible manner in landfills or burning a full-time Environmental Officer was them without proper safety precautions, we employed, not only to plant trees, but also to joined hands with Ceylon Waste visit the locations regularly to ensure that Management (Pvt.) Ltd. the only BOI they are well taken care of and if perished to approved organization for waste recycling in th replace them. On 15 November 2012, on the country to collect and recycle e-waste the day of the national tree planting day, from our offices and the general public. Over over 1,000 trees were planted at all the 6.5 tons of e-waste was collected during two locations of the Company with the main projects in June and December 2012 and the event being held at Embulgama Raja Maha items were handed over for recycling. Viharaya in Ranala. For the World Water Day Page | 27 Page | 28 EMPLOYEE RELATIONS The philosophy behind the HR function has been to achieve a workplace where ‘The best people, under the best conditions, producing their best work’. Even though this ethos sound simple, it involves a long process from identifying the role, to recruitment, selection, training and development, empowerment and keeping them engaged and also externalities such as employee value propositions and brand image. People Management at Access Rights and Policies We have been able to incorporate HR Best Practices into the way we do business and, Meritocracy is the underlying fundamental in especially, how we manage our people. both selection and career mobility, while Responsibility, accountability and authority non-discriminatory practices are in high have been the three pillars of the success we focus. At selection stage, if an individual have enjoyed with our workforce. Over the years we have created a culture of shows potential and is the ‘right person for empowerment, where performance is the right job’ employment is guaranteed. A recognized and achievements are rewarded. meticulous and transparent procedure is This performance based culture has enabled followed in career movements and reward the Company to outperform its competitors allocations as well. over the years. The Company continues to raise its bar in terms of people management Given the nature of our industry, there are and 2012/13 saw very specific measures instances where child labour has been used being taken in this regard. in the past by suppliers and subcontractors P5 in quarries, crusher plants and road HR function of Access Engineering is construction work. However, we have fully decentralized, with the Head of HR, who is a disdained this practice and categorically member of the Corporate Management prohibited our suppliers and subcontractors Team, working from Head Office overseeing to engage in such practices. The stringent the HR operations, while each Project screening process in place at AE ensures that Management Division comes under none of its business partners employ child individual HR Managers. labour. Personnel policies, processes and procedures Recruitment and retention are aligned to the national and international norms. The stage has been set for us to st As at March 31 2013, the total team graduate from compliance to compliance increased to 3,245 with almost 36% based in plus. We have strived to go beyond mere the technical and operational categories, compliance to re-formulate the policies with further highlighting our culture of the thinking we always had with regard to empowerment. Over the last three years, employees. A robust monitoring system has there has been a steady increase in net also been established with our Code of employment as seen at 16.6% in 2010/11, Conduct and Disciplinary Management 94.7% in 2011/12 and 2.2% in 2012/13. Procedure, which are overlooked by the Compliance Committee. Employee turnover, which is an indication of the level of satisfaction and engagement, is monitored closely and requiring Page | 29 fundamental changes in the operations and Training and development affected to ensure employee retention. Given the fact that employee turnover is A comprehensive orientation and induction very high in the construction industry, programme is provided to all employees primarily due to a transient workforce, within three months of employment. On the migratory nature of workstations, day of offering employment, the new team employment opportunities overseas and members are given a taste of the company influx of international contractors, we have culture by the HR personnel who is handling been able to retain our key talent the task. A more elaborate programme is appreciably well. Despite these challenges, conducted periodically at Head Office where we have maintained our employee turnover the new employees are introduced the past, rates well within industry average with a present and future direction of the Company staff retention ratio of 93.9%. This retention with special emphasis on the culture and rate was an increase of 11.7% compared to sustainability. last year. The HR Department creates and implements The superior status enjoyed by Access the training calendar annually, chartered Engineering in terms of being a preferred against individual aspirations, divisional goals employer in the construction industry was and objectives, current and future projects, further highlighted by an independent trends, challenges and opportunities of the survey carried out by TNS Lanka, the global Company and the construction industry. leader in customized market research. The Training and development works on the triad research revealed that Access Engineering is of external, internal and on-the-job training, the Employer of Choice, 2 index points above saw an investment of Rs. 16.5 Mn in the closest competitor and 7 index points 2012/13. above the industry average. This is also evident from the overwhelming response we An elaborate in-house training plan was receive from potential candidates when we drawn up which identified 90 training areas advertise for job vacancies. with a total of over 160 programmes spread over 225 training days with over 5,000 man With the view of further fine tuning the days of participation. This plan, which was employee practices of the Company, we took launched in July 2012, will supplement the part in the first ‘Great Place to Work Survey’ current practice of local and foreign training in Sri Lanka conducted by Great Place to through external bodies. Training of Work Inc, USA. The employee practices, employees is held high at all times by the especially with regard to trust, pride and Company. camaraderie, were examined in a sample of 182 employees. The findings further In order to deliver this ambitious training reiterated the strength of our employee plan, a team of 22 executives of the practices. For example Management having Company were developed as trainers a clear view of where the organization is through a Training of Trainer (ToT) going and how to get there, management programme conducted over a period of 3 being competent at running the business, months. The ToT programme covered the work having special meaning and not ‘just a basics of adult learning and corporate job’, celebrating special events and being training, and concluded with practical proud to tell others that they work for sessions which provided them the Access Engineering, were either on par or opportunity to sharpen their skills as above the global top 25 benchmark. trainers. Page | 30 A specific direction taken by the Company Safety Management System. Three with regard to training culminated in a series programmes addressing health of personal development initiatives. Through enhancement were initiated and carried out the contribution of Company executives, two during the year. First programme was personal development workshops were branded as ‘Healthy Heart’ and included a developed and implemented. The complete medical history and examination programme titled ‘Journey of Success’ was and lab tests to assess the cardiovascular risk designed for middle management and of employees. Employees were provided executives while a programme titled ‘Be the with useful advice by a team of doctors who best you can be’ was designed for junior staff visited all the working locations of the members. Both programmes received a very Company throughout the country. Another positive feedback from the participants as an programme branded as ‘Happy Office’ was eye-opener to develop their personal and carried out along with the ‘Healthy Heart’ professional lives. programme and ventured to assess the sources of psychological pressure, coping In addition to these full-day workshops, strategies and physical and psychological personal development items such as yoga outcomes. and medication, relaxation exercises, music therapy were included at every given A third programme ‘Work in Comfort’ opportunity within technical training targeted at reducing musculoskeletal programmes. discomforts of employees using desk-andchair workstations is underway Having identified tobacco and alcohol as a significant psychosocial problem for the The Health & Safety Management System, employees, we joined hands with Alcohol which complies to international standards and Drug Information Center (ADIC) to was subject to an external audit to obtain conduct awareness sessions on tobacco and OHSAS certification. The system was alcohol. During the year two programmes subjected to an Initial Review by the were conducted with the participation of certifying body Det Norske Veritas (DNV) and 475 employees. wad found to meet the requirements of OHSAS 18001: 2007 international standard. Health, safety and welfare The system is implemented in all operational locations and was planned to be subject to a Having appreciated that the construction Certifying Audit in June 2013. However, the industry place enormous burden on the process was delayed and the new expected health and safety of the employees and also certification is in September 2013. on the work-life balance, we took specific initiatives to mitigate the adverse effects. A Welfare initiatives increased this year with formal Health & Safety Management System insurance covers for team members and (HSMS) which was implemented in 2011, their families continuing, in addition to the was expanded with a more holistic definition food and accommodation for project staff, of ‘health’. It is our view that this holistic annual entertainment and sporting activities. approach was also a contributor to the high A special sub-committee of the Corporate level of staff retention at Access Engineering. Management was appointed to revisit the welfare facilities offered to the employees In addition to the physical health which was and propose any additions. The report is in the main focus area earlier, other holistic draft stage and will be taken up for aspects of mental, emotional, social, discussion in June 2013 and will be spiritual, environmental and vocational implemented in August 2013. wellness were included in the Health & Page | 31 Page | 32 COMMUNITY RELATIONS We work in communities, with the communities, for the communities. We also extract all our resources from the communities and cause significant collateral impact on the communities. With this close integration with the local communities where we operate, we have identified the need to have strong and sustainable relations with them. How we carry out our operations plus specifically identified community relations projects strengthen our relationship with the community. This has always been a cornerstone of our Company's success. Thus we will as always build healthy community relationships. Community relations at Access Human capacity building Social responsibility projects are worked out Another area where we have actively on five primary platforms. To maintain engaged in is building human capacity and transparency and equity in the chosen social developing human resources in the society, responsibility projects, a series of evaluations and reviews are conducted by including our own employees and their the Compliance Committee, which is a subfamilies, focusing our attention on precommittee of the Corporate Management school, school, technical and tertiary team. This process ensures that these education by means of transferring initiatives have strategic alliance with the knowledge, mentoring and coaching, corporate vision and mission, are aligned to apprenticeships, scholarships and other the social responsibility platforms, the financial contributions. resources are available and the goals and objectives are both relevant and realistic. One human capacity building initiative carried out throughout has been providing Local community development internship placements for students following academic courses, both engineering related We continuously work to support the and management. During the year, we wellbeing of the community, contribute to provided internship placements for 50 the enrichment of the society and make a students from Universities, Technical tangible contribution to the economic and Colleges, Advanced Construction Training social development of the localities where Academy (ACTA), and some private our projects and plants are located. We have educational institutes. also taken initiatives to mitigate health and safety impacts of infrastructure, hazardous We commenced work on another capacity materials, emissions and discharges; building project in Methodist Central counteract social impacts of involuntary College, Hakmana where we have resettlement, physical and economic undertaken to design and build an displacement and livelihood disturbances; Auditorium Building with a floor area of and honour the local culture, cultural 8,600 sq. ft. and a seating capacity of 700. heritage and indigenous peoples. The project is to be handed over by the end of May 2013. In another school in the Southern Province, Padawkema Junior School at Lunugamwehera we renovated the staff quarters which was in a dilapidated state. Page | 33 In collaboration with the Ministry of Water forward by organizing a series of public Supply & Drainage, we organized a personal workshops on holistic wellness. The development programme and donated workshops, which were implemented school kits for 50 girls from orphanages to through Sethsada Yoga Nikethanaya, the commemorate the World Day for the Girl leading yoga institute in the country, Child 2012. To enhance inter-communal included topics such as yoga, meditation, harmony, we co-sponsored to provide energy healing, laughter therapy and music drinking water for the Murali Harmony Cup a therapy and was held in five locations with T20 cricket tournament for schools in the the participation of over 2,800 health Northern and Eastern Provinces which also conscious individuals. included teams from other provinces, which was an ICC ratified event. We renovated Ward 2 of the Chest Hospital in Welisara for the second time and we There are two capacity building projects donated three playground items (merry-gounderway at the moment, namely Job Skills round, slide and see-saw) to the Police Scholarships Programme and Skills for Life Children’s Park at Ampara which would programme. The Job Skills Scholarship promote psychosocial wellbeing of the programme, being implemented through children of the area. Skills for Success (Pvt.) Ltd., involves a Series of 10-day career guidance programmes in six Industry advancement districts where we have projects with a total of 400 scholarships. We consider industry advancement also to be one of our key responsibilities. In this The Skills for Life programme involves respect, we have taken leadership in the developing and sponsoring the mentoring advancement of the construction industry to programmes in two departments (i.e. civil take up the future challenges through the and earth resources) of Faculty of introduction of modern technology, Engineering, University of Moratuwa. The development of human resources and course is scheduled to begin with the new dissemination of best practices in semester which begins in June 2013. construction management. Health and wellness During the year, we carried out a project to address one of the critical human resource Health and wellness is yet another focus area issues in the construction industry – dearth of our social responsibility initiatives where of competent laboratory technicians. As a we engage in projects to promote physical, solution, we selected a group of 10 schoolpsychological, social and spiritual wellness of leavers with good educational background the society, including our own employees and enrolled them in an apprenticeship and their families, through health and programme to be trained as laboratory wellness education, infrastructure technicians. The company has borne a cost development, dissemination of healthcare of over Rs. 300,000 per apprenticeship services, promotion and sponsorship of without any financial bond, but only with the sports events and contributions to uplift objective of providing competent human medical services, promotion and sponsorship resource to the industry. It is our thinking of sports events and contributions to uplift that a competent industry workforce will medical services. ultimately benefit everyone. With the positive response from the staff We have entered into a Memorandum of members who took part in holistic wellness Understanding with the National initiatives, we took the concept a step Apprenticeship and Industrial Training Page | 34 Authority (NAITA) to sponsor the ongoing consumables for the course, the material batch of students at the Kandakadu needed for the assessments, fees for the Rehabilitation Center who are undergoing instructors and certificate awarding vocational training in masonry and ceremony. carpentry. The project includes providing Page | 35 Page | 36 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY A business exists to provide a product (either a good or service) to the customers. While fulfilling a need in a customer, the business is vested with a power which grants control over the customer. The customer is most often, if not always, at the mercy of the business, who invariable are more knowledgeable about the product than the customer. Exercising this power responsibly is the cornerstone of any sustainable business. Product responsibility at Access At Access Engineering, maintaining high was initially established to cater to the instandards for our product responsibilities house design requirements while carrying (including both goods and services) is the out construction projects. The establishment governing principle across all our operations. and development of the Design Division has Since we involve in engineering operations equipped us with the competence to move across the whole spectrum, from designing into stand-alone design projects and to seize through design and built to construction, our the opportunity of the recent shift in the actions to realize product responsibilities construction industry from construction have far reaching consequences. contracting to design and built projects. We have swiftly and effortlessly moved into Responsible design these new markets which has opened the doors for a new business unit. As a contractor, most of the time we are This has created new challenges with regard required only to follow designs given by the to product responsibility. We have designer (Architects, Engineers) and to strengthened our Design Division and at produce an end product that will fit for its present the engineering team of the Division intended purpose. To ensure that our encompasses Chartered Engineers, operations and products do not harm users, Chartered Architects and Engineers. The either directly or indirectly, we always have a team is reinforced by an experienced strong communication and dialogue with the advisory consultant in the field of structural designers. As a responsible contractor we designs. With the recent expansion and are always aware of our duty to alert the development of the Division, it has acquired designer if the specifications or designs are the capability of handling many types of civil not in accordance with current industry and structural designs, utilizing the most practices and standards. Furthermore, our advanced and modern design software for construction activities are carried out with structural and foundation analysis, and strict compliance with international advanced drafting software to produce standards including British Standards (BS), engineering drawings. In an attempt to American Standards, Australian Standards ensure product safety, we always seek and Indian Standards. Also we comply with second opinions from a third party which Sri Lankan Standards (SL). Thus, when it include University academics and other comes to product responsibility we operate consultants. diligently to ensure that the ultimate product has met designer’s requirements as well as the fitness for purpose. Procuring of business Designing aspect of our operations is carried Product responsibility starts from the point out by a designated Design Division which of procuring of business. During its short Page | 37 span in existence, AE has been able to its capabilities and reliability as a JV partner procure and execute a significant amount of in executing some complex projects. It is infrastructure related civil engineering believed that the expertise gained through projects in Sri Lanka in diversified sectors the working relationship with these JVs either on behalf of the GoSL or together with would enable AE to procure construction third party developers. work of major infrastructure projects in the future, while internalizing product Procuring of business by AE in relation to responsibility in a broader sense. construction, improvements and completion of infrastructure projects directly sourced by Core competencies the GoSL takes place through a transparent tender process by the respective authorities. The realization of our product responsibility Depending on the scope of construction, is rooted in having developed several core specialized nature of project, stipulated competencies, which not only has enabled us timeframe and project funding, AE would to execute our duty as a responsible participate in the bidding process either corporate citizen, but also to be a formidable individually or jointly with internationally player in the civil engineering space in Sri reputed construction companies specialized Lanka. in the respective fields of construction. Competent Workforce In addition to the above method of procuring business, AE works with third party The Company has an experienced Corporate developers who have already secured Management Team who has extensive infrastructure development projects from expertise in their respective domains. The the GoSL or authorities, in the capacity as a corporate management team of AE is JV partner. In most instances these third committed to attain sustained value creation parties involved are leading foreign for its stakeholders through effective contractors or developers who have the structures and processes within the expertise and experience in their respective Company. The experience and fields. Over the years, AE through JVs and professionalism within the team has been strategic alliances has been able to develop a the catalyst in integrating the core strong relationship with leading foreign competencies into strategic partnerships contractors/developers who have carried out which enables AE to capitalize on future infrastructure projects in Sri Lanka. market opportunities. In some instances, AE has been responsible In addition to the management team, AE for introducing these parties to Sri Lanka, possesses a qualified and trained workforce and hence has a continued relationship and a who has mastered the operations in sound understanding with regard to the respective service divisions. This skilled working arrangements, which would enable resource of the Company possesses the the Company to secure business of these requisite expertise and experience in the use parties on a preferential basis. and handling of modern construction equipment and machinery. Skill sets of Participation of AE in most of the mega road employees provide the Company the developments, bridge constructions, flyover flexibility to adapt to the needs of its clients constructions, water supply and port and the technical specifications of the development projects undertaken in the various projects undertaken by AE. recent past has been through JVs, mainly collaborating with leading contractors from A key success factor that has driven AE to China, Malaysia, UK etc. These JVs have procure a successful growth over the years is given the opportunity for AE to demonstrate Page | 38 its technical competency and incessant whilst adhering to the ISO 9001:2008 innovativeness in the infrastructure standards and other applicable regulatory development field. The Company is known to requirements by each of the service divisions be in the forefront in initiating and utilizing of AE. During the period of reporting, the some of the advanced, modern and QMS and EMS were subject to two audits comprehensive systems and equipments in each by the certifying body, DNV of India. the civil construction sector that has strengthened the value engineering arm of The Geotechnical and Laboratory Services the Company through shorter construction Division of AE is responsible to ensure the period, cost efficiency, increased quality control during each phase of productivity and enhanced operational construction projects. To further improve the capability whilst delivering a better value for quality of the operations, we obtained ISO its clientele. 17025:2005 (General requirements for the competence of testing and calibrating The integrated service divisions of AE laboratories) certification from the Sri Lanka endeavor to continuously adapt and respond Accreditation Board. The process was to the new inventions and standards in civil initiated in January 2011 and was completed construction sector. The Company is in April 2013, with the award of certificate of constantly working with international compliance. contractors and consultants to gain knowledge in value engineering and use of more cost efficient techniques in carrying out construction related activities. Quality Assurance The Company is committed to ensure high quality in deliverables to its clientele. In attaining the requisite quality, it endeavors to maintain an experienced human resource base and the latest construction equipment portfolio in its operations. Our work quality is governed by a Quality Management System (QMS) which is in accordance with ISO 9001:2008 standards, where quality assurance procedures are strictly followed. The quality policy of AE focuses on facilitating high quality civil construction services with effective, efficient and innovative solutions. The Company adheres to stringent measures to ensure effective quality control including creation of quality standards, their implementation and employee training. The utmost consideration of the Company to its customers, staff, principals, subcontractors, suppliers as well as the society is reflected through the continuous upgrade to its quality management system Page | 39 Page | 40 LOOKING TO THE FUTURE A sustainable business is one which continuously looks for opportunities for growth in terms of the triple bottom line. Improved operations, increased business volume, enhanced community contributions and reduced environmental impact are all concerns for a sustainable business. When looking to the future, we have identified several initiatives which would further strengthen our position as a sustainable business entity. Consolidate in the current Private Public Partnerships markets We will continue to seek opportunities for With the infrastructure development still Public Private Partnerships in water, in full throttle, we plan to further wastewater, power and renewable consolidate our position in the market by energy generation. procuring key projects during the next year. This includes major road projects, Strengthen employee health bridge projects and water supply projects. We will also look at very seriously into While carrying out the initial work in the expanding in the building sector which we Health & Safety Management System, it entered into during the last year. was observed that employee health is a relatively neglected area compared to Enter into new businesses safety. We intend to strengthen the focus on improvement of the health of our Through acquisitions and direct employees, in addition to safeguarding investment, we plan to get into new them against occupational diseases. business areas. We are pursuing opportunities to enhance our presence in Introduce Management the mechanical engineering sector. We Information Systems will also pursue strategic investment opportunities in areas such as property The exponential growth we experienced development, township establishments, during the last three years have placed a mixed development, and residential huge strain on the operational projects. management of projects. We intend to introduce Management Information Expand into international markets Systems in operational management (through an Enterprise Resource Planning The Company is keen in expanding its solution) and in HR management (through operations beyond the shores of Sri an HRIS). Lanka. With the first overseas project being secured last year, we are looking Re-locate business operations for opportunities in the African continent using our relationships with international Since its establishment, PMD I and II has business partners. been located in Boralesgamuwa, which caused certain operational difficulties. Action will be taken to re-locate all the PMDs and the Corporate Office under one roof. Page | 41 Expand social development further expand our investments in investment projects that will give sustainable benefits to the communities we work in as well as the country as a whole, This year saw a surge in the investment in social development projects. We will Page | 42 Page | 43
