For a sustainable growth Sustainable Development Report 2012 On the road to growth Our capacity to anticipate and react and the flexibility that characterises our profession have enabled us to overcome crisis. As a strong and inventive player in an ever-changing universe, we are ready to support industry with its evolution and change. Today, showing a new path to growth, we bring together our intelligence, our capacity for innovation, our creativity and our values to build, with and for our customers, tomorrow’s performance. 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report 1/ Our commitment principles >> Challenges At Assystem, the implementation of CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) is Clients overseen at the highest management level, in compliance with the principles set out in the UN Global Compact. Nurture long-term partnerships based on our like-mindedness in matters of quality, risk control and competitive advantage. Assystem’s professional code of conduct formally sets out the principles of action that govern the behaviour of all employees with respect to its stakeReflect Assystem’s CSR commitments in our relationship with clients through holders and its environment. This code guarantees our clients that, for each responsible behaviour and by developing solutions that promote sustainable type of assignment, within their teams or for outsourced assignments, we will development. abide by the online principles and methods that apply world standards as their in-house procedures for ethics and security. On the operational front, the Employees ongoing improvement management system follows the recommendations of the ISO 26000 standard concerning the social responsibility of organisations. Put our employees on a track that allows them to make professional and personal progress. Assystem’s commitment to sustainable growth is conveyed in «The Manifesto for the Growth to be». Published in 2011, this Manifesto expresses the Group’s Promote their employability. desire to promote a growth model that gives social and ecological equilibrium the same consideration as economic and financial equilibrium sustainable Suppliers growth that meets the aspirations of our times: The Growth to Be. This model leads to the invention of original forms of coordination between companies Develop lasting relationships, based on shared values and their complete and their stakeholders and to the creation of sustainable shared values. integration in our projects. Assystem formally supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Investors Compact in the areas of human rights, labour laws, environmental protection and anti-corruption. By subscribing to this Compact, Assystem undertakes to Conduct our business in a rigorous, controlled and transparent manner, bring its operations and its strategy into line with these universal principles. abiding by the principles set down in Assystem’s Professional Code of Conduct. 2/ The scope of our responsibility Deliver regular and transparent information and promote dialogue. Assystem adopts a three-pronged approach to social responsibility: Communities ●● anticipate and integrate our clients’ social and environmental challenges in the services we offer them; Ensure that Assystem’s activities and innovations promote collective progress. ●● ensure the professional and personal development of our engineers and protect jobs; Take part in the development of territories and community initiatives. ●● contribute to collective progress through our views and expertise. 3 2012 CSR Report 3/ Key indicators The data published in the table below is taken from the annual social report drawn up by Assystem’s human resources department, based on the count as In 2011, Assystem drew up a list of key indicators to assess the impact of its on 31 December 2012, concerning all of the group’s staff. The scope chosen activity on its environment and from its stakeholders’ standpoint. They are the takes account of the pertinence and coherence of the indicators in relation to subject of regular monitoring and an annual report. In line with the Group’s the Group’s main activities. CSR policy, they are constantly enhanced and improved. The carbon footprint is based on the energy-related direct and indirect emissions In 2012, Assystem published a brochure, which is available on its website, by Assystem sites in France. The study also included work-related travel and trips. presenting its policy and actions with regards CSR, and it devoted a special The scope used as a reference is likely to expand to include other countries. issue of its in-house magazine to informing employees and raising their awareness on the challenges of CSR. 2012 CSR indicators 2012 Sales €855.6 million Total headcount 10,745 Social indicators(1) % permanent contracts 91.8% % of women 21.1% % of seniors (employees aged over 45 years) 19.3% % disabled employees 1.25% Average age (in years) 35.3 years old Number of hires 2,980 Absence rate (number of days off work per 100 days worked) 2.84 Lost time injury frequency rate (in number of accidents per million hours worked) 3.28 Work-related accident severity rate (in number of days off work per 1000 hours worked) 0.09 Number of employees trained during the year 4,937 Total number of training hours 169,736 Average duration of training courses (in hours) 35 Environmental indicators(2) Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions in MTCDE(3) 7,716 Emissions of MTCDE per person per year 1.22 Km per person of work-related car travel 4,808 Km per person of work-related air travel 2,062 (1) Excluding the workforce of INSIEMA and MPH Global Services (i.e. 1,248 people). (2) Data gathered within the scope of Assystem in France only (excluding INSIEMA), for the first year in which the report is required to take the Grenelle II law into account. (3) Metric tons CO2 equivalent. 4/ Assystem’s CSR policy Share the challenges of the industry 4.1/ Contribute to the sustainable development Assystem’s ability to help its customers meet the challenges of sustainable of industry development rests on two pillars: an industrial culture of environments with strong constraints, especially as regards regulations, safety and risk control; The challenges of sustainable development foster the emergence of virtuous dynacutting-edge expertise focused on finding solutions that respect the environmics in the industrial world in which economic performance and environmental ment and human health. These skills are implemented very early on when performance are closely linked. As engineers we help perpetuate this movement. designing and sizing the projects and during the continuous improvement management process. 4 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report For example, Assystem assisted in the project management for the Maison de amphibious ULM demonstrating the most recent aeronautical technologies l’Enfance, the first low-energy consumption building in the town of Genevilliers aimed at limiting the environmental impact of this mode of transport. (Île-de-France). The Company worked on the early stages of the project and helped orient the technical choices and propose innovative solutions, like It also entered into partnerships with players involved in research (the Vehicle the adiabatic air cooling system which replaces traditional air-conditioning, of the Future in Franche-Comté, the Burgundy nuclear centre, Aerospace reducing costs and energy consumption. The project was delivered and Valley in Toulouse, Polepharma around Dreux, the Fondation de Coopération commissioned in August 2011. Scientifique on the Paris-Saclay campus). Close attention is also paid to social and environmental issues with regards In 2012, Assystem launched the Assystem Innovation Factory, a network of Assystem’s relations with its suppliers and subcontractors. In France, Assystem Company employees aimed at creating, stimulating and promoting innovation has included these criteria in its purchasing policy. within the Group to facilitate the emergence of new offers, contribute to the excellence of businesses, ensure the continuous improvement of processes, A long-term approach and reinforce the Group’s image. hhContinuous improvement at the heart of customer relations 4.2/ Enable our employees to progress Since 2004, Assystem has been conducting an annual satisfaction survey in in a sustainable manner France on a panel of 600 customers in order to orient, adjust and validate its continuous improvement process. In 2010, this survey became a real annual Assystem employs 10,745 people worldwide. The average age is 35.28 years indicator confirming the level of customer satisfaction observed. In 2012, 81% old. The average turnover is 24.4% with a resignation rate of 14.4%. In 2012, of the customers interviewed said they were satisfied with the services provided the Group hired 2,980 people(1) 64% of the new recruits are engineers – 27.7% by Assystem. Moreover, 100% of the customers interviewed in two consecutive of whom are fresh graduates. Employee referrals account for 15%, testifying to years observed an improvement in the Company’s quality of service. the ability of Assystem employees to recommend their Company. hhA reference with regards to safety Remuneration details and trends in the Group are given in Chapter 8 Assystem’s long-standing experience in safety, acquired through the French (Consolidated financial statements, staff costs). nuclear programme, makes it a leading player. Since 2011, within the International Institute of Nuclear Energy (I2EN), the Group has developed The talent, motivation and «community know-how» of Assystem’s employees training programmes for future operators aimed at sharing best practices and are the Company’s main assets. The Group strives to offer all new employees developing a responsible nuclear industry. the opportunity to progress within the group and in their future jobs. The breadth and diversity of assignments, the training and mobility are all levers of hhDemonstrate our financial strength Assystem’s human resources management. The Group has showed it is able to weather crises while maintaining its cash position and its capacity to raise finances to further its developments. The sectorial Develop talent and geographical complementarity of its business shields us from the unforeseen ups and downs of the economic climate and guarantees lasting growth. hhIntegrate new talent into the Company Fresh graduates account for approximately one quarter of our annual recruitOffer innovative solutions to promote lasting growth ment. Assystem develops partnerships with top-ranking engineering schools to allow trainees to gain professional experience right from the work placement Cutting down power consumption and greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions is part period. Once hired, fresh graduates join a personalised integration programme of the strategy to optimise costs for our clients. This was the goal of the work that helps them acquire the fundamentals of the engineering profession. carried out by Assystem very early in the project aimed at developing solutions that would ensure energy efficiency and ecomobility. This resulted in the following In 2012, the new work placement pilot programme called «Léo» launched in innovative projects: I-Planet, the domestic energy management solution, the France led to 65% of trainees being hired by the Company. Indeho project, a production system for independent energy homes, and the (1) Excluding INSIEMA and MPH Global Services. 5 2012 CSR Report hhMake the most of senior employees’ experience In 2012, in a period of economic change, it was possible to save jobs via Recruiting seniors and making the most of their experience is an important training and mobility. The French automobile industry experienced problems aspect of Assystem’s human resources policy. Senior employees benefit from a but there were not enough engineers in the aeronautical sector so approxicareer management system aimed at maintaining their skills within the Group, mately 150 employees took up new positions within the Group. During the enhancing them and passing them on to the next generation. They are called automobile crisis at the end of 2008, training courses allowed about 300 upon to train and tutor younger graduates. In France, the interview organised employees in the automobile sector to be transferred to the nuclear sector. in the second part of their career helps them define their medium-term career objectives and adapt their career path accordingly. Ensuring employee well-being In 2012, seniors represented 19.3% of the overall workforce at Assystem and In a Group such as Assystem, in which 70% of the workforce work off-site 9% of recruitments. on specific missions, the quality of attention and follow-up is essential and managers pay particular attention to this. Not only does excellence of service Develop skills to improve employability depend on it but also the motivation Assystem’s engineers. It is through the development and continued upgrading of skills that Assystem The main occupational risk of consultancy is stress, often caused by the isolaremains in the leading position in its business sectors. In 2012, 4,937 tion experienced by engineers when off-premises or due to their routine being employees in the Group received 35 hours training, on average. upset in-between assignments. To prevent this risk, a psychosocial risk management system was developed in France in 2008 which calls for managers The primary goal of the Assystem Institute, created in 2008, was to gather and to be especially vigilant regarding a certain number of indicators that can be transfer the know-how of senior employees who were involved in the initial used to spot difficult situations. To reinforce this vigilance, training sessions are nuclear programmes. It now comprises three institutes dedicated to specific conducted and risk prevention initiatives are taken in managerial practices. In professions: terms of working hours, the weekly working time ranges from 35 to 45 hours, ●● the Assystem Nuclear Institute ensures the transfer of know-how from depending on the country. in-house experts to junior employees; ●● the Assystem Project Management Institute aims to improve the quality The frequency and severity rates of work-related accidents in the Group are of Assystem’s individual and collective skills in project management; very low: i.e. 3.28 accidents per one million hours worked and 0.09 days lost ●● the Assystem Aerospace Institute offers operationally-oriented training as due to work-related accidents per 1,000 hours worked. At Group level, the well as training eligible for quality certification. data on occupational illnesses is not consolidated. In 2012, the Assystem Aerospace Institute added a Turbo Institute, specialised In 2012, the Group extended its activities into new regions of the world and in engine know-how and a Quality Academy which offers a full range of became active in the oil industry but Assystem continues to pay special attention training courses on industrial quality activities. to health, safety and the environment (HSE), fields that have been handled in the nuclear industry for several decades. The Assystem Automotive Institute, located in Romania, is aimed at developing the Company’s skills close to the domestic market, at anticipating and 4.3/ Working together to build growth supporting the transnational development of the automobile industry. shared by all Promote constructive mobility Assystem integrates studies conducted by the profession and the economic sphere to nurture its views and collective intelligence on responsible practices. Mobility is seen as a source of motivation and advancement that steps up the The Group mobilises its energy to meet the major social challenges: employemployability of staff. The challenge facing human resource management is to ment, the fight against discrimination and global warming. develop bridges between Group entities, sites and businesses. The Assystem Institute plays a pivotal role in this policy. In 2012, 378 (3.98%) employees This action is initiated by the involvement of the hundred or so Assystem agenchanged their job position through this system. cies within their local communities, in terms of employment, relations with local stakeholders and civic and supportive initiatives. 6 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Report Enrich relations through dialogue In 2012, Assystem signed a five-year partnership with Fondation INSA(2) in Lyon to help youngsters from less-fortunate social backgrounds succeed in their hhWith social partners: move forwards together studies and gain access to employment. With trade union organisations, Assystem strives to lend meaning to its practices and working methods. hhEnable female engineers to lead a successful career Assystem’s gender mix and gender equality policy is based on the conviction In France, the Group insisted upon signing agreements on gender equality that increasing the proportion of women, especially in senior positions, leads and the employment of seniors. Therefore, at the end of 2012, its subsidiary to enhanced team work and improved management. This policy brings direct Assystem Engineering & Operation Services signed a Charter to ensure a and indirect benefits for the Company. balance between working life and private life, and enable its employees to cope with personal constraints while complying with Company imperatives. With a workforce comprising 21% of women, Assystem follows a proactive policy, via recruitment and mentoring. In France in 2010, the Company set up Moreover, in coordination with a monitoring committee, the Company collecan in-house network to apply this policy. It is called the «Femmes d’Énergie» tively strives to prevent psychosocial risks. network and it now has 300 members. In France, in 2012, thirty meetings with trade union organisations(1) led to the At the beginning of 2012, local relays within the «Femmes d’Énergie» network conclusion of five Company agreements. Each meeting is attended by about were set up, thus increasing the number of initiatives and changing mentalities. two people from management and twelve people from trade union organisaThus, in 2012, Assystem exceeded its female recruitment goal by achieving a tions. No agreements were reached regarding health and safety at work. workforce comprising 26% of women. hhWith the engineering sector: initiate action that fosters hhIntegrating disabled people better collective progress Convinced that a handicap does not stall professional development, Assystem Assystem is actively involved in initiatives designed to promote its activities adopted a «Mission Handicap» scheme in 2007. Its role is to integrate new and circulate best practices in safety and security. Together with the French employees with disabilities and allow them to remain in employment. The professional trade union, Syntec-Ingénierie, the Group is drawing up reference percentage of disabled employees has reached in 2012 1.25% of the global systems for the application of the ISO 26000 standard. headcount. This figure has more than doubled in 6 years. hhMake our voice heard by decision-makers Support civic initiatives Through the Chairman of the Management Board, Assystem participates in the Entreprise & Progrès think tank. This think tank has been bringing together Assystem supports the social and civic commitments of its employees. In France the heads of France’s leading companies since 1970. Its aim is to maintain for example, the Company backs the «Femmes d’Énergie» network’s initiative a constructive dialogue with policy makers and economic players and place to take part in La Parisienne running event to combat breast cancer. In England, the person at the heart of Company objectives and place the Company at the Assystem employees helped raise funds for CLIC Sargent, an association that heart of society. supports children suffering from cancer. Work towards diversity and equal opportunity Limit our environmental impact to reduce our carbon footprint further hhCombating discrimination based on social background In 2006, Assystem signed the Corporate Charter for Commitment Towards The carbon footprint for 2012 confirms(3) that our activities have a low direct Equal Opportunity in Education. Convinced that human qualities take impact on the environment in France. Nevertheless, in line with its continuous precedence over any other criterion, we have undertaken various initiatives to improvement policy, the group has adopted a targeted approach for emission help less-fortunate populations gain access to engineering careers. reduction by developing site-by-site control tools and by reproducing initiatives that have proved their worth. (1) Scope: Assystem France and Assystem Engineering & Operation Services. (2) The INSA (National Institute for Applied Sciences) is an engineering school. (3) Data collected within the scope of Assystem France only (excluding INSIEMA). 7 2012 CSR Report hhRationalise business travel Some of the information required by the decree to implement article 225 of the The Group acts on several fronts, the main one being vehicle fleet manageGrenelle II law has not been included in the chapter on CSR because it is not ment and the development of cleaner transportation solutions. In five years, the very relevant to the activities carried out by the Assystem Group. The following CO2 emissions of our car fleet have dropped from 130 g to under 120 g/km themes have not been covered: on average in France(1). Assystem’s goal is to reduce its emissions by 15% by ●● resources devoted to the prevention of environmental risks and pollution; the year 2015, i.e. the same as planting 300 trees per year(1). At the Group’s ●● measures to prevent, reduce or repair environmentally damaging discharges biggest sites, the Company encourages car-pooling, and takes advantage into the air, water and soil; of its proximity to its clients’ premises to propose green business travel: car ●● the integration of noise pollution and all other forms of pollution specific to sharing systems, self-service bikes. In the Group as a whole, we advocate the an activity; use of call conferencing and encourage the least polluting means of travel by ●● water consumption and water supply according to local constraints; displaying a CO2 calculator. ●● the consumption of raw materials and measures taken to improve their efficiency; ●● land use; hhTake action in the working environment ●● adaptation to the consequences of climate change; Due to Assystem’s sustained growth, the number of sites has increased to ●● measures taken to protect or develop biodiversity; 40 and the surface area of its premises amounts to 40,000 sq. meters in France. ●● measures taken in favour of consumer health and safety. The challenge is to keep pace with this growth while controlling its impact. All Assystem’s buildings comply with HQE or BBC standards and wherever Moreover, the Group did not have to account for guarantees or provisions for possible, separated sites have been brought together in a single building. environmental risks, given the nature of its activities. The building management systems that were installed have significantly decreased energy consumption. The Group has thus cut down the energy The number of redundancies for the fiscal year of 2012 is not indicated because consumption of its two major French sites by 15% in five years. At present, it is it was not published as such in the HR report which integrates the redundancies setting up a panel of indicators to help create targeted optimisation plans and is in the total number of departures. An improvement plan will be implemented to preparing to deploy an in-house awareness-raising campaign on daily actions. obtain this information in the future. This campaign is already running in the United Kingdom. Finally, Assystem is attentive to waste management and encourages waste sorting at its source. (1) Data collected within the scope of Assystem France only (excluding INSIEMA). 8 Design & Production Publishing April 2013 70, boulevard de Courcelles 75017 PARIS Tél.: +33 (0)1 55 65 03 00 Fax: +33 (0)1 55 65 00 49 A NEW PATH TO GROWTH WWW.ASSYSTEM.COM
