Communication on Progress Year: 2013 Dear Sir or Madam, Greetings from Medianet! We are delighted to submit our first COP of supporting ten principles. As a member of the Global Compact, we also believe that our business policies incorporate these the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability ity goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarised the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future future. During the past year, we have accomplished number of tasks to ensure that ten principles of the UN Global Compact are integrated within our business. We ensure that the upcoming year will be more outcomes in related to this program. Sincerely yours. Ahmed Shahiq Chief Operating Officer Contact: Ibrahim Rasheed Email: irash@medianet.com.mv Phone: 009603320800 Fax: 009603316567 Commitment/ Policies, Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans Global Compact Principle for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Commitment/ Policies respect the protection of • We as a company take responsibility to uphold human rights issues within our internationally proclaimed human organization and community. rights; • A policy of Business Code of Ethics have implemented for employees, ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and respectfully. • The company promote and comply with all Health and Safety regulations and ensure every employee enjoys a clear working environment. • A policy has been implemented with regards of employee Grievances Policy and Procedure. Action Taken • A Committee of senior employees formed to conduct any such grievance issues and created channel for the employees to direct their issues. • We have undertaken a number of humanitarian projects, including support for the NGO's, and other sectors. Outcomes • Cascaded to all employees about the benefits of grievance policy as part of human rights issue in the work place. • We have taken some additional steps to invest time and resource into charitable organization. Such as Orphanage children, blood donation and individual those who require advanced medical facilities from aboard. Plans for the Upcoming Year • We will be doing some more refresher training programs which related human rights issue. 2: and make sure that they are not Commitment/ Policies complicit in human rights abuses. • A policy has been implemented in regards of Conflict Resolution to ensure provide healthy and safe work environment for all employees. Action Taken • Policy has been communicated to all employees Outcomes P 2/5 • Employees are aware of this policy has and ensure they have been well protected. Plans for the Upcoming Year • Continuation of the similar project and also providing necessary training to the employees will be carry forward upcoming year. 3: Businesses should uphold the Commitment/ Policies freedom of association and the • There is no such a policy that the company discourages an employee participating a effective recognition of the right to union, political party or any other form of press freedom or such a thing. collective bargaining; • All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions. • All employees are issued with a Company Handbook which includes information on company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. Action Taken • We have actively encouraged employees development their career growth • We have actively supported local community projects education and health programs, aimed at eliminating child labor and discrimination issues. Outcomes • Nil Plans for the Upcoming Year • As a company we always strive to cascade these information to all employees and ensure they have been well look after by the company. 4: the elimination of all forms of Commitment/ Policies forced and compulsory labour; • A policy of Equal Employment Opportunity Non Discrimination and a ZERO tolerance policy of Harassment & Sexual Harassment Policy implemented and ensure there is no any form of harassment or discrimination. Action Taken • Communicated to all employees about this policy. Outcomes • Employees are aware that we have these policies and any such incident happen they have been aware that can report to either Human Resources or direct to Grievance Committee. Plans for the Upcoming Year • As part of Policy refresher training we will be conducting a refresher training on these policies to all employees. P 3/5 5: the effective abolition of child Commitment/ Policies labour; • As per Maldivian Employment Act Labour Law No. 2/2008, Chapter 3 Employment of Minors under clause No. 6, the company will not hire anyone under 16 years of age and those who are under 18 years as per the law we ensure their parent no objection letter is maintained. Action Taken • Nil Outcomes • Nil Plans for the Upcoming Year • Nil 6: and the elimination of Commitment/ Policies discrimination in respect of • The company recognize the right to collective bargaining, and child labor issues and the employment and occupation. elimination of discrimination • All employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions. • Employees have received a Company Handbook which includes information on company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. • We ensures that the company always comply with all local employment acts and regulations. Action Taken • The company have implemented a formal and comprehensive training and development program for all employees to develop and build on their existing skills base. • All employees are encouraged to develop their skills by attending appropriate training seminars and courses. Outcomes • Nil Plans for the Upcoming Year • Continue with same practices and strive to develop our employees to retain. 7: Businesses should support a Commitment/ Policies precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Action Taken Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year P 4/5 8: undertake initiatives to promote Commitment/ Policies greater environmental responsibility; Action Taken Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year 9: and encourage the development Commitment/ Policies and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Action Taken Outcomes Plans for the Upcoming Year 10: Businesses should work against Commitment/ Policies all forms of corruption, including • A policy of Business Code of Ethics has been in place to ensue that we maintain zero extortion and bribery. tolerance for corruption, which supports our commitment to work against corruption in all its forms, including bribery and extortion. • The Conflict Resolution Policy also added on the same subject and the reporting channels has been articulated on this policy as well. • We as a company aim to create a corporate culture where an ethical and moral code is upheld by our employees. • We are transparent in all business conducts, company transactions and operations. Action Taken • Provided necessary training and communication all employees to ensure everyone is comply with this policy and also added on employee hand book. Outcomes • It has been clearly aware that how the business should be conducted within the organisation. Plans for the Upcoming Year • Will be reviewing the existing policy and ensure everyone is fully aware of this such a policy especially those who are more related in the kind of environment. P 5/5
