Annual Report 2013 This is Handelsbanken Handelsbanken is a full-service bank for both private and corporate customers. The Bank has a nationwide branch network in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. The Bank regards these countries as its home markets. Handelsbanken was founded in 1871 and has operations in 24 countries. 142 810 offices in 24 countries. years of availability. 42 years running with better 25 years with the most profitability than satisfied customers the average of according to Swedish peer banks in Quality Index (SKI)*. home markets. SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN is one of the 15 strongest banks in the world and Default Swap) which reﬂect its funding costs. OUR HOME MARKETS the strongest bank in Europe. This success is A CDS can be compared to a credit insurance Every year, Swedish Quality Index (SKI) and its asproof that Handelsbanken’s long-term business premium which a lender pays to insure the claim sociated organisation EPSI carry out independent model is of high quality. Bloomberg used ﬁve on a borrower. The lower the risk level a bank surveys of customer satisfaction, based on a Eurodifferent ﬁnancial measures to reach the result. has, the lower the insurance premium an invespean standard. The results for 2013 showed that These included ﬁnancial strength, the ability to tor pays to insure the credit risk it takes when Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed customers manage risk and cost efﬁciency. 78 banks with buying the Bank’s bonds. Handelsbanken has in Sweden. Handelsbanken also had top positions assets of at least USD 100 billion were included the lowest CDS level of the European banks and in the ranking. in all its home markets, among both private and can therefore borrow money at the lowest cost corporate customers. in the funding market. FUNDING MARKET – POSITION During the year, Handelsbanken continued to STRONGEST BANK IN EUROPE CONTINUES TO BE STRONG broaden and vary its funding sources, including In spring 2013, the international news agency In 2013, Handelsbanken continued to have the to the domestic Japanese bond market. Bloomberg published its review of the strongest lowest funding costs of all the European banks. banks in the world. The results showed that This is illustrated by the fact that in 2013, the Handelsbanken, at number eleven in the list, Bank had the lowest level for its CDS (Credit * According to SKI (Swedish Quality Index), since surveys started in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers among the four major Swedish banks – Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. Highlights of the year The period’s profit after tax for total Net interest income increased by operations increased by 2 per cent 2 per cent to SEK 26,669 million to SEK 14,295 million (14,038); (26,081) and in the home markets excluding the year of comparison’s outside Sweden, net interest income recalculation of deferred taxes, the increased by 17 per cent. increase was 16 per cent. The C/I ratio improved to 47.0 per cent (47.6). Earnings per share increased to SEK 22.52 (22.34). The loan loss ratio fell to 0.07 per cent (0.08). Operating profit increased by 6 per cent to SEK 18,088 million (17,108) The common equity tier 1 ratio and increased in all home markets according to Basel II increased to 19.2 outside Sweden. per cent (17.9) and the total capital ratio rose to 21.6 per cent (20.7). Return on equity for total operations decreased to 13.9 per cent (14.9); The common equity tier 1 ratio excluding the effect of the according to Basel III was 18.9 per cent recalculation of deferred taxes in and the Bank continues to build up 2012, return on equity increased by capital. 0.8 percentage points. The liquidity reserve exceeded Income increased by 4 per cent to SEK 800 billion. SEK 36,327 million (35,062). The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK 16.50 per share, with the ordinary dividend being SEK 11.50 per share (10.75). Average growth in equity Total return since the start of the financial crisis 2008–2013* 31 December 2007 – 31 December 2013 SEK % 275 150 250 125 % R: 15 100 225 CAG 75 200 50 175 25 150 0 125 -25 100 -50 75 -75 50 -100 Handelsbanken DNB Nordea Standard Chartered HSBC SEB Swedbank BNP Paribas BBVA Danske Bank Barclays KBC Erste Group Deutsche Bank Intesa-Sanpaolo Credit Agricole Euro STOXX Banks Credit Suisse Societe Generale Lloyds UBS Unicredit Commerzbank RBS Bank of Ireland Allied Irish Banks Q2 13 Q4 13 Q1 13 Q4 12 Q3 12 Q2 12 Q1 12 Q4 11 Q3 11 Q2 11 Q1 11 Q4 10 Q3 10 Q2 10 Q1 10 Q4 09 Q3 13 Q3 09 Q2 09 Q1 09 Q4 08 Q3 08 Q2 08 Q1 08 Q4 07 Q3 07 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2013 (dividends reinvested) H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 1 Brief information Handelsbanken’s Annual General Meeting 2014 Location: Grand Hôtel, Winter Garden, Royal entrance, Stallgatan 4, Stockholm. Time: Wednesday, 26 March 2014 at 10 a.m. Notice of attendance Shareholders wishing to attend the AGM must be entered in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear Sweden AB (formerly VPC AB), by Thursday, 20 March 2014 at the latest. Notice of attendance is to be made to Handelsbanken, Corporate Governance, Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2, SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden, telephone +46 (0)8 701 19 84, or via the Bank’s website at handelsbanken.se/ireng by Thursday, 20 March 2014 at the latest. To be entitled to take part in the meeting, shareholders whose shares are nominee-registered must also request a temporary entry in the register of shareholders kept by Euroclear. Shareholders must notify the nominee of this well before Thursday, 20 March 2014, when this entry must have been effected. Dividend The Board proposes that the record day for the dividend be Monday, 31 March 2014, which means that Handelsbanken’s shares will be traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 27 March 2014. If the meeting resolves in ­accordance with the proposal, Euroclear expects to distribute the dividend on Thursday, 3 April 2014. It is possible for private individuals who are domiciled in Sweden for tax purposes, to donate dividends to non-profit organisations without paying tax on them, under certain conditions. Shareholders who are ­interested in this must contact their bank or asset manager well in advance so that the gift can be registered prior to the AGM. Financial calender 2014 5 February Annual accounts 2013 26 March Annual General Meeting 30 April Interim report January–March 2014 17 July Interim report January–June 2014 22 October Interim report January–September 2014 Financial information The following reports can be downloaded or ordered from Handelsbanken’s website handelsbanken.se/ireng: • annual reports • interim reports • risk reports • corporate governance reports • fact books • sustainability reports. Distribution The Annual Report can be ordered from Investor Relations, phone +46 (0)8 701 10 00 or online at handelsbanken.se/ireng where other reports as listed above are also available. Handelsbanken’s printed annual report will be distributed to shareholders who are new for the year. A written request is then sent asking them how they wish to receive the report in future. A printed version is sent to all shareholders who reply in the affirmative. Annual Report including Sustainability Report Handelsbanken’s Annual Report for 2013 contains the Bank’s complete Sustainability Report for 2013. The Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) 3.0 guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2013 calendar year. Handelsbanken’s Sustainability Report meets the information requirements of level C+ and this has been confirmed by the Bank’s external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the Group’s sustainability activities annually. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in an expanded GRI supplement, published on the Bank’s website at handelsbanken.se/csreng. 2 h a n d e l s b a n k e n | Annual R e po rt 2 0 1 3 Contents The Group Chief Executive’s comments Local, digital and long-term 4 ADMINISTRATION REPORT ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROUP PARENT COMPANY 141 Contents 7 FINANCIAL REPORTS Concept and goal 9 PARENT COMPANY Goal achievement 10 Contents 142 Our concept 12 Income statement Parent company 143 Organisation and working methods 14 Statement of comprehensive income Parent company 143 Available on the customer's terms 16 Balance sheet Parent company 144 Review of operations Financial overview 2013 19 Statement of changes in equity Parent company 145 Review of operations 20 Cash ﬂow statement Five-year overview Group 22 Parent company 146 Key ﬁgures per year 24 Five-year overview Quarterly performance 25 Parent company 147 Business segments 26 Notes Parent company 149 Branch operations in Sweden 28 RECOMMENDED Branch operations in the UK 30 APPROPRIATION OF PROFITS Branch operations in Denmark 32 Recommended appropriation Branch operations in Finland 34 of proﬁts 175 Branch operations in Norway 36 Branch operations in the AUDITOR’S REPORT Netherlands 38 Auditor’s report 176 Handelsbanken International 40 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 42 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken’s shares and Contents 178 shareholders 44 Sustainability at Handelsbanken 179 Sustainability, employees and the Key ﬁgures for sustainability work 180 environment 46 Our concept and organisation 182 Customers 184 Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report 2013 49 Employees 186 Contents 49 Shareholders 189 Corporate Governance structure 50 Society 190 Board members 60 Initiatives, awards Group Management and indexes and surveys 198 independent control functions 62 Content and restrictions 200 GRI index 201 FINANCIAL REPORTS GROUP Auditor’s report 203 Contents 64 CONTACT INFORMATION Income statement Group 65 Contents 205 Statement of comprehensive income Group 66 Contact information 206 Balance sheet Group 67 Branches and branch managers 208 Statement of changes in equity 68 Boards of subsidiaries 215 Group 69 Cash ﬂow statement Group 70 OTHER Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Notes Group Deﬁnitions and explanations 216 Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Registered ofﬁce: Stockholm handelsbanken.com This Annual Report is also available in Swedish. 3 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS Local, digital and long-term q 0QFSBUJOHQSPGJUGPSXBT4&,CJMMJPO&BSOJOHTQFSTIBSFXFSF4&, q )BOEFMTCBOLFOTSFUVSOPOFRVJUZGPSUPUBMPQFSBUJPOTXBTQFSDFOU q 5IF$*SBUJPlPVSFYQFOTFTEJWJEFECZPVSJODPNFlXBTQFSDFOU q 5IFDBQJUBMCBTFXBT4&,CJMMJPOBOEUIFDBQJUBMSBUJPBDDPSEJOHUP#BTFM**XBTQFSDFOU q 'PSNBOZZFBST )BOEFMTCBOLFOTFRVJUZ JODMVEJOHEJWJEFOETQBJEBOETIBSFSFQVSDIBTFT IBTHSPXO by an average of 15 per cent per year. q  IFSFIBTOPUCFFOBTJOHMFRVBSUFSEVSJOHUIFQBTUFJHIUZFBSTXIFOSFUVSOPOFRVJUZlBGUFSMPBO 5 MPTTFTBOEUBYlIBTGBMMFOCFMPXQFSDFOU q 8FIBWFNPSFTBUJTGJFEDVTUPNFSTlCPUIQSJWBUFBOEDPSQPSBUFlUIBOUIFBWFSBHFGPSUIFTFDUPS POBMMPVSIPNFNBSLFUT0OTFWFSBMPGUIFNXFIBWFUIFNPTUTBUJTGJFEDVTUPNFSTPGBMM A LONG-TERM APPROACH AND GROWTH Every year, the TNS-Sifo research company measures the reputation that Handelsbanken started its operations in 1871, and since then – for 142 various companies have among the Swedish public. For 2013, Handelsyears – has grown branch by branch, customer by customer. We work banken was one of the ten companies in Sweden with the best reputation, without budgets, central sales targets, or broad, traditional marketing. Inregardless of the sector. stead, we apply a highly decentralised working model, where each branch has a high degree of autonomy on its local market. Consequently, it is our THE REALLY LARGE CORPORATES’ BANK – AS WELL branch managers who take the majority of important business decisions In the past year, Handelsbanken has reinforced its position as the in the Bank. Other units at Handelsbanken are organised to support the really large corporates’ bank. For the third year running we were branches’ business in various ways. named Swedish Business Bank of the Year by Finansbarometern, We grow primarily by opening branches in locations where we currently an award based on opinions from senior corporate managers. The have no presence. A newly opened branch needs 1–2 years before it participants also named their company’s main bank. In the category shows positive cash ﬂow. After this, the branch’s income usually grows for the very largest companies, over 30 per cent of respondents named much more rapidly than its expenses. In exceptional circumstances, we Handelsbanken. supplement this organic growth model by acquiring small, well-run players These customers appreciate our high availability – particularly the fact – if they ﬁt in with our business model and corporate culture. that the person you talk to at the branch also has a mandate to take deciA long-term approach is characteristic of the Bank as a whole – in sions at the Bank. The fact that we are Scandinavia’s most international everything from our commitment and how we build up and nurture our bank, with branches and ofﬁces in 24 countries globally, provides another customer relationships to our view of our staff. And it applies particularly to form of availability: we are already present where our corporate customers our idea of how we aim to run our Bank. have – or wish to start – their operations. This long-term approach is the basis of our ownership structure: the For medium-sized and owner-managed companies, Handelsbanken Bank’s largest shareholders have long been the investment company has long been the leading bank in Sweden. Industrivärden – founded by Handelsbanken in 1944 – and the Bank’s Another parameter is our ﬁnancial strength. Bloomberg ranks us as employees, via the Oktogonen staff foundation. Stable, long-term owners one of the world’s ten strongest banks – and the strongest in Europe make a stable, long-term Bank. – meaning that we never have to say no to business that we and our For a long time, Handelsbanken has created value for its shareholdcorporate customers wish to do. ers. For many years, Handelsbanken’s equity, including dividends paid, has grown by an average of 15 per cent per year. We have not asked our GOOD PROFITABILITY LEADS TO GOOD TERMS shareholders for new capital, nor have we accepted state support. This ﬁnancial strength has meant that the Bank has always had good access to its funding sources, even when the ﬁnancial markets have been SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN A RESPECTED BANK closed to most players. At Handelsbanken we are convinced that sustainable long-term growth An important reason for this is Handelsbanken’s proﬁtability – our ability and shareholder value can only be achieved if we create long-term value to generate strong long-term value growth, regardless of the economic for the Bank’s customers at the same time. situation. For many decades, Handelsbanken has reported higher proﬁtIn 2013, Handelsbanken again had the most satisﬁed customers of the ability than the average of peer banks in our home markets. This proﬁtfour major banks in Sweden, according to the SKI/EPSI independent reability has been utilised for growth and has enabled us to show a stable search institute. The results also show that the gap compared to the other balance sheet over the long term. Solid ﬁnances provide the Bank not only major banks has widened. Handelsbanken also achieved top positions in with good access to the market, but also with one of the absolute lowest our home markets in the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands, funding costs on the market. among both private and corporate customers. To increase the ﬁnancial system’s resistance in our home markets, For 2013, Handelsbanken was acclaimed Bank of the Year by the politicians and supervisory authorities have drawn up new regulations Swedish business magazine Privata Affärer, the third time in ﬁve years which are coming into force in stages from early 2014, to be fully implethat we had won the award. The UK magazine The Banker also named mented by 2018, according to current timetables. us Bank of the Year for 2013. H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 4 THE GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE’S COMMENTS LONG TRADITION OF SUSTAINABILITY on this market, on both the corporate and the private side. We have also Being ﬁnancially stable is not just a business beneﬁt for our customers and won the conﬁdence of many good new customers, and have increased ourselves, it is also a way of assuming responsibility in the society where our credit volumes on the corporate and private market alike. we operate. We grow at the rate our customers grow; we build for the long term, with low risk tolerance so that we avoid exposing society to unnecFinland essary strain, in the form of government support measures, for example. In Finland, several banks were reorganised during the year, with branches Sustainability and corporate social responsibility (CSR) are also deeply being closed. Handelsbanken, on the other hand, plans to establish one rooted in Handelsbanken’s culture and working method. In addition to or more new branches. Despite the weakness of the Finnish economy, our internal steering documents and guidelines that govern HandelsHandelsbanken’s income has grown. Volumes for private lending have banken’s actions, the Bank is also a member of the voluntary initiatives grown more rapidly than for the market as a whole. Global Compact and Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), both UN initiatives directed at companies. Handelsbanken continues to support Netherlands these initiatives which are in keeping with the values and principles already In our newest home market, we continued to grow; during the year, ﬁve applying at Handelsbanken. new branches were opened, and we are now present in 18 locations, well spread across the country. In addition, during the year, SKI/EPSI LOCAL AND DIGITAL conducted an independent survey of customer satisfaction with banks in Today, customers can manage almost all their personal ﬁnances via one the Netherlands. Here, too, Handelsbanken was the bank with the most of Handelsbanken’s digital platforms. Customers can make decisions satisﬁed customers – and in the Netherlands the gap between us and our based on information obtained from a few clicks on their screen, and can competitors is wider than on any other of our home markets. then, for example, buy a mutual fund portfolio. But people want to meet people, which is particularly true when it WE’VE BECOME A LITTLE BETTER comes to taking a major ﬁnancial decision. People want to discuss things We have good reason to feel conﬁdent in our Bank and how we run it. But and listen to what someone has to say – preferably someone who lives in our pride in what we have achieved so far will never diminish our efforts the same town and knows the local conditions – everything from house to constantly become better. Our savings business is a case in point. In prices to infrastructure for local companies. Someone who is familiar with recent years, major efforts have been made in this area, and in 2013 they things, and who can explain so you understand. yielded clear results. The Bank’s very low external staff turnover results in employees with For the fourth year running, our fund management company had by long experience of the Bank and the local business environment. This far the highest net inﬂow. At the same time, the Bank’s mutual funds have builds local relations and contributes to customer meetings based on trust. become established among the top ratings of the Morningstar research Remarkably often, customers visit our branches due to a trivial, spontacompany. Our private banking service has again been acclaimed best neous need, on the spot – a simple transaction, which the customer might on the market. In Norway we have substantially advanced our position in normally do digitally, but this time chose to do at the branch. Thus we now discretionary management, and in the UK the acquisition of Heartwood let these two worlds meet at the branch, to an increasing extent. The cuswas completed during the year so we can now offer UK customers very adtomer and our employee log on to the customer’s online banking service, vanced wealth management solutions. And these are just a few examples. and the business is completed in the customer’s own digital environment. The work of further improving our offering in the savings area will continue. This need to sometimes meet face-to-face, despite all the technical solutions, will surely change – but never disappear. So Handelsbanken will MORE CHALLENGES continue to develop its services both digitally and locally. Another constant challenge is to continuously adapt our Bank to our customers’ new requirements for where, when and how they wish to do their OUR HOME MARKETS business with us, without compromising on what characterises HandelsToday, Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, Norway, the UK, banken – the aspects of simplicity, personal service and local presence. Denmark, Finland and the Netherlands. On these markets we strive to be We must simply continue to be Handelsbanken – only slightly more, a full-service bank with a nationwide branch network. slightly better than in the past, and constantly in step with new customer behaviour and business logic. Sweden To achieve this, we must naturally also work with ourselves. Our focus Handelsbanken in Sweden has grown on a market with relatively weak deon developing our staff will continue. Our gender equality work has been mand. In 2013, our savings business grew, both the volume of household acclaimed with prestigious awards, but there is still a great deal to do, deposits as well as our market share of mutual funds savings. Our credit particularly in our employees’ day-to-day work situations. volumes are also increasing. We will also broaden our recruitment base, not only to take in new skills to meet new types of challenge, but also in terms of diversity, so that we Norway become a Bank that even better reﬂects the society in which we work. During our 25 years in Norway we have grown steadily, and today Handelsbanken is one of the country’s three largest banks. In 2013, we again saw FINALLY growth, with volumes increasing on both the corporate and private market. Summing up the past year, Handelsbanken continued to grow, with increasing income and the most satisﬁed customers. Looking back on 2013, UK it is clear that the Bank’s healthy proﬁt is the result of hard work by all our In 2013 we maintained our expansion in the UK. We opened 28 branches, employees, and therefore I would like to extend my sincere thanks to them. and to ensure that new and existing branches continue to receive strong I would also like to take this opportunity to thank all our customers for support, a new regional bank was also established – the fourth in the UK. your conﬁdence in us. Handelsbanken’s business volumes in the UK continued to grow, with mortgage loans and deposits showing a particularly strong performance. Denmark The Danish banking market had another difﬁcult year, with demand being Pär Boman weak. In 2013, Handelsbanken again had the most satisﬁed customers Stockholm, February 2014 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2 013 5 Administration Report CONTENTS Concept and goal 9 Goal achievement 10 Our concept 12 Organisation and working methods 14 Available on the customer's terms 16 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW 2013 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS 20 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP 22 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR 24 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS 26 Branch operations in Sweden 28 Branch operations in the UK 30 Branch operations in Denmark 32 Branch operations in Finland 34 Branch operations in Norway 36 Branch operations in the Netherlands 38 Handelsbanken International 40 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 42 HANDELSBANKEN´S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS 44 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT 46 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 2013 49 Contents Corporate Governance Report 49 Corporate Governance structure 50 Board members 60 Group Management and independent control functions 62 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2 013 7 CONCEPT AND GOAL | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Concept Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised way of working, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. The Bank grows internationally by establishing its business model on selected markets. Goal Handelsbanken’s goal is to have better profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. 0OFPGUIFQVSQPTFTPG)BOEFMTCBOLFOTDPSQPSBUFHPBMJTUPPéFSTIBSFIPMEFST long-term high growth in value expressed in increasing earnings per share over a business cycle. This goal is mainly to be achieved by having more satisfied customers and lower costs than those of competitors. High profitability is crucial, not only because it attracts shareholders to invest in the Bank, but also because it creates the conditions for growth, a high rating and low funding costs, and for the Bank’s lending capacity. The Bank’s profitability also affects its ability to manage risks and to achieve efficient capital management. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 9 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Goal achievement Handelsbanken’s goal is to have higher profitability than the average of peer banks in its home markets. This goal is mainly to be achieved by the Bank having more satisfied customers and lower costs than its competitors. OVERALL GOALS Return on equity, 1973–2013 % Corporate goal 30 Handelsbanken’s goal is to have better profitability than 25 the average for peer banks in its home markets. 20 Goal achievement 15 Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.9 per cent (14.9). The corresponding figure for a 10 weighted average of other major Nordic banks was 10.2 5 per cent (10.4). This meant that for the 42nd consecutive 0 -73 year, Handelsbanken met its corporate goal. -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -13 -5 -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. STABLE, HIGH VALUE GROWTH Average growth in equity per share, SEK 2008–2013* Growth in equity, including dividends and share 275 repurchases, is a measure of the financial value created. 250 15% Outcome 225 CAGR: Average growth in equity, including dividends and 200 share repurchases, has been 15 per cent each year 175 for the past six years. The low variation between the 150 quarters confirms the Bank’s low risk tolerance and is 125 a measure of the stability of the value creation. 100 75 50 Q3 07 Q4 07 Q1 08 Q2 08 Q3 08 Q4 08 Q1 09 Q2 09 Q3 09 Q4 09 Q1 10 Q2 10 Q3 10 Q4 10 Q1 11 Q2 11 Q3 11 Q4 11 Q1 12 Q2 12 Q3 12 Q4 12 Q1 13 Q2 13 Q3 13 Q4 13 Adjusted equity per share Accumulated dividends since 2008 * Including dividends. MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2013 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2013 Handelsbanken aims to achieve its profitability goal by Index Index having more satisfied customers than its competitors. The 90 90 quality and service must therefore at least meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. Outcome 80 80 Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisfied customers of the four major banks in Sweden, both 70 70 private and corporate. The Bank tops these lists in all the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s 60 60 method of working. 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI MOST COST-EFFECTIVE BANK Costs/income, excluding loan losses 2002–2013 The profitability goal will also be achieved by having % higher cost-effectiveness than peer banks. 70 Outcome 60 Handelsbanken’s costs in relation to income for continu50 ing operations improved to 47.0 per cent (47.6). The corresponding figure for an average of other major Nordic 40 banks was 52.1 per cent (53.0). As in previous years, Handelsbanken had the highest cost-effectiveness of the 30 major listed Nordic banks. 20 10 0 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Handelsbanken Average Nordic banks excl. Handelsbanken H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 10 GOAL ACHIEVEMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT GROWTH Income and cost performance, new branches in the UK Handelsbanken’s business is based on meeting the customer SEK m per branch locally. It is therefore natural to open new branches in places 50 where the Bank has not previously had operations. 60% of branches less than 4 yrs 40% of branches more than 4 yrs 40 Outcome In 2013, Handelsbanken opened 37 new branch offices in its 30 home markets: two in Sweden, 28 in the UK, two in Denmark, two in Norway and five in the Netherlands. 20 10 0 yr 0 yr 1 yr 2 yr 3 yr 4 yr 5 yr 6 yr 7 yr 8 yr 9 yr 10 Income average Expenses average Refers to the average of the 158 branches opened in the UK 2000–2013. CAPITAL Tier 1 capital ratio 2009–2013 Under the Basel II regulations, Handelsbanken has aimed % to have a tier 1 capital ratio of between 9 and 11 per cent. 25 Pending a decision on new, strict capital regulations, Handelsbanken has decided to increase its capitalisation 20 to a level exceeding the Bank’s target interval in Basel II. 15 Outcome During the year, the tier 1 ratio according to Basel II increased 10 to 21.5 per cent (20.4). The core tier 1 ratio according to Basel 5 II rose to 19.2 per cent (17.9). 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING ITRAXX Financials 5-year and Handelsbanken’s CDS spread 5-year Handelsbanken aims to be able to manage for at least twelve Basis points months without borrowing any new funds in the financial 400 markets. Outcome 300 The issue volume for long-term funding during the year amounted to SEK 281 billion, comprising SEK 173 billion in 200 covered bonds, SEK 68 billion in senior bonds and SEK 40 billion in extendible notes in the American market. At the end of the year, the total liquidity reserve exceeded SEK 800 100 billion. The Bank’s funding costs and five-year CDS spread continued to be among the very lowest in the European 0 banking market. 6 7 7 7 7 8 8 8 8 9 9 9 9 0 0 0 0 1 1 1 1 2 2 2 2 3 3 3 3 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-0 n-0 p-0 c-0 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 r-1 n-1 p-1 c-1 De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De ITRAXX Financials 5-year SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg CREDIT QUALITY Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2013 Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that % the quality of credits must never be neglected in favour of 1.2 achieving higher volume or a higher margin. 1.0 Outcome 0.8 Loan losses were SEK -1,195 million (-1,251). Loan losses 0.6 as a proportion of lending were 0.07 per cent (0.08). The 0.4 corresponding figure for other major Nordic banks was 0.2 0.15 per cent (0.26). 0.0 -0.2 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE RATING The Bank takes a long-term approach to customer relations and to its employees, Handelsbanken aims to have a high rating with the external rating agencies. and sees each employment as an important investment. Outcome Outcome During the year, Handelsbanken’s short-term and long-term ratings with the External staff turnover continued to be low and was 1.8 per cent in Sweden. rating agencies which monitor the Bank were unchanged. External staff turnover 2009–2013* Ratings of Nordic banks % Standard & Poor’s Fitch Moody’s 10 LongShortLongShortFinancial LongShort8 31 December 2013 term term term term strength* term term 6 Handelsbanken AAA-1+ AAF1+ C Aa3 P-1 4 SEB A+ A-1 A+ F1 CA1 P-1 Nordea AAA-1+ AAF1+ C Aa3 P-1 2 Swedbank A+ A-1 A+ F1 CA1 P-1 0 Danske Bank AA-2 A F1 CBaa1 P-2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 DNB A+ A-1 A+ F1 CA1 P-1 * The proportion of employees who have left externally (excluding retirements and deaths) in relation to the average number of employees. * Bank Financial Strength Rating (BFSR) is an assessment of a bank’s own strength regardless Sweden of support in any form. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 11 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 0VSDPODFQU Handelsbanken is a full-service bank where personal meetings with our customers are key. 8FIBWFBEFDFOUSBMJTFEXBZPGXPSLJOHBOEBTUSPOHMPDBMQSFTFODFUISPVHIOBUJPOXJEFCSBODI networks. The Bank attaches great importance to availability and long-term customer relations, has low tolerance of risks and achieves international growth by applying its business model to selected markets. Handelsbanken has been conducting banking opnurtured at every meeting. By winning its cusfor both personal and corporate customers and erations since 1871 and has the oldest listed share tomers’ trust, Handelsbanken becomes their new electronic signature technology has been on the Stockholm stock exchange. Our goal is to natural choice as a provider of ﬁnancial services. developed to make customer meetings easier. have better proﬁtability than the average of peer Therefore, meetings with customers are key to banks in our home markets. The goal is mainly Handelsbanken’s operations. Care achieved by the Bank having lower costs and In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the more satisﬁed customers than its competitors. best possible conditions for successful meetings Our idea of how we should run our bank is with customers. It is through these meetings based on trust and respect for individuals. This is why we are decentralised. This approach leads to better, quicker decisions close to the customer, and creates commitment and the “ 8FMJLFUPTBZUIBUXF should give the custhat the Bank creates, maintains and develops strong, long-term customer relationships. One example which creates the right conditions for customers to regard us as “the best opportunity for our employees to make an tomer ‘the keys to the bank in town” is that we still handle cash and impact and do an even better job. This in turn that we do not close branches. On the contrary, helps the Bank to gain more satisﬁed customers. The whole of a bank’s business is based on trust. Our customers have chosen us because they trust us and have conﬁdence in the way Bank’. ” we develop the Bank’s meeting-places – since this is what our customers want. When we meet our customers, it is not just a matter of solving their everyday banking needs we do banking. Availability in a simple way. We always focus on the cusWe put a great deal of effort into being available tomer’s needs and our aim is that they should for our customers and this is a major compofeel that our service is caring. nent in Handelsbanken’s method of banking. “ 0VSDVTUPNFSTNFFU the person who will We don’t close branches – instead we open new ones. In Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service is always open, and is staffed by professional bankers to help customers by Decentralised decisions Handelsbanken’s constant aim is that all important business decisions should be taken as close to the customer as possible. This contrimake the decision, phone – 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. butes to better meetings with customers, better We constantly strive to develop and improve decisions and more satisﬁed customers. not a messenger. ” our meeting-places and to increase the level of availability for our customers. This applies at our branches, online, and at new digital meetingIn short, our customers attach great importance to the fact that we are available, simple to deal with, and show understanding and care when places, such as services in the form of apps (mobile applications) for smartphones and tablets. Simplicity “ 8FEPOUDMPTFCSBODIFT lJOTUFBEXFPQFOOFX interacting with them. With more than 140 years’ experience, we have learned what is important to the Bank’s customers. Slightly simpliﬁed, the basis of our method When a customer gets in contact with us, the meeting should be simple and unbureaucratic. For example, regardless of how the customer contacts us, we aim to have the same range of serones. ” of building and running Handelsbanken has vices in our various meeting-places. This means Every branch of Handelsbanken is led by a several important elements as follows: that it should be possible to do the same type of manager who is solely responsible for all bankbusiness with the Bank, regardless of whether the ing business in his/her local area of operations. CUSTOMER MEETINGS customer visits their local branch, calls us, or logs The branches’ independence gives them a very All important business decisions should be on to one of our digital meeting-places. Therefore, strong local presence, with long-term customer taken as close to the customer as possible. we are constantly working to develop and improve relationships. In addition, short decision paths This contributes to better decisions and more the Bank’s technical solutions. make it possible to adapt more quickly to varisatisﬁed customers: our customers meet the Several new technical solutions were ous changes in local markets and make the person who will make the decision, not a meslaunched during the year involving simpliﬁcamost of new business opportunities. senger. This gives a sound basis for successful tions for our customers. For example, a new customer meetings – both at branches and our online service has been launched with better, Skilled staff other meeting-places. The customer’s trust more efﬁcient functions and services. Mobile Handelsbanken’s decentralised method of is built up over the long term, but is won and payment solutions have also been developed working means that we give our staff a high H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 12 OUR CONCEPT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT degree of responsibility and authority to conduct commission, and therefore have no ﬁnancial inﬁnancial support from the government, central customers’ business. This high degree of trust centive to convince the customer that a certain banks or shareholders during periods of turbuis based on a belief in people’s willingness and service or product suits them best. lence in the ﬁnancial markets. ability to constantly become more skilled in their By giving our best advice, we build trusting, work and in their efforts to seek and overcome long-term relationships with every customer. It is new challenges. the customer’s needs that are important. The keys to the Bank Almost all our customer relations started at the customer’s branch, but customers meet PROFITABILITY BEFORE VOLUMES Handelsbanken adapts its offering to each customer’s unique needs and circumstances. The “ 0VSFNQMPZFFTXIP meet customers are not Handelsbanken far more often on the phone, via Bank therefore has no requirements as regards paid variable compentheir smartphones, tablet devices or online. The volumes, budgets or centrally determined sales goal is for customers to be able to move freely targets. Instead, the Bank measures its success sation, either in the form between our various meeting-places and do in terms of customer satisfaction, proﬁtability their banking business when it suits them best. and cost-effectiveness. of bonuses or commisWe like to say that we should give the customer Handelsbanken achieves higher proﬁtability “the keys to the Bank”. by running the Bank more efﬁciently, and thus at sion, and therefore have a lower cost, than other banks. Consequently, A full range of products and services ‘high proﬁtability’ does not mean that Handelsno financial incentive to A vital condition for successful customer meetbanken’s customers pay more. ings is never to lack any product or service that convince the customer a customer needs. Handelsbanken never has a ORGANIC GROWTH niche in favour of a particular group of customIn order for Handelsbanken to achieve and that a certain service ers, or in a speciﬁc area of products or services. retain high proﬁtability, growth is also necessary. The individual customer’s unique requirements Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening new or product suits them are the governing factor. Therefore, Handelsbanken has a full range of products and services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs of our customers. branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. In this way, Handelsbanken grows customer by customer, branch by branch. This organic growth model means best. ” that Handelsbanken can achieve growth, LOW RISK TOLERANCE coupled with low risk and good cost control. Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. The “ Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening This method of working and of achieving growth has proved successful in an increasing number of locations and in an increasing number of countries. For example, during the Bank’s strict approach to risk means that it deliberately avoids high-risk transactions, even if the remuneration is high at the time. This low risk tolerance is maintained through a strong new branches in locayear we established a sixth home market in risk culture that is sustainable in the long term the Netherlands. and applies to all areas of the Group. tions where the Bank The Bank’s business model focuses on takSTABLE FINANCES ing credit risks in the branch operations. The has not previously had By means of low funding costs and low loan objective is therefore to minimise other risks, losses, coupled with high proﬁtability, Handelssuch as market risks. Position-taking is only operations. ” banken builds a strong balance sheet. Stable ﬁnances are essential for the Bank to be able to do all the business that it and its customers wish accepted in customer-driven transactions, and only within strictly deﬁned limits. Handelsbanken also seeks to reduce all macro to do – on favourable terms. risks, in order to have a business model that is Our best advice Stable ﬁnances not only provide freedom of independent of ﬂuctuations in the economy. Regardless of the meeting-place, we always action, but also lower funding costs, and thus give the customer our best advice without lookcontribute to higher proﬁtability – without the ing at what is the most proﬁtable product for customer paying more. Handelsbanken in the short term. Our employHandelsbanken builds its stable ﬁnances on ees who meet customers are not paid variable entirely commercial terms, and is one of the few compensation, either in the form of bonuses or banks in its home markets that has not sought H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 13 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 0SHBOJTBUJPOBOEXPSLJOHNFUIPET Handelsbanken is organised so as to create the best possible conditions for good meetings with customers. Practically all important business decisions are therefore made close to our customers, at more than 800 offices worldwide. This requires direct, effective and rapid contact with the central support functions. BRANCH OPERATIONS convinced that those who work closest to the specialists are called product owners and are Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweden, customer will make the most sensible decisions, responsible for the functionality, packaging and the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point ﬁnancial aspects of their product. Netherlands. Handelsbanken has a nationwide of view. Handelsbanken has four business areas branch network in these countries, organised This mandate to take the important business with product owners: Handelsbanken Capital into one or more regional banks in each country. decisions on the spot with the customer is a Markets, Stadshypotek, Forestry and Farming Handelsbanken’s decentralised method sound basis for successful customer meetings. and Handelsbanken Direkt. of working results in a very ﬂat organisational Our customers meet the person who will make structure. In pace with the establishment of the decision, not a messenger. Handelsbanken Capital Markets new home markets, the Bank strives to devolve The branches’ independence gives them The Capital Markets business area includes central decision-making power, so that the decia very strong local presence, with long-term the operations for investment banking, asset sions can be taken as close to the customers customer relationships. In order to retain and management, and also pensions and insurand the market as possible. develop these relations, we also have a branch ance. Here we have gathered staff with highly Almost all business matters that cannot be network outside our home markets. specialised skills; operations are based on the solved at a branch are dealt with in the country Handelsbanken currently has more than 800 Bank’s research, asset management and allowhere the branch is located. ofﬁces in 24 countries worldwide. Nearly 30 of cation products which form the basis of product these – 19 branches and nine representative development and advisory services. ofﬁces – are located in 18 countries around the world, organised within Handelsbanken Inter“ Every branch of Handelsbanken is led national since they are located outside our six home markets. Handelsbanken International’s main task is to support the Bank’s customers in the home markets with their international “ The branches’ independence gives them by a manager who is business. In the UK, we now have 161 branches, and a very strong local solely responsible for the Bank’s growth there continues. Handelsbanken has also opened several new branches presence, with longBMMPQFSBUJPOTJOIJTIFS in the Netherlands, where we now have a total of 18 branches. term customer relationbranch’s local area of In Sweden, Handelsbanken is the bank with operations. ” the most very large companies as customers. For these customers, among the largest international companies, we have gathered the ships. ” Bank’s specialists in a special unit called Large Therefore, as we have grown, a need for stronger Corporates. Its operations comprise equities, commodities, national operations has emerged. Each home The Bank offers various advanced services ﬁxed income, currencies, discretionary asset market has its own national organisation with and specialist skills, including advisory services, management, structured products, traditional responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch cash management, ﬁxed income and currency and exchange-traded funds, corporate ﬁnance, operations in that country. trading where we co-ordinate the Bank’s interdebt capital markets, cash management, The regional banks have joint administrative national presence and good lending capacity. private banking, and pensions and insurance resources, regional expertise and specialists to saving. support the branches’ business. PRODUCT SPECIALISTS AND Research includes macro, strategy and corEvery branch of Handelsbanken is led by a BUSINESS AREAS porate research with active monitoring of almost manager who is solely responsible for all operaHandelsbanken has a full range of products 250 Nordic companies, which forms the basis tions in his/her branch’s local area of operaand services to meet the various ﬁnancial needs for stock recommendations. Handelsbanken is tions. Branch managers staff and organise their of its customers. Responsible for this range one of the leading players in all three research branches according to the business that the are product specialists in the Bank’s business categories. branch chooses to do on its local market. areas, who produce and develop solutions An example of Handelsbanken’s business We have given our branch managers a and services in close collaboration with the model in action is in the private banking offering. very high degree of independence, as we are branch ofﬁce operations in each country. These Here, local branches work together with the H A N D E L S B A N K E N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 14 ORGANISATION AND WORKING METHODS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Bank’s specialist units to create a unique offerStadshypotek dates back to 1865 and has functions at the Bank. These are support and ing. According to TNS Sifo Prospera’s annual been a wholly owned subsidiary of Handelsmanagement functions where certain units also survey of Private Banking, Handelsbanken has banken since 1997. formulate the Bank’s corporate policy in areas again received the highest rating from Private such as ﬁnance, human resources, credits and Banking customers in the categories of availHandelsbanken Forestry and Farming communications. ability and service. For the third year running, Forest-owners and farmers often have special Handelsbanken has been ranked number one requirements for ﬁnancial advice to develop their overall for Private Banking as well as in the two business. Handelsbanken therefore offers specustomer segments investigated. The segments comprise private individuals with assets exceeding SEK 10 million and company owners with ﬁnancial assets exceeding SEK 5 million. cialist skills with a good local presence in this area. Our forestry and farming specialists are located around Sweden, close to the customer. “ According to TNS Sifo Prospera’s annual Handelsbanken Direkt survey of Private Handelsbanken Direkt has overall responsibility for business and product development of Banking, Handelsbanken “ In the UK, we now have 161 branches, and the standardised banking services for the private and corporate market. Examples of services we offer to the private market are deposits, lending, cards and payment services. Among the serhas again received the highest rating from Bank’s growth there vices we offer to the corporate market are dePrivate Banking customposits, lending, cards, investment ﬁnancing with continues. ” leasing and conditional sales; invoice services, debt collection and retail ﬁnancial services. ers in the categories of ” This business area is also responsible for development of customer meetings outside availability and service. Stadshypotek the branches’ premises in the Bank’s digital Stadshypotek is one of the leading mortgage meeting places and via the telephone service institutions in Sweden which lends money for Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service which customers’ housing. Stadshypotek offers mortis open for customers 24 hours a day. gage loans for houses, housing co-operative properties and second homes, and also forest CENTRAL UNITS and agricultural property, multi-family dwellings Handelsbanken’s central head ofﬁce has and commercial and ofﬁce buildings. administrative functions and specialist departments with overall responsibility for various Central Central business departments and Regional areas and Branches CUSTOMER administrative head ofﬁces product owners functions This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of central business areas where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has administrative functions and specialist departments with overall responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 15 AVAILABILITY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Available on the customer’s terms At Handelsbanken, we are always increasing availability for our customers. New branches and meeting-places are being opened in the Bank’s home markets and around the world. And the Bank’s VOJRVFDVTUPNFSTFSWJDFl)BOEFMTCBOLFO%JSFLU1FSTPOBM4FSWJDFlJTPQFOIPVSTBEBZ EBZT a year, staffed by qualified bank personnel. Several digital solutions were also presented during the year to improve availability even more. New branches In January 2013, the Netherlands was established as the Bank’s sixth Handelsbanken attaches great importance to personal home market, and interest in Handelsbanken is growing there. The Bank meetings and closeness to our customers. This is why opened ﬁve new branches during the year. It now has 18 branches, and Handelsbanken is opening new branches in our home nearly 130 employees. Handelsbanken has been represented in the markets and around the world. During the year new branches were country since 2002. opened in Sweden, the UK, Denmark and the Netherlands. Thus, at year-end, the Bank had a total of 791 branches in our home In Sweden, two new branches were opened and we now have markets, and a total of 810 ofﬁces worldwide. In addition, Handelsbanken 462 branches. is now the only bank in 59 locations – 53 of these are in Sweden and six Handelsbanken continues to grow in the UK. On 1 January 2013, a in Denmark. fourth regional bank was started with its head ofﬁce in Bristol. At the end of the year, Handelsbanken thus had four regional banks, 161 branches and just over 1,400 employees in the UK. More new physical meeting-places In Denmark, we opened two new branches and now have a total of Handelsbanken is opening more and more physical meeting56 branches in the country. places linked to existing branches. So far, we have opened eleven such meeting-places in Sweden to make it even simpler for our customers to meet the Bank at times that suit them. We also visit our customers when they need this. With improved technology, we can also simplify physical customer meetings outside the Bank’s premises, through the use of electronic signing and by using online banking as a work tool. Digital meeting-places Handelsbanken’s applications (apps) for smartphones and tablets are being constantly improved, in order to fulﬁl to an even greater extent customers’ needs to carry out banking transactions when it suits them. In Sweden, the Personal Mobile Banking app has been updated for our private customers, so that they can now also buy and sell mutual fund units, set up monthly savings and have an overview of their loans. Corporate Mobile Banking is a new app for our corporate customers, whereby they can view balances and transactions, make transfers and pay bills. In the UK, our customers can carry out basic banking business with the use of a new app for smartphones and tablets. For example, they can view balances and transactions for accounts and cards, transfer money and pay bills. In Denmark and Norway, too, customers can access apps via smartphones and tablets. In Finland, customers have access to Mobilbanken, which offers mobile banking services and is compatible with all known types of smartphones, tablets and operating systems. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 16 AVAILABILITY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Personal customer service, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service offers unique availability to private and corporate customers in Sweden, with trained advisors responding to questions and helping out with banking business, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Handelsbanken Direkt Personal Service can be contacted by telephone or via the Bank’s apps for smartphones and tablets. International network Handelsbanken is the Nordic region’s most international bank, with more than 800 ofﬁces in 24 countries worldwide; six of these countries constitute the Bank’s home markets. Our international branch network is a strength, as our customers are increasingly active over national boundaries. Almost 30 of the ofﬁces are in 18 countries outside our home markets. These branches and representative ofﬁces are organised under Handelsbanken International, and make up the core of the Bank’s international network. The main task of these branches is to support the Bank’s customers in the home markets with all their international business. Close collaboration between the customer’s home branch and the local branch outside the home market guarantees that the customer is offered the same strong availability and high level of service. We always endeavour to make it easy for the customer – no matter where in the world the international business is being done. Handelsbanken also offers a broad range of banking services and products in our international branch network, including cash management, private banking and various types of ﬁnancing. Our local expertise in our network of international ofﬁces has unique leading edge expertise and in-depth experience of local business conditions on the markets where we operate. These ofﬁces also have broad local contact networks encompassing public authorities and professional organisations in the respective countries – with the objective of supporting customers and their business. Just as with Handelsbanken’s other meeting-places, we aim for the highest possible availability and service level at our international meeting-places. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 17 FINANCIAL OVERVIEW | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial overview 2013 q  IFQFSJPETQSPGJUBGUFSUBYGPSUPUBMPQFSBUJPOTJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUUP 5 4&, NJMMJPO   FYDMVEJOHUIFZFBSPGDPNQBSJTPOTSFDBMDVMBUJPO PGEFGFSSFEUBYFT UIFJODSFBTFXBTQFSDFOU q &BSOJOHTQFSTIBSFJODSFBTFEUP4&,   q  QFSBUJOHQSPGJUJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUUP4&, NJMMJPO   BOEJO0 DSFBTFEJOBMMIPNFNBSLFUTPVUTJEF4XFEFO q 3FUVSOPOFRVJUZGPSUPUBMPQFSBUJPOTEFDSFBTFEUPQFSDFOU  FYDMVEJOH UIFFGGFDUPGUIFSFDBMDVMBUJPOPGEFGFSSFEUBYFTJO SFUVSOPOFRVJUZJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUBHFQPJOUT q *ODPNFJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUUP4&, NJMMJPO    q /  FUJOUFSFTUJODPNFJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOUUP4&, NJMMJPO   BOEJO UIFIPNFNBSLFUTPVUTJEF4XFEFO OFUJOUFSFTUJODPNFJODSFBTFECZQFSDFOU q 5IF$*SBUJPJNQSPWFEUPQFSDFOU   q 5IFMPBOMPTTSBUJPGFMMUPQFSDFOU   q 5IFDPNNPOFRVJUZUJFSSBUJPBDDPSEJOHUP#BTFM**JODSFBTFEUPQFSDFOU  BOEUIFUPUBMDBQJUBMSBUJPSPTFUPQFSDFOU   q 5  IFDPNNPOFRVJUZUJFSSBUJPBDDPSEJOHUP#BTFM***XBTQFSDFOUBOEUIF #BOLDPOUJOVFTUPCVJMEVQDBQJUBM q 5IFMJRVJEJUZSFTFSWFFYDFFEFE4&,CJMMJPO q  IF#PBSEQSPQPTFTBUPUBMEJWJEFOEPG4&,QFSTIBSF XJUIUIFPSEJOBSZ 5 EJWJEFOECFJOH4&,QFSTIBSF   H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 19 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 3FWJFXPGPQFSBUJPOT 5IF(SPVQTPQFSBUJOHQSPçUHSFXCZQFSDFOUUP4&, NJMMJPO   *OUIFIPNFNBSLFUT PVUTJEF4XFEFO UIFJODSFBTFXBTQFSDFOU*OUIFGPVSUIRVBSUFS PQFSBUJOHQSPçUJODSFBTFECZ QFSDFOUDPNQBSFEXJUIUIFDPSSFTQPOEJOHQFSJPEPGUIFQSFWJPVTZFBS5IF$*SBUJPGPSUIFXIPMF ZFBSXFOUEPXOUPQFSDFOU   The period’s proﬁt after tax for total operations increase was 5 per cent. Household lending Exchange rate movements reduced staff costs increased by 2 per cent to SEK 14,295 million increased by 5 per cent to SEK 800 billion (759) by SEK 123 million. (14,038). Adjusted for the positive effect of the and corporate lending by 2 per cent to SEK 874 The average number of employees increased period of comparison’s recalculation of deferred billion (857). Credit demand from companies by 3 per cent or 311 to 11,503 (11,192), mainly taxes due to a changed tax rate amounting to continued to be weak in Sweden. as a result of a higher number of employees in SEK 1,682 million, the period’s proﬁts increased The average volume of deposits and borrowthe UK (+316) and the Netherlands (+20). by 16 per cent. Earnings per share increased ing rose by 6 per cent to SEK 731 billion (690). Other administrative expenses rose by 2 per to SEK 22.52 (22.34). Return on equity for total Adjusted for exchange rate effects of SEK -9 cent to SEK -5,181 million (-5,069), chieﬂy due operations declined to 13.9 per cent (14.9). billion, the volume grew by 7 per cent. The averto higher costs for IT development. age volume of household deposits went up by INCOME 6 per cent to SEK 267 billion (252) and corporate LOAN LOSSES deposits also increased by 6 per cent to SEK The Group Loan losses Full year Full year – Income Full year Full year 464 billion (438). SEK m 2013 2012 Change SEK m 2013 2012 Change Net fee and commission income rose by 6 Net loan losses -1 195 -1 251 56 Net interest income 26 669 26 081 2% per cent to SEK 7,804 million (7,369), chieﬂy Loan losses as Net fee and commission due to higher fund management commissions % of lending 0.07 0.08 -0.01 income 7 804 7 369 6% and increased advisory income. Net impaired loans 3 041 3 197 -5% Net gains/losses on Fund management commissions rose by 20 Proportion of impaired ﬁnancial items 1 357 1 120 21% loans, % 0.18 0.18 0.00 per cent or SEK 328 million to SEK 2,008 million Other income 497 492 1% (1,680), while advisory commissions increased Total income 36 327 35 062 4% by 43 per cent to SEK 278 million (195). Loan losses went down to SEK -1,195 million Income increased by 4 per cent to SEK 36,327 Brokerage income rose by 5 per cent to SEK (-1,251) and the credit quality continued to be million. A stronger Swedish krona resulted 1,189 million (1,137), and net payment comstable. The loan loss ratio fell to 0.07 per cent in exchange rate effects of SEK -339 million. missions increased by 2 per cent to SEK 1,638 (0.08). Net impaired loans fell to SEK 3,041 Adjusted for this, income grew by 5 per cent. million (1,606). million (3,197), equivalent to 0.18 per cent Net interest income rose by 2 per cent to Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions (0.18) of lending. SEK 26,669 million. Exchange rate movements increased by 21 per cent to SEK 1,357 million had a negative effect of SEK -285 million and in (1,120), mainly as a result of increased business TAXES local currencies, net interest income increased volumes. As of 2013, Swedish corporate tax is payable at by 3 per cent. 22 per cent. The Group’s tax expense in 2013 Lower interest rates in Sweden meant that EXPENSES amounted to SEK -3,915 million (-3,092). Redeposit margins in Swedish branch operations statement of deferred taxes had a positive effect The Group reduced net interest income by SEK 958 million. – Expenses Full year Full year of SEK 1,682 million on last year’s taxes. The This resulted in a reduction of 4 percentage SEK m 2013 2012 Change effective tax rate was 21.6 per cent (18.1). points in the Group’s growth in net interest Staff costs -11 404 -11 167 2% income. Other administrative FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY Net interest income fell by 2 per cent in Sweden, expenses -5 181 -5 069 2% Handelsbanken’s strong position in the market but increased overall by 17 per cent in other Depreciation, amortisaensures continued good access to both longtion and impairments -476 -464 3% home markets. Net interest income grew by 23 term and short-term funding. During the year, Total expenses -17 061 -16 700 2% per cent in the UK, by 18 per cent in Finland, the Bank was active in several international marwhile in the Netherlands the increase was 30 Total expenses rose by 2 per cent to SEK kets and benchmark issues were completed in per cent. Adjusted for exchange rate effects of -17,061 million. Adjusted for exchange rate USD, EUR, GBP, CHF and JPY. During 2013, SEK -257 million, net interest income in home movements of SEK 184 million, expenses the issued bond volume was SEK 281 billion markets outside Sweden rose by 20 per cent. increased by 3 per cent. (231), including SEK 40 billion in extendible The cost for the Stabilisation Fund and Staff costs increased by 2 per cent to SEK notes in the US market. The average maturity various deposit guarantees was SEK -1,101 -11,404 million (-11,167). The proposed of bond issues during the year was 4.3 years. million (-1,066). dividend increase meant that the provision to During the fourth quarter, bonds with a total The average volume of loans to the public the Oktogonen Foundation increased to SEK value of SEK 46 billion (SEK 28 billion in Q4 grew by 4 per cent to SEK 1,674 billion (1,616). -1,096 million (-1,020). Variable compensation, 2012) were issued, including SEK 39 billion Exchange rate movements reduced the volume including social security costs and other payroll in covered bonds and SEK 7 billion in senior by SEK 17 billion, and in local currencies, the overheads, increased to SEK -136 million (-127). bonds. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 20 REVIEW OF OPERATIONS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Total liquidity reserves exceeded SEK 800 Higher lending volumes reduced the common requirement in Pillar 2 by approximately a further billion. equity tier 1 ratio by 0.4 percentage points and SEK 9 billion. Cash funds and liquid assets invested with credit risk migration in the loan portfolio reduced central banks amounted to SEK 368 billion, it by 0.4 percentage points. At the same time, RATING while the volume of liquid bonds totalled SEK improved credit quality due to volume migration, During the year, Handelsbanken’s short-term 90 billion. The remainder of the reserve mainly i.e. the mix effect of the fact that new lending and long-term ratings with the rating agencies comprises an unutilised issue amount of covered volumes are of higher credit quality than the which monitor the Bank were unchanged. bonds at Stadshypotek. portfolio average, made a positive contribution According to the Swedish deﬁnition applicable of 0.8 percentage points. The improvement Financial Rating Long-term Short-term strength from January 2013, the Handelsbanken Group’s in credit quality thus compensated for the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) at the end of the entire increase in capital requirement resulting Standard & Poor's AAA-1+ period was 128 per cent. In USD, the LCR from credit risk migration and growing lending Fitch AAF1+ was 170 per cent and in EUR it was 110 per volumes. Moody's Aa3 P-1 C cent. The Group’s LCR according to the deﬁniThe waiving of the transitional rules regarding DBRS AA (low) tion in CRD4 is estimated to be approximately investments in insurance holdings and capital 140 per cent. contributions in Handelsbanken Liv had an EVENTS AFTER THE END OF THE impact of -0.5 percentage points. REPORTING PERIOD CAPITAL IAS 19 had a positive effect of 0.2 percentage At the beginning of January 2014, the Bank points and exchange rate movements of 0.1 issued a ten-year subordinated euro loan. Capital-related matters 31 Dec 31 Dec SEK m 2013 2012 Change percentage point. Other effects, including model The amount of the issue was EUR 1.5 billion, validation, advanced approach, and increased the equivalent of SEK 13.2 billion and it is fully Capital ratio, Basel II 21.6% 20.7% 0.9 utilisation of collateral improved the common included in the capital base. The effective interCapital ratio, Basel III 21.6% equity tier 1 ratio by 0.7 percentage points. est rate of 2.66 per cent is the lowest noted for Common equity tier 1 ratio, Basel II 19.2% 17.9% 1.3 The deﬁnition of the leverage ratio has not this type of loan. The issue increases the Bank’s Common equity tier 1 yet been established. In the 2013 Pillar 3 report, total capital ratio according to Basel II by about ratio, Basel III 18.9% Handelsbanken will illustrate how different 2.9 percentage points. Common equity tier 1 deﬁnitions affect the size of the Bank’s leverage capital, Basel II 89 535 87 207 3% ratio. HANDELSBANKEN’S ANNUAL GENERAL Common equity tier 1 capital, Basel III 93 038 MEETING ON 26 MARCH Total capital base, Capital requirements for Swedish mortgage The Board notes that the capital regulations for Basel II 100 406 100 503 0% loans in Pillar 2 Swedish banks have still not yet been decided, Total capital base, As a Pillar 2 supervisory measure, the Swedish making it impossible for the Bank to establish Basel III 106 393 Financial Supervisory Authority decided on 21 new capital goals. New goals will be determined Equity 111 339 103 850 7% May to introduce a capital requirement equivaonce the new regulations have been decided. The capital base decreased to SEK 100 billion lent to a 15 per cent risk weight ﬂoor for SwedThe Board is proposing to the annual (101), and the total capital ratio calculated acish mortgage loan portfolios. This will involve a general meeting a total dividend of SEK 16.50 cording to Basel II increased to 21.6 per cent capital requirement in Pillar 2 of approximately per share, of which the ordinary dividend be (20.7). During the period, the Bank redeemed SEK 8 billion for Handelsbanken in 2014, based SEK 11.50 per share (10.75). In addition, it is subordinated loans for a net value of SEK 3.5 on its Swedish mortgage loan volumes at the proposed that the existing share repurchase billion. At the end of the period, 89 per cent (87) year-end. If the proposal from the Swedish auprogramme for a maximum of 40 million shares of the capital base was common equity tier 1 thorities to increase the total capital requirement be extended for an additional year. capital. of systemically important banks by an additional The Board proposes that the record day Common equity tier 1 capital increased to 2 percentage points in 2015 is implemented, for the dividend be Monday, 31 March 2014, SEK 89.5 billion (87.2) and the common equity the Bank’s add-on in Pillar 2 will increase to just which means that the Handelsbanken share will tier 1 ratio according to Basel III was 18.9 per over SEK 9 billion. be traded ex-dividend on Thursday, 27 March cent. According to Basel II, the common equity During the fourth quarter, the Swedish 2014. tier 1 ratio increased by 1.3 percentage points Financial Supervisory Authority stated that it is The Board is also proposing that the AGM to 19.2 per cent (17.9) with the proﬁt for the motivated to increase the risk-weight ﬂoor in resolves in favour of issuing a new convertible period after the proposed dividend contributing Pillar 2 to 25 per cent if the new capital adequasubordinated loan on market terms for a maxi0.7 percentage points and the conversion of cy regulations allow for this. An implementation mum amount of SEK 3.2 billion directed at the staff convertibles 0.1 percentage point. of this in 2015 would increase the Bank’s capital Bank’s employees. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 21 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 'JWFZFBSPWFSWJFX(SPVQ Consolidated income statement SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net interest income 26 669 26 081 23 613 21 337 22 000 Net fee and commission income 7 804 7 369 7 673 8 022 7 393 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 1 357 1 120 1 016 1 377 2 457 Risk result, insurance 142 196 209 205 171 Other dividend income 161 152 146 190 141 Share of proﬁt of associates 9 8 9 11 26 Other income 185 136 143 154 147 Total income 36 327 35 062 32 809 31 296 32 335 Staff costs -11 404 -11 167 -9 942 -9 504 -10 018 Other expenses -5 181 -5 069 -5 060 -5 062 -4 719 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -476 -464 -462 -452 -483 Total expenses -17 061 -16 700 -15 464 -15 018 -15 220 Proﬁt before loan losses 19 266 18 362 17 345 16 278 17 115 Net loan losses -1 195 -1 251 -816 -1 507 -3 392 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 17 -3 7 -1 4 Operating proﬁt 18 088 17 108 16 536 14 770 13 727 Taxes -3 915 -3 092 -4 372 -3 962 -3 519 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 14 173 14 016 12 164 10 808 10 208 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 122 22 159 217 36 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 10 244 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 14 295 14 037 12 323 11 025 10 244 Minority interest 0 1 0 0 0 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 22.33 22.30 19.52 17.37 16.38 after dilution 22.07 21.82 19.14 17.10 15.92 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.19 0.04 0.26 0.35 0.06 after dilution 0.19 0.03 0.25 0.34 0.06 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 16.44 after dilution 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 15.98 A ﬁve-year overview for the parent company is shown on page 147. The last ﬁve-year period has been charactercapitalisation has grown by SEK 122 billion, Nordic banks was 0.40 per cent. The tier 1 ratio ised by the global ﬁnancial crisis that gradually while Handelsbanken has paid out SEK 28 according to Basel II has more than doubled developed into a debt crisis and severe recesbillion in dividends to its shareholders during during the period and a large liquidity reserve sion. During this period, Handelsbanken has the period. Handelsbanken is the only listed has been built up. increased its proﬁts, strengthened its balance commercial bank in Sweden which did not sheet, expanded its operations and boosted need to ask its shareholders for new capital More satisﬁed customers customer satisfaction. during the period. Each year since SKI (Swedish Quality Index) started its surveys in 1989, Handelsbanken has 15 per cent annual growth in equity Lower risk been the major bank with the most satisﬁed Since 1 January 2009, the Bank has increased At the beginning of 2007, Handelsbanken customers in Sweden. During the autumn, its adjusted equity per share by 48 per cent, began working on reducing the risks in its SKI presented its annual customer satisfaction from SEK 120.31 per share to SEK 177.71 per operations in order to reduce volatility. During survey, which showed that Handelsbanken share. Taking into account reinvestment of the the autumn of 2007, Handelsbanken sold the has maintained its leading position. For private period’s accumulated dividends, the average occupational pension company SPP to Storecustomers, Handelsbanken’s index value was annual growth in adjusted equity per share was brand for SEK 18.2 billion. Other market risks 74.2, as compared with the other three main 15 per cent. have also been purposefully reduced. competitors, all of which recorded scores within During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsthe range 64.1–66.2. Handelsbanken also reCreating shareholder value banken’s total loan losses amounted to ceived a considerably higher rating than the rest During the past ﬁve years – since 31 December SEK 8,161 million, which corresponds to an of the sector for customer satisfaction among 2008 – Handelsbanken has generated positive average annual loan loss ratio of 0.10 per cent. corporate customers. shareholder value of SEK 150 billion. Market The corresponding ﬁgure for the other major H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 22 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW GROUP | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Consolidated statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 10 244 Other comprehensive income Items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Deﬁned beneﬁt plans 1 402 2 583 Taxes on items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -307 -568 Total items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 1 095 2 015 Items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Cash ﬂow hedges -3 410 2 390 -297 -325 47 Available-for-sale instruments 535 984 -1 318 2 186 3 274 Translation difference for the year 763 -126 -4 -2 015 -109 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 767 486 -2 377 -6 Tax on items that can be related into proﬁt and loss 514 -913 443 -612 -934 of which cash ﬂow hedges 744 -565 78 85 -12 of which available-for-sale instruments -61 -248 365 -598 -924 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -169 -100 0 -99 2 Total items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -1 598 2 335 -1 176 -766 2 278 Total other comprehensive income -503 4 350 -1 176 -766 2 278 Total comprehensive income for the year 13 792 18 388 11 147 10 259 12 522 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 13 792 18 387 11 147 10 259 12 522 Minority interest 0 1 0 0 0 Consolidated balance sheet SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Assets Cash and central banks 369 954 248 915 375 979 107 626 106 813 Loans to the public 1 696 339 1 680 479 1 591 128 1 513 687 1 495 622 Loans to other credit institutions 62 898 89 511 106 823 123 465 92 730 Interest-bearing securities 121 576 117 260 104 202 119 238 176 002 Other assets 239 039 247 786 276 234 289 514 251 676 Total assets 2 489 806 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 2 122 843 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 825 205 682 223 724 888 564 142 564 048 Due to credit institutions 171 624 183 945 201 889 251 972 225 490 Issued securities 1 150 641 1 151 426 1 140 074 963 501 966 075 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 21 167 35 317 43 948 59 005 Other liabilities 215 032 241 340 257 674 241 576 225 137 Equity 111 339 103 850 94 524 88 391 83 088 Total liabilities and equity 2 489 806 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 2 122 843 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 23 KEY FIGURES PER YEAR | ADMINISTRATION REPORT ,FZçHVSFTQFSZFBS Key ﬁgures for the Handelsbanken Group 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Proﬁt before loan losses, continuing operations, SEK m 19 266 18 362 17 345 16 278 17 115 Net loan losses, SEK m -1 195 -1 251 -816 -1 507 -3 392 Operating proﬁt, continuing operations, SEK m 18 088 17 108 16 536 14 770 13 727 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 14 173 14 016 12 164 10 808 10 208 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 122 22 159 217 36 Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 14 295 14 038 12 323 11 025 10 244 Total assets, SEK m 2 489 806 2 383 951 2 454 366 2 153 530 2 122 843 Equity, SEK m 111 339 103 850 94 524 88 391 83 088 Return on equity, total operations, % 13.9 14.9 13.5 12.9 12.6 Return on equity, continuing operations, % 13.8 14.8 13.4 12.6 12.5 Return on capital employed, % 0.74 0.69 0.71 0.67 0.63 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, % 47.0 47.6 47.1 48.0 47.1 Cost/income ratio, continuing operations, incl. loan losses, % 50.3 51.2 49.6 52.8 57.6 Loan loss ratio, % 0.07 0.08 0.05 0.10 0.21 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 56.2 56.4 60.7 60.7 62.4 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.18 0.18 0.16 0.23 0.21 Earnings per share, SEK 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 16.44 after dilution 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 15.98 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 11.501 10.75 9.75 9.00 8.00 Total dividend per share, SEK 16.501 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 177.71 162.63 152.71 143.14 134.40 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 635.6 632.8 624.1 623.5 623.5 of which outstanding 635.6 632.8 624.0 623.5 623.3 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 634.8 628.5 623.1 622.1 623.3 after dilution 647.5 649.9 642.4 634.3 642.6 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.6 20.7 20.9 20.9 20.2 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 21.5 20.4 18.4 16.5 14.2 Common equity tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 19.2 17.9 15.6 13.8 11.7 Average number of employees 11 503 11 192 11 184 10 850 10 821 No. of branches in Sweden 462 461 461 461 461 No. of branches in our other home markets 329 281 253 230 208 No. of branches in other countries 19 32 32 32 35 For deﬁnitions, see page 216. 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 24 QUARTERLY PERFORMANCE | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 2VBSUFSMZQFSGPSNBODF Quarterly performance for the Handelsbanken Group SEK m 2013:Q4 2013:Q3 2013:Q2 2013:Q1 2012:Q4 Interest income 13 573 13 569 13 544 13 777 14 428 Interest expense -6 801 -6 886 -6 871 -7 236 -7 944 Net interest income 6 772 6 683 6 673 6 541 6 484 Fee and commission income 2 484 2 284 2 316 2 210 2 277 Fee and commission expense -377 -388 -392 -333 -367 Net fee and commission income 2 107 1 896 1 924 1 877 1 910 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 304 354 440 259 366 Risk result, insurance 35 30 26 51 88 Other dividend income 1 4 155 1 1 Share of proﬁt of associates 7 5 2 -5 7 Other income 52 37 20 76 35 Total income 9 278 9 009 9 240 8 800 8 891 Staff costs -2 980 -2 845 -2 796 -2 783 -2 923 Other expenses -1 411 -1 187 -1 304 -1 279 -1 511 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -116 -125 -115 -120 -112 Total expenses -4 507 -4 157 -4 215 -4 182 -4 546 Proﬁt before loan losses 4 771 4 852 5 025 4 618 4 345 Net loan losses -322 -284 -306 -283 -395 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 3 4 1 -2 Operating proﬁt 4 458 4 571 4 723 4 336 3 948 Taxes -966 -997 -1 067 -885 400 Proﬁt for the period from continuing operations 3 492 3 574 3 656 3 451 4 348 Proﬁt for the period pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 35 33 39 15 -64 Proﬁt for the period 3 527 3 607 3 695 3 466 4 284 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 3 527 3 607 3 695 3 466 4 283 Minority interest 0 0 0 0 1 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 5.50 5.63 5.76 5.45 6.88 after dilution 5.44 5.56 5.69 5.39 6.77 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.02 -0.10 after dilution 0.05 0.05 0.06 0.02 -0.10 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 5.55 5.68 5.82 5.47 6.78 after dilution 5.49 5.61 5.75 5.41 6.67 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 25 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #VTJOFTTTFHNFOUT Segment reporting 2013 Home markets Branch HandelsAdjustBranch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations banken ments operations operations operations operations operations in the InterCapital and elimiSEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands national Markets Other nations Total Net interest income 16 424 2 624 1 519 1 219 3 574 230 660 151 313 -45 26 669 Net fee and commission income 3 528 213 329 412 364 23 308 2 658 -31 7 804 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 462 120 97 40 83 1 79 977 -502 1 357 Risk result, insurance 142 142 Share of proﬁt of associates 9 9 Other income 27 13 18 5 12 6 10 255 346 Total income 20 441 2 970 1 963 1 676 4 033 254 1 053 3 938 44 -45 36 327 Staff costs -3 300 -1 059 -546 -331 -662 -96 -510 -2 033 -2 858 -9 -11 404 Other administrative expenses -1 190 -243 -175 -145 -232 -21 -181 -785 -2 209 -5 181 Internal purchased and sold services -3 027 -317 -252 -239 -368 -56 -153 31 4 336 45 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -87 -41 -17 -10 -10 -1 -11 -50 -249 -476 Total expenses -7 604 -1 660 -990 -725 -1 272 -174 -855 -2 837 -980 36 -17 061 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 837 1 310 973 951 2 761 80 198 1 101 -936 -9 19 266 Net loan losses -357 -168 -161 -268 -169 -7 -65 -1 195 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 1 0 0 0 0 7 17 Operating proﬁt 12 489 1 143 812 683 2 592 73 133 1 101 -929 -9 18 088 Proﬁt allocation 902 30 47 70 43 4 38 -1 134 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 391 1 173 859 753 2 635 77 171 -33 -929 -9 18 088 Internal income -1 104 -1 212 -395 -417 -3 606 -140 -50 -1 414 8 338 C/I ratio, % 35.6 55.3 49.3 41.5 31.2 67.4 78.4 101.2 47.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.03 0.14 0.25 0.30 0.08 0.05 0.22 0.07 Assets 1 325 261 194 503 78 830 153 436 202 567 33 039 76 640 294 607 1 533 505 -1 402 582 2 489 806 Liabilities 1 263 456 186 859 73 482 147 315 190 444 32 221 72 419 291 546 1 533 505 -1 412 780 2 378 467 Allocated capital 61 805 7 644 5 348 6 121 12 123 818 4 221 3 061 10 198 111 339 Return on allocated capital, % 17.7 13.2 12.7 9.9 17.0 7.7 3.1 13.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 71 22 37 10 14 8 22 225 233 642 The year's investments in associated companies 53 53 Average number of employees 4 420 1 260 624 490 650 102 511 1 464 1 982 11 503 Applied principles for segment reporting and a description of the items shown in the Other and Adjustments and eliminations columns are explained further in note G44.  H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 BUSINESS SEGMENTS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Segment reporting 2012 Home markets Branch HandelsAdjustBranch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations banken ments operations operations operations operations operations in the InterCapital and elimiSEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands national Markets Other nations Total Net interest income 16 781 2 142 1 397 1 032 3 098 177 766 517 209 -38 26 081 Net fee and commission income 3 375 94 290 375 329 26 328 2 438 114 7 369 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 579 91 55 30 87 2 86 658 -468 1 120 Risk result, insurance 196 196 Share of proﬁt of associates 8 8 Other income 18 15 19 5 15 2 11 203 288 Total income 20 753 2 342 1 761 1 442 3 529 205 1 182 3 820 66 -38 35 062 Staff costs -3 157 -793 -537 -326 -700 -77 -526 -2 255 -2 745 -51 -11 167 Other administrative expenses -1 218 -178 -173 -143 -235 -18 -192 -768 -2 144 -5 069 Internal purchased and sold services -2 828 -201 -235 -208 -316 -37 -108 -127 4 022 38 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -90 -12 -16 -21 -12 -7 -13 -54 -239 -464 Total expenses -7 293 -1 184 -961 -698 -1 263 -139 -839 -3 204 -1 106 -13 -16 700 Proﬁt before loan losses 13 460 1 158 800 744 2 266 66 343 616 -1 040 -51 18 362 Net loan losses -420 -151 -368 -128 -200 0 16 -1 251 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 -1 0 0 -2 0 0 -3 Operating proﬁt 13 040 1 006 432 616 2 066 66 357 616 -1 040 -51 17 108 Proﬁt allocation 641 15 27 44 31 1 20 -779 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 681 1 021 459 660 2 097 67 377 -163 -1 040 -51 17 108 Internal income -2 178 -1 308 -538 -689 -4 131 -235 -44 -1 167 10 290 C/I ratio, % 34.1 50.2 53.7 47.0 35.5 67.5 69.8 105.4 47.6 Loan loss ratio, % 0.04 0.16 0.61 0.15 0.11 0.00 -0.04 0.08 Assets 1 275 804 147 787 74 077 134 985 212 392 21 482 67 594 317 892 1 335 051 -1 203 113 2 383 951 Liabilities 1 218 560 141 909 69 151 129 558 200 519 20 942 63 593 313 705 1 335 051 -1 212 887 2 280 101 Allocated capital 57 244 5 878 4 926 5 427 11 873 540 4 001 4 187 9 774 103 850 Return on allocated capital, % 18.5 13.9 7.3 9.8 13.5 10.4 6.8 14.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 78 14 2 20 7 2 15 222 228 588 The year's investments in associated companies 30 30 Average number of employees 4 397 944 617 478 647 82 536 1 550 1 941 11 192 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3  BRANCH OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO4XFEFO #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO4XFEFODPNQSJTFTJYSFHJPOBMCBOLT BTXFMMBT)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTTBOE 4UBETIZQPUFLTPQFSBUJPOTJO4XFEFO U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIFCSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT  XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPGUIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBMCBOLTPéFSBGVMMSBOHFPGCBOLJOH TFSWJDFTBUCSBODIFTUISPVHIPVU4XFEFO)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTPéFSTçOBODFDPNQBOZTFSWJDFT BOEXPSLTUISPVHIUIF#BOLTCSBODIFT4UBETIZQPUFLJTUIF#BOLTNPSUHBHFDPNQBOZBOEJTDPNQMFUFMZJOUFHSBUFEXJUIUIFCSBODIPQFSBUJPOT Quarterly performance Branch operations in Sweden Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 4 066 4 091 4 173 4 094 16 424 16 781 -2 Net fee and commission income 978 886 838 826 3 528 3 375 5 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 52 104 190 116 462 579 -20 Other income 9 8 3 7 27 18 50 Total income 5 105 5 089 5 204 5 043 20 441 20 753 -2 Staff costs -814 -831 -822 -833 -3 300 -3 157 5 Other administrative expenses -326 -261 -301 -302 -1 190 -1 218 -2 Internal purchased and sold services -770 -719 -770 -768 -3 027 -2 828 7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -21 -21 -25 -20 -87 -90 -3 Total expenses -1 931 -1 832 -1 918 -1 923 -7 604 -7 293 4 Proﬁt before loan losses 3 174 3 257 3 286 3 120 12 837 13 460 -5 Net loan losses -75 -44 -135 -103 -357 -420 -15 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 2 3 3 1 9 0 0 Operating proﬁt 3 101 3 216 3 154 3 018 12 489 13 040 -4 Proﬁt allocation 361 182 197 162 902 641 41 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 3 462 3 398 3 351 3 180 13 391 13 681 -2 Internal income -278 -218 -223 -385 -1 104 -2 178 49 C/I ratio, % 35.3 34.8 35.5 36.9 35.6 34.1 Loan loss ratio, % 0.03 0.02 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.04 Assets 1 325 261 1 313 283 1 310 067 1 286 474 1 325 261 1 275 804 4 Liabilities 1 263 456 1 254 895 1 254 225 1 226 390 1 263 456 1 218 560 4 Allocated capital 61 805 58 388 55 842 60 084 61 805 57 244 8 Return on allocated capital, % 17.5 18.2 18.7 16.5 17.7 18.5 Average number of employees 4 357 4 632 4 342 4 350 4 420 4 397 1 Number of branches 462 461 461 461 462 461 0 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 28 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN SWEDEN | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt fell by 4 per cent to SEK 12,489 million (13,040), due to lower net interest income In the 2013 customer satisfaction survey, Handelsbanken once again had the most   branches and higher expenses. satisﬁed customers of the four major banks in Net interest income went down by 2 per cent Sweden, according to SKI (Swedish Quality to SEK 16,424 million (16,781). Lower deposit Index). For private customers, Handelsbanken’s margins reduced net interest income by SEK index value was 74.2, as compared with the -958 million, which was partly offset by higher other three main competitors, all of which deposit and lending volumes which increased recorded scores within the range 64.1–66.2. net interest income by SEK 482 million. Higher Since the start of the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelslending margins made a positive contribution banken has increased its lead on the other three of SEK 202 million. The fees to the Stabilisation major banks and in the year’s survey its lead Fund and the deposit guarantee fell by SEK 45 further increased. Handelsbanken also received million and burdened net interest income by a considerably higher rating than the rest of the SEK -634 million (-679). The benchmark effect sector for customer satisfaction among corpoin Stadshypotek affected net interest income rate customers. positively and was SEK 19 million (-14). For the third consecutive year, Handelsbanken Net fee and commission income grew by was acclaimed “Business Bank of the Year” in 5 per cent to SEK 3,528 million (3,375), chieﬂy Finansbarometern’s annual survey. The Bank due to higher mutual fund commissions. received the highest rating of any bank during Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions fell the eleven-year history of the survey. by 20 per cent to SEK 462 million (579). The average volume of deposits from Total expenses rose by 4 per cent to SEK households continued to increase, amounting -7,604 million (-7,293), chieﬂy due to annual to SEK 220 billion (207), a rise of 6 per cent salary adjustments, as well as to increasing compared with the previous year. At the same expenses for IT development. The C/I ratio was time, ﬁgures from Svensk Fondstatistik mutual 35.6 per cent (34.1). fund statistics showed that for the fourth year Loan losses decreased to SEK -357 million running, Handelsbanken was the largest player (-420). The loan loss ratio was 0.03 per cent in the Swedish market in terms of net inﬂows. (0.04). During the year, new fund savings in the Bank’s mutual funds in Sweden amounted to SEK 12.0 billion, corresponding to a market share of 11.4 Business volumes, Sweden per cent. Change Two new branches were opened during the Average volumes, SEK bn 2013 2012 % year: a branch in Sävar in the ﬁrst quarter and Loans to the public 1 1 103 1 068 3 in Bara during the fourth quarter. Thus the Bank households 613 587 4 had 462 branches in Sweden. of which mortgage loans 560 534 5 The average volume of mortgage loans to companies 490 481 2 private individuals increased by 5 per cent to of which mortgage loans 248 226 10 SEK 560 billion (534), while the average volume of lending to companies grew by SEK 9 billion Deposits from the public 386 371 4 to SEK 490 billion (481). of which households 220 207 6 companies 166 164 1 1 Excluding loans to the National Debt Ofﬁce. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 29 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJOUIF6, #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJOUIF6,DPNQSJTFGPVSSFHJPOBMCBOLTBOEUIFBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUDPNQBOZ )FBSUXPPE)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTTPQFSBUJPOTJOUIF6,BSFBMTPJODMVEFE U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIF CSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPGUIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBM CBOLTPéFSCBOLJOHTFSWJDFTBUCSBODIFTUISPVHIPVUUIF6, Quarterly performance Branch operations in the UK Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 719 682 631 592 2 624 2 142 23 Net fee and commission income 73 73 42 25 213 94 127 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 51 25 21 23 120 91 32 Other income 4 0 6 3 13 15 -13 Total income 847 780 700 643 2 970 2 342 27 Staff costs -327 -271 -241 -220 -1 059 -793 34 Other administrative expenses -75 -59 -53 -56 -243 -178 37 Internal purchased and sold services -82 -82 -81 -72 -317 -201 58 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -14 -16 -4 -7 -41 -12 242 Total expenses -498 -428 -379 -355 -1 660 -1 184 40 Proﬁt before loan losses 349 352 321 288 1 310 1 158 13 Net loan losses 2 -65 -50 -55 -168 -151 11 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 1 0 0 1 -1 Operating proﬁt 351 288 271 233 1 143 1 006 14 Proﬁt allocation 15 6 5 4 30 15 100 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 366 294 276 237 1 173 1 021 15 Internal income -306 -312 -303 -291 -1 212 -1 308 7 C/I ratio, % 57.8 54.5 53.8 54.9 55.3 50.2 Loan loss ratio, % -0.01 0.22 0.17 0.19 0.14 0.16 Assets 194 503 173 140 155 853 140 170 194 503 147 787 32 Liabilities 186 859 166 130 149 376 133 670 186 859 141 909 32 Allocated capital 7 644 7 010 6 477 6 500 7 644 5 878 30 Return on allocated capital, % 15.0 13.1 13.3 11.4 13.2 13.9 Average number of employees 1 405 1 332 1 201 1 102 1 260 944 33 Number of branches 161 151 147 138 161 133 21 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 30 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE UK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt increased by 14 per cent to SEK 1,143 million (1,006). The result was According to the EPSI customer satisfaction survey, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed  branches charged with expenses related to the continued private and corporate customers among UK expansion of the branch network and also banks for the ﬁfth year running. Private customnegative exchange rate movements. Expressed ers gave the Bank an index value of 83.8 as in local currency, operating proﬁt increased by compared to the sector average of 74.4. 20 per cent. Corporate customers gave the Bank an index Proﬁt before loan losses grew by 13 per value of 82.3 as compared to the sector cent to SEK 1,310 million (1,158), as a result average of 71.9. of continuing growth in business volumes and Business volumes continued to grow. During customer numbers. In local currency, proﬁt the year, the end-of-period volume of deposits before loan losses grew by 19 per cent. grew by 92 per cent, while the lending volume Income increased by 27 per cent and net increased by 15 per cent. interest income increased by 23 per cent to On 1 January 2013, a fourth regional bank SEK 2,624 million (2,142), mainly as a result of was formed, with its head ofﬁce in Bristol. 28 larger business volumes but also due to larger new branches were opened in 2013, ten of lending margins. these being opened in the fourth quarter. At Net fee and commission income more than the end of the year, the Bank had 161 branches doubled to SEK 213 million (94). The increase in the UK. In addition, managers have been is mainly explained by increased asset managerecruited for another nine new branches. ment commissions as a result of the acquisition Work with integrating the Bank’s acquisition of Heartwood at the end of May. However, of the asset management company Heartwood improved payment commissions also made continues according to plan. Since the acquisia contribution. During the year, Heartwood tion was made at the end of May, assets under contributed asset management and advisory management have increased from GBP 1.5 commissions of SEK 95 million (-). billion to GBP 1.8 billion. Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions increased by SEK 29 million to SEK 120 million (91) as a result of improved business volumes. Expenses rose by 40 per cent to SEK -1,660 million (-1,184) as a result of the continuing Business volumes, expansion. The average number of employees UK increased by 33 per cent to 1,260 (944). Change Loan losses increased to SEK -168 million Average volumes, GBP m 2013 2012 % (-151), but since the lending volume increased, Loans to the public 11 633 9 656 20 the loan loss ratio went down to 0.14 per cent of which households 3 252 2 537 28 (0.16). companies 8 381 7 119 18 Deposits from the public 3 676 2 789 32 of which households 688 463 49 companies 2 988 2 326 28 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 31 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO%FONBSL #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO%FONBSLDPNQSJTFUIFSFHJPOBMCBOL BTXFMMBT)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTTBOE 4UBETIZQPUFLTPQFSBUJPOTJO%FONBSL U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIFCSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT  XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPGUIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBMCBOLPéFSTBGVMMSBOHFPGCBOLJOHTFSWJDFTBUCSBODIFTUISPVHIPVU%FONBSL)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTPéFSTçOBODFDPNQBOZTFSWJDFT BOEXPSLTUISPVHIUIF#BOLTCSBODIFT5IFNPSUHBHFPQFSBUJPOTBU4UBETIZQPUFLBSFGVMMZJOUFHSBUFE XJUIUIFCSBODIPQFSBUJPOT Quarterly performance Branch operations in Denmark Total Total Change SEKm Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 397 403 363 356 1 519 1 397 9 Net fee and commission income 92 74 82 81 329 290 13 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 35 29 25 8 97 55 76 Other income 5 4 4 5 18 19 -5 Total income 529 510 474 450 1 963 1 761 11 Staff costs -142 -137 -137 -130 -546 -537 2 Other administrative expenses -49 -37 -43 -46 -175 -173 1 Internal purchased and sold services -69 -61 -59 -63 -252 -235 7 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -5 -4 -4 -4 -17 -16 6 Total expenses -265 -239 -243 -243 -990 -961 3 Proﬁt before loan losses 264 271 231 207 973 800 22 Net loan losses -65 -29 -37 -30 -161 -368 -56 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Operating proﬁt 199 242 194 177 812 432 88 Proﬁt allocation 17 12 10 8 47 27 74 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 216 254 204 185 859 459 87 Internal income -89 -106 -94 -106 -395 -538 27 C/I ratio, % 48.5 45.8 50.2 53.1 49.3 53.7 Loan loss ratio, % 0.40 0.18 0.22 0.19 0.25 0.61 Assets 78 830 75 379 78 154 74 662 78 830 74 077 6 Liabilities 73 482 69 932 73 169 69 394 73 482 69 151 6 Allocated capital 5 348 5 447 4 985 5 268 5 348 4 926 9 Return on allocated capital, % 12.6 14.6 12.7 10.9 12.7 7.3 Average number of employees 625 625 626 619 624 617 1 Number of branches 56 55 55 55 56 54 4 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 32 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN DENMARK | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt rose by 88 per cent to SEK 812 million (432) due to higher income and lower The EPSI annual customer satisfaction survey showed that Handelsbanken had the most  branches loan losses. Proﬁt before loan losses increased satisﬁed customers in Denmark. Private cusby 22 per cent to SEK 973 million (800). Income tomers gave the Bank an index value of 76.6 increased by 11 per cent, while expenses grew as compared to the sector average of 65.8. by 3 per cent. Exchange rate movements had a Handelsbanken received an index value of 72.6 negative impact on proﬁts, and in local currency, from corporate customers as compared to the proﬁt before loan losses grew by 23 per cent. sector average of 66.9. Net interest income increased by 9 per The Bank continued to have a stable inﬂow cent, or SEK 122 million, to SEK 1,519 million of new customers, and market shares in(1,397). In local currency, the increase was 10 creased. The average volume of lending grew per cent, mainly due to higher lending volumes. by 12 per cent to DKK 59.1 billion (52.9). At the same time, lower deposit margins due The Bank’s volume of lending to households to falling interest rates had a SEK -69 million increased by 14 per cent while lending to comnegative effect on net interest income. Fees for panies rose by 9 per cent. The average volume the Swedish Stabilisation Fund and the deposit of deposits from the public grew by 2 per cent guarantee, together with the Danish state deto DKK 22.7 billion (22.3). posit guarantee, burdened net interest income Two new branches were opened during by SEK -44 million (-45). the year, one of which in the fourth quarter, Expenses increased by 3 per cent to SEK bringing the Bank’s total number of branches -990 million (-961). Exchange rate movements in Denmark to 56. reduced expenses by SEK 8 million. Expressed Business volumes, in local currency, expenses increased by 4 per Denmark Change cent, mainly due to higher IT expenses. The Average volumes, DKK bn 2013 2012 % average number of employees rose by 1 per Loans to the public 59.1 52.9 12 cent to 624 (617). of which households 29.1 25.5 14 Loan losses decreased to SEK -161 million companies 30.0 27.4 9 (-368), which corresponds to a loan loss ratio of 0.25 per cent (0.61). Deposits from the public 22.7 22.3 2 of which households 9.1 8.7 5 companies 13.6 13.6 0 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 33 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO'JOMBOE #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO'JOMBOEDPNQSJTFUIFSFHJPOBMCBOL BTXFMMBT)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTTBOE 4UBETIZQPUFLTPQFSBUJPOTJO'JOMBOE U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIFCSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT  XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPGUIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBMCBOLPéFSTBGVMMSBOHFPGCBOLJOH TFSWJDFTBUCSBODIFTUISPVHIPVU'JOMBOE)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTPéFSTçOBODFDPNQBOZTFSWJDFT BOEXPSLTUISPVHIUIF#BOLTCSBODIFT5IFNPSUHBHFPQFSBUJPOTBU4UBETIZQPUFLBSFGVMMZJOUFHSBUFE XJUIUIFCSBODIPQFSBUJPOT Quarterly performance Branch operations in Finland Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 337 315 294 273 1 219 1 032 18 Net fee and commission income 107 106 100 99 412 375 10 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 12 6 13 9 40 30 33 Other income 1 1 1 2 5 5 0 Total income 457 428 408 383 1 676 1 442 16 Staff costs -85 -79 -84 -83 -331 -326 2 Other administrative expenses -36 -35 -40 -34 -145 -143 1 Internal purchased and sold services -62 -59 -60 -58 -239 -208 15 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -2 -2 -2 -4 -10 -21 -52 Total expenses -185 -175 -186 -179 -725 -698 4 Proﬁt before loan losses 272 253 222 204 951 744 28 Net loan losses -121 -77 -34 -36 -268 -128 109 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 151 176 188 168 683 616 11 Proﬁt allocation 27 17 15 11 70 44 59 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 178 193 203 179 753 660 14 Internal income -99 -110 -97 -111 -417 -689 39 C/I ratio, % 38.2 39.3 44.0 45.4 41.5 47.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.54 0.34 0.16 0.16 0.30 0.15 Assets 153 436 142 837 143 636 133 183 153 436 134 985 14 Liabilities 147 315 136 549 138 265 127 329 147 315 129 558 14 Allocated capital 6 121 6 288 5 371 5 854 6 121 5 427 13 Return on allocated capital, % 9.0 9.6 11.8 9.5 9.9 9.8 Average number of employees 485 502 496 477 490 478 3 Number of branches 45 45 45 45 45 45 0 H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 34 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN FINLAND | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt improved by 11 per cent to SEK 683 million (616), chieﬂy due to rising net As in previous years, Handelsbanken had the most satisﬁed private and corporate customers 45 5 branches ches interest income. Income grew by 16 per cent, among commercial banks in Finland, accordwhile expenses increased by only 4 per cent. ing to the EPSI customer satisfaction survey. Net interest income increased by SEK 187 Private customers gave the Bank an index value million, or 18 per cent, to SEK 1,219 million of 81.7, as compared to the sector average of (1,032) as a result of both higher lending margins 75.6. and larger lending volumes. In local currency, The average volume of lending increased by net interest income rose by 19 per cent. Fees for 10 per cent from the previous year. The Bank’s the Swedish Stabilisation Fund and the deposit lending to companies increased by 12 per cent, guarantee burdened net interest income by SEK while the average volume of lending to house-47 million (-48). holds rose by 6 per cent. Net fee and commission income increased The average volume of deposits from houseby 10 per cent to SEK 412 million (375), which holds decreased by 2 per cent, while corporate was attributable to higher lending commissions deposits declined by 17 per cent. However, and asset management income. Net gains/ in the fourth quarter, the average volume of losses on ﬁnancial transactions increased to deposits from companies increased and was SEK 40 million (30). thus 26 per cent higher compared with the Total expenses rose by 4 per cent to SEK corresponding quarter of the previous year. -725 million (-698), chieﬂy due to increased expenses for internally purchased services. Staff costs rose by 2 per cent, due mainly to a rise of 12 (3 per cent) in the average number of employees. Business volumes, Finland Loan losses increased to SEK -268 million Change (-128) and the loan loss ratio was 0.30 per cent Average volumes, EUR m 2013 2012 % (0.15). Loans to the public 11 672 10 632 10 of which households 3 693 3 480 6 companies 7 979 7 152 12 Deposits from the public 3 026 3 422 -12 of which households 1 262 1 287 -2 companies 1 764 2 135 -17 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 35 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO/PSXBZ #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO/PSXBZDPNQSJTFUIFSFHJPOBMCBOL BTXFMMBT)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTTBOE 4UBETIZQPUFLTPQFSBUJPOTJO/PSXBZ U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIFCSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT  XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPGUIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBMCBOLPéFSTBGVMMSBOHFPGCBOLJOHTFSWJDFT BUCSBODIFTUISPVHIPVU/PSXBZ)BOEFMTCBOLFO'JOBOTPéFSTçOBODFDPNQBOZTFSWJDFTBOE XPSLTUISPVHIUIF#BOLTCSBODIFT5IFNPSUHBHFPQFSBUJPOTBU4UBETIZQPUFLBSFGVMMZJOUFHSBUFEXJUI UIFCSBODIPQFSBUJPOT Quarterly performance Branch operations in Norway Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 902 918 905 849 3 574 3 098 15 Net fee and commission income 90 100 88 86 364 329 11 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 22 19 23 19 83 87 -5 Other income 3 4 2 3 12 15 -20 Total income 1 017 1 041 1 018 957 4 033 3 529 14 Staff costs -161 -171 -159 -171 -662 -700 -5 Other administrative expenses -66 -53 -54 -59 -232 -235 -1 Internal purchased and sold services -104 -85 -93 -86 -368 -316 16 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -2 -3 -2 -3 -10 -12 -17 Total expenses -333 -312 -308 -319 -1 272 -1 263 1 Proﬁt before loan losses 684 729 710 638 2 761 2 266 22 Net loan losses -43 -25 -38 -63 -169 -200 -16 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 641 704 672 575 2 592 2 066 25 Proﬁt allocation 22 7 8 6 43 31 39 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 663 711 680 581 2 635 2 097 26 Internal income -895 -911 -922 -878 -3 606 -4 131 13 C/I ratio, % 32.1 29.8 30.0 33.1 31.2 35.5 Loan loss ratio, % 0.08 0.05 0.07 0.12 0.08 0.11 Assets 202 567 200 958 206 174 203 062 202 567 212 392 -5 Liabilities 190 444 189 058 194 591 190 373 190 444 200 519 -5 Allocated capital 12 123 11 900 11 583 12 689 12 123 11 873 2 Return on allocated capital, % 17.1 18.6 18.3 14.3 17.0 13.5 Average number of employees 655 654 648 644 650 647 0 Number of branches 49 49 49 49 49 49 0  H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN NORWAY | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt rose by 25 per cent to SEK 2,592 million (2,066), mainly due to higher net As in previous years, Handelsbanken had private and corporate customers that were 49 branches interest income. Income increased by 14 per signiﬁcantly more satisﬁed than the average cent, while expenses increased by 1 per cent. among banks in Norway, according to the The Norwegian krone weakened and exchange EPSI customer satisfaction survey. Private rate movements reduced operating proﬁt by customers gave the Bank an index value SEK 84 million. In local currency, operating of 75.0, as compared to the sector average proﬁt increased by 32 per cent. of 69.8. Net interest income increased by 15 per cent, Business volumes continued to grow. The or SEK 476 million, to SEK 3,574 million (3,098), average volume of lending rose by 5 per cent, mainly as a result of higher lending margins and with household lending increasing by 6 per cent also larger lending volumes. Fees for the Swedish and corporate lending by 4 per cent. Stabilisation Fund and the deposit guarantee, The average volume of deposits from housetogether with the Norwegian state deposit holds increased by 5 per cent, while corporate guarantee, burdened net interest income by deposits went down by 2 per cent. SEK -97 million (-103). Net fee and commission income increased by 11 per cent to SEK 364 million (329), chieﬂy due to higher lending and payment commissions and increased fund management income. Expenses rose by 1 per cent to SEK -1,272 million (-1,263). Staff costs went down by 5 per cent, but were unchanged in local currency terms. The total increase in expenses was mainly attributable to rising IT expenses and expenses for other internally purchased services. Business volumes, Loan losses went down to SEK -169 million Norway (-200), and the loan loss ratio was 0.08 per cent Change Average volumes, NOK bn 2013 2012 % (0.11). Loans to the public 182.8 174.8 5 of which households 72.0 67.9 6 companies 110.8 106.9 4 Deposits from the public 49.6 49.5 0 of which households 14.0 13.3 5 companies 35.6 36.2 -2 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3  BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT #SBODIPQFSBUJPOTJO UIF/FUIFSMBOET 4JODF+BOVBSZ CSBODIPQFSBUJPOTJOUIF/FUIFSMBOETBSFPSHBOJTFEBTBTFQBSBUFSFHJPOBMCBOL U)BOEFMTCBOLFO UIFCSBODIFTBSFUIFCBTFPGBMMPQFSBUJPOT XJUISFTQPOTJCJMJUZGPSBMMDVTUPNFSTPG UIF#BOL5IFSFHJPOBMCBOLPéFSTCBOLJOHTFSWJDFTBUCSBODIFTJOUIF/FUIFSMBOET Quarterly performance Branch operations in the Netherlands Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 66 61 53 50 230 177 30 Net fee and commission income 6 6 5 6 23 26 -12 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 1 0 1 2 -50 Other income Total income 72 67 59 56 254 205 24 Staff costs -26 -25 -23 -22 -96 -77 25 Other administrative expenses -6 -5 -5 -5 -21 -18 17 Internal purchased and sold services -17 -13 -15 -11 -56 -37 51 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 -1 0 0 -1 -7 -86 Total expenses -49 -44 -43 -38 -174 -139 25 Proﬁt before loan losses 23 23 16 18 80 66 21 Net loan losses -6 0 -1 0 -7 0 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Operating proﬁt 17 23 15 18 73 66 11 Proﬁt allocation 1 0 1 2 4 1 300 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 18 23 16 20 77 67 15 Internal income -33 -35 -37 -35 -140 -235 40 C/I ratio, % 67.1 65.7 71.7 65.5 67.4 67.5 Loan loss ratio, % 0.17 0.01 0.02 0.00 0.05 0.00 Assets 33 039 36 191 32 748 27 804 33 039 21 482 54 Liabilities 32 221 35 386 32 009 27 059 32 221 20 942 54 Allocated capital 818 805 739 745 818 540 51 Return on allocated capital, % 6.9 8.9 6.6 8.5 7.7 10.4 Average number of employees 110 103 100 95 102 82 24 Number of branches 18 16 15 15 18 13 38 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 38 BRANCH OPERATIONS IN THE NETHERLANDS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Operating proﬁt increased by 11 per cent to SEK 73 million (66). Income rose by 24 per cent, According to the EPSI customer satisfaction survey in the Netherlands, Handelsbanken had 18 branches while continuing investments in operations led more satisﬁed customers – both private and to a 25 per cent increase in expenses. corporate – than the average in the sector. Net interest income increased by 30 per cent At the beginning of 2013 the Bank decided to SEK 230 million (177), mainly as a result of to establish a regional bank in the Netherlands, increased business volumes from private cusat the same time designating this market as the tomers and increased corporate margins. Group’s sixth home market. Five new branch ofExpenses increased to SEK -174 million ﬁces were opened during the year, two of them (-139), as a result of the expansion of the regional in the fourth quarter. At the end of the year, the head ofﬁce and the branch network. The averBank had 18 branches in the Netherlands. age number of employees rose to 102 (82). Average deposit volumes grew by 45 per Loan losses were SEK -7 million (-), and the cent to EUR 944 million (650), while lending loan loss ratio was 0.05 per cent (-). volumes increased by 4 per cent to EUR 1,728 million (1,657). Household deposits grew by 53 per cent and the average volume of lending to households increased by 99 per cent. Business volumes, Netherlands Change Average volumes, EUR m 2013 2012 % Loans to the public 1 728 1 657 4 of which households 478 240 99 companies 1 250 1 417 -12 Deposits from the public 944 650 45 of which households 26 17 53 companies 918 633 45 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 39 HANDELSBANKEN INTERNATIONAL | ADMINISTRATION REPORT )BOEFMTCBOLFO*OUFSOBUJPOBM )BOEFMTCBOLFO*OUFSOBUJPOBMTNBJOUBTLJTUPTVQQPSUUIF#BOLTDVTUPNFSTJOUIFIPNFNBSLFUT XJUIUIFJSJOUFSOBUJPOBMCVTJOFTT5IF#BOLIBTPQFSBUJPOTJOMPDBUJPOT CSBODIFTBOEOJOF SFQSFTFOUBUJWFPïDFT JODPVOUSJFTPVUTJEFJUTIPNFNBSLFUT Quarterly performance Handelsbanken International Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 176 170 161 153 660 766 -14 Net fee and commission income 73 75 79 81 308 328 -6 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 14 22 27 16 79 86 -8 Other income 2 0 1 3 6 2 200 Total income 265 267 268 253 1 053 1 182 -11 Staff costs -126 -125 -129 -130 -510 -526 -3 Other administrative expenses -58 -42 -43 -38 -181 -192 -6 Internal purchased and sold services -47 -34 -37 -35 -153 -108 42 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -3 -2 -3 -3 -11 -13 -15 Total expenses -234 -203 -212 -206 -855 -839 2 Proﬁt before loan losses 31 64 56 47 198 343 -42 Net loan losses -14 -44 -11 4 -65 16 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 -2 Operating proﬁt 17 20 45 51 133 357 -63 Proﬁt allocation 18 9 3 8 38 20 90 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 35 29 48 59 171 377 -55 Internal income 2 -3 -21 -28 -50 -44 -14 C/I ratio, % 82.7 73.6 78.2 78.9 78.4 69.8 Loan loss ratio, % 0.18 0.58 0.15 -0.05 0.22 -0.04 Assets 76 640 80 766 67 697 70 355 76 640 67 594 13 Liabilities 72 419 76 259 63 495 66 086 72 419 63 593 14 Allocated capital 4 221 4 507 4 202 4 269 4 221 4 001 5 Return on allocated capital, % 2.5 2.0 3.6 4.3 3.1 6.8 Average number of employees 498 511 517 519 511 536 -5 Number of branches 19 19 19 19 19 19 0 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 40 HANDELSBANKEN INTERNATIONAL | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial performance Business development Business volumes, Operating proﬁt went down to SEK 133 million The average volume of lending decreased by Handelsbanken (357) as a result of a deliberate reduction in 10 per cent to SEK 33.2 billion (36.7) compared International Change business volumes and higher loan losses. with the previous year. Deposits increased by Average volumes, SEK bn 2013 2012 % Net interest income decreased by 14 per 7 per cent to SEK 28.7 billion (26.7), mainly as Loans to the public 33.2 36.7 -10 cent to SEK 660 million (766), due to lower a result of corporate deposits increasing by 11 of which households 3.5 3.6 -3 lending volumes and lower margins. per cent to SEK 26.3 billion (23.8). companies 29.7 33.1 -10 Net fee and commission income fell by 6 per cent to SEK 308 million (328), mainly due to Deposits from the public 28.7 26.7 7 lower business volumes leading to lower lendof which households 2.4 2.9 -17 ing, payment and guarantee commissions. companies 26.3 23.8 11 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions, which mainly consist of foreign exchangerelated earnings and early redemption charges, decreased to SEK 79 million (86). Expenses increased by 2 per cent to SEK -855 million (-839). The average number of employees fell to 511 (536). Loan losses amounted to SEK -65 million (16), which corresponds to a loan loss ratio of 0.22 per cent (-0.04). Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch network in its six home markets: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. Outside these markets, the Bank has 19 branches and 9 representative ofﬁces in 18 countries: Australia, Brazil, Estonia, France, India, China, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Poland, Russia, Switzerland, Singapore, Spain, Germany, USA and Austria. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 41 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT )BOEFMTCBOLFO$BQJUBM.BSLFUT $BQJUBM.BSLFUTDPNQSJTFT)BOEFMTCBOLFOTJOWFTUNFOUCBOLBOEBTTFUNBOBHFNFOUPQFSBUJPOT  JODMVEJOHJOTVSBODFTBWJOHT5IFVOJUIBTBGVODUJPOBMBOEQSPEVDUSFTQPOTJCJMJUZUISPVHIPVUUIF (SPVQGPSUSBEJOHJOçOBODJBMJOTUSVNFOUT TUSVDUVSFEQSPEVDUT DBTINBOBHFNFOU DPSQPSBUFçOBODF BOEEFCUDBQJUBMNBSLFUT FDPOPNJDBOEçOBODJBMSFTFBSDI5IFVOJUJTBMTPSFTQPOTJCMFGPSBMMTBWJOHT QSPEVDUTFYDFQUGPSTBWJOHTJOCBOLBDDPVOUT In the table below, the income ﬁgures and comments for Capital Markets’ products throughout the Group are presented ﬁrst, followed by the equivalent ﬁgures and comments for the Handelsbanken Capital Markets segment. Income distribution in the Group for Handelsbanken Capital Markets’ products January–December 2013 Total Capital Change % Branch Markets products Jan–Dec 2013/ SEK m Capital Markets operations Other in the Group Jan–Dec 2012 Net interest income 151 151 -71 Commission income 2 979 1 967 -135 4 811 13 of which brokerage income 789 452 -52 1 189 5 of which mutual funds and custody 1 336 1 155 -56 2 435 20 of which insurance 239 360 -28 571 -2 Net fee and commission income 2 658 1 914 -55 4 517 20 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 977 525 -1 1 501 27 Risk result 142 142 -27 Other income 10 10 -9 Total income 3 938 2 439 -56 6 321 12 Quarterly performance Capital Markets Total Total Change SEK m Q4 2013 Q3 2013 Q2 2013 Q1 2013 2013 2012 % Net interest income 28 34 46 43 151 517 -71 Net fee and commission income 707 588 703 660 2 658 2 438 9 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 253 215 298 211 977 658 48 Risk result, insurance 35 30 26 51 142 196 -28 Other income 2 10 -6 4 10 11 -9 Total income 1 025 877 1 067 969 3 938 3 820 3 Staff costs -512 -505 -509 -507 -2 033 -2 255 -10 Other administrative expenses -228 -164 -208 -185 -785 -768 2 Internal purchased and sold services 0 13 13 5 31 -127 -124 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -11 -14 -11 -14 -50 -54 -7 Total expenses -751 -670 -715 -701 -2 837 -3 204 -11 Proﬁt before loan losses 274 207 352 268 1 101 616 79 Net loan losses Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0 0 Operating proﬁt 274 207 352 268 1 101 616 79 Proﬁt allocation -461 -233 -239 -201 -1 134 -779 46 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation -187 -26 113 67 -33 -163 80 Internal income -412 -290 -340 -372 -1 414 -1 167 -21 C/I ratio, % 133.2 104.0 86.4 91.3 101.2 105.4 Assets 294 607 319 389 317 782 327 530 294 607 317 892 -7 Liabilities 291 546 316 148 313 856 323 576 291 546 313 705 -7 Allocated capital 3 061 3 241 3 926 3 954 3 061 4 187 -27 Return on allocated capital, % 9.0 5.3 Average number of employees 1 448 1 486 1 458 1 463 1 464 1 550 -6 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 42 HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Group’s brokerage income increased by funds, with a market share of 90 per cent of the In the area of corporate ﬁnance, the Bank 5 per cent to SEK 1,189 million (1,137). Asset total assets under management. maintained its strong position and remained management commissions increased by 20 per Total fund volume, including exchangethe leading adviser in acquisition and sales of cent to SEK 2,435 million (2,028), of which fund traded funds, increased during the year by companies in Sweden. commissions rose by 20 per cent to SEK 2,008 SEK 47 billion to SEK 271 billion (224), the Exchange of business with large international million (1,680), mainly due to positive changes in highest ever volume. Total assets under mancompanies at Large Corporates performed well. the value of the funds. agement in the Group rose during the year by Insurance commissions went down to SEK SEK 84 billion to SEK 452 billion (368). Financial performance 571 million (583), due to fewer policies with Customers were more interested in structured Operating proﬁt increased by 79 per cent to guaranteed rates of return. investments during the year, and the sales of SEK 1,101 million (616). Asset management Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions capital-protected investments increased by 85 operations, excluding Handelsbanken Liv, inincreased by 27 per cent to SEK 1,501 million per cent. Handelsbanken was the largest player creased their proﬁt to SEK 407 million (306) and (1,178). Currency transactions related to branch in Sweden for capital-protected investments the investment bank to SEK 384 million (-106). operations, which are included in net gains/ focused on the general public, with a market Net interest income went down to SEK 151 losses on ﬁnancial transactions, resulted in a share of just over 22 per cent. million (517). However, the decrease should be currency gain of SEK 525 million (522). The Bank’s risk mandate is only used to seen together with net gains/losses on ﬁnancial undertake customer business. As a result of transactions, which at the same time increased Business development this, the Bank’s customers are ensured that to SEK 977 million (658). For the fourth year running, the Bank was the they can always get the best possible execution Net fee and commission income grew by largest player in new savings in mutual funds of their transactions. 9 per cent to SEK 2,658 million (2,438), chieﬂy in Sweden, with a net inﬂow of SEK 12 billion. The Private Banking operation continued to due to higher mutual fund and advisory comNet new savings in Handelsbanken’s funds in perform well, both with regard to the inﬂow of missions. the Group totalled SEK 16 billion during the customers and the volumes managed. Since The risk result in Handelsbanken Liv was SEK year. Morningstar, an independent mutual fund 2010, TNS Sifo Prospera has ranked Handels142 million (196). research company, gave Handelsbanken’s funds banken as number one for Private Banking, and In total, income rose by 3 per cent to SEK the highest average grade of all the major Swedish this included 2013 as well. 3,938 million (3,820), while expenses fell by banks in its three-year rating of mutual fund comIn January, the Bank launched its “High 11 per cent to SEK -2,837 million (-3,204). The panies on the Swedish market. According to the income solutions” for occupational pensions. reduction in expenses is chieﬂy attributable to Swedish Quality Index (SKI), Handelsbanken also These solutions do not have any capital, premistaff costs. The average number of employees had the most satisﬁed savings customers of the um or ﬁxed fees. High demand for occupational fell by 6 per cent to 1,464 (1,550). four major banks in Sweden. Xact was the largest pension solutions resulted in the sales volume player in the Nordic market for exchange-traded increasing by 53 per cent. Income distribution Asset under management SEK m 2013 2012 SEK bn 2013 2012 Asset Management and custody 945 838 Mutual funds, excl. PPM and unit-linked insurance 199 166 Handelsbanken Liv 690 846 PPM 14 11 Investment banking 2 303 2 136 Unit-linked insurance 60 49 Total income 3 938 3 820 of which external funds -2 -2 Total mutual funds 271 224 Structured products 25 28 Portfolio bond insurance 17 15 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -5 -4 Traditional insurance 11 12 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products 0 0 Institutional assets1 140 100 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -59 -51 Handelsbanken's foundations 58 49 of which in Handelsbanken mutual funds and structured products -6 -5 Total assets under management, Handelsbanken Group 452 368 Securities in custody, excl. mutual funds 256 228 1 Including the whole volume managed by Heartwood, of which own funds SEK 10bn. At Capital Markets, around 1,400 specialists work in seven countries: Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Luxembourg and the US. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 43 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT )BOEFMTCBOLFOTTIBSFTBOE TIBSFIPMEFST )BOEFMTCBOLFOTTIBSFXBTçSTUMJTUFEPOUIF4UPDLIPMNTUPDLFYDIBOHFJO NBLJOHJUUIFPMEFTU MJTUFETIBSFPOUIFFYDIBOHF*O UIFTIBSFXBTOPUFEBUBOhBMMUJNFIJHItPOUSBEJOHEBZT%VSJOH UIFZFBS UIFTIBSFQSJDFHSFXCZQFSDFOUBOEJODMVEJOHEJWJEFOETQBJE UPUBMSFUVSOXBTQFSDFOU There are two classes of Handelsbanken’s 1.3 million Handelsbanken shares were traded CREATING SHAREHOLDER VALUE share: class A and class B. Class A shares are each day on Nasdaq OMX. Handelsbanken is one of few banks which has by far the most common and represent more The Handelsbanken share is in the group of created a positive shareholder value during the than 98 per cent of all shares, both in terms of the most traded shares on the Stockholm stock years of the ﬁnancial and debt crisis. Handelsthe number of shares and the turnover. Class A exchange. banken is the only commercial bank on the shares each carry one vote while class B shares Stockholm stock exchange which has not have one-tenth of a vote. The share capital was DIVIDEND needed to ask its shareholders for new capital SEK 2,956 million divided over 635,645,795 One of the purposes of Handelsbanken’s corduring this period. shares. Each share thus represented SEK 4.65 porate goal is to offer shareholders long-term During the past ﬁve-year period, Handelsof the share capital. high growth in value, expressed in increasing banken has generated a positive shareholder earnings per share over a business cycle. The value of SEK 150 billion. Market capitalisation STOCK EXCHANGE TRADE dividend should be competitive in relation to has grown by SEK 122 billion, while HandelsHandelsbanken’s shares are traded on several other listed Nordic bank shares. banken has paid out SEK 28 billion in dividends. different market places. Turnover is largest on The Board is proposing to the 2014 annual Nasdaq OMX (the Stockholm stock exchange), general meeting to decide on a total dividend of SHARE PRICE PERFORMANCE but for the past couple of years, the shares SEK 16.50 per share, with the ordinary dividend For 31 of the trading days in 2013, the Handelshave also been traded on other venues, such as being SEK 11.50 per share (10.75). The combanken share was listed at an all time high. The Burgundy, Chi-X/BATS. In 2013, an average of plete proposal on share dividends is presented highest listing for the year – SEK 319.60 – was on page 175. Handelsbanken’s shares 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 22.52 22.34 19.78 17.72 16.44 after dilution 22.26 21.85 19.39 17.44 15.98 Ordinary dividend per share, SEK 11.501 10.75 9.75 9.00 8.00 Total dividend per share, SEK 16.501 Dividend growth, ordinary dividend, % 71 10 8 13 14 Price of class A share, 31 December, SEK 316.00 232.40 181.00 214.90 204.20 Highest share price during year, SEK 319.60 249.90 226.00 229.00 212.70 Lowest share price during year, SEK 234.30 181.00 147.40 180.50 81.75 Share price performance, % 36 28 -16 5 62 Total return, % 41 34 -12 9 68 Dividend yield, % 3.61 4.6 5.4 4.2 3.9 Adjusted equity per share, SEK 177.71 162.63 152.71 143.14 134.40 Stock exchange price/equity, % 178 143 119 151 153 Average daily turnover on Nasdaq OMX (no. of shares) Class A 1 240 755 1 542 761 2 056 789 1 927 262 2 792 980 Class B 17 007 16 111 23 754 25 798 35 361 P/E ratio 14.0 10.4 9.2 12.1 12.4 Market capitalisation, SEK bn 201 147 113 134 127 No. of converted shares from the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008, millions 2.8 8.7 0.6 No. of shares as at 31 December, millions 635.6 632.8 624.1 623.5 623.5 Holding of repurchased shares, millions Holding of own shares in trading book, millions 0.1 0.2 Number of outstanding shares, as at 31 December, millions 635.6 632.8 624.0 623.5 623.3 Dilution effect, end of period, millions 12.0 15.4 26.3 12.2 12.3 Number of outstanding shares after dilution, millions 647.6 648.2 650.3 635.7 635.6 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 634.8 628.5 623.1 622.1 623.3 after dilution 647.5 649.9 642.4 634.3 642.6 1 Dividend as recommended by the Board. H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 44 HANDELSBANKEN’S SHARES AND SHAREHOLDERS | ADMINISTRATION REPORT on 27 December. Handelsbanken’s market in percentage terms to the dividend paid on a per cent at the end of 2008 and was 47 per cent capitalisation increased during the year by class A share. Following the dividend paid in (46) as at 31 December 2013. Handelsbanken SEK 54 billion and was SEK 201 billion (147) as spring 2013, the conversion price was therefore has almost 100,000 shareholders. Two thirds at 31 December 2013. The Swedish stock marrecalculated to SEK 235.98. The Bank can also of these owned fewer than 501 shares. Four ket went up by 21 per cent during the year and demand conversion. per cent of the shareholders owned more than the Stockholm stock exchange bank index rose 5,000 shares each, and together they held 91.6 by 42 per cent. Handelsbanken’s class A share OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE per cent of the share capital. Two shareholders ended the year at SEK 316.00, an increase of During the past few years the proportion of nonown more than ten per cent of the shares: the 36 per cent. Including dividends, the total return Swedish shareholders has increased from 30 Oktogonen Foundation and Industrivärden. was 41 per cent. Share dividends in the past ten years Total return since the beginning of the financial crisis REPURCHASE OF SHARES 31 December 2007 – 31 December 2013 At the AGM in March 2013, the Board received SEK per share % a mandate to repurchase a maximum of 40 18 150 million shares during the period until the AGM in 16 125 March 2014. This mandate was not used during 100 14 75 2013. Since 2000, the Bank has repurchased 12 50 91.2 million shares (net), which has led to a 10 25 transfer of capital totalling SEK 15.5 billion to 8 0 Handelsbanken’s shareholders. 6 -25 4 -50 CONVERTIBLE LOAN 2 -75 In spring 2008, the Bank issued a subordinated 0 -100 Handelsbanken DNB 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Nordea convertible loan on market terms for SEK 2.3 Standard Chartered HSBC SEB Swedbank BNP Paribas BBVA Danske Bank billion directed at the Group’s employees. The Ordinary dividend Total dividend Barclays Erste Group Deutsche Bank Intesa-Sanpaolo KBC Credit Agricole Euro STOXX Banks loan has hybrid status and can be converted 2013 According to Board’s proposal. Credit Suisse Societe Generale Lloyds UBS Unicredit Commerzbank RBS into Handelsbanken class A shares. Bank of Ireland Allied Irish Banks Source: SNL, as at 31 December 2013 Since 1 June 2011, holders have been able (dividends reinvested) to convert the loan to shares at the ordinary conversion price of SEK 187.56. After 21 May 2013 it is possible to convert to Handelsbanken The largest Swedish shareholders Number of % of % of as at 31 December 2013 shares capital votes shares at the ordinary conversion price, or at Oktogonen Foundation 64 451 572 10.14 10.31 an adjusted conversion price corresponding to Industrivärden 64 351 679 10.12 10.30 the share price applying at this date, if it is lower Swedbank Robur funds 17 077 900 2.69 2.73 than the conversion price. The Bank can also Lundbergs 14 932 000 2.35 2.39 demand conversion. AMF and funds 14 698 379 2.31 2.35 In spring 2011, the Bank issued another Handelsbanken funds 9 306 402 1.46 1.49 subordinated convertible loan for SEK 2.5 Alecta 8 910 000 1.40 1.43 billion on market terms directed at the Group’s SEB funds 8 591 616 1.35 1.37 employees. Holders can convert to class A 4th National Swedish Pension Fund 6 432 450 1.01 1.03 shares in Handelsbanken between 1 May 2016 AFA Försäkring 5 181 234 0.82 0.83 and 30 November 2016. The original ordinary 3rd National Swedish Pension Fund 4 277 288 0.67 0.68 conversion price was SEK 256.52. However, J. Wallanders & T. Hedelius stiftelse, T. Browaldhs stiftelse 4 100 000 0.65 0.66 the convertible is fully dividend-protected which SPP Fonder 3 589 307 0.56 0.57 means that the ordinary conversion price is adFolksam / KPA / Förenade Liv 3 005 491 0.47 0.48 justed downwards by an amount corresponding 2nd National Swedish Pension Fund 2 664 654 0.42 0.43 Shareholdings per shareholder Shareholdings 31 December 2013 Shareholders Number of Number of % of % of Number of shares Number class A shares class B shares share capital votes 1–500 shares 63 607 8 111 860 2 225 256 1.6 1.3 501–1 000 shares 13 343 8 756 599 1 472 660 1.6 1.4 1 001–5 000 shares 15 204 29 584 033 3 432 575 5.2 4.8 5 001–20 000 shares 2 618 21 278 374 1 946 007 3.7 3.5 20 001– shares 922 556 164 486 2 673 945 87.9 89.0 Total 95 694 623 895 352 11 750 443 100.0 100.0 Shares divided into share classes Average prices/ 31 December 2013 repurchased Share class Number % of capital % of votes amount Share capital Class A 623 895 352 98.15 99.81 2 901 113 387 Class B 11 750 443 1.85 0.19 54 639 560 Total 635 645 795 100.00 100.00 2 955 752 947 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 45 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT 4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ FNQMPZFFTBOEUIF FOWJSPONFOU )BOEFMTCBOLFOTCVTJOFTTPQQPSUVOJUJFTBOETVDDFTTFTEFQFOEVQPOUIFDPOçEFODFUIBUDVTUPNFST  JOWFTUPST UIFHFOFSBMQVCMJDBOEQVCMJDBVUIPSJUJFTIBWFJOVTBOEPVSFNQMPZFFT DPOEJUJPOGPS UIJTDPOçEFODFJTUIBUUIF#BOLTPQFSBUJPOTBSFTVCKFDUUPIJHIFUIJDBMTUBOEBSETBOESFTQPOTJCMF BDUJPOT BOEUIBUFNQMPZFFTPGUIF#BOLDPOEVDUUIFNTFMWFTJOBNBOOFSUIBUVQIPMETDPOçEFODF 5IFGPMMPXJOHJTBTVNNBSZPGUIF#BOLTTVTUBJOBCJMJUZXPSL5IFDPNQMFUF4VTUBJOBCJMJUZ3FQPSUJT POQBHFTĐPGUIJT OOVBM3FQPSU SUSTAINABILITY stakeholders and works to reduce its environHUMAN RIGHTS HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY mental impact. Handelsbanken endorses the principles set Handelsbanken is a bank that is stable over the Different sectors have larger or smaller impacts out in the United Nations Universal Declaration long term – a bank which, regardless of the situwithin different areas. For example, a bank’s of Human Rights. Handelsbanken adheres to ation in the world around us, is there for our cusdirect environmental impact is fairly limited, even UN’s Global Compact, cementing the Bank’s tomers. By being a bank with stable ﬁnances and though Handelsbanken endeavours to minimise expressed support for universal human rights. a stable presence, Handelsbanken aims to fulﬁl its the carbon dioxide emissions, etc. generated by When granting credits, the Bank takes account role as a responsible institution. Handelsbanken its operations. of its customers’ attitudes to human rights. also takes responsibility in this role by managing Handelsbanken’s customers have full responrisks in such a way that as few customers as possiblity for their operations and how they are run. EMPLOYEES sible have difﬁculties in making payments, and Handelsbanken’s possibility of affecting customIn 2013, Handelsbanken had 11,503 employees, the Bank can therefore continue to be a bank with ers’ actions is normally relatively limited. working in 24 countries, nearly 35 per cent of stable ﬁnances that makes a positive contribuwhom were employed outside Sweden. tion to its customers, its shareholders, and the RESPONSIBLE LENDING community. Handelsbanken has a very low risk tolerance. This HANDELSBANKEN RECRUITS PEOPLE low risk tolerance is maintained through a strong WHO SHARE THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL risk culture that is sustainable in the long term and Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about COMMUNITY applies to all areas of the Group. relationships with other people. When we recruit Handelsbanken is convinced of the need for a A bank has the opportunity to make a differnew employees, we therefore constantly seek local presence. The basic concept of the Bank’s ence when it comes to social and civic responsipeople who share the Bank’s basic values. We want way of operating is that business decisions are bility, particularly in its role as a lender. our employees to be driven by putting the customer made as close to the customer as possible. This Therefore, it is important that the Bank’s lendﬁrst, to enjoy taking a large amount of individual reis why Handelsbanken offers a nationwide branch ing is responsible, based on a close assessment sponsibility, and to want to take their own initiatives. network in the countries the Bank has identiﬁed of the customer’s repayment capacity. The aim of as its home markets. The Bank’s decentralised short-term proﬁts for the Bank must take second CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT organisational structure where the local branch place to what can be considered sustainable in The Bank’s strength is derived from the combined manager is responsible for all the Bank’s busithe long term. expertise of its employees. The most important ness in its local area of operations means that source of increased professionalism is learning in Handelsbanken is ﬁrmly established in the local RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS your daily work, where all employees are responcommunity. Handelsbanken integrates sustainability matters sible for constant development – their own and In recent years, most banks have decided with the investment decisions made on behalf of that of the operations. to signiﬁcantly reduce the number of branches. customers. Our approach to this is based on the Therefore, all employees participate in drawing Handelsbanken has instead elected to retain its UN Principles for Responsible Investment, PRI, up their own unit’s business plan. This forms the local branches and thus continues to ﬁll an imwhich Handelsbanken signed in 2009. Signing basis of the PLUS performance dialogue, which portant function in the local community. In 2013, PRI means that we are committed to integrating The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s Handelsbanken opened 37 new branches in its sustainability matters into research and investoperations and the employee’s development. home markets. Handelsbanken is currently the ment decisions, and to be involved in greater only bank in 59 locations. transparency relating to environmental, social and corporate governance matters in the comBusiness plan OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF OUR panies that Handelsbanken Fonder invests in. process OPERATIONS Business planning Taking responsibility is a vital element of a ETHICAL GUIDELINES successful, sustainable banking operation. Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are adopted Salary dialogue PLUS Handelsbanken aims to meet customers’ needs by the Board of the Bank. They formulate the review CUSTOMER for ﬁnancial products and services in a responbasic guidelines for every employee’s actions. A sible manner, and provide its shareholders with a self-evident rule is that the Bank and its employgood return. In addition, the Bank takes a social ees must comply with the laws and regulations Individual Action responsibility and acts ethically in relation to all its that govern the Bank’s operations. The guidelines follow-up planning are reviewed every year by the Board.  H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 SUSTAINABILITY, EMPLOYEES AND THE ENVIRONMENT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT every employee has with his/her line manager at cultural norms affect attitudes and behaviour in least once a year. everyday life. READ MORE Additional information about how the Bank works After this, each employee puts together an Focus on rectifying unwarranted pay differenwith sustainability issues is given in the Bank’s action plan setting out the goals to be attained tials between women and men continued in Sustainability Report on pages 178–203 of the and the conditions necessary for this. At the end 2013. Personnel functions and trade union Annual Report, as well as on the Bank’s website at of the year, the employee has a salary dialogue rerepresentatives have organised joint meetings handelsbanken.se/csreng. view with his/her line manager, based on a followwith salary-setting managers to provide them up of the action plan that has been carried out. with further support in the work towards gender OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S equality in salaries. PROFIT-SHARING SCHEME INTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND A condition for achieving the Bank’s ﬁnancial goal MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH of achieving better proﬁtability than the average of Since the corporate culture and the Bank’s values Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work enpeer banks in its home markets is that employees are so vital for Handelsbanken’s success, internal vironment work focuses on employees enjoying outperform their peers in the rest of the sector. recruitment is important. Internal mobility congood health, developing on a personal level and Therefore, the Board considers it reasonable that tributes to the working method and culture being functioning in an optimal way. This is a long-term employees should receive a share of any extra spread to all parts of the Bank and all countries. goal that includes factors such as clear and proﬁts. Every year but two since 1973, the Board External staff turnover in the Group was 2.9 per honest communication, having the skills and has decided to allocate part of the Bank’s proﬁts cent (3.6) during the year. competence and the right conditions needed to to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for its employees. Managers at Handelsbanken must be exemplaperform tasks and deal with work-related situaThe funds are managed by the Oktogonen ry ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate culture, tions, having pride and conﬁdence in one’s work, Foundation. which explains why most managers are recruited respecting others, and being respected oneself. All employees receive an equal part of the internally. In 2013, 98 per cent (98) of all managers In co-operation with staff and employee allocated amount and the scheme includes all in Sweden were recruited internally. For the Group representatives, managers are responsible for employees in the Bank’s home markets. In recent as a whole, the corresponding ﬁgure is 90 per developing a healthy and safe workplace in acyears, employees in Hong Kong, Luxembourg, cent (93), including those markets where the Bank cordance with the Bank’s work environment goal. Poland, Singapore and Taipei have also been established operations relatively recently. In Sweden, managers with delegated responincluded in Oktogonen. One of the most vital tasks for managers at the sibility for the work environment must, in colBank is to identify, encourage and develop new laboration with work environment representatives ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE managers. and employees, compile a work environment HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT status report at least once a year. This includes ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT FOR GENDER EQUALITY – AGAINST the employees’ physical and psychosocial A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly DISCRIMINATION environment. The results are discussed within limited. Handelsbanken’s direct environmental At Handelsbanken, there must be no discriminaeach unit at the Bank, and any measures decided impact derives mainly from its consumption of ention on grounds such as gender, gender identity upon must be integrated into the business plan/ ergy, materials, equipment, travel and transport. or expression, ethnicity, religion or other beliefs, operational plan. For several years, the Bank has measured and redisability, sexual orientation or age. ported the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions generIncidents of discrimination concerning emWORKING CONDITIONS AND UNION RIGHTS ated by its own operations as the result of its use ployees are normally managed in the operations All employees of Handelsbanken have the of transport and its consumption of electricity and through the local personnel functions, but cases right to organise and join a union or employee heat energy. For all the Bank’s regional banks in reported to the national discrimination ombudsman organisation. Handelsbanken’s traditional good the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands or corresponding ofﬁcial body are followed up at relationship with unions is a valuable component and also central units, carbon dioxide emissions Group level. No such cases were reported in 2013. of Handelsbanken’s culture. All employees in from the operations’ total electricity consumption Handelsbanken aims to be an equal opporDenmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, Norway, totalled 2,971 tonnes for 2013. tunities company where women and men have Sweden and Austria, comprising almost 85 per For the Swedish operations, in addition to electhe same opportunities, chances and power to cent of the Bank’s employees, are covered by coltricity consumption, we also measure transport, shape the Bank and their own professional career. lective bargaining agreements. In these countries, business travel and heating/cooling of properties Gender equality is about making the most of all of employees who are not members of a union are owned by Handelsbanken in Sweden, which Handelsbanken’s potential. also covered by the terms of the collective agreetotalled 4,094 tonnes of CO2 for 2013. Emissions In all countries where Handelsbanken operates, ment. The number of employees has increased of CO2 in Sweden have gone down by six per the Bank must produce a gender equality plan in countries which traditionally have a low rate of cent compared with 2012. The amount of CO2 which supports the Group’s equality goals. The membership of collective bargaining agreements. emissions from electricity consumption has fallen gender equality plan is to be based on HandelsFor this reason, the proportion of employees who but CO2 emissions related to business travel have banken’s fundamental values and the laws and are covered by a collective bargaining agreement increased in Sweden. Handelsbanken strives guidelines applying in the country concerned. has fallen slightly. to minimise the (CO2) emissions generated in its At the year-end, 44 per cent (43) of the There is an ongoing dialogue between union operations. Bank’s managers in Sweden were women. The representatives and managers concerning operaIn Sweden, the Bank has increasingly opted to proportion of women among the total number of tions – such as when changes and new services buy green electricity compared to previous years. employees in Sweden was 54 per cent (54). are to be launched – where valuable information The share of this power is 92 per cent for the NorIn the Group as a whole, 38 per cent (37) is exchanged at the very early stages. As well dic countries overall and 99 per cent for Sweden. of managers were women. The proportion of as matters which are dealt with in a dialogue women among the total number of employees in with the union organisations in each country, HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT the Group was 52 per cent (52). Handelsbanken’s European Work Council (EWC) ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT The Bank’s work with gender equality is confunctions as a forum for joint and cross-border By joining the UN’s Global Compact, Handelstinuing, with various measures aimed at making questions within the Handelsbanken Group. banken undertakes to describe how it works Handelsbanken a gender-equal company. TrainThe EWC consists of representatives from nine with environmental matters, etc. In addition ing is carried out for managers, staff at personcountries: Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the to the Bank’s own consumption of resources, nel functions and trade union representatives in Netherlands, Norway, Poland, the UK, Sweden this mainly concerns the indirect environmental order to increase awareness of how social and and Germany. impact via lending and asset management. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3  Corporate Governance Report Handelsbanken is a Swedish public limited company, whose shares are listed on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm. The shareholders ultimately make the decisions about Handelsbanken’s governance. Here the Board submits its Corporate Governance Report for 2013. Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance. CONTENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL 55 STRUCTURE 50 Internal control for operations 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Internal Audit 55 AT HANDELSBANKEN 52 Compliance 55 Comments about corporate governance in banks 52 Risk Control 55 PRINCIPLES OF POLICY DOCUMENTS 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES FOR AT HANDELSBANKEN 52 COMPENSATION AT SHAREHOLDERS AND HANDELSBANKEN 58 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS 52 Fundamental principles for Rights of shareholders 52 compensation 58 Major shareholders 53 Principles for compensation to senior management 58 Annual general meeting 2013 53 Variable compensation 58 Nomination committee 53 THE BOARD’S REPORT Auditors 53 ON INTERNAL CONTROL THE BOARD 53 REGARDING FINANCIAL REPORTING 59 Composition of the Board 53 Control environment 59 Independence of Board members 53 Risk assessment 59 Regulations governing the Board’s work 54 Control activities 59 Chairman of the Board 54 Information and communication 59 Committee work 54 Follow-up 59 The Board’s work in 2013 54 BOARD MEMBERS 60 THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT 55 GROUP MANAGEMENT AND INDEPENDENT CONTROL Group Chief Executive 55 FUNCTIONS 62 Group Management and Group Management structure 55 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Corporate Governance structure Corporate Governance at Handelsbanken – an overview 1. Shareholders and 2. Nomination committee 3. External auditors shareholders’ meeting 4. Board 5. Credit committee 6. Remuneration committee 7. Audit committee 9. President and Group 8. Internal Audit Chief Executive 10. Central Credit 11. CFO, 12. Corporate 14. Independent 13. Compliance Department Group Finance Governance risk control Elects/appoints/initiates Informs/reports The diagram provides a summary of corporate governance at Handelsbanken. The shareholders decide at the AGM. Regarding certain questions, the shareholders’ decisions are prepared by the nomination committee. The shareholders appoint a board which in turn appoints a CEO to manage the operating activities. The Board is organised into various committees. To support the work of governing the Bank, the CEO has the Group Finance unit, the Central Credit Department and the Corporate Governance unit. There are also a number of control functions at the Bank. The shareholders also exercise control via the external auditors. 1. SHAREHOLDERS AND Board’s evaluation of its work, primarily based 4. THE BOARD SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETINGS on the report that the Chairman of the Board The Board is responsible for the Bank’s orShareholders exercise their right to decide submits to the committee. The committee also ganisation and manages the Bank’s affairs on on matters concerning Handelsbanken at proposes the appointment of the auditors, and behalf of its shareholders. The Board is to conshareholders’ meetings, which are the Bank’s their fees. The AGM decides how the nominatinuously assess the Bank’s ﬁnancial situation highest decision-making body. For example, a tion committee will be appointed. and ensure that the Bank is organised such shareholders’ meeting decides on any changes that the accounting records, management of to the most fundamental governing document 3. EXTERNAL AUDITORS funds and other aspects of the Bank’s ﬁnancial for the Bank – the articles of association. Every The auditors are appointed by the AGM for the circumstances are satisfactorily controlled. The year an annual general meeting is held which period from one year’s AGM until the end of the Board establishes policies and instructions on among other things appoints the Board, the following year’s AGM. The auditors are accounthow this should be executed, and establishes Chairman of the Board and auditors. It can able to the shareholders at the AGM. They carry rules of procedure for the Board and also also decide how the nomination committee is out an audit and submit an audit report coverinstructions for the CEO. to be appointed. See also page 52. ing matters such as the Annual Report and the These central policy documents state how Board’s administration. In addition, the auditors responsibility and authority are distributed 2. NOMINATION COMMITTEE report orally and in writing to the Board’s audit among the Board as a whole and the commitThe nomination committee’s task is to prepare committee concerning how their audit was tees, and also between the Chairman of the and submit proposals to the AGM regarding conducted and their assessment of the Bank’s Board and the CEO. The Board appoints and the appointment of the Chairman and other administrative order and internal control. The stipulates the employment terms for the CEO members of the Board and fees to the Chairauditors also submit a summary report of their and Executive Vice Presidents and the Head of man and other members of the Board. The audit to the Board as a whole. Internal Audit. The Board also decides the emnomination committee is also informed of the ployment terms for the Heads of Compliance H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT READ MORE ON OUR WEBSITE More information about Handelsbanken’s corporate governance is available at handelsbanken.se/ireng. The site includes the following information: ŘSUHYLRXVFRUSRUDWHJRYHUQDQFHUHSRUWVIURP onwards ŘDUWLFOHVRIDVVRFLDWLRQ ŘLQIRUPDWLRQDERXWWKHQRPLQDWLRQFRPPLWWHH ŘLQIRUPDWLRQIURPDQQXDOJHQHUDOPHHWLQJVIURP RQZDUGV and Risk Control. The Chairman is responsible 8. INTERNAL AUDIT Board and guidelines and instructions from the for evaluating the Board’s work and informs Internal Audit performs an independent, CEO, with the aim of stipulating responsibilities the nomination committee of the results of the impartial audit of the operations and ﬁnancial and authorities internally at the Bank. evaluation. reporting of the Handelsbanken Group. A central task for Internal Audit is to assess and 13. COMPLIANCE 5. CREDIT COMMITTEE verify processes for risk management, internal The Compliance function is responsible for The Board’s credit committee decides on control and corporate governance. Auditensuring that laws, regulations and internal credit cases where the amount exceeds the ing is performed according to internationally rules, as well as accepted business practices decision limit which the Central Board has accepted norms. The Head of Internal Audit is or norms, are complied with in the operations delegated to another unit. Cases of special appointed by the Board and reports regularly conducted by the Handelsbanken Group. The importance are decided by the whole Board. to the audit committee, orally and in writing, function must act as a support to business The credit committee comprises the Chairman and also submits an annual summary report operations and follow up the application of the of the Board, the Vice Chairmen, the chairman to the whole Board. applicable regulations, check these regulations of the audit committee, the CEO, three Board and inform the units concerned about risks members appointed by the Board and the 9. PRESIDENT AND GROUP CHIEF that may arise in the operations as a result of Head of the Central Credit Department. A EXECUTIVE (CEO) inadequate compliance, assist in identifying representative from the unit within the Bank The CEO is appointed by the Board to lead and assessing such risks and assist in draftto which the credit case applies presents the Handelsbanken’s day-to-day operations. In ing internal regulations. Compliance ofﬁcers case to the credit committee. addition to instructions from the Board, the have been appointed for all business areas, CEO is obliged to comply with the proviregional banks and central units, as well as 6. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE sions of the Swedish Companies Act and for all countries where the Bank operates. The The Board’s remuneration committee regularly a number of other statutes concerning the Central Compliance unit has functional responevaluates the employment conditions for the Bank’s accounting, management of funds and sibility for compliance. The Head of Central Bank’s senior management in the light of operational control. Compliance reports regularly to the CEO and prevailing market terms for their peers in other the audit committee in matters regarding companies. The committee’s tasks include 10. CENTRAL CREDIT DEPARTMENT compliance. preparing the Board’s proposals to the AGM The Central Credit Department is responsible concerning guidelines for compensation to for formulating and maintaining the Bank’s 14. INDEPENDENT RISK CONTROL senior management, monitoring and evaluatcredit policy, credit process and for preparThe centrally located independent risk control ing the application of these guidelines, and ing every major credit case that the Board’s function is responsible for monitoring and preparing the Board’s decisions on compensacredit committee or the whole Board decides reporting all the Group’s material risks at an tion principles, compensation and other terms on. The Head of Credits presents all cases to aggregate level. This responsibility comprises of employment for senior management, as well the CEO and Chairman of the Board before credit, counterparty and market risks (interest as for the heads of Compliance, Internal Audit they are presented for a decision by the credit rate, exchange rate, equity price and comand Risk Control. The committee also makes committee or the Board. The Head of Credits modity price risk), operational risks, liquidity an independent assessment of Handelsbankreports to the CEO and is a member of the risks and insurance risks, as well as risks en’s compensation policy and compensation Board’s credit committee. The Head of Credits associated with the Group’s compensation system. The remuneration committee consists also reports to the Board about loan losses system. Risk Control identiﬁes, measures and of the Chairman of the Board and two members and risks in the credit portfolio. analyses Group risk. It reports continually to appointed by the Board. the CEO and on a regular basis to the audit 11. CFO, GROUP FINANCE committee and the remuneration committee. 7. AUDIT COMMITTEE Group Finance is responsible for control The Board is also informed of the material risks The Board’s audit committee monitors the systems, reporting, book-keeping, accounting in the operations. The Head of Risk Control Bank’s ﬁnancial reporting by examining crucial and taxes. It is also responsible for the Group’s also provides regular information to the CFO. accounting matters and other factors that may liquidity, funding and capital, and for the The management of the individual risks is the affect the qualitative content of the ﬁnancial Group’s overall risk management for all risks task of the operating unit that is responsible reports. The committee also monitors the efexcept credit risk and compliance risk. For a for the customer or counterparty (account fectiveness of the Bank’s and Group’s internal detailed description of this risk management, manager) or responsible for conducting a control, internal audit and risk management, as see note G2 on pages 78–101. certain transaction (business manager). Risk well as the external auditors’ impartiality and Control reports directly to the CEO and acts independence. It evaluates the audit work and 12. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE independently and is separate from the conassists the nomination committee in appointing The Corporate Governance unit ensures that trolled operations. auditors. The audit committee comprises the decisions made at shareholders’ meetings and Chairman of the Board and two other memby the Board, as well as changes in legislation, bers appointed by the Board. One of these regulations and corporate governance code, two members is the committee’s chairman. are implemented in policy documents from the H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 51 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT other countries exercise limited supervision over part of Handelsbanken’s corporate culture. HANDELSBANKEN the branches’ operations and full supervision over Handelsbanken wishes to recruit young emThe aim of good corporate governance is ensurthe Bank’s subsidiaries outside Sweden. The ployees for long-term employment at the Bank by ing that companies are run in a manner which is supervisory authorities in the Nordic countries, offering development opportunities that make the as ﬁt for purpose as possible on behalf of their the UK and Germany are co-ordinated in a Bank self-sufﬁcient in terms of skilled employees shareholders. It is also important for other intersupervisory group for Handelsbanken, led by the and managers. ested parties such as customers, bond investors Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. This long-term approach also applies to the and regulatory authorities. In addition to laws and ordinances, the Swedway in which the Bank relates to its customers. It is Handelsbanken applies the Swedish Code of ish supervision is based on regulations and manifested in, for example, the ambition of always Corporate Governance with only one deviation general guidelines from the Swedish Financial giving the customer the best possible advice – relating to the composition of the remuneration Supervisory Authority. The Supervisory Authority without looking at what is most proﬁtable for the committee. Committee member Jan Johansson is requires extensive reporting on various matters Bank in the short term. Employees feel a sense of not independent of the Bank and its management such as the Bank’s organisation, decision-making security in that they can always offer a customer but the Board’s assessment is that Jan Johansson’s structure, internal control, terms and conditions the Bank’s best advice without affecting their comskills and experience in the ﬁeld of compensation for the Bank’s customers and information to pensation. This enables the Bank to build long-term matters should be utilised by the Bank and this justiprivate customers. relationships with both customers and employees. ﬁes the deviation from the provisions of the Code. The Supervisory Authority’s work also includes According to the Code, information must be systematically visiting various parts of the Bank. SHAREHOLDERS AND SHAREHOLDERS’ submitted regarding the material shareholdings The purpose of this is to follow up the Bank’s MEETINGS of the CEO and his close relatives, or other partactual compliance with the terms and conditions Rights of shareholders ownership in companies with which the Bank has of granted licenses and other detailed regulaHandelsbanken has more than 95,000 sharesigniﬁcant business relations. Pär Boman has tions. It subsequently reports its observations to holders. They have the right to decide on matters no material shareholdings. Regardless of this, it the Bank’s management and, in some cases, to related to the company at the AGM or extraordiis Handelsbanken’s view that the provisions of the Bank’s Board. nary meetings of shareholders. Handelsbanken the Code are not applicable to the Bank, since has two classes of shares: class A and class B. regulations on banking secrecy prevent HandelsPRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Class A shares are by far the most common and banken from naming corporate customers. AT HANDELSBANKEN represent more than 98 per cent of all outstandA central part of governance of HandelsThe Bank’s main tools for corporate governance ing shares. Class A shares each carry one vote, banken comprises managing the risks that arise are on the one hand the documents adopted while class B shares carry one-tenth of a vote in operations. Risk management is described by the Board, for example the Board’s rules of each. Handelsbanken’s articles of associain detail in a separate risk section in the Annual procedure, instructions to the CEO and the Head tion state that at shareholders’ meetings, no Report, note G2 on pages 78–101 and also in of Central Audit and policy documents regarding shareholder is allowed to exercise voting rights this Corporate Governance Report. the Bank’s operations (see also pages 56–58), representing more than 10 per cent of the total and on the other hand the instructions and number of votes in the Bank. Comments about corporate governance guidelines issued by the CEO. These documents Shareholders who wish to have a matter in banks are revised every year but can be adjusted more considered by the AGM must submit a written The operations of Swedish banks are regulated often when necessary. However, the foundation request to the Board sufﬁciently far in advance by law, and banking operations may only be run of functioning corporate governance is not only so that the matter can be included in the notice with a licence from the Swedish Financial Superformal documents but also the Bank’s corporate of the meeting. The Bank’s website contains visory Authority. goal, working methods, compensation system information as to when this request must have The regulations for banking operations are very and corporate culture. reached the Board. extensive, and are not described in detail in this The Bank’s corporate goal is to have better At the AGM, the Bank’s shareholders make report.* Handelsbanken’s main principle is that proﬁtability than the average of peer banks in various decisions of major importance to the Bank’s operations outside Sweden are subject both to its home markets. This is mainly to be achieved governance. Shareholders’ decisions include: Swedish regulations and to the host country’s through more satisﬁed customers and by being Ř ZKRVKRXOGEHRQWKH%RDUGRIWKH%DQNDQG regulations, if these are stricter or require deviamore cost-effective than competitors. One of the who should be the Bank’s auditors tions from Swedish rules. purposes of this goal is to offer shareholders longŘ GHWHUPLQLQJIHHVWR%RDUGPHPEHUVDQGDXGLWRUV The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority term high growth in value expressed in increasing Ř DGRSWLQJWKHLQFRPHVWDWHPHQWDQGEDODQFH extensively supervises the Bank’s operations earnings per share over a business cycle. sheet in Sweden and in all countries where the Bank Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a Ř DSSURSULDWLRQRISURƂWV runs branches, in other words, when the foreign decentralised working method, a strong local Ř ZKHWKHUWRGLVFKDUJHWKH%RDUGDQGWKH&(2 operation is part of the Swedish legal entity Svenpresence due to nationwide branch networks and from liability for the past ﬁnancial year ska Handelsbanken AB. Equivalent authorities in a long-term approach to customer relations. The Ř SULQFLSOHVIRUUHPXQHUDWLRQWRVHQLRU Bank has applied this basic concept consistently management. * The most important statutes include the Swedish for several decades. The Bank’s decentralised Banking and Financing Business Act (SFS 2004:297), the Swedish Companies Act (SFS 2005:551), the working model involves strong trust in employThe shareholders at a shareholders’ meeting can Act on Capital Adequacy and Large Exposures (SFS ees’ willingness and ability to take responsibility. also make decisions on the Bank’s articles of 2006:1371) and extensive legislation on securities This working model which has been unchanged association. The articles of association constitute and insurance operations. The Swedish Financial for a long time has resulted in the Bank’s very the fundamental governing document for the Supervisory Authority’s regulatory code includes strong corporate culture. Bank. They specify which operations the Bank is general guidelines regarding governance and control of The salary and pension systems, combined to conduct, the amount of the share capital, the financial undertakings (FFFS 2005:1), regulations and general guidelines on capital adequacy and large expowith the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing system, are right of shareholders to participate at shareholdsures (FFFS 2007:1), regulations governing investment other ways of boosting the corporate culture by ers’ meetings and the items to be presented at services and activities (FFFS 2007:16) and regulations promoting long-term employment. Allocations to the AGM. The articles of association state that and general guidelines concerning measures against the Oktogonen system are made if Handelsbankthe number of board members must be at least money laundering and financing of terrorism (FFFS en’s proﬁtability is better than the average of peer 8 and at most 15. They are elected for one year 2009:1). During 2014, new regulations are expected to banks. The allocated funds are managed by the at a time. be introduced, such as a law on capital adequacy and Oktogonen Foundation. The proﬁt-sharing sysInformation in preparation for meetings is new regulations from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority regarding governance, risk management tem contributes to the employees’ interests being published on the Bank’s website: and control in credit institutions. For a more detailed list in agreement with the Bank’s corporate goals of handelsbanken.se/ireng. Minutes of previous of laws and regulations referring to operations subject proﬁtability and cost-effectiveness. In this way, meetings are also available there. to a licence, see handelsbanken.se/ireng. cost-awareness and caution will also become H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 52 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Notice of shareholders’ meetings, proposals Ř YDULDEOHFRPSHQVDWLRQEHQHƂWVVXFKDV and other members of the Board, the fees to the for the meetings and minutes are translated bonuses or commission on proﬁts, are not paid Chairman and other Board members, compensainto English and are available on the website at Ř VHQLRUPDQDJHUVDUHLQFOXGHGLQWKH2NWRJRQtion for committee work, and the election of and handelsbanken.se/ireng. en proﬁt-sharing scheme on the same terms fees to auditors. as all employees of the Bank In its work, the nomination committee takes Major shareholders Ř WKHUHWLUHPHQWDJHLVQRUPDOO\5HWLUHPHQW into account matters relating to diversity, At the end of 2013, two shareholders had more beneﬁts are deﬁned beneﬁt or deﬁned contriincluding gender distribution, on the Board. The than 10 per cent of the votes: the Oktogonen bution, or a combination of the two nomination committee aims for an even gender Foundation with 10.3 per cent and AB IndusŘ WKHSHULRGRIQRWLFHRQWKHSDUWRIDVHQLRU distribution. The proportion of women on the trivärden with 10.3 per cent. Detailed information manager is 6 months and on the part of Board of the Bank is 27 per cent and the proporon the Bank’s largest Swedish shareholders can Handelsbanken, a maximum of 12 months. If tion of members of another nationality than where be found on page 45. the Bank terminates the contract later than ﬁve Handelsbanken is domiciled is 36 per cent. years after the person’s appointment as part of Annual general meeting 2013 the Bank’s senior management, the maximum Auditors The annual general meeting took place on period of notice is 24 months. No severance Stefan Holmström is principal auditor for KPMG AB 20 March 2013. payment is made in excess of these amounts. at Handelsbanken and has been chairman of the Over 1,450 shareholders were represented at Ř WKH%RDUGVKDOOKDYHWKHULJKWWRGHYLDWHIURP auditing team at Handelsbanken since 2008. He the meeting. They represented 51.76 per cent the established guidelines if there are special has been an authorised public accountant since of all votes in the Bank. The whole Board was reasons in an individual case. 1975. He is also an auditor for Länsförsäkringar present at the AGM. Also participating were the AB, Svenska Rymdaktiebolaget, Profﬁce AB and chairman of the nomination committee Carl-Olof The guidelines do not affect compensation previFastighetsaktiebolaget Norrporten. Mr Holmström By, as well as Stefan Holmström and Erik Åström ously decided for senior management. The senior was born in 1949. from the auditing companies elected by the AGM. management positions to which the guidelines Erik Åström has been an authorised public The chairman of the meeting was Sven Unger, a apply are the CEO and Executive Vice Presidents. accountant since 1989 and has been principal lawyer. auditor for Ernst & Young AB at Handelsbanken The decisions made by the shareholders at the Nomination committee since 2008. He is also auditor for Nasdaq OMX meeting included: The shareholders at the 2010 AGM resolved to Holding AB, AB Svensk Exportkredit, Hemtex Ř $GLYLGHQGRI6(.SHUVKDUHWRWDOOLQJ establish instructions for how the nomination AB and Skistar AB, among other companies. SEK 6,822 million committee is to be appointed. According to Mr Åström was born in 1957. Ř DXWKRULVDWLRQIRUWKH%RDUGWRUHVROYHRQDFTXLVLthe decision, the instruction will apply until it is tion of not more than 40 million shares in the Bank changed by a later AGM. The instruction states THE BOARD Ř WKH%RDUGLVWRFRQVLVWRIHOHYHQPHPEHUV that the nomination committee shall comprise ﬁve After the shareholders at the 2013 AGM had Ř WKHUHHOHFWLRQRIDOO%RDUGPHPEHUVIRUWKH members: the Chairman of the Board and one DSSRLQWHG$QGHUV1\U«QWREH&KDLUPDQRIWKH period until the end of the next AGM, with the representative from each of the Bank’s four largBoard, Fredrik Lundberg and Sverker Martin-Löf exception of Hans Larsson, Chairman of the est shareholders as at 31 August the year before were appointed as Vice Chairmen at the ﬁrst Board, who had declined re-election the AGM is held. Board meeting immediately after the AGM. At Ř HOHFWLRQRI$QGHUV1\U«QDV&KDLUPDQRIWKH However, the nomination committee must not the same time, the Board appointed members Board include representatives of companies which are of the credit committee, audit committee and Ř IHHVWREHSDLGWRWKH%RDUGPHPEHUVDV signiﬁcant competitors of the Bank in any of its remuneration committee. Information about the follows: SEK 3,150,000 to the Chairman of main areas of operations. It is the Chairman of the board is shown on pages 60–61. the Board, SEK 875,000 to each of the Vice Board’s task to contact the largest owners, so Chairmen and SEK 600,000 to the other Board that they appoint one representative each to sit Composition of the Board members, as well as compensation for comon the nomination committee together with the The Board consists of eleven members. When mittee work. Chairman. This has taken place and after AMF the Board is elected, the nomination committee declined its position on the nomination commitproposes members. The nomination committee The shareholders at the meeting also adopted the tee, the 2014 nomination committee comprised: includes the Oktogonen Foundation which also following guidelines for compensation and other proposes two of the members in the nomination terms of employment for senior management, as committee’s proposal. proposed by the Board: Voting power The Board members have broad and extensive in % as at Ř 7KHDJJUHJDWHGWRWDOFRPSHQVDWLRQVKDOOEHRQ Representative Shareholders 31 August 2013 experience from the business world. Most are, or market terms have been, chief executives of major companies, Anders Nyberg, Ř FRPSHQVDWLRQLVSDLGRQO\LQWKHIRUPRID and most of them are also board members of Chairman Industrivärden 10.30 ﬁxed salary, pension provision and customary major companies. Their sector knowledge covers Jan-Erik Höög Oktogonen Foundation 10.29 beneﬁts a wide area ranging from, for example, traditional Lundberg Ř E\VSHFLDOGHFLVLRQRIWKH%RDUGWKH%DQNFDQ Mats Guldbrand ownership group 2.39 industrial operations to telecom. See also pages provide housing Bo Selling Alecta 1.34 60–61. Several members have worked on the Attendance at AGMs 2009–2013 $QGHUV1\U«Q Bank’s Board for a long time and are very familiar Chairman of the with the Bank’s operations. No. % Board 1 500 100 Independence of Board members Anders Nyberg, Mats Guldbrand and Bo Selling The Swedish Code of Corporate Governance 1 200 80 are independent of the Bank and its managecontains stipulations that the majority of Board ment. Mats Guldbrand and Bo Selling are members elected by the AGM must be independ900 60 independent of the Bank’s major shareholders. ent of the Bank and the Bank’s management, Information on the composition of the nominaand that at least two of the independent Board 600 40 tion committee has been available on the Bank’s members must also be independent of those of website since 25 September 2013. the company’s shareholders that control ten per 300 20 In advance of the AGM on 26 March 2014, the cent or more of the shares and votes in the Bank. nomination committee has the task of studying Before the 2013 AGM, in an overall assessment 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 the Board’s evaluation of its work. The commitof each Board member’s independence in relation No. of shareholders Proportion of votes tee also submits proposals for the election of a to the Bank, the Bank’s management and major present/represented chairman of the AGM, the Chairman of the Board shareholders, the nomination committee found H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 53 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT that eight members were independent of the is also responsible for maintaining contact with the Remuneration committee Bank and the Bank’s management, and that ﬁve major shareholders concerning ownership issues. The remuneration committee comprised the of them were also independent of major shareAs chairman of the Bank’s pension foundation, &KDLUPDQRIWKH%RDUG $QGHUV1\U«QZKRLVDOVR holders. In preparation for the 2014 AGM, the pension fund and staff foundation, he has overall the committee chairman) and two Board memnomination committee has again assessed the inresponsibility for ownership issues associated bers appointed by the Board (Jan Johansson dependence of the members and has found that with shareholdings in these three entities. There is and Bente Rathe). Bente Rathe is independent of three members are employees of the Bank and no other division of work for the Board except as the Bank and its management. This composition are thus dependent in relation to the Bank. Two concerns the committees. entails a deviation from the Swedish Code of Corof the employed members (Tommy Bylund and porate Governance. The deviation is explained on Charlotte Skog) are also dependent in relation Committee work page 52 under the heading Corporate governto the Oktogonen Foundation, which is a major Credit committee ance at Handelsbanken. shareholder. The third of the employed members, The credit committee consisted of eight memOne of the tasks of the remuneration commitPär Boman, works for the Bank as CEO and is EHUVWKH&KDLUPDQRIWKH%RDUG $QGHUV1\U«Q tee is to prepare matters regarding compensation also dependent in relation to AB Industrivärden, a who is also chairman of the committee), the two to be decided on by the Board and the AGM. major shareholder of the bank, where Mr Boman Vice Chairmen (Fredrik Lundberg and Sverker After the shareholders at the AGM have decided is a board member. Jan Johansson and Anders Martin-Löf), the CEO (Pär Boman), the Head of on guidelines for the terms and conditions of 1\U«QDUHDOVRFRQVLGHUHGWREHGHSHQGHQW the Central Credit Department (Lars Kahnlund), compensation to the CEO and the Executive Vice in relation to the Bank since they are CEOs of and three Board members appointed by the Presidents, the Board decides in accordance with Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA and AB Industrivärden Board (Tommy Bylund, Ole Johansson and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Superrespectively, while the Bank’s CEO Pär Boman Bente Rathe). visory Authority on compensation to the CEO, is a member of the board of both companies. The credit committee normally holds one the Executive Vice Presidents and ofﬁcers with $QGHUV1\U«QLVDOVRGHSHQGHQWLQUHODWLRQWRD meeting every month to take decisions on credit responsibility for the control functions: Complimajor shareholder (AB Industrivärden). cases that exceed a set limit and that are not ance, Internal Audit and Risk Control. decided on by the whole Board due to the imporIn 2013, the remuneration committee had eight The nomination committee’s assessment of indepentance of these cases. The heads of the regional meetings. dence for the proposed Board members in preparation banks, the Head of Handelsbanken International for the 2014 AGM and the Head of Large Corporates present cases The Board’s work in 2013 Independent of Independent from their own units and listen when other cases During the year, the Board had nine meetings, the Bank and of major are presented, which provides them with a good including an extended strategy meeting. Name its management shareholders picture of the Board’s approach to risks. Credit The Board’s work adheres to a structure of $QGHUV1\U«Q cases that are decided upon by the whole Board ﬁxed and regular items, mainly as follows: Fredrik Lundberg Ř are presented by the Head of the Central Credit Sverker Martin-Löf Ř Department. If a delay in the credit decision would Jon Fredrik Baksaas Ř Ř cause inconvenience to the Bank or the borrower, Subject When Jan Johansson Ř the credit instructions allow the CEO and the First board meeting after AGM Ole Johansson Ř Ř Head of the Central Credit Department to decide and corporate governance documents after AGM Bente Rathe Ř Ř on credit cases during the interval between Frameworks for funding at least once a year Pär Boman meetings. Strategy –”– Tommy Bylund In 2013, the credit committee had eleven CEO’s instructions and guidelines –”– Charlotte Skog meetings. Operational risks half-yearly Ahead of the nomination committee’s proposal, Lone Fønss Schrøder has informed the committee that she is Audit committee Compliance risk report not standing for re-election. (in audit committee) –”– The audit committee consisted of the Chairman Group risk report (in audit committee) –”– RIWKH%RDUG $QGHUV1\U«Q DQGWZR%RDUGPHPRegulations governing the Board’s work Adoption of internal capital evaluation annually bers appointed by the Board (Sverker Martin-Löf The fundamental rules regarding the distribution Follow-up of internal capital evaluation quarterly and Lone Fønss Schrøder). The latter are indeof competence among the Board, the Board Limits for ﬁnancial risks annually pendent of the Bank and its management. Lone committees, the Chairman, the CEO and Internal Follow-up of ﬁnancial risk limits every Fønss Schrøder is also independent in relation to meeting Audit are manifested in the Board’s rules of prothe major shareholders. Sverker Martin-Löf is the Loan losses and credit risks quarterly cedure, as well as in its instructions to the CEO committee chairman. Annual accounts February and to the Head of the Central Audit department. The work of the audit committee includes the Interim report April, July following: and October Chairman of the Board Ř PRQLWRULQJWKHƂQDQFLDOUHSRUWLQJWKHHIIHFWLYHEvaluation of the Board’s work annually The Board’s rules of procedure state that the ness of the Bank’s internal control, internal Evaluation of CEO –”– Chairman shall ensure that the Board carries out audit and risk management systems Staff development and management its work efﬁciently and that it fulﬁls its duties. This Ř HVWDEOLVKLQJDQDXGLWSODQIRUWKHZRUNRI,QWHUsuccession –”– involves organising and managing the Board’s nal Audit Salary review for Group management work and creating the best possible conditions Ř UHJXODUFRQWDFWZLWKWKHH[WHUQDODXGLWRUVZKR and heads of control functions –”– for this work. The Chairman must also ensure report to the committee on signiﬁcant matters Evaluation of risk calculation methods that the Board members continually update and (in audit committee) –”– that have emerged from the statutory audit, esexpand their knowledge of the Bank, and that Proposals for AGM Before AGM pecially regarding shortcomings in the internal new members receive an appropriate introduction External audit report –”– control of the ﬁnancial reporting. and training. The Chairman must be available to Internal Audit’s report –”– Ř WDNLQJLQWRFRQVLGHUDWLRQUHSRUWVIURP,QWHUQDO the CEO as an advisor and discussion partner, Matter of allocation to the Oktogonen Audit, Compliance and Independent Risk proﬁt-sharing scheme –”– but must also prepare the Board’s evaluation of Control. Business situation every the CEO’s work. The Chairman’s duties include meeting being chairman of the credit and remuneration The committee generally meets ﬁve times a year, Reporting of credit cases –”– committees, as well as being a member of the normally in connection with quarterly and annual Preparation of corporate governance audit committee. The Chairman is responsible reports. Items are presented by the CEO, the documents February for ensuring that the Board’s work is evaluated CFO, the Head of the Central Audit Department annually. The evaluation is performed by means of and the principal auditors from the audit compadiscussions with each member; certain years, the nies appointed by the AGM. In addition, matters discussed at each committee members answer a special survey. The Chairman In 2013, the audit committee had ﬁve meetings. meeting are reported at the next Board meeting. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT THE BANK’S MANAGEMENT mortgage loan operations and other property appointed by and reports to the Board. Thus the Group Chief Executive ﬁnancing. The Forestry and Farming business area internal audit function is the Board’s controlling Pär Boman has been President and Group Chief is responsible for the Bank’s offering to forestry body. The elected organisation and long tradition Executive since April 2006. Pär Boman was born and agriculture customers. Handelsbanken Direkt give Internal Audit the authority and integrity rein 1961 and he has worked at Handelsbanken has overall responsibility for a range of the Bank’s quired to enable the auditors elected by the AGM since 1991. In 1998, Pär Boman became a memstandardised services, including card services to rely on measures and data from Internal Audit. ber of the senior bank management as Executive and deposits and lending products. HandelsInternal Audit is tasked with performing an Vice President and Head of Regional Bank banken Direkt is also responsible for customer independent, impartial audit of the operations and Denmark, and thereafter Head of Handelsbanken meeting-places outside the physical branch ﬁnancial reporting of the Handelsbanken Group. Markets. Pär Boman has an engineering degree such as online, mobile and phone services. This This includes assessing and verifying processes and a business degree. His shareholdings in the business area also includes the ﬁnance company for risk management, internal control and corpoBank and those of close relatives are 11,892, of operation, which is run within the Handelsbanken rate governance. Their assignment is based on a which 5,892 are held indirectly via the Oktogonen Finans AB subsidiary. Each business area has policy established by the Board and is performed proﬁt-sharing scheme. In addition, Pär Boman Groupwide responsibility for its products and on the basis of a risk-based methodology in achas a holding of staff convertible notes for a nomiservices. cordance with internationally accepted standards nal amount of SEK 8.32 million at a conversion Finally, various parts of the Bank’s central issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors. The price of SEK 235.98, corresponding to 35,249 departments and administrative units are repplanned auditing tasks are documented every shares. resented, such as corporate governance and year in an audit plan which is established by the contacts with public authorities, Group ﬁnance, Board’s audit committee on behalf of the Board. Group management and Group management communications, infrastructure, IT, legal affairs, The conclusions of internal audits, the actions to structure credits and personnel. be taken, and their status are reported regularly to Operations are pursued to a large extent within The Bank has a somewhat broader concept the audit committee and every year to the Board the parent company and, primarily for legal reaof Group management than that which is conas a whole. sons, also in subsidiaries, both in Sweden and in sidered to apply in the Swedish Company Act’s Internal Audit is regularly subject to independother countries. The Group management team regulations regarding senior management. This ent external quality reviews. In addition, the consists of the heads of branch operations, means that the Group management team that Bank’s external auditors perform an annual quality business areas, central departments and central is presented on pages 62–63 of the Corporate review of the work of Internal Audit. administrative units. Governance Report is wider than the group of Handelsbanken has long had a decentralised persons included in ‘senior management’ under Compliance working method, where almost all major business Note G8 on pages 104–107. Compliance is the responsibility of all employees decisions are taken at the local bank branches, To a large extent, responsibilities and powers in the Group. Establishing compliance functions close to customers. Branch operations are of authority have been assigned to individual centrally, for regional banks, business areas and geographically organised into regional banks: members of staff, rather than groups or commitcentral departments, as well as for each country six in Sweden, four in the UK, and one each in tees. This means that the Group management where the Bank has operations, does not release Denmark, Finland, Norway and the Netherlands. and the management teams of the regional banks any employee from the responsibility of complying Together, these countries comprise the Bank’s and departments are consultative bodies rather with the external and internal regulations applying home markets. The regional banks in the UK than decision-making bodies. However, there are to the operations. However, the regulations are have been co-ordinated under a Head of UK collective decisions regarding credit decisions often complex and in some cases the individual operations. Branch operations outside the Bank’s made in credit committees. It is also required that employee may have limited experience. It is thus home markets are led by the Head of Handelsthe members of the committee are unanimous vital that guidance is available, to avoid mistakes. banken International. regarding these decisions. The compliance function must follow up and Each regional bank is led by a head of regional Details about the Group management are actively ensure that laws, regulations and internal bank, who is a member of the Group managepresented on pages 62–63. rules, as well as accepted business practices and ment. The Group management also includes the standards, are complied with in the operations Head of Handelsbanken International and the FRAMEWORK FOR CONTROL conducted by the Handelsbanken Group. In its Head of UK Operations. Internal control for operations supporting role, the function must provide advice The heads of the regional banks in Denmark, Responsibility for internal control has been and support to business operations, and also assist Norway, Finland and the Netherlands, as well delegated from the CEO to managers who report in drawing up internal rules and provide information as the Head of UK operations and the general directly to the CEO and who are in charge of about new and amended rules for operations. managers for each country at Handelsbanken internal control within their respective units. In Central Compliance is an independent unit International, are responsible to the public turn, these managers have delegated to branch with the functional responsibility for compliance authorities in their respective host countries for managers and heads of units the responsibility matters in the Group. The CEO appoints the all operations that the Bank and its subsidiaries for internal control at their branches or units. This Head of Central Compliance. The head of the pursue in those countries. responsibility means that ﬁt-for-purpose instruccompliance function reports quarterly to the Handelsbanken has the following four business tions and procedures for the operation must be CEO on compliance in the Group. Twice a year, a areas: Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Stadsin place, and compliance with these procedures Group compliance report is submitted directly to hypotek, Handelsbanken Direkt, and Forestry and must be monitored regularly. Thus, the responthe Board’s audit committee. In addition, material Farming. The heads of these units are members sibility for internal control and compliance is an observations are reported regularly to the CEO. of Group management. integral part of managers’ responsibility at all Handelsbanken Capital Markets includes the levels in the Bank. Risk control Bank’s investment banking operations. It also inThe Bank is characterised by a clear division of cludes asset management and operations within Internal Audit responsibility where each part of the business oppensions and insurance. This business area also Long before external requirements on internal erations bears full responsibility for risk manageincludes the subsidiaries Handelsbanken Fonder auditing were introduced, the Bank had an internal ment. There is local risk control at each regional (mutual funds) and Handelsbanken Liv (life insuraudit function at its disposal that was independbank and within the various business areas, ance). The Bank has also gathered a group of ent of the line organisation. The organisation has which check, for example, that risks are within specialists at Large Corporates to provide the centrally and regionally placed internal auditors. the limits and are correctly valued. The local risk largest international corporate customers with The regional Internal Audit departments are part control carries out risk analyses and veriﬁes that the best possible service. Large Corporates works of the Central Audit Department, which constitransactions are conducted in a manner that does together with Handelsbanken Capital Markets. tutes an integrated internal audit function. The not entail undesirable risks. The local risk control The Stadshypotek business area includes the Audit Department comprises some 100 employreports to the business operations’ management Stadshypotek AB subsidiary, which pursues ees. The Head of the Central Audit Department is and to the central risk control. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Simplified illustration of control at Handelsbanken External auditors The Board Performs annual review and Delegates the internal Board’s credit committee reports to the shareholders. control to the CEO. Internal Audit CEO The Board’s independent control function examines the whole operations. Central risk control Central Compliance Regional banks, business areas and central units Internal control is delegated so Local risk control that all managers are responsible Local Compliance for internal control. Risk Control and Compliance have employees in the operations and have both a support and independent control function. Unit within Central Branch ofﬁce Branch ofﬁce Branch ofﬁce Branch ofﬁce business area department The central risk control identiﬁes, measures, at the aggregated level. The central risk control Information policy analyses and reports all the Group’s material function reports to the CEO. The Bank’s information must be correct, objecrisks. It monitors that the risks and risk managetive and easy to understand. It must respect the ment comply with the Bank’s low tolerance of Policy for operational risks recipient of the information and be provided at the risks and that senior management has reliable Operational risks must be managed so that the right time and in the right manner. The information information regarding risks to use in critical situaGroup’s operational losses remain small, both in should strengthen the Bank’s brand and the trust tions. The central risk control also has functional comparison with previous losses incurred, and of the Bank’s customers, the capital market and responsibility for local risk control. with other banks’ losses. The responsibility for society in general. Information provided to the The head of the central risk control reports operational risks is an integral part of managerial stock market must be correct, relevant, reliable directly to the CEO. Information is also provided responsibility throughout the Group. and in compliance with stock market regulations. to the CFO on a regular basis. The head of the Information is to be made public as soon as central risk control reports regularly to the Board’s Capital policy possible and simultaneously to the stock market, audit committee and remuneration committee. Capital planning must ensure that the Bank at investors, analysts, news services and other The Board is kept continuously informed of mateall times has available ﬁnancial resources (AFR) media. Normally, analysts and the media are sirial risks at the Bank. The central risk control is to cover the risks that can lead to unforeseen multaneously invited to attend press conferences also in charge of the Bank’s extensive risk reportlosses (see the risk section in note G2 on pages and capital market seminars. ing to the supervisory authorities. 78–101). This is to guarantee that the capital covA more detailed description of the Bank’s risk ers the minimum legal capital requirements by a Ethical guidelines management is contained in note G2 on pages predetermined safety margin. The Bank’s capital Employees of the Bank must conduct themselves 78–101, as well as in the Bank’s Pillar 3 Report. situation must also justify a continued high rating in a manner that upholds conﬁdence in the Bank. It also describes the role which Handelsbanken’s from the most important rating agencies. All operations at the Bank must be characterised credit process plays in the Bank’s credit risk by high ethical standards. Financial advice must management, particularly the Central Credit Financial policy be based on the customer’s requirements. ConDepartment. The Group’s funding must be well-diversiﬁed ﬂicts of interest must be identiﬁed and handled in terms of markets, currencies and maturities. in a manner that is fair to the parties involved. POLICY DOCUMENTS The Board establishes the funding limits. During In case of doubt as to what is ethically acceptThe following is a brief summary of the policy stressed market conditions, the Bank must have able, the matter must be discussed with the documents which the Board of Handelsbanken an adequate liquidity reserve to be able to conemployee’s immediate superior. There must be has decided on. tinue its operations for a predetermined period of no discrimination of customers on grounds such time, without new funding in the ﬁnancial markets. as gender or religion. Credit policy The Bank’s ethical guidelines are publicly availCredits may only be granted if there are good Financial risk policy able on its website: handelsbanken.se/csreng, grounds for expecting the borrower to meet his Financial risks here refer to market risks and where there is more information about matters commitments. Credits must normally have colliquidity risks. Market risks are in turn divided into such as Handelsbanken in the community, social lateral. The Bank strives to maintain its historically interest rate risks, equity price risks, currency responsibility and environmental work. low level of loan losses compared to other banks, risks and commodity price risks. The Bank’s marthus contributing to the Bank’s proﬁtability target ket risks must be low and normally occur only as Policy for conﬂicts of interest and measures and retaining its sound ﬁnancial position. a natural step in customer business. The Board against bribery and improper inﬂuence stipulates the measurement methods and general Conﬂicts of interest are a natural part of a busiPolicy for independent risk control limits for ﬁnancial risks and instructs the CEO to ness operation, which means that these types The Bank has a central, independent risk control organise an independent risk control function that of conﬂict may arise within the Bank’s area of function with responsibility for identifying, measis provided with adequate resources. operations. It is the responsibility of all heads of uring, analysing and reporting all material risks H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Production and follow-up of corporate governance documents New regulations or other Internally identiﬁed external effects requirements The Corporate Governance unit prepares proposals Proposals for the CEO The CEO Proposals for delegates to decisions Senior management the appropriate CEO Board person in the Group Decisions, management assignments for Report the CEO Report Compliance advises and checks This illustration shows an overview of the process of producing and following up corporate governance documents, such as policy documents from the board. It may be external factors – such as new regulations – or internal requirements that mean that a policy needs to be drawn up or amended. The Corporate Governance unit ensures that the policy is drawn up, and then submits a proposal to the CEO, who proposes to the Board that it adopts the policy. The CEO ensures that the established policy is implemented, and can delegate this task to a member of the Group management team. The Central Compliance department has the task of monitoring compliance with these policy documents within the organisation. units within the Bank to continuously identify posterms in the countries where the Bank pursues its Policy for handling customer complaints sible conﬂicts of interest. If a conﬂict of interest is operations must be competitive and adapted to The branch responsible for the customer is identiﬁed, the head of the unit responsible must legislation and regulations, in accordance with the responsible for receiving and handling a cusﬁrst ensure that the customer’s interests are not conditions prevailing in each country. tomer complaint. Complaints must be dealt with adversely affected. If this is not possible, the cuspromptly and professionally, while maintaining a tomer must be informed of the conﬂict of interest. Policy for internal audit operations dialogue with the customer, taking into consideraEmployees of the Bank must carry out their Internal Audit is to evaluate the efﬁciency and tion the current regulations in the area to which responsibilities in all their activities at the Bank appropriateness of the Group’s processes for risk the complaint relates. and their external assignments in a manner management, internal steering and control. The that upholds conﬁdence in the Bank, and must audit function must impartially and independently Policy for employees’ private securities therefore not participate in actions that may examine the Group’s operations and accounts, and currency transactions involve bribery or any other improper inﬂuence. ensure that material risks are identiﬁed and This policy applies to all Handelsbanken Group The Code of Business Conduct from the Swedish managed in a satisfactory manner, and that mateemployees – temporary as well as permanent – Anti-Corruption Institute is also observed in the rial ﬁnancial information is reliable, correct and closely-related persons and service providers. daily operations. delivered on time. Internal Audit is to report to the Its purpose is to prevent any person who is covBoard and its audit committee. ered by the policy from carrying out his/her own Policy for compensation and suitability securities transactions that involve market abuse, assessment Policy for managing and reporting events misuse or improper disclosure of conﬁdential In some countries, Handelsbanken is a party of material importance information under the regulations that apply to collective agreements concerning general Incidents of material importance must be to the Bank and its employees, in accordance employment conditions during the period of reported to the Swedish Financial Superviwith prevailing legislation, directives from public employment, and on pension terms after reachsory Authority. This refers to incidents that may authorities and voluntary agreements. ing the age of retirement. Compensation for work jeopardise the Bank’s stability or protection of performed is set individually for each employee customers’ assets. No such incidents occurred Accounting policy and is normally paid in the form of ﬁxed salary, during the year. This policy applies to the Bank’s accounting funccustomary beneﬁts and pension provisions. Salation. The Bank’s accounts and ﬁnancial reports must ries are established locally in accordance with the Policy for the Bank’s use of the external audibe prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Bank’s decentralised method of working and are tors’ services Swedish Accounting Act and generally accepted revised once a year. If the auditors that have been elected at the AGM auditing standards in Sweden, and also applicaThe Central Personnel Department performs are engaged for assignments other than auditing ble laws and international standards for ﬁnancial suitability assessments when board members and related tasks, special instructions from the reports. International units must prepare accounts in are elected for the Bank’s subsidiaries, and also CEO must be complied with. Furthermore, this accordance not only with the Group’s rules, but with performs suitability assessments ahead of decimust be reported to the audit committee. the regulations that apply in the country where they sions on appointment of members of the Group are required to maintain accounting records. management. Policy for compliance For a more detailed description of HandelsCompliance means the observance of laws, Policy on measures against money banken’s compensation principles, see page 58 regulations, directives from public authorities and laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism and note G8 on pages 104–107. internal rules, as well as accepted business pracThis policy is based on the Swedish law on tices or accepted standards. Using a risk-based measures against money laundering and ﬁnancPension policy approach, the Compliance function is to support ing of terrorism. The Bank must not participate in Pension beneﬁts are part of the total compensaand verify compliance. It reports to the Board’s transactions which are suspected of being linked tion to the Bank’s employees. The total comaudit committee and the CEO. See also page 55. to criminal activities, or of which the employees pensation is to be on market terms. The pension do not understand the implications. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 57 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Policy for agreements relating to the Salaries are based on factors known in advance: ﬁxed remuneration. However, the policy allows engagement of third parties the nature and level of difﬁculty of the work, skills, for variable compensation, but for this a special When the Bank outsources operations which performance and results achieved, leadership decision is required by the CEO. The heads of the are subject to a license, or other operations with (for managers who are responsible for the career areas concerned, as well as those responsible for a natural link to the Bank’s operations, this is development of employees), supply and demand Risk Control and Compliance, have taken part in regulated by the policy for agreements relating on the market, and performance as an ambasthe remuneration committee’s preparation of the to the engagement of third parties. sador for the Bank’s corporate culture. Board’s compensation policy. The Bank or its subsidiaries are always The principle of only having a ﬁxed salary Variable compensation occurs to a very limited responsible for the outsourced operations being applies to more than 97 per cent of the Group’s extent and only in the Handelsbanken Capital run in accordance with the licenses linked to the employees, and is applied without exception to Markets business area and in the British subsidioperation. senior management, all staff who decide on the ary, Heartwood. Nor is variable compensation Bank’s granting of credits, and employees in the paid to the Bank’s management or to any emPRINCIPLES FOR COMPENSATION Bank’s control functions. ployee who makes decisions on credits or limits. AT HANDELSBANKEN Employees who, alone or together with others, The Bank’s principles for compensation to emPrinciples for compensation to senior are entitled to decide on credit risk, market risk, ployees are long established. In general, Handelsmanagement liquidity risk, commodity risk, currency risk or banken has low tolerance of risk and considers The shareholders at the AGM decide on guideinterest rate risk limits, as well as employees that ﬁxed compensation contributes to healthy lines for compensation to the CEO and the Exwho, by deciding on credits or product terms and operations. This is, therefore, the main principle. ecutive Vice Presidents (EVPs). For the guidelines conditions, can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle, can Variable compensation is to be applied with caufrom the AGM for 2013, see the section “Annual have only ﬁxed compensation. tion, and is only paid to a limited extent. As of 1 general meeting 2013” on page 53. Variable compensation at Handelsbanken March 2011, the Swedish Financial Supervisory At Handelsbanken, the Board decides on must be designed so that it does not encourAuthority’s regulations governing compensation compensation to the CEO and the EVPs, a total age unhealthy risk-taking, is within the limits of systems in credit institutions, investment ﬁrms of 18 individuals (as at 31 December 2013). The the Bank’s risk tolerance, taking into account a and fund management companies with a licence Board also determines compensation for ofﬁcers reasonable balance between ﬁxed and variable for discretionary portfolio management (FFFS with main responsibility for the control functions: compensation. The ﬁnancial result on which the 2011:1) apply, these being a development of Compliance, Internal Audit and Risk Control. variable compensation is based must also be the previous guidelines. The regulations include Compensation to the CEO and EVPs is paid risk-adjusted. Handelsbanken’s compensation special rules for employees who receive variable only in the form of ﬁxed salary, customary beneﬁts policy is also described in note G8 on pages compensation and who can affect the level of such as a company car, and pension provi104–107. Among other things, the policy prerisk in a ﬁnancial institution. The regulations also sions. Following a special decision by the Board, scribes that only employees within units whose contain provisions on deferred compensation. Handelsbanken can provide housing as part of proﬁts derive from commissions or intermediary The following is an overall presentation of the the compensation. No variable compensation is transactions that take place without the Bank beBank’s fundamental principles for ﬁxed and varipaid, nor are there any agreements on terminaing subject to risk, are entitled to receive variable able compensation. Other information concerning tion beneﬁts. The period of notice on the part of compensation. Variable compensation is paid compensation paid by the Bank in accordance a senior manager is 6 months, and on the part in cash, and the disbursement of at least 40 per with the current regulations is presented in note of Handelsbanken a maximum of 12 months or, cent of variable compensation of SEK 100,000 G8 on pages 104–107. This note also provides if the Bank terminates the employment contract or more must be deferred by at least three years. information about amounts for salaries, pensions later than ﬁve years after the person becomes a Deferred compensation can be removed or and other beneﬁts, and loans to senior managemember of the senior management, the period of lowered and will not be paid to the person with ment. notice is a maximum of 24 months. the entitlement until after the end of the deferment For senior managers who remain in their posiperiod. No employee may receive variable comFundamental principles for compensation tions after reaching standard retirement age, a pensation of more than 150 per cent of his/her In Sweden and certain other countries, the Bank mutual period of notice of no more than 6 months ﬁxed compensation. The total variable compenis party to collective agreements on general applies. sation paid in the Group cannot be more than 100 terms and conditions of employment during the Senior managers receive allocations in Handelsper cent of the combined ﬁxed compensation for employment period and on terms and conditions banken’s proﬁt-sharing system, Oktogonen, on the the individuals who are eligible to receive variable of pensions after employees have reached retiresame terms as all other employees of the Bank. compensation. ment age. Note G8 on pages 104–107 provides further inDuring 2014, new regulations are expected to The aim of the Bank’s policy on salaries is formation about remuneration to senior managers. come into force, prohibiting variable compensato increase the Bank’s competitiveness and External fees, such as fees for serving on the tion of amounts exceeding 100 per cent of the proﬁtability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain boards of other companies on behalf of the Bank, ﬁxed compensation, unless the annual general and develop skilled staff, and to ensure good must be paid in to the Bank. meeting consents to higher variable compensaskills development and management succesAhead of the 2014 AGM, the Board is propostion. Handelsbanken will be adapting its rules for sion planning. Good proﬁtability and productivity ing guidelines for compensation and other terms variable compensation to the new regulations, performance at the Bank create the necesof employment that are essentially unchanged, and does not intend to seek the consent of the sary conditions for salary growth for the Bank’s but have one further condition, which means that AGM for higher variable compensation. employees. Handelsbanken must indemnify senior managCompensation for work performed is set indiers in the event of an administrative sanctioning vidually for each employee, and is paid in the form charge being imposed on them under the new of a ﬁxed salary, customary salary beneﬁts and a regulations that are proposed to come into force pension provision. At Handelsbanken, salary-setin 2014. The guidelines do not affect compensating takes place at local level. Salaries are set in tion previously decided for senior management. salary reviews between the employee and his/her The senior management positions to which the line manager. These principles have been applied guidelines apply are the CEO and the EVPs. for many years with great success. They mean that managers at all levels participate regularly in Variable compensation the salary process, and take responsibility for the At Handelsbanken, the Board decides on the Bank’s salary policy and the growth in their own compensation policy. The main principle of the unit’s staff costs. policy is that compensation is paid in the form of H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 58 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT The Board’s report on internal control regarding financial reporting The presentation of Handelsbanken’s internal Control activities availability, accuracy, conﬁdentiality and tracecontrol process for ﬁnancial reporting is based Various control activities are incorporated in the ability of information in the business systems. on the framework developed by the Committee entire ﬁnancial reporting process. As part of the quality control work for ﬁnancial of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Group Finance is responsible for consolidated reporting, the Board has set up an audit commitCommission (COSO). The process was designed accounts, consolidated ﬁnancial reports and for tee consisting of the Chairman of the Board and to ensure compliance with the Bank’s principles ﬁnancial and administrative control systems. The two Board members. The committee processes for ﬁnancial reporting and internal control, and to unit’s responsibilities also include the Group’s crucial accounting matters and the ﬁnancial reensure that the ﬁnancial reporting has been preliquidity, the internal bank, the capital base, ports produced by the Bank. The committee also pared pursuant to the law, applicable accounting risk calculations, tax analysis and Groupwide supervises the efﬁciency of the internal control, standards, and other requirements related to reporting to public authorities. The unit must also internal auditing and risk management systems listed companies. ensure that the staff concerned are aware of and for ﬁnancial reporting. See the section under the have access to instructions of signiﬁcance to the ‘Committee work’ heading on page 54 for more Control environment ﬁnancial reporting. details. The control environment described above in this Reported amounts and analyses of income Corporate Governance Report is fundamental statements and balance sheets are reconciled Information and communication to Handelsbanken’s internal control of ﬁnancial and checked regularly within the accounting and The Bank has information and communication reporting: organisational structure, division of recontrol organisation. paths with the aim of achieving completeness sponsibilities, guidelines and steering documents. Heads of accounting and control at regional and correctness in its ﬁnancial reports. The Risk assessment is another part of the internal banks, subsidiaries, central departments and Group’s general accounting instructions and control process and comprises identiﬁcation and international units are responsible for ensuring special procedures for producing ﬁnancial reports management of the risks that may affect ﬁnancial that the control activities in the ﬁnancial reporting are communicated to the staff concerned via the reporting, as well as the control activities aimed at for their respective units are ﬁt-for-purpose – i.e. Group’s intranet. The system used for ﬁnancial preventing, detecting and correcting errors and that they are designed to prevent, detect and correporting encompasses the entire Group. deviations. rect errors and deviations, and are in compliance with internal guidelines and instructions. At each Follow-up Risk assessment quarterly closing of accounts, the units certify that Internal Audit, Compliance and the centrally loThe annual self-evaluations carried out at regional the prescribed periodic checks and reconciliation cated independent risk control function, and also banks, subsidiaries and central departments are of accounts have been carried out. the accounting/control units, monitor compliance an essential part of the Bank’s risk assessment. There is a valuation committee which is part of with internal policies, instructions and other policy Risks related to ﬁnancial reporting are part of this Group Finance with the task of supporting decidocuments. Monitoring takes place at central total analysis. sion-making relating to valuation and accounting level, but also locally in regional banks, subsidiarIn a self-evaluation, the employee deﬁnes matters. The committee deals with valuation of ies, central departments and international units. the events that constitute potential risks to the ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, including derivaThe policy for Internal Audit established by the operation and then estimates the probability and tives at fair value and also ﬁnancial guarantees. Board states that it must examine internal govconsequences of each risk. Particular focus is The committee must ensure that the valuation ernance and control. Internal Audit is described in placed on the risk of fraud and the risk of loss or complies with external regulations, internal guidemore detail on page 55. The Group’s information embezzlement of assets. A plan of action is then lines and current market practices. and communication paths are monitored continudrawn up, based on the self-evaluation. Other High information security is a precondition for ally to ensure that they are ﬁt-for-purpose for the aspects of Handelsbanken’s risk management good internal control of ﬁnancial reporting, thus ﬁnancial reporting. are detailed in note G2 on pages 78–101. there are regulations and guidelines to ensure H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 59 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Board members Name Anders Nyrén, Fredrik Lundberg, Sverker Martin-Löf, Jon Fredrik Baksaas, Pär Boman, Tommy Bylund, Chairman Vice Chairman Vice Chairman Board Member Board Member Board Member Position President and CEO of President and CEO of Director President and CEO of President and CEO of Senior Vice President AB Industrivärden L E Lundbergföretagen AB Telenor ASA Handelsbanken Education Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Lic. Tech, PhD (h.c.) Graduate in Business Engineering and Upper Secondary School Administration and MBA Administration and Administration and MBA Business/Economics Master of Engineering, degree PhD (Econ) h.c. and PhD (Tech) h.c. Year elected 2001 2002 2002 2003 2006 2000 Year of birth 1954 1951 1943 1954 1961 1959 Nationality Swedish Swedish Swedish Norwegian Swedish Swedish Other assignments Chairman of Sandvik AB. Chairman of Holmen Chairman of AB Chairman GSM AsBoard member AB Chairman of the OktogoBoard member Ernström AB, Hufvudstaden AB, Industrivärden, Svenska sociation. Member of Det Industrivärden, Svenska nen Foundation. Member & C:o AB, Stockholm Indutrade AB. Cellulosa AB SCA, Norske Veritas (council), Cellulosa AB SCA. of Ljusdal Municipality’s School of Economics and Board member SSAB AB. Vice Doorstep AS, VimpelCom business policy foundaStockholm School of EcoL E Lundbergföretagen Chairman TelefonaktieLtd. tion, Närljus. nomics Association, AB AB, AB Industrivärden, bolaget L M Ericsson. Industrivärden, Svenska Sandvik AB, Skanska AB. Board member Cellulosa AB SCA, AB Skanska AB. Volvo. Background 1997–2001 Deputy Active at Lundbergs 1977–2002 Active at 1994–2002 CFO, EVP, 2002–2005 EVP, Head of Employed at HandelsCEO, CFO, Skanska. since 1977. CEO L E Svenska Cellulosa AB Senior EVP Telenor Handelsbanken Markets. banken since 1980. 1996–1997 Dir Markets Lundbergföretagen AB SCA in various manageASA. 1997–1998 1998–2002 EVP, Head of Branch manager and Corporate Finance since 1981. ment positions. Managing Director Regional Bank Denmark, at Handelsbanken Nordbanken.1992–1996 Telenor Bedrift AS. Handelsbanken. since 1992. Deputy CEO, CFO 1989–1994 CFO, CEO Employed at HandelsSecurum.1987–1992 TBK AS. 1988–1989 banken since 1991. CEO OM International Chief Finance Director AB.1986–1987 CEO Aker AS. 1985–1988 STC Venture AB. Chief Finance Director 1982–1987 Deputy CEO, Stolt Nielsen Seaway CFO, STC. 1979–1982 AS, Oslo and HaugeDirector AB Wilhelm sund.1979–1985 System Becker. consultant, Controller, Contract Co-ordinator Det Norske Veritas. Remuneration 2013 1 SEK 3,100,000 SEK 1,187,500 SEK 1,318,750 SEK 593,750 SEK 0 SEK 0 Credit committee Chairman Member Member – Member Member Attendance 9/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 11/11 Audit committee Member – Chairman – – – Attendance 3/32 5/5 Remuneration Chairman – – – – – committee 6/63 Attendance Board meetings 9/9 9/9 9/9 6/9 9/9 9/9 Attendance Own shareholdings 2,000 2,525,000 and 4,000 0 11,892 of which 5,892 in 18,556 of which 18,556 and those of 12,500,000 via L E indirect holdings4. Staff in indirect holdings4. Staff immediate family Lundbergföretagen AB convertible at nominal convertible at nominal amount: amount: 2011: SEK 8,318,142 2011: SEK 1,131,799 Dependent/ Not independent (PreIndependent of the Bank Independent of the Independent of the Bank, Not independent Not independent independent sident and CEO of AB and its management. Bank and its manageits management and (President and CEO). (employee). Industrivärden). Not independent of ment. Not independent major shareholders. major shareholders of major shareholders (Board member AB (Board member AB Industrivärden). Industrivärden). 1 2 During the period January 2013 until the AGM in March 2013, Member of the audit committee from March 2013. 3 Hans Larsson was Chairman of the Board. His remuneration for Chairman of the remuneration committee from March 2013. 4 this and for his work in the credit committee, audit committee Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen proﬁt-sharing foundation. 5 and remuneration committee was SEK 931,250. Total remuneMember of the credit committee from March 2013. 6 ration to the Board was SEK 10,543,750 in 2013. Lone Fønss Schrøder has informed the nomination committee that she is not standing for re-election. 7 Deputy member of the credit committee from March 2013. Previously member. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 60 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT | ADMINISTRATION REPORT Name Jan Johansson, Ole Johansson, Bente Rathe, Lone Fønss Schrøder, Charlotte Skog, Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Position President and CEO of Director Director Director Bank employee Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA Education Bachelor of Laws Diploma in Economics Graduate in Business Graduate in Business Economics Programme and Business Administration and MBA Administration and Upper Secondary School Administration Bachelor of Laws Year elected 2009 2012 2004 2009 2012 Year of birth 1954 1951 1954 1960 1964 Nationality Swedish Finnish Norwegian Danish Swedish Other assignments Board member Chairman of EQ Oyj Abp. Chair of Ecohz AS and Vice Chair of Saxo Vice Chair of the SSAB AB, Svenska Cenium AS (both comBank A/S 6. Board Financial Sector Union Cellulosa AB SCA. panies are subsidiaries member Aker Solutions Club at Handelsbanken. of Home Invest AS). ASA, NKT A/S (chair Board member Financial Vice Chair of Powel AS. audit committee), Volvo Sector Union of Sweden, Board member Polaris Personvagnar AB (chair Oktogonen Foundation. Media ASA, Home Invest audit committee). Partner AS and its subsidiary in Norfalck AS. Nordic Choice Hospitality Group AS, Aker Kvaerner Holding AS, Ethics Committee for Norwegian Government Pension Fund Global. Background 2001–2007 President and 1975–2011 various 1999–2002 Deputy CEO 2005–2010 CEO Employed at HandelsCEO Boliden AB. 2001 positions within Wärtsilä Gjensidige NOR (CEO of Walleniusrederierna AB. banken since 1989. Head of network opera(Metra) Group except life insurance company, 1982–2004 Leading tions Telia AB.1994–2001 for a period at Valmet Chair of Mutual Fund management positions Deputy CEO Vattenfall. 1979–1981. and Asset Management within AP Møller/ 1990–1994 Head of CEO 2000–2011. Company). 1996–1999 Maersk A/S. Division at Svenska Shell. CEO Gjensidige Bank 1985–1990 Corporate AS. 1993–1996 CEO lawyer at Shell. Elcon Finans AS. 1984–1985 Trainee 1991–1993 Deputy CEO lawyer. 1981–1983 Forenede Forsikring. District court clerk. 1989–1991 CFO Forenede Forsikring. 1977–1989 Head of Credits and CFO E.A. Smith AS. Remuneration 2013 1 SEK 718,750 SEK 837,500 SEK 1,037,500 SEK 818,750 SEK 0 Credit committee – Member Member Deputy member Deputy member Attendance 8/85 11/11 3/117 Audit committee – – – Member – Attendance 4/5 Remuneration Member – Member – – committee 8/8 8/8 Attendance Board meetings 9/9 9/9 9/9 7/9 9/9 Attendance Own shareholdings 5,000 9,500 1,330 0 6,321, of which 6,321 in and those of indirect holdings.4 Staff immediate family convertible at nominal amount: 2011: SEK 242,722 Dependent/ Not independent of the Independent of the Independent of the Independent of the Not independent independent Bank and its management Bank, its management Bank, its management Bank, its management (employee). (Handelsbanken’s CEO and major shareholders. and major shareholders. and major shareholders. is a member of the board of SCA). Independent of major shareholders. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 61 corporate governance report | Administration report Group Management and independent control functions Group Management Personnel Year of convertible Name Position birth Employed Shareholdings bond1 2011 Pär Boman President and Group Chief Executive 1961 1991 11,892, of which 5,892 in indirect holdings* SEK 8,318,142 Nina Arkilahti Executive Vice President, CEO Handelsbanken Finland 1967 1995 5,339, of which 2,940 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,000,000 Per Beckman Chief Executive of Stadshypotek 1962 1993 2,936, of which 2,936 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Yonnie Bergqvist Executive Vice President, Handelsbanken Direkt 1961 1979 17,590, of which 17,453 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,000,000 Katarina Berner Frösdal Executive Vice President, Central Personnel and responsible for CSR 1956 1979 20,033, of which 20,033 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Anders Bouvin Executive Vice President, CEO Handelsbanken UK 1958 1985 11,700, of which 11,700 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank South West Michael Broom Great Britain 1959 2009 162, of which 162 in indirect holdings* SEK 1,131,799 Annika Brunnéd Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Northern Sweden 1964 1984 12,092, of which 12,092 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Michael Green Executive Vice President, Handelsbanken Capital Markets 1966 1994 4,021, of which 4,021 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Jan Häggström Senior Vice President, Economic Research 1949 1988 7,352, of which 7,352 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Ulf Köping-Höggård Senior Vice President, Central Legal Department 1949 1990 6,291, of which 6,291 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Anders H Johansson Executive Vice President, Central IT 1955 1999 2,444, of which 2,444 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Lars Kahnlund Executive Vice President, Central Credit Department 1954 1975 30,843, of which 30,843 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Johan Lagerström Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications 1961 2002 2,280, of which 1,883 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Rainer Lawniczak Senior Vice President, Forestry and Farming 1958 1982 15,969, of which 15,969 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 Agneta Lilja Senior Vice President, Central Infrastructure 1961 1985 11,466, of which 11,466 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Katarina Ljungqvist Executive Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Western Sweden 1965 1989 6,486, of which 6,486 in indirect holdings* SEK 1,131,799 Simon Lodge Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Southern Great Britain 1958 2004 775, of which 775 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 * Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. 1 See note G37. 62 h a n d e l s b a n ke n | A nnual Re po rt 2 0 1 3 corporate governance report | Administration report Personnel Year of convertible Name Position birth Employed Shareholdings bond1 2011 Stefan Nilsson Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Eastern Sweden 1957 1980 18,519, of which 18,519 in indirect holdings* SEK 1,131,799 Claes Norlén Executive Vice President, Chairman of regional bank board 1955 1978 23,599, of which 23,018 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 Anders Ohlner Executive Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Southern Sweden 1955 1985 10,280, of which 9,780 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,559 John Parker Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Northern Great Britain 1955 2006 452, of which 452 in indirect holdings* SEK 1,131,799 Ulf Riese Executive Vice President, CFO, Group Finance, Investor Relations 1959 1983 45,293, of which 14,555 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 Executive Vice President, Chairman of subsidiaries and Håkan Sandberg regional bank board 1948 1969 5,329, of which 239 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 Göran Stille Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Central Great Britain 1966 1987 2,838, of which 2,838 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 Mikael Sørensen Executive Vice President, CEO Regional Bank Netherlands 1966 1994 1,480, of which 1,480 in indirect holdings* SEK 1,131,799 Dag Tjernsmo Executive Vice President, CEO Regional Bank Norway 1962 1988 3,675, of which 3,675 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,000,000 Senior Vice President, Central Board Secretary, Klas Tollstadius Corporate Governance and contacts with public authorities 1954 1991 5,922, of which 5,922 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,327,257 Magnus Uggla Executive Vice President, Handelsbanken International 1952 1983 44,612, of which 14,612 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Frank Vang-Jensen Executive Vice President, CEO Regional Bank Denmark 1967 1998 1,402, of which 1,402 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,000,000 Pontus Åhlund Senior Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Central Sweden 1963 1983 10,653, of which 9,653 in indirect holdings* SEK 3,763,599 Carina Åkerström Executive Vice President, Head of Regional Bank Stockholm 1962 1986 6,562, of which 6,562 in indirect holdings* SEK 5,545,428 * Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. 1 See note G37. Independent control functions (not members of Group Management) Maria Hedin Senior Vice President, Independent Risk Control 613, of which 531 in indirect holdings* SEK 155,454 19,237, of which 19,234 in indirect Luciana Pacor Hygrell Senior Vice President, Central Compliance holdings* SEK 750,000 Tord Jonerot Senior Vice President, Central Audit 6,209, of which 6,209 in indirect holdings* SEK 4,654,514 * Indirect holding of shares in Handelsbanken via the Oktogonen profit-sharing foundation. 1 See note G37. h an delsban ken | An n u al Report 201 3 63 Financial reports Group CONTENTS Income statement 65 G24 Property and equipment 118 Statement of comprehensive income 66 G25 Other assets 118 Balance sheet 67 G26 Prepaid expenses and 118 Statement of changes in equity 68 accrued income Cash ﬂow statement 69 G27 Due to credit institutions 119 Notes Group 70 G28 Deposits and borrowing from 119 the public G1 Accounting policies and other 70 basis for preparing the ﬁnancial G29 Liabilities where the customer 119 reports bears the value change risk G2 Risk and capital management 78 G30 Issued securities 120 G3 Net interest income 102 G31 Short positions 120 G4 Net fee and commission income 102 G32 Insurance liabilities 120 G5 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial 103 G33 Taxes 121 transactions G34 Provisions 122 G6 Risk result – insurance 103 G35 Other liabilities 122 G7 Other income 103 G36 Accrued expenses and 122 G8 Staff costs 104 deferred income G9 Other expenses 108 G37 Subordinated liabilities 122 G10 Loan losses 108 G38 Classiﬁcation of ﬁnancial 123 assets and liabilities G11 Gains/losses on disposal 111 of property, equipment and G39 Fair value measurement of 125 intangible assets ﬁnancial instruments G12 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to 111 G40 Pledged assets, collateral 128 discontinued operations received and transferred ﬁnancial assets G13 Earnings per share 111 G41 Contingent liabilities 129 G14 Other loans to central banks 111 G42 Other commitments 129 G15 Loans to other credit institutions 112 G43 Leases 129 G16 Loans to the public 112 G44 Segment reporting 130 G17 Interest-bearing securities 113 G45 Assets and liabilities in 132 G18 Shares 113 currencies G19 Investments in associates 114 G46 Related-party disclosures 133 G20 Assets where the customer 114 G47 Business combinations 134 bears the value change risk G48 Restating of ﬁnancial reports 135 G21 Derivative instruments 115 due to revised IAS 19 G22 Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments 116 G49 Capital adequacy 136 G23 Intangible assets 117 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 64 INCOME STATEMENT | GROUP Income statement Group Group SEK m 2013 2012 Interest income Note G3 54 463 62 814 Interest expense Note G3 -27 794 -36 733 Net interest income 26 669 26 081 Fee and commission income Note G4 9 294 8 750 Fee and commission expense Note G4 -1 490 -1 381 Net fee and commission income 7 804 7 369 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note G5 1 357 1 120 Risk result, insurance Note G6 142 196 Other dividend income 161 152 Share of proﬁt of associates Note G19 9 8 Other income Note G7 185 136 Total income 36 327 35 062 Staff costs Note G8 -11 404 -11 167 Other expenses Note G9 -5 181 -5 069 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G23, G24 -476 -464 Total expenses -17 061 -16 700 Proﬁt before loan losses 19 266 18 362 Net loan losses Note G10 -1 195 -1 251 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets Note G11 17 -3 Operating proﬁt 18 088 17 108 Taxes Note G33 -3 915 -3 092 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 14 173 14 016 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax Note G12 122 22 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 14 038 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 14 295 14 037 Minority interest 0 1 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK Note G13 22.33 22.30 after dilution Note G13 22.07 21.82 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK Note G13 0.19 0.04 after dilution Note G13 0.19 0.03 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK Note G13 22.52 22.34 after dilution Note G13 22.26 21.85 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 65 STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | GROUP Statement of comprehensive income Group Group SEK m 2013 2012 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 14 038 Other comprehensive income Items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Deﬁned beneﬁt plans 1 402 2 583 Taxes on items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -307 -568 Total items that cannot be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss 1 095 2 015 Items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss Cash ﬂow hedges -3 410 2 390 Available-for-sale instruments 535 984 Translation difference for the year 763 -126 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations 767 486 Tax on items that can be related into proﬁt and loss 514 -913 of which cash ﬂow hedges 744 -565 of which available-for-sale instruments -61 -248 of which hedges of net investments in foreign operations -169 -100 Total items that can be reclassiﬁed into proﬁt and loss -1 598 2 335 Total other comprehensive income -503 4 350 Total comprehensive income for the year 13 792 18 388 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 13 792 18 387 Minority interest 0 1 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. Discontinued operations only affects Translation difference for the year in Other comprehensive income. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 66 BALANCE SHEET | GROUP Balance sheet Group Group Opening balance SEK m 2013 2012 20121 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 236 545 251 857 Other loans to central banks Note G14 35 160 12 370 124 122 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note G17 57 451 48 906 43 971 Loans to other credit institutions Note G15 62 898 89 511 106 823 Loans to the public Note G16 1 696 339 1 680 479 1 591 128 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 96 5 271 4 490 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note G17 64 125 68 354 60 231 Shares Note G18 48 595 30 146 27 236 Investments in associates Note G19 272 203 205 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk Note G20 86 015 69 590 62 721 Derivative instruments Note G21 69 961 110 850 142 074 Reinsurance assets 4 1 2 Intangible assets Note G23 7 835 7 206 7 079 Property and equipment Note G24 2 205 2 209 3 507 Current tax assets 405 129 42 Deferred tax assets Note G33 269 350 380 Net pension assets Note G8 1 733 766 Assets held for sale 1 247 854 944 Other assets Note G25 13 262 12 812 14 267 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note G26 7 140 7 399 8 512 Total assets Note G38 2 489 806 2 383 951 2 449 591 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note G27 171 624 183 945 201 889 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note G28 825 205 682 223 724 888 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk Note G29 86 062 69 638 62 800 Issued securities Note G30 1 150 641 1 151 426 1 140 074 Derivative instruments Note G21 61 529 106 044 127 303 Short positions Note G31 22 845 16 201 21 397 Insurance liabilities Note G32 622 666 690 Current tax liabilities 831 497 818 Deferred tax liabilities Note G33 7 413 8 713 7 842 Provisions Note G34 141 120 31 Net pension liabilities Note G8 1 401 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 539 349 345 Other liabilities Note G35 13 189 17 848 13 847 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note G36 21 861 21 264 20 977 Subordinated liabilities Note G37 15 965 21 167 35 317 Total liabilities Note G38 2 378 467 2 280 101 2 359 619 Minority interest 2 2 0 Share capital 2 956 2 943 2 902 Share premium 2 843 2 337 793 Reserves 1 837 2 340 -2 010 Retained earnings 89 406 82 191 75 964 Proﬁt for the year, attributable to shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 14 295 14 037 12 323 Total equity 111 339 103 850 89 972 Total liabilities and equity 2 489 806 2 383 951 2 449 591 1 The column opening balance 2012 shows the new opening balance, after the restatement of deﬁned beneﬁt pensions in accordance with the revised IAS 19 Employee beneﬁts. For more information, see note G48. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 67 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | GROUP Statement of changes in equity Group Group 2013 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium blans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2013 2 943 2 337 1 149 569 -1 393 101 290 2 106 897 Effects of implementing revised IAS 19 2 015 -5 062 -3 047 Opening equity after adjustment 2 943 2 337 2 015 1 149 569 -1 393 96 228 2 103 850 Proﬁt for the year 14 295 0 14 295 Other comprehensive income 1 095 -2 666 474 594 -503 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 095 -2 666 474 594 14 295 0 13 792 Dividend -6 822 -6 822 Conversion of the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008 13 506 519 Changes in holdings of own shares in trading book 0 Changes in minority interests 0 Closing equity 2013 2 956 2 843 3 110 -1 517 1 043 -799 103 701 2 111 339 Group 2012 Deﬁned Fair Share Share beneﬁt Hedge value Translation Retained Minority SEK m capital premium plans reserve reserve reserve earnings interest Total Opening equity 2012 2 902 793 -676 -167 -1 167 92 839 0 94 524 Effects of implementing revised IAS 19 -4 552 -4 552 Opening equity after adjustment 2 902 793 -676 -167 -1 167 88 287 0 89 972 Proﬁt for the year 14 037 1 14 038 Other comprehensive income 2 015 1 825 736 -226 0 4 350 Total comprehensive income for the year 2 015 1 825 736 -226 14 037 1 18 388 Dividend -6 110 -6 110 Conversion of the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008 41 1 544 1 585 Changes in holdings of own shares in trading book 14 14 Changes in minority interests 1 1 Closing equity 2012 2 943 2 337 2 015 1 149 569 -1 393 96 228 2 103 850 During the period January to December 2013, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 533m (1,641) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 2,838,683 class A shares (8,744,470). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the holdings of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Hedge reserve at beginning of year 1 149 -676 Unrealised value changes during the year -2 666 1 825 Hedge reserve at end of year -1 517 1 149 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 569 -167 Unrealised market value change during the year for remaining and new holdings 509 789 Realised market valuation reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 -35 -53 Fair value reserve at end of year 1 043 569 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Translation reserve at beginning of year -1 393 -1 167 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches 687 -176 Change in translation difference pertaining to subsidiaries -107 -49 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 14 -1 Translation reserve at end of year -799 -1 393 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 16m (17). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK -17m (18). H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 68 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | GROUP Cash flow statement Group Group SEK m 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt, total operations 18 233 17 140 of which paid-in interest 55 030 63 858 of which paid-out interest -27 923 -36 678 of which paid-in dividends 1 044 441 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 1 392 1 438 Unrealised changes in value -250 -33 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 476 464 Paid income tax -4 973 -3 997 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Other loans to central banks -22 790 111 752 Loans to other credit institutions 26 605 17 465 Loans to the public -12 152 -91 366 Interest-bearing securities and shares -23 393 -20 099 Due to credit institutions -12 321 -17 944 Deposits and borrowing from the public 142 810 -42 837 Issued securities -785 11 352 Derivative instruments, net positions -3 323 10 432 Short-term positions 6 644 -5 196 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements -782 914 Other -7 607 20 839 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 107 784 10 324 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of subsidiary -446 Change in shares -85 -1 Change in interest-bearing securities 594 4 551 Change in property and equipment -320 -297 Change in intangible non-current assets -335 -341 Cash ﬂow from investing activities -592 3 912 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -4 048 -14 890 Issued subordinated loans 2 990 Dividend paid -6 822 -6 110 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -10 870 -18 010 Cash ﬂow for the year 96 322 -4 230 Liquid funds at beginning of year 236 545 251 857 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 107 784 10 324 Cash ﬂow from investing activities -592 3 912 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -10 870 -18 010 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 1 927 -11 538 Liquid funds at end of year 334 794 236 545 Liquid funds are deﬁned as Cash and balances with central banks. Acquisition of subsidiary SEK m Liquid funds Cash and balances with central banks 0 Operating activities Loans to credit institutions 93 Other 1 Investing activities Intangible ﬁxed assets 345 Property, plant and equipment 7 Total acquired assets and liabilities 446 Purchase price paid -446 Liquid funds in the acquired company 0 Net impact on the cash ﬂow -446 On 24 May 2013, the acquisition of Heartwood Wealth Group Limited was completed. For further information about the acquisition, see note G47. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 69 NOTES | GROUP Notes Group G1 Accounting policies and differences between the value calculated at a signiﬁcant effect on the capital adequacy. initial recognition and the transaction price are IASB is currently revising a number of existing other basis for preparing the amortised over the life of the derivative. In adstandards. Of these future regulatory changes, financial reports dition, independent valuations of the total credit IFRS 9 Financial Instruments, which is to replace risk component in outstanding mark-to-model IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and 1. STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE method OTC derivatives are performed on a Measurement, is expected to have the greatest The consolidated accounts have been prepared regular basis. Changes in credit risk are recogeffect on Handelsbanken’s ﬁnancial reports. in accordance with international ﬁnancial nised in proﬁt/loss to the extent that the overall Since most of the work with IFRS 9 remains to reporting standards (IFRSs) and interpretations effect exceeds non-recognised day-1 effects. be done, the Bank is refraining from estimating of these standards as adopted by the EU. In See also section 8 and note G39. The application how the ﬁnancial reports will be affected or when addition, the accounting policies also follow the of IFRS 13 has not had any effect on the income application of the new regulations will start. Annual Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and statements or balance sheet. However, the new None of the other changes in the accounting Securities Companies (1995:1559), and the standard contains more extensive requirements regulations issued for application are assessed regulations and general guidelines issued by the for disclosures of fair value measurement. to have a material impact on Handelsbanken’s Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, FFFS Disclosures of fair value measurement of ﬁnancial ﬁnancial reports, capital adequacy, large expo2008:25, Annual reports in credit institutions and instruments are provided in section 8 and note sures or other circumstances according to the securities companies. RFR 1 Supplementary acG39. According to IFRS 13, information must applicable regulatory requirements. counting rules for groups as well as statements also be provided annually starting with the 2013 from the Swedish Financial Reporting Board are annual report regarding fair value measurement 3. BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION also applied in the consolidated accounts. of certain non-ﬁnancial items. This information is AND PRESENTATION The parent company’s accounting policies are shown in note G24. Subsidiaries shown in note P1. As of the 2013 ﬁnancial year, new disclosures All companies directly or indirectly controlled by are made concerning the set-off of ﬁnancial Handelsbanken (subsidiaries) have been fully Issuing and adoption of annual report assets and liabilities, in compliance with IFRS 7, consolidated. Control is normally presumed to The annual report and consolidated accounts Financial instruments. See note G22 for discloexist if Handelsbanken owns more than 50 per were approved for issue by the Board on sures which came into effect for application in cent of the voting power at shareholders’ meet4 February 2014 and will be adopted by the the EU on 1 January 2013. ings or the equivalent. AGM on 26 March 2014. The revised IAS 1 Presentation of ﬁnancial Subsidiaries are consolidated according to the statements, which came into effect for applicaacquisition method. This means that the acquisi2. CHANGED ACCOUNTING POLICIES ETC. tion in the EU on 1 January 2013, has affected tion of a subsidiary is regarded as a transacOn 1 January 2013, the revised IAS 19 Emthe Bank’s presentation of other comprehensive tion where the Group acquires the company’s ployee beneﬁts came into effect for application income since items which will later be reclassiﬁed identiﬁable assets and assumes its liabilities and within the EU. This has led to effects on how to the income statement are reported separately obligations. In the case of business combinaHandelsbanken reports deﬁned beneﬁt pension from the items which are not reclassiﬁed. tions, an acquisition balance sheet is prepared, plans since the “corridor” method for accountIn other respects, the accounting policies, where identiﬁable assets and liabilities are valued ing of actuarial gains and losses has been classiﬁcations and calculation methods applied at fair value at the time of acquisition. The cost removed. In addition, the previous assumption by the Group during the ﬁnancial year agree in all of the business combination comprises the fair for the return on plan assets has been replaced essentials with the policies applied in the 2012 value of all assets, liabilities and issued equity by an estimated yield equivalent to the discount annual report. instruments provided as payment for the net rate for the pension liability. This impacts the assets in the subsidiary. Any surplus due to the calculation of the pension cost reported in the Future amendments to regulations cost of the business combination exceeding the income statement. Accumulated actuarial gains As of the 2014 ﬁnancial year, IFRS 10 Consoidentiﬁable net assets on the acquisition balance and losses have been reported in the transition lidated Financial Statements, IFRS 11 Joint sheet is recognised as goodwill in the Group’s against retained earnings. The resulting value Arrangements and IFRS 12 Disclosures of balance sheet. The subsidiary’s ﬁnancial reports changes in obligations and assets are reported Interest in Other Entities will come into effect for are included in the consolidated accounts in other comprehensive income. This change application in the EU. The new regulations mean starting on the acquisition date until the date on in policy has resulted in the Group’s opening that the current stipulations in IAS 27 and SIC 12 which control ceases. Intra-group transactions equity at the beginning of 2013 decreasing by concerning when a company is to be consoliand balances are eliminated when preparing the SEK 3,047 million. The comparative ﬁgures for dated in the consolidated annual accounts are Group’s ﬁnancial reports. 2012 have been adjusted and were communibeing replaced by a number of assessment Where the accounting policies applied for an cated in a press release on 15 April 2013. The adcriteria for when an entity controls another entity. individual subsidiary do not correspond to the justed comparison ﬁgures are shown in note G48. One of the effects of the new regulations is that policies applied in the Group, an adjustment IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement also came fund units owned by the bank through unit-linked is made to the consolidated accounts when into effect for application in the EU on 1 Januinsurance contracts will not be included in the consolidating the subsidiary. ary 2013. The standard deals with common assessment of whether controlling inﬂuence Mutual funds in which the Bank, due to unitprinciples for fair value measurement of most of a mutual fund company applies. If the new linked insurance agreements or in some other of the assets and liabilities at fair value in the regulations had applied at the end of the ﬁnancial way, owns more than 50 per cent of the shares accounts. IFRS 13 clariﬁes some of the principles year, the balance-sheet items Assets/Liabilities are consolidated in their entirety in the balance for measuring credit risk components in model where the customer bears the value change risk sheet under Assets/Liabilities where the customer valuation of ﬁnancial instruments. In the model would have been SEK 5,085 million less. The bears the value change risk. valuation of derivatives, the Bank already takes application of the new regulations does not affect a conservative approach where material positive the income statement, nor is it expected to have H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 70 NOTES | GROUP Associated companies and expenses are also stated per geographical Financial assets and liabilities are set off in the Companies in which Handelsbanken has a area in which the Group operates. The principles balance sheet if the Bank has a contractual right signiﬁcant inﬂuence are reported as associates. for segment reporting are described further in and intention to settle with a net amount. Further A signiﬁcant inﬂuence normally exists when the note G44. information about set-off of ﬁnancial assets and share of voting power in the company is at least liabilities is provided in note G22. 20 per cent and at most 50 per cent. Associates 5. ASSETS AND LIABILITIES IN FOREIGN The policies for recognising assets and are reported in the consolidated accounts in CURRENCIES liabilities in the balance sheet are of special accordance with the equity method. This means The Group’s presentation currency is Swedish importance when accounting for repurchase that the holding is initially reported at cost. The kronor. The functional currency for the Group’s transactions, securities loans and leases. See carrying amount is increased or decreased to operations outside Sweden usually differs from the separate sections on these issues below. recognise the Group’s share of the associated the Group’s presentation currency. The currency company’s proﬁts or losses after the date of acused in the economic environment where the 7. CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL ASSETS quisition. Any dividends from associates are deoperations are primarily conducted is regarded AND LIABILITIES ducted from the carrying amount of the holding. as the functional currency. For the purposes of measurement, in compliance Shares of the proﬁt of associates are reported as Transactions in foreign currency are translated with IAS 39, all ﬁnancial assets are placed in the Share of proﬁt of associates on a separate line in to the functional currency on the transaction following valuation categories: the Group’s income statement. date. Monetary items and assets and liabilities at 1. loans and receivables fair value are valued at the functional currency’s 2. assets held to maturity Discontinued operations and held-for-sale spot price at the end of the balance sheet date. 3. assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss assets Translation differences arising from non-mone Ř KHOGIRUWUDGLQJ Non-current assets or a group of assets (dispostary items classiﬁed as available-for-sale ﬁnancial  Ř D  VVHWVZKLFKXSRQLQLWLDOUHFRJQLWLRQZHUH al group) are classiﬁed as held for sale when the assets are recognised as a component of Other designated at fair value through proﬁt or carrying amount will be mainly recovered through comprehensive income and accumulated in loss sale and when the sale is highly probable. After equity. Exchange rate differences arising when 4. available-for-sale assets. classiﬁcation as an asset held for sale, special translating monetary items comprising part valuation principles are applied. These principles of a net investment in a foreign operation are Financial liabilities are classiﬁed as follows: essentially mean that, with the exception of items recognised in the same way. Other exchange 1. liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss such as ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, assets rate differences are recognised in the income  Ř OLDELOLWLHVKHOGIRUWUDGLQJ held for sale and disposal groups are measured statement.  Ř OLDELOLWLHVZKLFKXSRQLQLWLDOUHFRJQLWLRQZHUH at the lower of the carrying amount and fair value designated at fair value through proﬁt or less costs to sell. Thus, property, plant and Translation of foreign operations to the loss equipment or intangible assets held for sale are Group’s presentation currency 2. other ﬁnancial liabilities. not depreciated or amortised. Any impairment When translating the foreign units’ (including losses and subsequent revaluations are recogbranches’) balance sheets and income stateThe classiﬁcation in the balance sheet is indenised directly in the income statement. Gains ments from the functional currency, the current pendent of the measurement category. Thus, are not recognised if they exceed accumulated method has been used. This means that assets different measurement principles may be applied impairment loss. Assets and liabilities held for and liabilities are translated at the closing day for assets and liabilities carried on the same line sale are reported as a separate line item in the rate. Equity is translated at the rate applicable at in the balance sheet. A classiﬁcation into measGroup’s balance sheet until the time of sale. the time of investment or earning. The income urement categories of the ﬁnancial assets and Independent operations of a material nature statement has been translated at the average liabilities which are recognised on the balance which can be clearly differentiated from the annual rate. Exchange differences are recogsheet is shown in note G38. Group’s other operations and which are clasnised as a component of Other comprehensive Upon initial recognition, all ﬁnancial assets and siﬁed as held for sale using the above policies income and are included in the translation liabilities are designated at fair value. For assets are recognised as discontinued operations. reserve in equity. and liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or loss, Subsidiaries acquired solely for resale are also the transaction costs are recognised directly in recognised as discontinued operations. In 6. RECOGNITION OF ASSETS proﬁt or loss at the time of acquisition. For other recognition as a discontinued operation, the AND LIABILITIES ﬁnancial instruments, the transaction costs are operation’s proﬁt is reported on a separate line Purchases and sales of equities and money included in the acquisition value. in the income statement, separate from other market and capital market instruments on the proﬁt/loss items. Proﬁt or loss from discontinued spot market are recognised on the trade date. Loans and receivables operations comprises the after-tax proﬁt or loss The same applies to derivatives. Other ﬁnancial Unlisted interest-bearing assets are classiﬁed as of discontinued operations, the proﬁt or loss after assets and liabilities are normally recognised Loans and receivables. Loans and receivables tax that arises when valuing the assets held for on the settlement date. Financial assets are are carried at amortised cost, i.e. the discounted sale/disposal groups that are included in disconremoved from the balance sheet when the present value of all future cash ﬂows relating tinued operations at fair value less costs to sell, contractual rights to the cash ﬂows originatto the instrument where the discount rate is and realised proﬁt or loss from the disposal of ing from the asset expire or when all risks and the asset’s effective interest rate at the time of discontinued operations. rewards related to the asset are transferred to acquisition. Loans and receivables are subject to another party. A ﬁnancial liability is removed from impairment testing when indications of an impair4. SEGMENT REPORTING the balance sheet when the obligation ceases or ment loss are present. See section 9 for more The segment reporting presents income and is cancelled. details. The impairment loss is recognised in the expenses split into business segments. A busiWhen accounting for business combinations, income statement. Thus, loans and receivaness segment is a part of the Group that runs the acquired operations are recognised in the bles are recognised at their net amount, after operations which generate external or internal Group’s accounts from the acquisition date. The deduction for probable and actual loan losses. income and expenses and of which the proﬁt/ acquisition date is the date when controlling inﬂuEarly redemption fees for loans and receivables loss is regularly assessed and followed up by the ence of the acquired entity starts. The acquisition which are repaid before maturity are recognised company management as part of corporate govdate may differ from the date when the transacimmediately in the income statement under Net ernance. As part of segment reporting, income tion is legally established. gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 71 NOTES | GROUP Assets held to maturity assets which are available for sale are reported the expected cost of settling the obligation to Interest-bearing assets which the Group intends in Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. which the guarantee gives rise. In addition, the and has the capacity to hold to maturity are Impairment testing of available-for-sale ﬁnancial total guaranteed amount relating to guarantees reported in the Assets held to maturity category. assets is performed when there is an indicaissued is reported off balance as a contingent Assets that are classiﬁed to be held to maturity tion of impairment; see section 9 concerning liability. A utilised guarantee is reported as a are carried at amortised cost. Assets held to impairment losses for ﬁnancial assets. Dividends probable or actual loan loss, depending on the maturity are subject to impairment testing when on shares designated as available for sale are circumstances. there are indications of an impairment loss. See continuously recognised in proﬁt or loss as Other The premiums for purchased ﬁnancial guarsection 9 for more details. dividend income. antees are recognised as decreased interest income in net interest income if the debt instruAssets and liabilities held for trading Reclassiﬁcation of ﬁnancial instruments ment to which the guarantee refers is recognised Assets and liabilities held for trading consist During the ﬁnancial year 2008, Handelsbanken there. Other premiums for purchased guaranof listed ﬁnancial instruments and derivatives. reclassiﬁed some portfolios of interest-bearing tees are recognised in Net fee and commission Financial instruments held for trading are recogsecurities. The regulations in IAS 39 only allow income. nised at fair value in the balance sheet. Interest, for reclassiﬁcation of certain ﬁnancial assets Loan commitments are reported off-balance dividends and other value changes related to and only under exceptional circumstances. No until the settlement date of the loan. Fees received these instruments are recognised in the income further reclassiﬁcation has been performed since for loan commitments are accrued in net fee statement under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial the reclassiﬁcation in 2008. The impact of the and commission income over the maturity of the transactions. reclassiﬁcation is described in note G38. commitment unless it is highly probable that the commitment will be fulﬁlled, in which case the fee Financial assets and liabilities which upon Repurchase transactions received is included in the effective interest rate initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value Repurchase transactions, or repo transactions, of the loan. in the income statement refer to agreements where the parties simultaThe option of classifying ﬁnancial instruments neously agree on the sale of speciﬁc securities Combined ﬁnancial instruments at fair value through the income statement has and the repurchase of these securities at a Clearly separable ﬁnancial components of assets been applied for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities pre-determined price. Securities sold in a repo and liabilities (such as derivatives) are normally that are not held for trading but for which the transaction remain on the balance sheet during accounted for separately in the balance sheet. internal management and valuation is based on the life of the transaction. The sold instrument is This is the case, for example, for issues of equityfair values (for example, assets and liabilities realso reported off the balance sheet as collateral linked bonds and other structured products sulting from unit-linked insurance contracts). This pledged. Depending on the counterparty, paywhere the derivative is reported separately from valuation principle has also been applied to avoid ment received is recognised under Due to credit the host contract at fair value in the income inconsistencies when valuing assets and liabiliinstitutions or as Deposits and borrowing from statement. ties which are counter-positions of each other the public. Securities bought in a repo transacCombined ﬁnancial instruments held for tradand which are managed on a portfolio basis. The tion are accounted for in the corresponding ing and combined ﬁnancial instruments where option of recognising assets and liabilities at fair way, i.e. they are not recognised in the balance the economic characteristics and risks of the value in proﬁt or loss has been applied for ﬁnansheet during the life of the transaction. Dependinstrument’s various components are similar cial instruments that are reported in the balance ing on the counterparty, the payment made is (such as variable rate lending with an interest sheet under Interest-bearing securities eligible as recognised under Other loans to central banks, rate cap) are not accounted for separately. The collateral with central banks, Loans to the public, Loans to other credit institutions or Loans to inherent value of the option to convert in issued Bonds and other interest-bearing securities, the public. Collateral received which are sold on convertible debt instruments is recognised Shares and Assets/liabilities where the customer under repurchase agreements are reported as separately in equity. The value of the equity bears the value change risk. off-balance sheet commitments. component is determined at the time of issue as Changes in the fair value of ﬁnancial instruthe difference between the fair value of the conments that are measured at fair value are reporSecurities loans vertible instrument in its entirety reduced by the ted in the income statement under Net gains/ Lent securities remain in the balance sheet and fair value of the liability component. The carrying losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Interest related are also reported off balance as Pledged assets. amount of the equity component is not adjusted to lending which upon initial recognition was Borrowed securities are not recognised in the during the life of the convertible instrument. The categorised at fair value in the income statement balance sheet unless they are sold, in which case liability component is recognised at fair value in is recognised in Net interest income. a value corresponding to the sold instrument’s the balance sheet at the time of issue. After initial fair value is recognised as a liability. Borrowed recognition, the liability component is carried at Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets securities which are lent to a third party are amortised cost at the original effective interest The majority of the Group’s holdings of ﬁnancial reported as off-balance sheet commitments. rate. instruments for which there is an active market but which are not held for trading are classiﬁed Financial guarantees and loan commitments 8. PRINCIPLES FOR FAIR VALUE as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. Financial guarantees are contracts that require MEASUREMENT OF FINANCIAL ASSETS Financial assets which have been classiﬁed the issuer to make speciﬁed payments to AND LIABILITIES as available for sale are recognised at fair value reimburse the holder for a loss incurred because Fair value is deﬁned as the price that would be in the balance sheet. Changes in market value a speciﬁed debtor fails to make payment when received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a of the assets are recognised as a component of due in accordance with the terms of a debt liability in an orderly transaction between indeOther comprehensive income and are included instrument, for example a credit guarantee. The pendent market participants. in the fair value reserve in equity. Changes in fair value of an issued guarantee is the same as For ﬁnancial instruments traded on an active fair value are not recognised in the income the premium received when it was issued. Upon market, the fair value is the same as the quoted statement until the asset has been realised or an initial recognition, the premium received for the market price. An active market is one where impairment loss has occurred. Interest related guarantee is recognised as deferred income quoted prices are readily and regularly available to this category of assets is recognised directly in the balance sheet. The guarantee is subsefrom a regulated market, execution venue, in net interest income in the income statement. quently measured at the higher of the amorreliable news service or equivalent, and where Exchange rate effects relating to monetary tised premium or the amount that represents the price information received can be veriﬁed by H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 72 NOTES | GROUP means of regularly occurring transactions. The company and the value of the investment is then tion of the assets. Since the policyholders/sharecurrent market price is generally the same as the determined on the basis of proﬁt multiples such holders have prior rights to the assets, there is current bid price for ﬁnancial assets or the current as P/E and EV/EBITA. Value changes and capital no motive to adjust the valuation for credit risk. ask price for ﬁnancial liabilities. For groups of gains on holdings in private equity funds which ﬁnancial instruments which are managed on the comprise part of the investment assets in the 9. LOAN LOSSES AND IMPAIRMENT OF basis of the Bank’s net exposure to market risk, insurance operations are not reported directly in FINANCIAL ASSETS the current market price is presumed to be the the income statement but are included in the baLoans and receivables recognised at same as the price which would be received or sis for calculating the yield split in the insurance amortised cost paid if the net position were divested. operations. See section 12 for more information. All units with customer and credit responsibility For ﬁnancial instruments where there is no in the Handelsbanken Group regularly perform reliable information about market prices, fair Derivatives individual assessments of the need for recognisvalue is established using valuation models. The Derivatives which are traded on an active ing impairment losses for loans and receivables valuation models used are based on input data market are valued at market price. Most of the that are recognised at amortised cost. Impairwhich essentially can be veriﬁed using market Group’s derivative contracts, including interest ment testing is performed where there are objecobservations such as market interest rates and rate swaps and various types of linear currency tive circumstances indicating that the recovershare prices. If necessary, an adjustment is derivatives, are valued using valuation models able amount of the loan is less than its carrying made for other variables which a market particibased on market rates and other market prices. amount. Objective evidence could, according pant would be expected to take into consideraThe valuation of non-linear derivative contracts to the circumstances, be late or non-payment, tion when setting a price. The assumptions used that are not actively traded is also based on a changed credit rating, or a decline in the market in the valuation are based on internally generated reasonable assumption of market-based input value of the collateral. experience and are continuously examined by data such as volatility. When performing impairment testing, the the risk organisation. The result is compared with When performing model valuation for derecoverable value of the loan is calculated by disthe actual outcome so as to identify any need rivatives, in some cases there are differences counting the estimated future cash ﬂows related for adaptations of assumptions and forecasting between the transaction price and the value to the loan and any collateral (including guaranmodels. measured by a valuation model upon initial tees) by the effective interest rate of the loan. If recognition. Such differences occur when the the collateral is a listed asset, the valuation of the Interest-bearing securities applied valuation model does not fully capture collateral is based on the quoted price; otherwise Interest-bearing securities issued by governall the components that affect the value of the the valuation is based on the yield value or the ments and Swedish mortgage bonds are valued derivative. Material unrealised results due to market value estimated in some other manner. using current market prices. Corporate bonds positive differences between the transaction Collateral in the form of property mortgages is are valued using valuation techniques based price and the value measured by a valuation valued in the same way as repossessed real on market yields for the corresponding maturity model (day -1 effect) are not recognised in proﬁt/ property. An impairment loss is recognised if the adjusted for credit and liquidity risk. The values loss upon initial recognition, but are amortised estimated recoverable value is less than the carare regularly examined in order to ensure that the over the life of the derivative. In addition, the rying amount and is recognised as a Loan loss valuation reﬂects the current market price. The Bank makes an independent valuation of the in the income statement. A reported loan loss examinations are mainly performed by obtaining total credit risk component (own credit risk as reduces the carrying amount of the loan in the prices from several independent price sources well as counterparty risk) in outstanding modelbalance sheet, either directly (actual loss) or by a and by reconciliation with recently performed valued derivatives. Changes in fair value due to provision account for loan losses (probable loss). transactions in the same or equivalent instruchanged credit risk are recognised in proﬁt/loss In addition to this individual assessment ments. to the extent that the overall effect exceeds nonof loans, a collective assessment is made of recognised day -1 effects. individually measured loans with the purpose of Shares identifying the need to recognise an impairment Shares listed on an active market are valued at Lending classiﬁed to be measured at fair loss that cannot yet be allocated to individual market price. When valuing listed shares, the value loans. The analysis is based on a distribution choice of model is determined by what is deemed Lending that is classiﬁed to be measured at fair of individually valued loans in terms of the risk appropriate for the individual instrument. value through the income statement is valued at class. An impairment loss is recognised if this is Holdings of unlisted securities mainly consist the present value of expected future cash ﬂows. justiﬁable taking into account changes in the risk of various types of jointly owned operations relatWhen performing the calculation the market rate classiﬁcation and expected loss. Impairment ed to the Bank’s core business. In general, such is adjusted for credit risk. The credit risk premium losses which have been recognised for a group holdings are valued at the Bank’s share of the is assumed to be the same as the original margin of loans are transferred to impairment losses company’s net asset value. For unlisted shares as long as there is no proof that the counterparfor individual loans as soon as there is available for which the company agreement regulates ty’s repayment capacity has signiﬁcantly deterioinformation about the impairment in value at an the price at which the shares can be divested, rated. Information about repayment capacity is individual level. A group impairment test is also the holdings are valued at the divestment price obtained from the Bank’s internal rating system. performed for homogeneous groups of smaller determined in advance. In all material respects, Value changes of loans at fair value are reported loans with a similar risk proﬁle. unlisted shares are classiﬁed as available for in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. Loan losses for the period comprise actual sale. Value changes for these holdings are thus losses and probable losses on credits granted, reported in other comprehensive income. Assets and liabilities where the customer minus recoveries and reversals of previous When valuing unlisted shares in private bears the value change risk impairment losses recognised for probable equity funds, valuation principles adopted by Assets where the customer bears the value loan losses. Actual loan losses may refer to the European Venture Capital & Private Equity change risk mainly comprise shares in unit-linked entire loans or parts of loans and are recogAssociation (EVCA) are used. In these models, insurance contracts and mutual funds which nised when there is no realistic possibility of the market value of the investments is derived are consolidated in the Group accounts. These recovery. This is the case, for example, when a from a relative valuation of comparable listed shares are valued using the fund’s current market trustee in bankruptcy has estimated bankruptcy companies in the same sector. Adjustments are value (NAV). Each asset corresponds to a liability dividends, when a scheme of arrangement has made for proﬁt/loss items that prevent compariwhere the customer bears the value change risk. been accepted, or a concession has been exson between the investment and the compared The valuation of these liabilities reﬂects the valuatended in some other way. An amount forgiven H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 73 NOTES | GROUP in connection with reconstruction of a loan or increased since the impairment loss was recogchanges in the ﬂoating interest rates on lending group of loans is always classiﬁed as an actual nised and the increase can be objectively related and funding. The expected maturity for this type loss. If the customer is following a payment plan to an event occurring after the impairment loss of lending and funding is normally much longer for a loan which was previously classiﬁed as an was recognised. Previous impairment losses on than the ﬁxing period, which is very short. Cash actual loan loss, the amount of the loss is subject equity instruments classiﬁed as available-for-sale ﬂow hedging is also used to hedge currency to new testing. Recoveries comprise reversed ﬁnancial instruments are not reversed. risk in future cash ﬂows deriving from ﬁxed-rate amounts on loan losses previously reported as funding. Interest rate swaps which are hedging actual losses. Information about probable and 10. HEDGE ACCOUNTING instruments in cash ﬂow hedges are measured actual losses is contained in note G10. The Group applies different methods for hedge at fair value. If the swap’s value change is effecInterest rate effects arising due to discountaccounting, depending on the purpose of the tive – that is, it corresponds to future cash ﬂows ing effects when the period until the expected hedge. Derivatives – mainly interest rate swaps related to the hedged item – it is recognised as a payment is decreasing result in a reversal of and currency swaps – are used as hedging component of Other comprehensive income and previously provisioned amounts which are recoginstruments. In addition, when hedging curin the hedge reserve in equity. Ineffective componised as interest income in accordance with the rency risks related to net investments in foreign nents of the swap’s value change are recognised effective interest method. operations, liabilities in the functional currency in the income statement under Net gains/losses of the respective foreign operation are used as on ﬁnancial transactions. Disclosures concerning impaired loans a hedging instrument. As part of the Group’s Hedging of net investments in foreign units is Information concerning impaired loans is prohedging strategies, the value changes of a applied to protect the Group from exchange rate vided gross, before a provision for probable loan hedging instrument are sometimes divided into differences due to operations abroad. Currency losses, and net, after a provision for probable separate components and included in more than swaps and loans in foreign currencies are used loan losses. Loans are deﬁned as impaired if it one hedge relationship. Therefore, one and the as hedging instruments. The hedged item in is not probable that all contracted cash ﬂows same hedging instrument can hedge different these hedges is made up of net investments in will be fulﬁlled. The full amount of all loans which risks. Division of hedging instruments is only the form of direct investments, as well as claims have been classiﬁed as impaired are carried done if the hedged risks can clearly be identiﬁed, on foreign operations that are not expected to as impaired loans even if parts of the loan are the efﬁciency can be reliably measured, and the be settled in the foreseeable future. Loans in covered by collateral. Loans which have been total value change of the hedging instrument is foreign currency that hedge net investments in written off as actual loan losses are not included included in a hedge relationship. foreign operations are recognised in the Group in impaired loans. Fair value hedges are used to protect the at the exchange rate on the balance sheet Group against undesirable impact on proﬁt/loss date. The effective part of the exchange rate Valuation of repossessed property to protect due to changes in the market prices of reported differences for such loans is recognised as a claims assets or liabilities. Hedged risks in hedging component of Other comprehensive income and Upon initial recognition, repossessed property is packages at fair value comprise the interest rate in the translation reserve in equity. The effective recognised at fair value in the balance sheet. In and currency risk on lending and funding at ﬁxed part of changes in value in currency swaps that subsequent valuation, repossessed real property interest rates. The hedging instruments in these hedge exchange rate risk in claims on foreign and equipment (including repossessed lease hedging relationships consist of interest rate and operations is recognised in the same manner. assets) which is expected to be divested in the currency swaps. In the case of fair value hedges, The ineffective components of hedges of net near future is valued at the lower of the carrying the hedge instrument and hedged risk are both investments in foreign operations are recognised amount and fair value less costs to sell. Other recognised at fair value. Changes in value are in the income statement under Net gains/losses property taken over is reported as investment recognised directly in the income statement on ﬁnancial transactions. properties at fair value in proﬁt/loss. Unlisted under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. shareholdings taken over to protect claims are When fair value hedges are prematurely termi11. LEASES recognised as available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets. nated, the accrued value change on the hedged The Group’s leases are deﬁned as either ﬁnance item is amortised in Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial or operating leases. A ﬁnance lease substantially Impairment losses on available-for-sale transactions. transfers all the risks and rewards incidental to ﬁnancial assets Fair value hedges are applied for individual legal ownership of the leased asset from the Impairment losses on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets and liabilities and for portfolios of ﬁnancial lessor to the lessee. Other leases are operating assets are recognised when there is objective instruments. The hedged risk in these portfolio leases. All leases where the Group is the lessor evidence that one or more events of default hedges is the interest rate risk for lending where have been deﬁned as ﬁnancial leases. Lease have occurred with an impact on the expected the original interest rate was ﬁxed for three agreements of this kind are accounted for as future cash ﬂows for the asset. For interestmonths and interest rate caps for lending with an loans in the balance sheet, initially for an amount bearing ﬁnancial assets, examples of events of original ﬁxed-interest period of three months. The corresponding to the net investment. Lease fees default that may indicate an impairment loss hedging instruments for these portfolio hedges received are recognised on a continual basis as are a probable future bankruptcy, evidence of are interest rate swaps and interest rate options interest income/repayments. Impairment testing considerable ﬁnancial difﬁculties on the part of (caps). In portfolio hedges at fair value, the part on ﬁnancial lease agreements is performed the issuer, or evidence of permanent changes of the portfolio’s value that is exposed to the according to the same principles as for other in the market where the asset is traded. For hedged risk is measured at market value. The lending which is reported at amortised cost. equity instruments, a permanent or considervalue of the hedged item in hedged portfolios is Operating lease contracts are not reported able decline in the fair value is an indication of reported as a separate line item in the balance in the balance sheet. Expenses relating to the need to recognise an impairment loss. When sheet in conjunction with Loans to the public. operating leases where the Group is the lessee recognising an impairment loss, the part of the Accumulated value changes on portfolio hedges are recognised on a straight-line basis as other cumulative loss that was previously recognised in which have been terminated prematurily are expenses. the fair value reserve in equity is recognised in the reported in the balance sheet under Other asincome statement. sets and are amortised in Net gains/losses on 12. INSURANCE OPERATIONS Previously recognised impairment losses on ﬁnancial transactions over the remaining time to The Group’s insurance operations are run interest-bearing securities classiﬁed as availablematurity of the portfolio. through the subsidiary Handelsbanken Liv. for-sale ﬁnancial assets are reversed in the Cash ﬂow hedges are applied to manage Products consist mainly of legal life insurance in income statement if the fair value of the asset has exposures to variations in cash ﬂows relating to the form of traditional life insurance, unit-linked H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 74 NOTES | GROUP insurance and risk insurance in the form of health ties are valued at the higher of the guaranteed acquired identiﬁable assets, liabilities and coninsurance and waiver of premium. amount and the current value of the insurance tingent liabilities in the acquired business. These contract. The guaranteed amount earns interest assets may also include intangible assets that Classiﬁcation and unbundling of insurance at the guarantee rate of interest and corresponds would not have been recognised in the balance contracts to the amortised cost of the insurance contract. sheet if they had been acquired separately or Contracts that include signiﬁcant insurance The current value of the insurance contract is internally generated. The part of the acquisition risk are classiﬁed in the consolidated accounts equal to the value of the assets managed on price in a business combination that cannot be as insurance contracts. Contracts that do not behalf of the policyholders, and earns interest allocated to identiﬁable assets and liabilities is transfer signiﬁcant insurance risk are classiﬁed in with a return that is based on the total return for recognised as goodwill. their entirety as investment contracts. Generally, the assets with a deduction for any yield split. this means that insurance policies with repayThe yield split implies that the insurer is allocated Goodwill and intangible assets with ment cover are classiﬁed as investment contracts a contracted part of the total return if this return an indeﬁnite useful life and other contracts are classiﬁed as insurance exceeds the guaranteed return during the calenGoodwill and other intangible assets with an contracts. Insurance contracts consisting of both dar year. The calculation is performed annually indeﬁnite useful life are recorded at cost less insurance components and savings (ﬁnancial and is accumulated for each individual insurance possible impairment losses. These assets are components) are split and recognised separately contract. This means that the conditional bonus tested annually for impairment when preparing in accordance with the principles described below. is reduced in those cases where the yield in an the annual report or when there is an indication individual year is less than the guaranteed interthat the asset is impaired. Impairment testing Accounting for insurance components in est rate and vice versa. The share that accrues to is performed by calculating the recoverable insurance contracts the Group under the yield split model is reported amount of the assets, i.e. the higher of the value Premium income and insurance claims paid as Fee and commission income. If the yield is in use and the fair value less costs to sell. As long for insurance contracts are recognised in the less than the guaranteed yield per contract, the as the recoverable amount exceeds the carrying income statement as a net amount under the difference is recognised in the income statement amount, no impairment loss needs to be recogitem Risk result – insurance. The change in the under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. nised. Impairment losses are recognised directly Group’s insurance liability is also reported under Assets and liabilities arising from unit-linked inin the income statement. this item. surance contracts are recognised at fair value in Since it is not possible to differentiate cash Premiums received which have not yet been the balance sheet as Assets and Liabilities where ﬂows arising from goodwill from cash ﬂows recognised as income are carried as a liability the customer bears the value change risk. arising from other assets, impairment testing for paid-in premiums under Insurance liabilities Premium fees and administrative charges of goodwill takes place at the level of cashin the balance sheet. The balance-sheet item for investment contracts and ﬁnancial compogenerating unit. A cash-generating unit is the Insurance liabilities also includes liabilities for nents of insurance contracts are accrued and smallest identiﬁable group of assets that genersickness annuities, life annuities and other outrecognised in the income statement under Fee ates cash inﬂows that are largely independent of standing claims. The insurance liability is valued and commission income. Acquisition costs are the cash inﬂows from other assets or groups of by discounting the expected future cash ﬂows recognised directly in the income statement. assets. Goodwill which is followed up internally relating to insurance contracts entered into. The at a higher level than the cash-generating unit valuation is based on assumptions concerning Reinsurance is tested at the higher level but never lower than interest, longevity, health and future charges. The reinsurer’s share of the Group’s insurance the business segment level. Material assessThe assumptions concerning longevity vary liabilities is recognised as Reinsurance assets in ments and assumptions in impairment testing of depending on when the policy was taken out and the balance sheet. goodwill are described in note G23. Previously takes into account expected future increases in recognised goodwill impairment losses are not longevity. The assumptions concerning fees also 13. INTANGIBLE ASSETS reversed. depend on when the policy was taken out. PrinRecognition in the balance sheet cipally, this means a fee that is proportional to the An intangible asset is an identiﬁable non-monIntangible assets with a ﬁnite useful life premium and a fee that is proportional to the life etary asset without physical form. An intangible Intangible assets for which it is possible to insurance provisions. Applied assumptions on asset is only recognised in the balance sheet if establish an estimated useful life are amortised. the insured’s future health are based on internally the probable future economic beneﬁts attributCurrently this means that customer contracts acquired experience and vary depending on the able to the asset will ﬂow to the Group and the are amortised over 20 years and that internally product. Interest rate assumptions are based on cost can be reliably measured. This means developed software is amortised over ﬁve years. current market rates and depend on the maturity that internally generated values in the form of Brand names which are subject to amortisation of the liability. The Group’s insurance liabilities goodwill, trademarks, customer databases and are amortised over ﬁve years. The amortisation is are subject to regular review, at least annually, similar are not recognised as assets in the balon a straight-line basis over the useful life of the to ensure that the reported insurance liability ance sheet. asset. The amortisation period is tested on an inis sufﬁcient to cover expected future claims. If Investments in software developed by the dividual basis at the time of new acquisition and necessary, an additional provision is made. The Bank are carried as an expense on a current also continually if there are indications that the difference is recognised in the income statement. basis to the extent that the expenditure refers useful life may have changed. Intangible assets to maintenance of existing business operations with a ﬁnite useful life are tested for impairment Accounting for investment contracts and or software. In the case of development of new when there is an indication that the asset may ﬁnancial components of insurance contracts software, or developing existing software for new be impaired. The impairment test is performed In-payments and out-payments referring to cusbusiness operations, the expenditure incurred is according to the same principles as for intangible tomers’ savings capital originating in investment capitalised from the time when it is probable that assets with an indeﬁnite useful life, i.e. by calcucontracts and ﬁnancial components of insurance economic beneﬁt that can be reliably measured lating the recoverable amount of the asset. contracts are recognised directly over the balwill arise. Expenditure arising from borrowing ance sheet as deposits and withdrawals. costs is capitalised from the date on which the 14. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT The ﬁnancial components of traditional life decision was made to capitalise expenditure for The Group’s tangible non-current assets consist insurance policies that are separated from the development of intangible assets. of property and equipment. With the exception insurance contract are recognised in the balance When accounting for business combinations, of real property that constitutes investment assheet as borrowing from the public. These liabilithe acquisition price is allocated to the value of sets in the insurance business, and repossessed H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 75 NOTES | GROUP properties to protect claims, these assets are Hedge reserve Net interest income recorded at cost of acquisition less accumulated Unrealised changes in value on derivative Interest income and interest expense are depreciation and impairment losses. instruments which comprise hedge instruments recognised as Net interest income in the income Depreciation is based on the estimated useful in cash ﬂow hedges are reported in the hedge statement, with the exception of interest ﬂows lives of the assets. A linear depreciation plan is reserve. deriving from ﬁnancial instruments held for tradusually applied. The estimated useful lives are ing. Net interest income also includes interest tested annually. The tangible assets that consist Fair value reserve deriving from derivative instruments that hedge of components with different estimated useful The fair value reserve comprises unrealised items whose interest ﬂows are recognised in Net lives are sub-divided into different categories with changes in value on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as interest income. In addition to interest income separate depreciation plans. Such depreciaavailable for sale. and interest expense, net interest income intion of components is normally only applied for cludes fees for state guarantees, such as deposit real property. Only components of the property Translation reserve guarantees and the stability fee. whose acquisition costs are substantial in relaThe translation reserve comprises unrealised forIn order to arrive at a net interest income ﬁgure tion to the total acquisition cost are separately eign exchange effects arising due to translation which is free from interest deriving from ﬁnancial depreciated. The remaining parts of the real of foreign units to the currency of the consoliassets and liabilities held for trading and to gain property (building structure) are depreciated as dated accounts. an overall view of the activity in the trading book, a whole over their expected useful life. Currently, interest income and interest expense relating to the useful life for the building structure is 100 Deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held for trading is years, for water and drains 35 years, for roofs Revaluations of the pension obligations and recognised under Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial 30 years, for frontage, heating, ventilation and pension assets are reported in the item Deﬁned transactions. electricity 25 years, for lifts 20 years and for beneﬁt pension plans. building ﬁxtures and ﬁttings ten years. Personal Net fee and commission income computers and other IT equipment are usually Retained earnings Income and expense for various kinds of services depreciated over three years and investments in Retained earnings comprise the proﬁts generare recognised in the income statement under bank vaults and similar investments in premises ated from the current and previous ﬁnancial Fee and commission income and Fee and comover ten years. Other equipment is normally years. Dividends and repurchase of own shares mission expense, respectively. This means that depreciated over ﬁve years. are reported as deductions from Retained earnbrokerage income and various types of manageImpairment testing of property and equipment ings. ment fees are recognised as commissions. Other is carried out when there is an indication that the forms of income recognised as commission are value of the asset has decreased. Impairment Minority interest payment commissions and card fees, premiums loss is recognised in cases where the recoveraThe minority interest consists of the portion of referring to ﬁnancial guarantees issued, as well ble amount is less than the carrying amount. Any the Group’s net assets that is not directly or indias commissions from insurance operations. impairment losses are recognised immediately rectly owned by holders of the parent company’s Positive yield split in the insurance operations in the income statement. An impairment charge ordinary shares. The minority interest is recorded is also recognised as commission. Guarantee is reversed if there is an indication that there is as a separate component of equity. commissions that are comparable to interest and no longer any impairment loss and there has such fees that constitute integrated components been a change in the assumptions underlying the Accounting for own shares of ﬁnancial instruments and therefore included estimated recoverable amount. Repurchased own shares are not carried as when calculating the effective interest, are recogassets but are offset against Retained earnings nised as interest income and not commission. 15. PROVISIONS under Equity. Provisions consist of recognised expected negaNet gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions tive outﬂows of resources from the Group and 17. INCOME Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions which are uncertain in terms of timing or amount. Income is recognised in the income statement include all items with an impact on proﬁt or loss Provisions are reported when the Group, as when it is probable that future economic beneﬁts which arise when measuring ﬁnancial assets and a consequence of past events, has a legal or will be gained and these beneﬁts can be reliably liabilities at fair value in the income statement and constructive obligation, and it is probable that an measured. The following general principles apply when ﬁnancial assets and liabilities are realised. outﬂow of resources will be required to settle the to recognition of income for various types of fees Speciﬁcally, the items reported here are: obligation. For recognition it must be possible and charges: Ř FDSLWDOJDLQVRUORVVHVIURPWKHGLVSRVDODQG to estimate the amount reliably. The amount Ř )HHVWKDWDUHHDUQHGJUDGXDOO\DVWKHVHUYLFHV settlement of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities recognised as a provision corresponds to the are performed, such as management fees in Ř XQUHDOLVHGFKDQJHVLQYDOXHRIWKHDVVHWVDQG best estimate of the expenditure required to setasset management, are recognised as income liabilities which upon initial recognition were tle the obligation at the balance sheet date. The at the rate these services are delivered. In classiﬁed as Assets at fair value, through the expected future date of the settlement is taken practice, these are on a straight-line basis. income statement, excluding the component into account in the estimate. Ř )HHVDWWULEXWDEOHWRDVSHFLƂFVHUYLFHRUDFWLRQ of change in value recognised as interest are recognised as income when the service Ř UHDOLVHGDQGXQUHDOLVHGFKDQJHVLQYDOXHRQ 16. EQUITY has been performed. Examples of such fees ﬁnancial assets and liabilities classiﬁed as held Equity comprises the following components. are brokerage and payment commission. for trading Ř )HHVWKDWFRQVWLWXWHSDUWRIWKHHIIHFWLYH Ř LQWHUHVWIURPƂQDQFLDOLQVWUXPHQWVKHOGIRU Share premium reserve interest of a ﬁnancial instrument are accrued trading, with the exception of interest originatThe share premium reserve comprises the opin cases where the instrument is valued at aming from derivatives that are hedging instrutions component of issued convertible notes and ortised cost in accordance with the effective ments whose interest ﬂows are reported in Net the amount that in the issue of shares and coninterest method. For ﬁnancial instruments at interest income version of convertible debt securities exceeds fair value, such fees are recognised as income Ř GLYLGHQGLQFRPHRQƂQDQFLDODVVHWVFODVVLƂHG the quotient value of the shares issued. immediately. as held for trading H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 76 NOTES | GROUP Ř XQUHDOLVHGFKDQJHVLQIDLUYDOXHRIWKHKHGJHG sets minus the deﬁned beneﬁt obligations are assumptions applied always reﬂect the managerisk in assets and liabilities which are hedged reported as a net asset in the balance sheet. ment’s best and fairest assessments and are items in fair value hedges, and amortisation Actuarial gains and losses on the pension oblicontinually subject to examination and validation. of unrealised value changes for hedges which gation and return which exceeds the calculated Below follows a report of the assessments and have been prematurely terminated return on the plan assets are reported in other assumptions that have had a material impact on Ř XQUHDOLVHGYDOXHFKDQJHVRQGHULYDWLYHVZKLFK comprehensive income. the ﬁnancial reports. Information on key assumpcomprise hedging instruments in fair value The pension cost recognised for deﬁned tions is also described in the relevant notes. hedges beneﬁt plans is the net of the following items, Ř LQHIIHFWLYHFRPSRQHQWRIWKHYDOXHFKDQJHRQ which are included in staff costs: Actuarial calculation of deﬁned beneﬁt derivatives which comprise hedging instru+ Accrued pension rights for the year, i.e. the pension plans ments in cash ﬂow hedges year’s proportion of the calculated ﬁnal total Calculation of the Group’s expense and obligaŘ LQHIIHFWLYHFRPSRQHQWRIWKHYDOXHFKDQJHRQ pension payment. The calculation of accrued tions for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions is based on a hedging instruments which are hedging net pension rights is based on an estimated ﬁnal number of actuarial, demographic and ﬁnancial investments in foreign operations salary and is subject to actuarial assumptions. assumptions that have a signiﬁcant impact on Ř QHJDWLYH\LHOGVSOLWLQWKHLQVXUDQFHRSHUD+ Interest expense for the year due to the the recognised amounts. Note G8 contains a list tions, i.e. the losses arising when the yield on increase in the present value of the pension of the assumptions used when calculating this ﬁnancial assets in the insurance business is liability during the year since the period up year’s provision. The calculation of deﬁned beneless than the change in guaranteed yield. to payment has decreased. The interest rate ﬁt obligations for employees in Sweden is based applied in calculating interest expense for the on DUS06, which are assumptions on longevity Dividend received year is the current corporate bond rate (the that are generally accepted in the market, based Dividends on shares classiﬁed as available for rate at the start of the year) for maturities coron statistics produced by Insurance Sweden. sale are recognised in proﬁt and loss as Other responding to the period remaining until the The assumptions on future salary increases and dividend income. Dividends on shares classiﬁed pension liability is due to be disbursed. inﬂation are based on the anticipated long-term as ﬁnancial assets held for trading are recognised Estimated yield (interest) on the plan assets. trend. The discount rate is based on ﬁrst-class in the income statement as Net gains/losses Interest on the plan assets is reported in proﬁt/ corporate bonds. In this context, covered on ﬁnancial transactions. Dividends on shares loss using the same interest rate as when mortgage bonds are considered to be corporate in associates are not included in the Dividends establishing the year’s interest expense. bonds. The maturity is the same as the remainitem in the income statement. The accounting for + The estimated cost of special payroll tax is ing period to payment. shares in the proﬁts of associates is described in accrued using the same principles as for the Note G8 provides a sensitivity analysis of the section 3. underlying pension cost. Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt obligation for all major Calculation of costs and obligations resulting actuarial assumptions. This shows how the obli18. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS from the Group’s deﬁned beneﬁt plans depend gation would have been affected by reasonable Staff costs on several assessments and assumptions which possible changes in these assumptions. Staff costs consist of salaries, pension costs and may have a considerable impact on the amounts other forms of direct staff costs including social reported. A more detailed description of these Assessment of need to recognise an security costs, special payroll tax on pension assumptions and assessments is provided in impairment loss for loans and receivables costs and other forms of payroll overheads. Any section 20 and in note G8. The value of the Group’s loans is tested regularly remuneration in connection with terminated and individually for each loan. If necessary, the employment is recognised as a liability when the 19. TAXES loan is written down to the assessed recoverable agreement is reached and amortised over the The tax expense for the period consists of amount. The estimated recoverable amount is remaining employment period. current tax and deferred tax. Current tax refers based on an assessment of the counterparty’s to taxes relating to the period’s taxable result. ﬁnancial repayment capacity and assumptions Accounting for pensions Deferred tax is tax referring to temporary differon the realisable value of any collateral. The ﬁnal Post-employment beneﬁts consist of deﬁned ences between the carrying amount of an asset outcome may deviate from the original provisions contribution plans and deﬁned beneﬁt plans. or liability and its taxable value. Deferred taxes for loan losses. The assessments and assumpBeneﬁt plans under which the Group pays are valued at the tax rate which is deemed to be tions used are subject to regular examinations by ﬁxed contributions into a separate legal entity, applicable when the item is realised. Deferred tax the internal credit organisation. See also note G2 and subsequently has no legal or constructive claims related to deductible temporary differencfor a detailed description of internal risk control obligation to pay further contributions if the legal es and loss carry forwards are only recognised and how the Bank manages credit risk. entity does not hold sufﬁcient assets to fulﬁl its if it is probable that they will be utilised. Deferred obligations to the employee, are accounted for tax liabilities are carried at nominal value. as deﬁned contribution plans. Premiums paid for Tax is recognised in the income statement or deﬁned contribution plans are recognised in the in other comprehensive income depending on income statement as staff costs as they arise. where the underlying transaction is reported. Other post-employment beneﬁt plans are accounted for as deﬁned beneﬁt plans. 20. ESTIMATES AND KEY ASSUMPTIONS For deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the penIn certain cases, the application of the Group’s sion payable is based on the salary and period accounting policies means that assessments of employment, implying that the employer must be made that have a material impact on bears all the material risks for fulﬁlling the penamounts reported. The amounts reported are sion commitment. For the majority of deﬁned also affected in a number of cases by assumpbeneﬁt plans, the Group has kept plan assets tions about the future. Such assumptions always separate in pension foundations and a pension imply a risk for adjustment of the reported value fund. For deﬁned beneﬁt plans, the plan asof assets and liabilities. The assessments and H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 77 NOTES | GROUP G2 Risk and capital management Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2013 Risks at Handelsbanken % 1,2 Description Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of the Bank facing economic loss because the Bank’s counterparties cannot fulﬁl 1,0 their contractual obligations. 0,8 Market risk Market risks arise from changes in prices and volatilities in the ﬁnancial markets. Market risks are divided into interest rate risks, equity price risks, exchange rate risks and commodity price risks. 0,6 Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Bank will not be able to meet its payment obligations when they fall due, without being affected by unacceptable costs or losses. 0,4 Operational risk Operational risk refers to the risk of loss due to inadequate or failed internal processes, people and 0,2 systems, or external events. The deﬁnition includes legal risk. Insurance risk The risk in the outcome of an insurance that depends on the insured party’s longevity or health. 0,0 Property risk The risk of changes in prices of the Bank’s property holdings. -0,2 Business risk The risk of unexpected changes in earnings that are not attributable to the risk categories described above. 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Compensation risk Compensation risk is the risk of loss or other damage arising due to the compensation system. Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. Although the turbulence in the ﬁnancial markets Netherlands, which is thereby one of the Bank’s ments for credit risks. The strong capital situadecreased during the year, the structural probhome markets. In addition, organic growth in tion provides good protection insurance in the lems that brought on the crisis remain. The debt the UK continued and was supplemented by fragile macro-economic situation, and should problems of certain countries are still a concern the acquisition of asset management ﬁrm Heartalso be viewed in light of future regulatory and both the ﬁnancial sector and the real econowood Wealth Group Limited. amendments. Handelsbanken already meets my continue to be supported by massive stimuli Since the turbulence in the ﬁnancial markets future requirements regarding the common eqin the form of monetary policy. Sooner or later started in 2007, Handelsbanken has had good uity tier 1 ratio, even though all proposed capital the players in the economy must adapt to more access to liquidity in all currencies of importance buffer requirements have been set at maximum normal circumstances. For the ﬁnancial sector, to the Bank. The Bank has broadened its inveslevel by the authorities. apart from managing these circumstances, it also tor base and increased the number of funding Handelsbanken is a universal bank, offering means adapting to signiﬁcantly more stringent programmes for both covered and senior a wide range of various banking and insurance and extensive regulatory requirements – which funding. The fact that this has taken place in products. These entail a variety of risks that are have not yet been established in their entirety. the prevailing market conditions is a clear sign systematically identiﬁed, measured and manHandelsbanken’s historically low tolerance of of the market’s conﬁdence in the Bank’s risk aged in all parts of the Group. risk, sound capitalisation and strong liquidity situawork and business model. The Bank has had tion means that the Bank is well equipped to cope and continues to have access to the ﬁnancial with substantially more difﬁcult market conditions markets via its short-term and long-term fundthan those experienced during the year. The core ing programmes. Central Treasury’s liquidity operations will continue to be run using the same portfolio, which is part of the Bank’s liquidity rebusiness model, even under stricter regulations. serve, has a low risk proﬁle and consists mainly Handelsbanken’s strict approach to risk of government bonds and covered bonds. The means that the Bank deliberately avoids hightotal liquidity reserve has risen further during the risk transactions, even if the remuneration may year, which provides a high degree of resistance be high at that time. The low risk tolerance is to possible disruptions in the ﬁnancial markets. maintained through a strong risk culture that At the year-end, the Bank’s liquidity reserve is sustainable in the long term and applies to exceeded SEK 800 billion. all areas of the Group. Lending has a strong SEK 368 billion of the reserve consisted of local involvement, where the close customer liquid assets invested with central banks, SEK relationship promotes low credit risks. Market 90 billion were liquid securities and the remainrisks in the banking operations are only taken as der was mainly an unutilised issue amount part of meeting customers’ investment and risk for covered bonds at Stadshypotek. Liquidmanagement needs and in conjunction with the ity reserves are kept in all currencies that are Bank’s funding. The Bank’s liquidity situation is important to the Bank. The total liquidity reserve planned so that business operations are not recovers the Bank’s liquidity requirements in a stricted when the ﬁnancial markets are disrupted. stressed scenario with an outﬂow of deposits This strict approach to risk also enables the for more than two years without access to new Bank to be a stable and long-term business market funding. Operations can also be mainpartner for its customers. It contributes to good tained for a considerable period of time even in risk management and sustaining a high service an extreme situation when the foreign exchange level even when operations and the markets on markets are closed. which the Bank operates are subject to strain. The Bank’s capital situation continued to The same principles for the Bank’s approach grow stronger during the year and its earnings to risks apply in all countries where the Bank have been stable. Coupled with low loan losses, operates and they are guiding principles in the this has contributed to the strong position. Bank’s future international expansion. In 2013, Moreover, the reduced risk proﬁle of the credit the Bank established a regional bank in the portfolio has resulted in lower capital requireH A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 78 NOTES | GROUP Handelsbanken’s risk management Business operations Local risk control Central risk control Capital planning The Bank’s total view of risk and capital manCentral risk control Capital planning agement comprises the following components: As business decisions become more decenIf – despite the work in the three components tralised, the need for central monitoring of the described – Handelsbanken were to suffer Business operations risk and capital situation increases. The central serious losses, it holds capital to ensure its The Bank is characterised by a clear division of credit and risk functions are therefore a natural survival both during and after extreme events. responsibility where each part of the business and vital component of the Bank’s business Capital planning is based on an assessment of operations bears full responsibility for its busimodel. the capital situation in terms of the legal capital ness and for risk management. Those with the The Central Credit Department prepares requirement, combined with calculation of greatest knowledge of the customer and market decisions made by the Board or by the Board’s economic capital and stress tests. Stress tests conditions are best equipped to assess the risk credit committee. The Central Credit Departidentify the measures that need to be prepared and can also act at an early stage in the event of ment also ensures that credit assessments or implemented in the future to ensure satisfacproblems. Each branch and each proﬁt centre are consistent and that loans are granted in tory capitalisation at any given time. bears the responsibility for dealing with any accordance with the credit policy decided by Apart from the formal risk organisation, Cenproblems that arise. As a consequence, there the board. The Central Credit Department is tral Treasury is responsible for ensuring that the are strong incentives for high risk awareness also responsible for identifying risks in all major Group at any given time has satisfactory liquidity and for prudence in business operations. individual commitments and offers support and and is well prepared to quickly strengthen liquidadvice to other areas of the credit organisation. ity as needed. Central Treasury is also responLocal risk control Central risk control has the task of identifying, sible for the Bank’s liquidity reserve. A liquidity The accountability of the person taking a measuring, analysing and reporting on all the report is issued daily to the CFO and regularly to business decision is supplemented by local Group’s material risks. It monitors that the risks the Bank’s CEO and Board. risk control in the regional banks and within and risk management comply with the Bank’s In addition, operations are reviewed by the various business areas. This ensures that low tolerance of risks and that senior managecompliance – at central, business area and risk-taking does not become excessive in an ment has reliable information to use as a basis subsidiary level – and the internal and external individual transaction or in local operations, for managing risks in critical situations. Central auditors. and that transactions are in line with the Bank’s risk control also has functional responsibility Handelsbanken’s risk management activities views of risk-taking. The local risk control asfor local risk control in the business areas and have stood the test of time and their effectivesesses risk, checks limits, etc. and veriﬁes that subsidiaries, for ensuring that risks are measness is illustrated by the fact that for a long individual business transactions are docuured effectively and consistently, and ensuring time the Bank has had lower loan losses than mented and conducted in a manner that does that the Bank’s senior management receives its competitors and has shown a very stable not involve undesirable risks. Local risk control regular reports and analyses of the current risk ﬁnancial performance. is also responsible for analysing the risk in new situation. products and services. The local risk control reports to central risk control and also to the business operations management. CREDIT RISK In the Bank’s decentralised organisation, each Credit Department. However, no credit applicabranch responsible for the customer has total tion may be processed in the Bank without the credit responsibility. Customer and credit rerecommendation of the branch manager. sponsibility lies with the branch manager or with The decision procedure for credits is illusCredit risk is the risk of the Bank those employees at the local branch appointed trated in the diagram below. It also shows the facing economic loss because by the manager. percentage of decisions and amounts at the the Bank’s counterparties Branch managers and most staff at branches various decision levels. have personal decision limits allowing them to In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisacannot fulfil their contractual decide on credits to the customers they are tion, the documentation that forms the basis obligations. responsible for. for credit decisions is always prepared by the If there is a need for larger credits, there branch responsible for the credit, regardless of are regional and central decision levels. Each whether the ﬁnal decision is to be made at the additional level of decision adds credit experbranch, at regional level, in the Board’s credit At Handelsbanken, the credit process is based tise. Each decision level has the right to reject committee or by the Board. Credit decision on a conviction that a decentralised organisacredits both within their own decision level and documentation includes general and ﬁnancial tion with local presence ensures high quality in also credits which would otherwise have been information regarding the borrower, and an credit decisions. The Bank aims to be a relationdecided at a higher level. All delegates in the assessment of their repayment capacity, loans ship bank where the branches maintain regular decision process, regardless of level, must be in and credit terms, as well as a valuation of colcontact with the customer, which gives them agreement in order for a positive credit decision lateral. For borrowers whose total loans exceed an in-depth understanding of each individual to be made. The largest credits are decided by SEK 3 million, the credit decision is made in the customer and a continually updated picture of the Board’s credit committee, or by the entire form of a credit limit. the customer’s ﬁnancial situation. Board, where cases are prepared by the Central In the case of loans to private individuals H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 79 NOTES | GROUP The credit process and decision levels in Handelsbanken BRANCH LEVEL REGIONAL LEVEL CENTRAL LEVEL Central Account Branch Regional Regional Regional Central Board Central Proposal credit credit board Credit credit comBoard Decision manager manager specialist committee Department mittee Distribution of limit decisions Proportion of number of limits 67% 31% 2% Proportion of limit amount 7% 23% 70% against collateral, a limit requirement comes The local branch’s close contact with its customalso reviewed periodically as stipulated in the into play for amounts exceeding SEK 6 million. ers also enables the branch to quickly identify regulations. The rating is made by the person For loans to housing co-operative associations any problems and take action. In many cases, responsible for granting the credit and it is subagainst collateral in the residential property, a limit this means that the Bank can take action more sequently checked by independent bodies. is required for amounts exceeding SEK 12 million. rapidly than would have been possible with a Credit limits granted are valid for a maximum more centralised management of problem loans. Risk classiﬁcation methods of one year. When extending limits, the decision The branch also has full ﬁnancial responsibility To quantify its credit risks, the Bank calculates documentation and decision procedure are the for granting credits, and therefore addresses the probability of default (PD), the exposure the same as for a new credit. problems that arise when a customer has repayBank is expected to have if a default occurs In Handelsbanken’s decentralised organisament difﬁculties and also bears any loan losses. If (exposure at default, EAD), and the proportion tion where a large proportion of the credit and necessary, the local branch obtains support from of the loan that the Bank would lose in the case limit decisions are made by individual branches, the regional head ofﬁce and central departments. of default (loss given default – LGD). Default is it is important that there is a well-functioning The Bank’s method of working means that all deﬁned as when the counterparty is either 90 review process to ensure that the credit decision employees whose work involves transactions days late in making payment, or when an asis of high quality. The branch manager examines linked to credit risk acquire a solid and wellsessment has been made that the counterparty the quality of the staff’s decisions and the founded approach to such risks. This approach will not be able to pay as contractually agreed, regional credit departments examine the quality forms an important part of the Bank’s culture. for example, if declared bankrupt. of decisions made by branch managers. The PD value is expressed as a percentage The purpose of the quality review is to Risk rating system where, for example, a PD value of 0.5 per cent ensure that the Bank’s credit policy and internal Handelsbanken’s risk classiﬁcation system means that one borrower of 200 with the same instructions are complied with, that credit comprises a number of different systems, PD value is expected to default within one year. quality is maintained, and that credit decisions methods, processes and procedures to support A credit in default does not necessarily mean show that there is good credit judgement and the Bank’s classiﬁcation and quantiﬁcation of that the Bank will incur a loss since in most a sound business approach. A corresponding credit risk. cases there is collateral for the exposure. Nor examination of the quality is also made for credit Handelsbanken’s internal rating system is does a default mean that it is out of the question decisions made at higher levels in the Bank. used to measure the credit risk in all operations that the counterparty will pay at some time in Credits granted by regional credit committees reliably and consistently. The risk rating builds the future. and regional bank boards are examined by the on the Bank’s internal rating, which is based on For corporate and institutional exposures, Central Credit Department, which also prepares an assessment of each counterparty’s repaythe internal rating set for each counterparty is and examines credits decided by the Bank’s ment capacity. The rating is determined by directly converted into a risk class on a scale Central Board or its credit committee. the risk of ﬁnancial strain and by the assessed between 1 and 10 (where risk class 10 refers Rather than being a mass market bank, resistance to this strain. The method and clasto defaulted counterparties). A certain average Handelsbanken is selective in its choice of cussiﬁcation are based on the rating model that the PD is calculated for each risk class and type of tomers. The credits must be of high quality. The Bank has applied for several decades. counterparty. For institutional exposures and quality requirement is never neglected in favour The internal rating is the most important the corporate exposures that are subject to a of higher credit volumes or to achieve higher component of the Bank’s model for calculating capital requirement according to the foundation returns. The Bank also avoids participating in the capital requirement in accordance with the IRB approach, standardised values prescribed ﬁnancing where there are complex customer IRB approach. The rating is dynamic; it is reasby the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authoriconstellations or complex transactions which sessed if there are signs that the counterparty’s ty’s regulatory code are applied to the loss given are difﬁcult to understand. repayment capacity has changed. The rating is default (LGD). The standardised value that may H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 80 NOTES | GROUP Proportion of exposure per product type per be used is determined by the collateral provided the PD at counterparty and portfolio level varies PD interval excluding defaulted credits for each exposure. in association with some counterparties being – Corporate exposures For retail exposures, the risk class is also assigned a changed rating in the case of strong based on the internal rating assigned to all credit business cycle variations. However, HandelsProportion of exposure, % customers. The rating is not translated directly banken’s internal rating of a counterparty is 40 into a risk class as for corporate exposures; so long-term that the PD at counterparty and 35 instead, the different exposures are sorted into a portfolio level is expected to be stable during a 30 number of smaller groups on the basis of certain normal business cycle. 25 factors. Such factors include the type of credit, When calculating the LGD, the risk measure the counterparty’s debt-servicing record and must reﬂect the loss proportion during economi20 whether there are one or more borrowers. An cally unfavourable circumstances, known as a 15 average probability of default is calculated for downturn LGD. For collateral in property, the 10 each of the smaller groups, and on the basis downturn LGD is based on observed losses 5 of this, the groups are sorted into one of the from the property crisis in the early 1990s. For 0 <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% ten risk classes. Different models are used for other collateral relating to retail exposures, exposures to private individuals and to small observed LGD is adjusted for downturns by a Derivatives Loans companies respectively (that are also classed as factor which depends on the PD and type of Interest-bearing securities Other products retail exposures), but the principle is the same. product. For corporate exposures in the adFor retail exposures and exposures to vanced IRB approach, the LGD is adjusted for medium-sized companies, property compadownturns so that the Bank’s observed losses Proportion of exposure per product type per nies and housing co-operative associations, in the crisis years of 1991–92 can be explained PD interval excluding defaulted credits the loss given default (LGD) is determined by by the risk weights with a good margin. – Institutional exposures the Bank’s own loss history. For exposures to When the exposure at default (EAD) is to be Large Corporates that are subject to a capital calculated, certain adjustments are made to the Proportion of exposure, % requirement using the IRB advanced approach, carried exposure. Examples of this are com30 the LGD is calculated on the basis of internal mitted loan offers or revolving credits, where 25 losses and external observations. For retail the Bank agrees with the customer that the exposures secured by property in Sweden customer may borrow up to a certain amount in 20 and for property exposures to medium-sized the future. This type of commitment consti15 companies, property companies and housing tutes a credit risk that must also be covered co-operative associations, different values are by adequate capital. Normally this means that 10 applied depending on the loan-to-value ratio the credit granted is adjusted using a certain 5 of the exposure. For other exposures, the LGD conversion factor (CF) for the part of the credit value is determined by factors that may depend that is unutilised. For certain product categories 0 <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% on the existence and valuation of collateral, the for corporate exposures and institutional expoproduct and similar factors. sures, the conversion factors are determined by Derivatives Loans For each class of exposure, the average Interest-bearing securities Other products the regulatory code, while for retail exposures probability of default (PD) is calculated for each and certain product categories for Large Corpoof the nine risk classes that refer to non-defaultrates, medium-sized companies, property comProportion of exposure per product type per ed counterparties or agreements. Probability of panies and housing co-operative associations, PD interval excluding defaulted credits default is based on calculations of the historical the Bank uses its own calculated conversion – Retail exposures percentage of defaults for different types of factors. Here, it is the product referred to that exposure. The average proportion of defaults is mainly governs the conversion factor, but the Proportion of exposure, % then adjusted by a safety margin and a business utilisation level may also be of relevance. 60 cycle adjustment factor. The safety margin is In addition to the capital adequacy calculaintended to ensure that the probability of default 50 tion, measures of risk (PD, EAD, LGD) are is not underestimated. used to calculate the cost of capital in each 40 The business cycle adjustment factor takes individual transaction and to calculate economic into account the fact that the measured proporcapital (EC). This means that margins in the 30 tion of default per risk class can be expected to form of business cycle adjustments and safety 20 vary due to the business cycle. The measured adjustments in the risk measurements are proportion may therefore need to be adjusted also included in the cost of capital in individual 10 in relation to where in the business cycle the transactions and in calculations of economic 0 <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% Bank’s borrowers were in the period on which capital, which means that the loss levels that the the calculations are based. This is in order to risk measurements imply are conservative. New Derivatives Loans reﬂect a long-term probability of default which credits that are assessed to involve higher than Interest-bearing securities Other products must be used for the risk weighting. normal risk are refused, regardless of the price The business cycle adjustments are based and regardless of the collateral available. The on the Bank’s internal history from 1985 to 2012 method used means that the Bank’s historical and these become less pronounced the longer losses have a direct impact on risk calculations derivatives and other products respectively. there is historical information available for calcuand capital requirements, which contributes to Other products are, for example, guarantees lating the historical average per risk class. the positive outcome for the Bank of the Basel II and committed loan offers. The diagrams show Handelsbanken’s method for business cycle regulations compared with Basel I. how the exposures (EAD), excluding credits in adjustment is intended to even out business For corporate, institutional and retail exdefault, are distributed between different PD cycle ﬂuctuations in probability of default (PD) posures, the adjoining ﬁgures show how the ranges in each exposure class. The PD values at risk class level. The means that the PD per exposure is distributed between bonds and used are those applied when calculating the risk class will be less volatile over time and that other interest-bearing securities, and loans, capital requirement. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 20 13 81 NOTES | GROUP Collateral assets may change considerably in an insolsold to the seller at a speciﬁc price on a speciﬁc When Handelsbanken assesses the credit risk vency situation leading to a forced sale. date. Handelsbanken regards reverse repos as of a speciﬁc customer, the assessment must A large part of lending to credit institutions secured lending. start with the borrower’s repayment capacity. consists of reverse repos. A reverse repo is a In special circumstances, the Bank may buy According to the Bank’s credit policy, weak repurchase transaction in which the Bank buys credit derivatives or ﬁnancial guarantees to repayment capacity can never be compensated interest-bearing securities or equities with a hedge the credit risk in claims, but this is not for by being offered good collateral. Collateral special agreement that the security will be repart of the Bank’s normal lending process. may, however, substantially reduce the Bank’s loss if the borrower cannot fulﬁl his or her obligations. Credits must therefore normally be Credit risk exposure on Loans to the public, balance, broken down by broken down adequately secured. collateral by collateral Unsecured credit is mainly granted to cusSEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 tomers with very good repayment capacity. For Residential property 1 1 030 392 961 955 Residential property 1 1 030 392 961 955 unsecured credits, special loan conditions are Other property 245 196 240 895 Other property 245 196 240 895 drawn up that entitle the Bank to renegotiate Sovereigns, municipalities Sovereigns, municipalities or terminate the agreement if the borrower’s and county councils 452 502 339 171 and county councils 59 869 81 404 repayment capacity deteriorates or if the condiGuarantees 19 338 18 698 Guarantees 19 327 18 639 tions are otherwise violated. Financial collateral 54 286 89 458 Financial collateral 13 773 26 328 Since collateral is not generally utilised until Collateral in assets 19 360 20 115 Collateral in assets 19 360 20 114 a borrower faces serious repayment difﬁculOther collateral 55 671 57 798 Other collateral 55 671 57 798 Unsecured 272 851 287 854 Unsecured 252 751 273 346 ties, the valuation of collateral focuses on the Total credit risk exposure on 2 149 596 2 015 944 Loans to the public 1 696 339 1 680 479 expected value of the collateral in the case of balance ¹ Including housing co-operatives. a rapid sale in unfavourable circumstances in ¹ Including housing co-operatives. connection with insolvency. The value of certain Breakdown of the portfolio Unlike balance sheet information – where credit rised into the exposure classes stipulated in The Bank’s credit portfolio is presented in this secrisk exposure is categorised in balance sheet the regulations for the respective calculation tion based on the balance sheet item categories. items in the form of loans to the public/ loans to method. Exposure means the sum of items on The section on Capital requirement for credit risks credit institutions and off-balance sheet items and off the balance sheet. on page 26 in Pillar 3 presents the credit portfolio divided into product type – credit exposure for based on the capital adequacy regulations. the purposes of capital requirement is categoCredit risk exposure SEK m 2013 2012 1 Loans to the public 1 696 339 1 680 479 of which reverse repos 15 711 33 799 Loans to other credit institutions 62 898 89 511 of which reverse repos 33 874 59 241 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 122 572 132 534 Committed loan offers 246 518 239 774 Other commitments 9 046 20 779 Guarantees, credits 8 371 10 723 Guarantees, other 58 568 39 913 Letters of credit 7 190 30 164 Derivatives2 69 961 110 850 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 57 451 48 906 Bonds and other ﬁxed-income securities 64 125 68 354 Total 2 403 039 2 471 987 The amounts do not include holdings with central banks. 1 SEK 2,580m (4,078) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. 2 Refers to the total of positive market values. Including legally viable netting agreements, the exposure is SEK 25,775m (30,422). H A N D E L S B A N KE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 82 NOTES | GROUP Geographical distribution 2013 Loans Off-balance sheet commitments SEK m Public Credit institutions Derivatives Investments Guarantees Other Total Sweden 1 153 930 21 598 69 957 98 399 26 896 227 889 1 598 669 UK 131 424 546 -552 0 5 390 27 874 164 682 Denmark 70 725 73 57 5 2 890 26 619 100 369 Finland 100 119 186 70 0 3 791 24 728 128 894 Norway 196 596 110 0 0 7 299 49 558 253 563 Netherlands 17 869 3 0 0 678 4 310 22 860 Germany 4 778 39 9 0 3 368 5 345 13 539 Poland 2 297 74 0 0 1 043 81 3 495 USA 2 827 33 555 406 21 619 10 726 13 730 82 863 Other countries 15 774 6 714 14 1 553 4 858 5 192 34 105 Total 1 696 339 62 898 69 961 121 576 66 939 385 326 2 403 039 Geographical distribution 2012 Loans Off-balance sheet commitments SEK m Public Credit institutions Derivatives Investments Guarantees Other Total Sweden 1 169 937 33 297 110 726 99 942 23 486 273 379 1 710 767 UK 112 871 339 -942 0 3 763 24 207 140 238 Denmark 65 200 51 121 27 2 137 19 628 87 164 Finland 88 247 304 116 4 543 23 306 116 516 Norway 204 473 32 2 7 728 40 176 252 411 Netherlands 13 261 3 656 5 601 19 521 Germany 7 136 243 20 3 051 7 600 18 050 Poland 2 573 86 1 719 190 3 569 Other countries 16 781 55 156 806 17 291 4 553 29 164 123 751 Total 1 680 479 89 511 110 850 117 260 50 636 423 251 2 471 987 Loans to the public, by sector 2013 2012 Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Private individuals 788 495 -790 787 705 743 454 -852 742 602 of which mortgage loans 642 459 -54 642 405 607 163 -44 607 119 of which other loans with property mortgages 77 461 -111 77 350 67 031 -115 66 916 of which other loans, private individuals 68 575 -625 67 950 69 260 -693 68 567 Housing co-operative associations 140 320 -33 140 287 129 131 -17 129 114 of which mortgage loans 128 524 -9 128 515 105 4211 -4 105 417 Property management 461 726 -394 461 332 436 694 -365 436 329 Manufacturing 39 051 -517 38 534 45 170 -473 44 697 Retail 31 570 -362 31 208 33 646 -441 33 205 Hotel and restaurant 7 396 -24 7 372 8 234 -36 8 198 Passenger and goods transport by sea 14 733 -423 14 310 17 839 -406 17 433 Other transport and communication 26 972 -80 26 892 32 406 -182 32 224 Construction 12 295 -116 12 179 13 395 -106 13 289 Electricity, gas and water 23 620 -44 23 576 23 965 -25 23 940 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 8 365 -25 8 340 8 917 -15 8 902 Other services 22 996 -101 22 895 25 558 -213 25 345 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 73 272 -569 72 703 89 219 -601 88 618 Sovereigns and municipalities 20 935 20 935 36 711 36 711 Other corporate lending 28 496 -68 28 428 40 268 -108 40 160 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 1 700 242 -3 546 1 696 696 1 684 607 -3 840 1 680 767 Collective provisions -357 -288 Total loans to the public 1 700 242 1 696 339 1 684 607 1 680 479 1 The amount only includes Stadshypotek Sweden. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 83 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk concentrations operations for property management (SEK 462 ﬁgures for property lending in the UK, Denmark, Handelsbanken’s branches focus strongly on billion). Property management refers here to Finland, Norway and the Netherlands are 96 establishing long-term relationships with cusall companies assessed for credit purposes as (94) per cent, 99 (91) per cent, 92 (99) per cent, tomers of sound creditworthiness. If a branch “property companies”. It is common for groups 93 (95) per cent and 100 per cent respectively. identiﬁes a good customer, it should be able to of companies operating in other industries to For counterparties in poorer risk classes than do business with this customer, irrespective of have subsidiaries managing the properties in normal, the majority are in risk classes 6 or whether the Bank as a whole has major expowhich the group conducts business, and such 7 with only small volumes in the higher risk sure to the business sector that the customer property companies are also considered here to classes 8 and 9. represents. In granting credit the Bank thus has belong to the property management. However, In the past few years, Handelsbanken has no built-in restrictions to having relatively extenthe underlying credit risk in such cases is not seen major credit growth in the UK as a result sive exposures in individual sectors. The Bank only property-related. of a planned expansion of the branch network. monitors and calculates concentration risks A large proportion of property lending is A relatively large part of the growth has been continually for various business sectors, geoto government-owned property companies, in property-related credits. This has occurred graphic areas and individual major exposures. municipal housing companies and other during a period of poor performance in the UK Concentration risks are identiﬁed in the Bank’s housing-related operations where the borrowproperty market. A strict credit policy often calculation of economic capital for credit risks ers consistently have strong, stable cash ﬂows makes it easier to assess creditworthiness in and in the stress tests conducted in the internal and thus very high creditworthiness. A large part a poorer economic climate since it is easier to capital adequacy assessment. This ensures that of lending to the property sector is therefore to identify potential problems. In its expansion, Handelsbanken has sufﬁcient capital, taking into companies with a very low probability of default Handelsbanken has had the same strict requireaccount concentration risks. If the concentraand low LTVs. The Bank’s exposure to the propments on repayment capacity and collateral tion risks are judged to be excessive, the Bank erty sector is speciﬁed in the tables below. quality as in its other home markets. The result has the opportunity and capacity to reduce The proportion of exposures to property of this is a high concentration of customers in them using various risk mitigation measures. counterparties with a poorer rating than the good risk classes and a loan loss ratio in line In addition to mortgage loans and lendBank’s risk class 5 (normal risk) is very low. 98 with other home markets. ing to housing co-operative associations, (96) per cent of total property lending in Sweden Handelsbanken has considerable lending is in risk class 5 or better. The corresponding Speciﬁcation 2013 2012 Loans to the public – Property management Loans before Provisions Loans after Loans before Provisions Loans after deduction of for probable deduction of deduction of for probable deduction of SEK m provisions loan losses provisions provisions loan losses provisions Loans in Sweden State-owned property companies 7 798 7 798 9 213 9 213 Municipal-owned property companies 15 430 15 430 14 468 14 468 Residential property companies 73 571 -15 73 556 72 894 -13 72 881 of which mortgage loans 57 726 -1 57 725 52 759 -3 52 756 Other property management 151 410 -110 151 300 145 066 -129 144 937 of which mortgage loans 75 969 -3 75 966 61 097 -5 61 092 Total loans in Sweden 248 209 -125 248 084 241 641 -142 241 499 Loans outside Sweden UK 81 129 -69 81 060 69 699 -20 69 679 Denmark 12 108 -117 11 991 10 623 -96 10 527 Finland 23 612 23 612 19 481 -10 19 471 Norway 76 457 -60 76 397 80 549 -74 80 475 Netherlands1 12 633 12 633 Other countries 7 578 -23 7 555 14 701 -23 14 678 Total loans outside Sweden 213 517 -269 213 248 195 053 -223 194 830 Total loans – property management 461 726 -394 461 332 436 694 -365 436 329 1 Regional bank as of 1 January 2013. Speciﬁcation 2013 2012 Loans to the public Companies Companies – Property management owned by owned by government government and municipaand municipality/property lity/property lending guaMulti-family Commercial lending guaMulti-family Commercial ranteed by godwellings/ properties ranteed by godwellings/ properties vernment and residential and other vernment and residential and other SEK m Total municipality property collateral Unsecured Total municipality property collateral Unsecured Sweden 248 209 24 744 89 037 111 582 22 846 241 641 25 252 80 983 105 039 30 367 UK 81 129 0 34 724 41 475 4 930 69 699 9 29 339 36 623 3 728 Denmark 12 108 0 6 290 3 813 2 005 10 623 1 5 368 3 911 1 343 Finland 23 612 8 549 2 974 10 452 1 637 19 481 6 624 2 492 8 982 1 383 Norway 76 457 964 13 626 52 671 9 196 80 549 24 17 146 49 518 13 861 Netherlands 12 633 0 3 682 8 046 905 Other countries 7 578 532 828 5 645 573 14 701 694 1 801 10 670 1 536 Total 461 726 34 789 151 161 233 684 42 092 436 694 32 604 137 129 214 743 52 218 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 84 NOTES | GROUP Speciﬁcation Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2013 SEK m Other Accum. Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands countries Total % % of total 1 20 341 746 2 3 143 1 234 62 930 26 458 5.73 6 2 69 224 14 996 440 10 899 13 566 4 474 3 641 117 240 25.39 31 3 91 645 36 764 5 881 7 484 36 291 5 979 2 290 186 334 40.36 71 4 45 804 15 657 2 965 1 341 16 312 1 575 196 83 850 18.17 90 5 15 851 7 461 1 844 487 5 678 487 390 32 198 6.97 97 6 2 492 1 917 225 155 1 762 0 105 6 656 1.44 98 7 1 643 1 855 187 33 1 165 56 0 4 939 1.07 99 8 327 401 163 16 38 0 0 944 0.20 99 9 139 112 33 0 56 0 0 340 0.07 99 Defaults 743 1 220 368 54 356 0 25 2 766 0.60 100 Total 248 209 81 129 12 108 23 612 76 458 12 633 7 577 461 726 100 Speciﬁcation Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and country 2012 SEK m Other Accum. Risk class Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands1 countries Total % % of total 1 20 059 1 027 3 3 125 1 218 882 26 314 6.03 6 2 71 341 11 856 545 8 156 17 202 6 165 115 265 26.39 32 3 88 330 31 319 3 650 6 119 34 650 6 105 170 173 38.97 71 4 37 792 14 745 4 015 1 351 18 761 855 77 519 17.75 89 5 16 651 6 491 1 412 523 4 870 331 30 278 6.93 96 6 4 663 1 883 263 84 2 018 260 9 171 2.10 98 7 1 864 1 265 169 90 1 185 17 4 590 1.05 99 8 328 121 233 9 109 16 816 0.19 99 9 171 37 1 7 67 283 0.07 99 Defaults 442 954 332 17 469 71 2 285 0.52 100 Total 241 641 69 698 10 623 19 481 80 549 14 702 436 694 100 1 Regional bank as of 1 January 2013. Speciﬁcation Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and type of collateral 2013 SEK m Exposure Collateral Multi-family Guarantee from dwellings/ Commercial government or Risk class residential property property municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 26 458 14 253 5 282 4 186 1 186 1 551 2 117 240 41 572 54 975 8 894 977 10 822 3 186 334 63 910 94 792 3 822 6 216 17 594 4 83 850 23 497 46 212 473 5 988 7 680 5 32 198 10 249 14 940 540 3 630 2 839 6 6 656 2 281 3 710 11 332 322 7 4 940 1 683 2 520 9 211 517 8 944 357 366 0 9 212 9 340 182 120 0 3 35 Defaults 2 766 1 134 808 8 75 741 Total 461 726 159 118 223 725 17 943 18 627 42 313 Speciﬁcation Loans to the public – Property management, risk class and type of collateral 2012 SEK m Exposure Collateral Multi-family Guarantee from dwellings/ Commercial government or Risk class residential property property municipality Other collateral Unsecured 1 26 314 13 815 5 590 3 406 555 2 948 2 115 265 35 677 50 046 6 772 968 21 802 3 170 173 56 803 84 866 3 934 5 198 19 372 4 77 519 22 030 43 577 619 4 963 6 330 5 30 278 10 483 13 538 348 3 195 2 714 6 9 171 2 829 4 343 25 681 1 293 7 4 590 1 586 2 108 16 157 723 8 816 339 396 2 9 70 9 283 54 162 0 43 24 Defaults 2 285 846 745 8 68 618 Total 436 694 144 462 205 371 15 130 15 837 55 894 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 85 NOTES | GROUP COUNTERPARTY RISK to have netting agreements with all counterparHandelsbanken has strived to reduce this effect Counterparty risks arise when the Bank has enties. Netting agreements are supplemented through, for example, changes to contract tered into derivative contracts with a counterparty with agreements for issuing collateral for the net structure and collateral as well as greater use of for instruments such as futures, swaps or opexposure, which further reduces the credit risk. clearing. tions, or contracts regarding loans of securities. The collateral for these transactions is Counterparty risk is regarded as a credit risk mainly cash, but government securities are also Payment risks arise in transactions where the where the market value of the contract deterused. Due to the high proportion of cash, the Bank has fulﬁlled its commitments in the form mines the size of the exposure. If the contract concentration risks in the collateral are limited. A of foreign exchange conversion, payments or has a positive value, the default of the countervery small number of the collateral agreements delivery of securities, but cannot at the same party means a potential loss for the Bank – in entered into by the Bank include terms and time ensure that the counterparty has fulﬁlled the same way as for a loan. conditions concerning rating-based threshold its commitments to the Bank. The risk amount In calculating both the capital requirement and amounts for Handelsbanken. These conditions equals the amount of the payment transaceconomic capital (EC), counterparty exposures mean that the Bank must provide further collattion. The payment risks are not included in the are taken into account based on the exposure eral for the counterparty in question, in the event credit limit of each customer; instead, they are amounts stipulated by the capital adequacy regof the Bank’s rating from external parties being covered by a separate limit. At Handelsbanken, ulations. These credit exposures are then treated lowered. At year-end, a downgrading from AAthe risk of value changes in spot transactions in the same way as other credit exposures. to A+ would have meant the Bank having to is categorised as payment risk, while the risk In addition to derivatives, the capital adequacy issue further collateral of SEK 30 million (144). of value changes in derivative transactions is regulations treat both repurchase transactions The Bank holds a portfolio of credit derivacategorised as credit risk. and equity loans as counterparty risks. When caltives (credit default swaps, CDS) which are Setting a limit for the payment risk is a vital culating EC, these transaction types are treated in classed as trading book. The value of purpart of Handelsbanken’s constant aim to limit the same way. The Bank applies the mark to marchased protection is SEK 0.8 billion (1.1) and risks. This includes developing technical soluket method to calculate the exposure amount for the value of sold protection is SEK 0.8 billion (1). tions which reduce the period of time during counterparty risks for capital adequacy purposes. According to the Basel III regulations, a new which there is a payment risk. In these efforts, The size of counterparty exposures is capital requirement will be applied to counterparHandelsbanken co-operates with various bankrestricted by setting credit limits in the regular ty risk exposures as of 1 January 2014. This capiing sector clearing institutions. The Bank has credit process. The size of the exposures may tal requirement is based on the risk of a change also established co-operation with the banks vary substantially due to ﬂuctuations in the price in value due to the counterparty’s credit quality which are considered to be the strongest and of the underlying asset. In order to take account (credit valuation adjustment, CVA) in the counthe most creditworthy. of the risk that the exposure may increase, supterparty risk exposures. According to the 2013 Handelsbanken also participates in clearing plements are added to the value of the exposure regulations, the banks hold capital for the default collaborations such as CLS (Continuous Linked when setting credit limits. These add-ons are calrisk, but not for the value. In Sweden, these rules Settlement) for currency trading. CLS is a global culated using standard amounts that depend on are being implemented through the European imorganisation which aims at securing currency the type of contract and the time to maturity. The plementation of the Basel III regulations, known exchange settlement by limiting the counterparexposures are calculated and followed up daily. as CRD IV. With the existing structure of the ty risk. Handelsbanken is one of approximately The counterparty risk in derivatives is reduced counterparty risks, an introduction of CVA risk in 60 owners which are the largest international through so-called netting agreements, which 2013 would increase the capital requirement for FX banks. Handelsbanken is also a partner and involve setting off positive values against negative counterparty risk by approximately SEK 0.4 bildirect member of EBA (Euro Banking Associavalues in all derivative transactions with the same lion. Calculated according to the 2012 regulatory tion) and its euro payment system. counterparty. Handelsbanken’s policy is to aim proposal, CVA for 2012 was SEK 1.4 billion. Counterparty risks in derivative contracts excluding standard add-ons for potential future exposure SEK m 2013 2012 Positive gross market value for derivative contracts 72 8441 108 872 Netting gains 47 069 78 450 Current set-off exposure 25 775 30 422 Collateral 15 405 11 843 Net credit exposure for derivatives 10 370 18 579 1 The gross market value is stated for the banking group, excluding cleared derivatives which are not subject to capital adequacy in 2013. Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential future exposure 2013 Current Potential Total credit set-off future exposure for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 1 249 1 174 2 423 14 1 Institutional exposures 14 174 20 440 34 613 6 082 487 Corporate exposures 10 321 4 247 14 568 4 392 351 Other 31 36 67 48 4 Total 25 775 25 897 51 671 10 536 843 Counterparty risks in derivative contracts including potential future exposure 2012 Current Potential Total credit set-off future exposure for Risk-weighted Capital SEK m exposure exposure derivatives/EAD amount requirement Sovereign exposures 888 1 726 2 615 11 1 Institutional exposures 14 305 19 006 33 311 5 756 460 Corporate exposures 15 142 4 601 19 743 6 101 488 Other 87 43 130 43 3 Total 30 422 25 376 55 799 11 911 952 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 86 NOTES | GROUP MARKET RISK demand for ﬁnancial instruments with exposure Risk measurement to the ﬁxed income, currency, equity or comMarket risk is measured using several different modities markets. To meet this demand, it methods. Various sensitivity measures are may be necessary for the Bank to have certain used, showing the changes in value arising from Market risks arise from price and holdings. This situation arises for example when pre-deﬁned changes in prices and volatilities. volatility changes in the financial the Bank has undertaken to set market prices in Position-related risk measures and probabilitymarkets. Market risks are divided its function as a market maker. Finally, the Bank based Value at Risk models (VaR) are also used. has major business ﬂows, making it reasonable VaR expresses the losses in Swedish kronor into interest rate risks, equity for it to take advantage of possible economies that may arise in risk positions due to moveprice risks, exchange rate risks of scale. ments in the underlying markets over a speciand commodity price risks. The Bank’s limit system restricts the size of ﬁed holding period and for a given conﬁdence the exposure to market risks. Measuring methlevel. ods and limits are established by the Board. The The VaR method means that different risk limits for interest rate, currency and liquidity risk classes can be handled in a uniform way so that Handelsbanken has a restrictive view of market are allocated by the CEO and the CFO to the they can be compared and aggregated into a risks. Essentially, market risks in the banking Head of Central Treasury, who in turn allocates total market risk. Handelsbanken has, however, operations are only taken as part of meeting these to the business-operating units. The Head been, and will continue to be, very restrictive in customers’ investment and risk management of Central Treasury has operational responsibilbasing the limit system on VaR risk measureneeds. During the past few years, the Bank has ity for managing interest rate, currency and ments since VaR in its construction stipulates a worked actively to reduce the market risks in its liquidity risks. given loss level. The risk in that case would be balance sheet. One result of this is that a much The CEO and the CFO also decide on supthat this loss level would become accepted as a smaller part of the earnings come from net plementary risk measures, limits and detailed norm in the operations. gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. guidelines. The supplementary limit measures At a universal bank like Handelsbanken, aim to reduce the Bank’s total sensitivity to market risks arise when the Bank’s customers volatility changes in the ﬁnancial markets, and to demand services where the Bank must have limit the risks of speciﬁc holdings and the liquidﬂexible funding. The Bank can also obtain fundity risk per currency. These measures also limit ing on other markets than those where it has the risks from a maturity perspective. The CFO, its lending so that it can diversify its sources of CEO and Board continually receive reports on funding. The funding can also have a different the market risks and utilisation of the limits. maturity than the assets which are to be funded. Market risks in the Bank’s business operaCentral Treasury manages a liquidity portfolio tions mainly arise at Central Treasury, Handelsthat can be converted into liquidity at short banken Capital Markets and Handelsbanken notice in conjunction with possible disruptions Liv, and are managed there. The market risks at in the markets where the Bank conducts its the insurance company, Handelsbanken Liv, are operations. The portfolio secures the Group’s described in a separate section. Consequently, payments in the daily clearing operations and the information on market risks given in this secforms part of the Bank’s liquidity reserve. tion refers to risks excluding Handelsbanken Liv. Market risks also arise to meet customers’ Decision levels and monitoring of market risk Board CEO CFO Central Treasury Handelsbanken Liv Other business units Handelsbanken Capital Markets H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 87 NOTES | GROUP VaR for trading book, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury Total Equities Fixed income Currency Commodities SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Average 18 15 3 2 18 15 2 3 1 1 Maximum 42 26 6 5 40 31 5 8 4 7 Minimum 9 7 1 0 9 8 0 1 0 0 Year-end 14 11 1 2 14 11 1 4 2 1 Risk at Handelsbanken measured as VaR when the loss exceeded the estimated VaR. outcome was worse than the VaR. This is in line For the portfolios classiﬁed as the trading book Back testing is performed on both the actual with what a VaR model with a conﬁdence level at Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central outcome and on the hypothetical outcome. The of 99 per cent implies. Treasury, VaR is calculated for the individual risk latter measures the outcome if the portfolio had The VaR model does not identify risks asclasses and at portfolio level with a 99 per cent been unchanged during the holding period. sociated with extreme market ﬂuctuations. The conﬁdence level and a one-day holding period. A VaR model with a 99 per cent conﬁdence calculations are therefore supplemented with Since VaR is based on model assumptions, level implies that the outcome will be worse regular stress tests where the portfolios are the model is continually veriﬁed to check that it than measured VaR on two to three occasions tested against scenarios based on all events in is up-to-date. For that reason VaR is regularly every year. If the number of observed occasions the ﬁnancial markets since 1994. The results of evaluated using back testing. The result is exceeds the expected number, there is a risk these stress tests are also reported to the CEO, reported quarterly to the CFO, the CEO and the that the model underestimates the actual risk. CFO and the Board on a regular basis. Board. These tests verify the number of days On two occasions in 2013 the hypothetical VaR and hypothetical outcome for trading book 2013, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury 50 40 30 20 10 0 -10 -20 -30 -40 -50 Jan Feb Mar April May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Hypothetical outcome Value at Risk Worst outcome in stress test for trading book, Handelsbanken Capital Markets and Central Treasury SEK m 2013 2012 Average 26 38 Maximum 69 70 Minimum 12 18 Year-end 28 28 INTEREST RATE RISK urements, supplemented by various stress At year-end, the Bank’s total interest rate risk Interest rate risk mainly arises at Handelsbankscenarios, are used for Handelsbanken Capital in the case of a one percentage point parallel en Capital Markets, Central Treasury and in the Markets’ portfolios and at Central Treasury. upward or downward shift in the yield curve, lending operations. Yield curve twist risks – which are measured measured as the worst outcome, was SEK -992 In the latter, the interest rate risk arises as and followed up on a regular basis – show the million (-701). This risk measure includes both a result of the lending partly having longer development of the risks in the case of hypointerest-bearing items at market value and not interest-rate ﬁxing periods than the funding. In thetical changes in various yield curves. The at market value, and it is therefore not appropribond funding, the reverse may also apply, i.e. non-linear interest rate risk, for example, part ate to assess the effects on the balance sheet that the interest-rate ﬁxing period on the bonds of the risk in interest rate options, is measured and income statement. The risk measure does is longer than the interest-rate ﬁxing period for and a limit set with pre-deﬁned stress scenarios not take into account the equity held by the the lending that the bonds are funding. Interest expressed in matrices. This means that the risk Bank nor the Bank’s opportunities to adapt to rate is mainly managed by means of interest is measured as changes in underlying market changed interest rate levels. rate swaps. In general, interest rate risk expointerest rates and volatilities. The net interest income effect when interest sure is in markets which are characterised by For other units and for the aggregate interest rates change is measured as the change in net good liquidity. rate risk in the Group, the interest rate risk is interest income over a 12-month period in the Interest rate risk is measured at the Bank measured as the effect on fair value of a major case of a general increase of market rates by in several ways. VaR and other risk measinstantaneous parallel shift of all interest rates. one percentage point. This effect reﬂects the H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 88 NOTES | GROUP Interest rate sensitivity (change in present value of future cash ﬂows due to 1% shift in yield curve) SEK m 2013 2012 SEK -746 -680 NOK -138 -1 DKK -121 -103 USD 114 72 GBP -54 -43 EUR -41 59 Other currencies -6 -5 Total -992 -701 differences in interest-rate ﬁxing periods and was SEK 1,191 million at the year-end. a parallel shift in the credit spreads of +/one volume composition between assets, liabilities Speciﬁc interest rate risk is measured and basis point, i.e. the difference between the and derivatives outside the trading book, limits set using sensitivity to changes in credit interest on the current holding and the yield on a assuming that the size of the balance sheet is spreads. This risk only arises within Handelsgovernment bond with the same maturity. This constant. banken Capital Markets and in the Central is performed for each individual counterparty The calculation takes account of the fact that Treasury liquidity portfolio. The risk is measured and the outcomes are summed as an absolute interest rates on some deposit accounts without and limited on the basis of different rating total. The total speciﬁc interest rate risk at the a ﬁxed interest-rate period are not directly linked classes and is calculated as a market value year-end was SEK 7 million (8). to market rates. The net interest income effect change for the worst outcome in the case of Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2013 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 183 993 79 945 88 320 317 937 26 294 1 696 489 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 431 284 1 351 130 87 0 432 852 Bonds etc. 30 549 11 182 1 218 42 861 7 508 93 318 Total assets 1 645 826 92 478 89 668 360 885 33 802 2 222 659 Liabilities Deposits 804 844 3 499 2 074 2 277 1 624 814 318 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 167 610 6 943 489 125 5 019 180 186 Issued securities 369 497 169 073 24 758 501 699 101 579 1 166 606 Other liabilities Total liabilities 1 341 951 179 515 27 321 504 101 108 222 2 161 110 Off-balance sheet items -200 184 -14 766 5 014 160 395 49 191 -350 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 103 691 -101 803 67 361 17 179 -25 229 61 199 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2013, reported by trade date. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. Interest rate adjustment periods for assets and liabilities 2012 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–6 mths 6–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Assets Loans 1 169 895 72 208 98 827 315 171 24 378 1 680 479 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 324 464 1 171 95 279 326 009 Bonds etc. 16 713 2 428 955 65 867 7 980 93 942 Total assets 1 511 071 75 807 99 876 381 317 32 358 2 100 430 Liabilities Deposits 662 783 3 995 2 746 976 39 670 538 Banks and other ﬁnancial institutions 172 723 5 399 766 146 5 066 184 100 Issued securities 410 652 106 050 116 130 457 898 81 862 1 172 592 Other liabilities 98 316 193 3 176 3 783 Total liabilities 1 246 158 115 542 119 958 459 212 90 143 2 031 013 Off-balance sheet items -207 011 -22 769 23 115 157 104 50 390 829 Difference between assets and liabilities including off-balance sheet items 57 902 -62 505 3 032 79 209 -7 395 70 245 The table shows the interest rate adjustment periods for interest-rate related assets and liabilities as at 31 December 2012, reported by trade date. Non-interest-bearing assets and liabilities have been excluded. Handelsbanken Liv has been excluded from the table and consequently the comparative ﬁgures for 2012 have changed. The market risks in the Insurance operations are described in full in a separate section. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 89 NOTES | GROUP EQUITY PRICE RISK the Group’s accounts are expressed in Sweddepend on trends for an individual currency or The Bank’s equity price risk mainly arises ish kronor. The structural risk is minimised by group of currencies, because the positions are at Handelsbanken Capital Markets through matching assets and liabilities in the same very short and arise in management of customcustomer trading and in the Bank’s own equity currency as far as possible. The exchange rate er-driven ﬂows. The total exchange rate risk was portfolio. movements that affect the Bank’s equity are SEK 5 million (-18), measured as the impact on shown in the table on page 68 of the Annual Rethe Bank’s earnings of an instantaneous 5 per Equity price risk in the trading book port: Statement of changes in equity – Group. cent change of the Swedish krona. The equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital The Bank’s direct foreign exchange exposure Markets arises in customer-generated equityarises as a consequence of customer-driven COMMODITY PRICE RISK related transactions. Handelsbanken Capital intra-day trading in the international foreign Exposure in commodity-related instruments Markets is a market maker for structured prodexchange markets. Trading is conducted at only occurs as a result of customer-based ucts, which gives rise to equity price risk, both Handelsbanken Capital Markets. The Board, trading in the international commodity markets linear and non-linear. The non-linear equity price CEO and CFO have set VaR limits for exchange and is restricted by limits decided by the Board, risk arises via options included in the structured rate risk. At the year-end, VaR was SEK 0.4 CEO and CFO. Trading in commodities is conproducts. million (2). ducted exclusively at Handelsbanken Capital The extent of own position-taking, which arisSome foreign exchange exposure also arises Markets. Commodity price risk, both linear and es to meet customers’ needs, is restricted by in the normal banking operations as part of non-linear, is measured as the absolute total the limits decided by the Bank’s Board, the CEO managing customer payment ﬂows and in fundof risk for all commodities to which the Bank is and the CFO. The Bank limits and measures ing operations at Central Treasury. The Board, exposed. At the year-end, the commodity price the equity price risk at Handelsbanken Capital CEO and CFO have allocated position limits for risk was SEK -24 million (-20), measured as the Markets using matrices. The advantage of this these exposures. At year-end, the aggregate maximum loss on price changes up to 20 per method is that it effectively identiﬁes equity price net position amounted to SEK 186 million (293). cent in underlying commodities and changes in risk including the non-linear risk. VaR as well as The exchange rate risk in the Bank does not volatility up to 35 per cent. other risk measures and stress scenarios are used as a complement when measuring the equity price risk. The supplementary risk measures include dividend risk, event risk and sensitivity to general volatility changes on the equity market. Exchange rate sensitivity Equity price risk outside the trading book (worst outcome +/5% change SEK against the respective currency) The majority of the Group’s shareholdings – 96 SEK m 2013 2012 per cent – comprises shares listed on an active EUR 10 -8 market valued at market price. Holdings of unUSD -10 -9 listed securities mainly consist of various types GBP -5 -3 of jointly owned operations related to the Bank’s NOK -2 -8 core business. In general, such holdings are DKK -2 0 valued at the Bank’s share of the company’s net Other currencies -10 -24 asset value. For unlisted shares where the company agreement regulates the price at which the Equity exposures outside the trading book shares can be divested, the holdings are valued SEK m 2013 2012 at a divestment price determined in advance. In Classiﬁed as available for sale 5 725 5 205 all material respects, unlisted shares are classiof which listed 4 369 4 176 ﬁed as available for sale. of which unlisted 1 356 1 029 The table below shows the risk in the Bank’s total equity positions in the case of hypothetical Classiﬁed as available for sale 5 725 5 205 changes in underlying prices and volatilities at of which business-related 768 546 year-end. of which other holdings 4 957 4 659 Fair value reserve at beginning of year 796 134 EXCHANGE RATE RISK Handelsbanken has home markets outside Unrealised market value change value during the year for remaining and new holdings 420 661 Realised due to sale and settlements during the period 1 1 Sweden and also operations in a number of Fair value reserve at end of year 1 217 796 other countries. Indirect currency exposure of Included in tier 2 capital 1 216 797 a structural nature therefore arises, because Equity price risk Change in volatility SEK m 2013 2012 Change in equity price -25% 0% 25% -25% 0% 25% 10% 581 581 581 514 511 507 -10% -577 -570 -565 -525 -518 -509 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 90 NOTES | GROUP FUNDING AND LIQUIDITY RISK companies; these credits constitute the Bank’s which will provide more support to the business core business. The long-term stable funding operations. of these assets consists of covered bonds isA balance sheet that is structured in this sued in Stadshypotek, senior bonds issued by manner at all times – on market terms – is how Liquidity risk is the risk that the Handelsbanken, deposits from households and Handelsbanken assumes its responsibility in Bank will not be able to meet its companies, subordinated liabilities and equity. its role as an systemically important bank in the payment obligations when they Part of the core operations are short-term Swedish ﬁnancial system. lending to households and companies and on The market has great conﬁdence in fall due without being affected by the liabilities side some of the deposits for these Handelsbanken and its assessment is that unacceptable costs or losses. customers are shorter term. Handelsbanken has a very low credit risk. One The main point is thus that illiquid assets are illustration of this is that the cost of insuring a not funded with short-term liabilities. The rest of credit risk on the Bank, which is known as the the balance sheet comprises liquid assets and CDS spread, is one of the lowest of all among Funding strategy liabilities that are shorter term. European banks, and Handelsbanken has the Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of liquidity The short-term market funding and deposits lowest funding cost of all peer banks. risks and works actively to minimise them in from ﬁnancial institutions ﬁnance liquid assets Good diversiﬁcation between different types total and also in all currencies. The ambition is and assets with shorter maturities. In addition, of sources of funding in various markets, curthat this will provide good access to liquidity, more short-term assets and liabilities arise via rencies and forms of funding instruments is a a low level of variation in earnings and a contransactions that support customer-driven key component of the funding strategy. This siderable capacity to meet customers’ funding transactions, such as derivative and repo transreduces the signiﬁcance of individual markets needs, even in difﬁcult times. This is achieved by actions with other banks. or sources of funding. In recent years, the Bank maintaining a good matching of incoming and A balance sheet is a snapshot of assets and has considerably broadened its long-term outgoing cash ﬂows over time in all currencies liabilities. To ensure that the Bank’s obligations international funding and has issued signiﬁcant of importance to the Bank and by maintaining towards customers and investors are fulﬁlled, it volumes of bonds in, for example, the eurozone, large liquidity reserves of good quality. is important to adopt a future-oriented perspecthe UK, the US, Asia and Australia. The most Furthermore, the Bank aims for breadth in tive in funding and liquidity risk management. important sources of funding are deposits from its funding programmes and their use so that The balance sheet is therefore structured in households and companies as well as covered no type of investor is treated at a disadvantage such a way that even during lengthy periods of and senior bonds. The short-term funding maincompared to others. This ensures that the Bank stress in the ﬁnancial markets, the real economy ly comprises deposits from ﬁnancial companies can keep its core business intact for a very long players in the form of companies and houseand institutions as well as issues of certiﬁcates. period of time, even if there is extensive disrupholds and their needs for credit can be supCentral Treasury has a number of different tion in the ﬁnancial markets. ported. Current assets cover current liabilities by funding programmes for market funding at its The starting point of this work is a wella good margin. A long-term crisis could result disposal, which in addition to the programmes matched balance sheet, where illiquid assets in a reduced balance sheet with retained core reported in the table Funding programmes/ are ﬁnanced using stable funding. The illiquid business. In the event of an even longer crisis, limits contain covered bonds in Swedish kronor. assets comprise credits to households and measures have been prepared to create liquidity Bonds and certiﬁcates are issued under these Composition of the balance sheet from a maturity perspective, 31 December 2013 SEK bn 3 000 J Cash and balances JLiabilities to banks < 1 year with central banks 2 500 JIssued covered bonds J Bonds and other < 1 year liquid securities including derivatives 1,060 787 J Issued other 2 000 securities < 1 year J Loans to banks < 1 year J Stress on deposits: J Loans repaid and 20% leaving amortised within 1 year * 1 500 J Other liabilities J Loans general public 1–5 years < 1 year including derivatives 1 000 J Loans general public > 5 years J Issued securities > 1 year J Other assets J Remaining deposits after stress 500 J Other liabilities 0 J Equity Assets Liabilities * Scheduled amortisations, contractual maturities and estimated additional loan repayments. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 91 NOTES | GROUP programmes in the Bank’s and Stadshypotek’s a large volume of mortgage loans which are not names. The funding programmes ensure encumbered. Other non-encumbered loans also well-diversiﬁed access to funding in terms of have a very low risk measured in terms of the different currencies, the number of investors and Bank’s internal rating. geographic distribution. The table shows that the volume of non-encumbered assets for Handelsbanken is 222 per cent Encumbered assets and cover pools of the outstanding volume of non-encumbered An important part of Handelsbanken’s liquidity funding. management consists of retaining signiﬁcant The majority of the encumbered assets volumes of unutilised collateral that can be used consist of Stadshypotek’s cover pools, which in the event of disruptions in the ﬁnancial marcomprise mortgage loans provided as collateral kets. One prerequisite for being able to pledge for outstanding covered bonds. The Bank also additional collateral is for the Bank to have colhas voluntary OC (over-collateralisation – extra lateral at its disposal from the outset. The Bank assets in addition to those which are needed to retains substantial volumes of non-encumbered cover the issued bonds) of 10 per cent which is assets that could be used as collateral in the included in the pool. These extra assets are in issue of covered bonds and highly liquid securithe pool in case the value of the mortgage loans ties with high credit ratings. The Bank is very were to fall to a level such that further assets restrictive about entering into agreements that are needed to match the volume of outstandstipulate that the Bank, according to certain ing bonds. When assessing the risk that it will criteria, may be forced to provide collateral to be necessary to add further assets, the loan to another counterparty. In addition to securing the value (LTV) of the mortgage loans in the cover Bank’s liquidity, this also contributes to limiting pool is of fundamental importance. The lower the extent to which the Bank’s senior lenders the LTV, the less the risk that more mortgage could be subordinated to lenders who invest in loans are required in the pool if prices fall in the covered bonds, known as subordination. property market. Handelsbanken’s average LTV To assess the degree of subordination in the Swedish pool is very low and at year-end between investors of non-encumbered funding it totalled 50 per cent; the corresponding ﬁgure and encumbering funding, the volume and in the Norwegian pool was 54 per cent. This credit quality of the non-encumbered assets shows that the Bank can withstand substantial are the relevant factors. Handelsbanken’s very drops in prices of underlying property assets restrictive approach to risk-taking means that before further mortgage loans have to be added the non-encumbered assets are of very high to the pools. quality. Since Handelsbanken wishes to have a balanced utilisation of covered bonds, there is Handelsbanken’s 5-year CDS spread compared with ITRAXX Financials 2007–2013 Basis points 400 300 200 100 0 6 -07 -07 -07 -07 -08 -08 -08 -08 -09 -09 -09 -09 -10 -10 -10 -10 -11 -11 -11 -11 -12 -12 -12 -12 -13 -13 -13 -13 c-0 r n p c r n p c r n p c r n p c r n p c r n p c r n p c De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De Ma Ju Se De ITRAXX Financials 5-years SHB CDS 5-year Source: Ecowin, Bloomberg ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European bank and insurance sector. It describes the average premium that an investor requires in order to accept credit risk on the companies. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 92 NOTES | GROUP Encumbered assets and other pledged collateral Exposure on balance sheet SEK bn 2013 2012 Loans to the public 562 560 Assets for insurance policyholders 92 79 Government instruments and bonds 53 56 Cash, equities and securities loans 15 7 Other 17 0 Total pledged assets 739 702 Pledged without underlying claim1 57 51 Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 2013 2012 Exposure % of nonExposure % of nonon balance secured on balance secured SEK bn sheet2 funding3 sheet2 funding3 Cash and balances with central banks 370 48 246 31 Liquid bonds in liquidity portfolio 90 60 114 45 Loans to households 385 349 of which mortgage loans 255 93 225 74 of which loans secured by property mortgage 16 95 17 76 of which other household lending 114 110 107 90 Loans to companies 679 687 of which mortgage loans 85 122 67 98 of which loans to housing co-operative associations excl. mortgage loans 24 125 23 101 of which loans to property companies incl/excl mortgage loans risk category 1–3 203 151 196 126 risk category 4–5 85 162 79 136 of which risk category >5 12 164 12 137 of which other corporate lending risk category 1–3 168 186 194 162 risk category 4–5 71 195 91 173 risk category >5 31 199 25 176 Loans to credit institutions 69 88 risk category 1–3 68 208 86 187 risk category >3 1 209 2 188 Other assets 0 209 33 192 Other lending 101 222 118 207 Non-encumbered/non-pledged assets 1 694 222 1 635 207 1 Over-collateralisation in cover pool (OC). 2 NEA: Non-encumbered assets. 3 Issued short and long non-secured funding and due to credit institutions. Cover pool data Sweden Norway SEK m 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 31 December 2013 31 December 2012 Stadshypotek total lending, public 833 614 780 770 60 902 59 961 Available assets for cover pool 745 954 691 596 53 365 49 308 Utilised assets in cover pool 604 316 596 128 14 794 11 173 Maximum LTV, weighted average ASCB deﬁnition 49.6 47.4 54.1 54.8 Volume-weighted LTV (LTV-mid) 25.1 23.7 28.2 27.5 LTV, distribution 0–10% 24.1 26.6 21.1 22.6 10–20% 20.9 21.9 20.9 21.4 20–30% 18 17.7 18.4 17.9 30–40% 15.1 14.1 16.6 15.6 40–50% 12.3 11 13.5 12.9 50–60% 9.4 8.3 9.5 9.3 60–70% 0.1 0.3 0 0.2 70–75% 0.1 0.1 0 0.1 Loan amount, weighted average, SEK 614 400 544 800 2 698 600 2 119 400 Loan term, weighted average, no. of months 39 38 20 17 Interest ﬁxing periods, distribution Floating rate % 42 34 100 100 Fixed rate % 58 66 0 0 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 93 NOTES | GROUP Organisation risk and maturity. In addition, the transparency Pricing of liquidity risk Handelsbanken has a highly decentralised related to funding and liquidity risk has been An important part of liquidity risk management business model, but all funding and liquidity considerably increased. is that deposits and lending are priced internally, risk management in the Group is centralised to Central Treasury is also responsible for the taking into account the liquidity risks that they Central Treasury. Funding and liquidity risk manBank’s clearing operation and monitors liquidity give rise to. For example, when the Bank grants agement is governed by policies established ﬂows during the day to ensure that the Bank a loan with a long maturity this creates the need by the Board which also decides on limits. has sufﬁcient collateral in its payment systems to obtain additional long-term funding – which is Guidelines from the CEO and CFO make these at any given time to meet the Bank’s payment more expensive than more short-term funding. policies concrete. The guidelines stipulate limits, obligations. The Bank’s liquidity monitoring This is because investors who purchase the the composition of the funding and guides in the takes place locally, near the transactions, and is Bank’s long-term bonds, in addition to yield, case of disruptions in the funding markets. supplemented by central management of colnormally also demand higher compensation for The basic condition for the funding operalateral and liquidity reserve for the whole group. the maturity. This must be taken into account in tion is that it must promote long-term stable The Bank participates in Continuous Linked the Bank’s internal pricing, which ensures that growth in proﬁts by limiting market and liquidity Settlement (CLS) and other local payment the price which internal units in the Bank have risks. This is achieved by matching cash ﬂows systems required to support the core operation to pay for the loans they obtain from the Bank’s between funding and lending. The Bank thus and thereby ensure payments and settlements treasury function varies according to the matuminimises the economic risks in funding and by providing liquidity or collateral. rity at the same time as no liquidity risks can be can thereby decide on stable and long-term In 2013, the Bank became a direct member taken locally. The internal pricing is important in internal interest rates to the business-operating of CHAPS in the Bank of England. The size of order to create the right incentive and thereby units. Furthermore, all liquidity risk limits are collateral in the clearing systems is determined avoid unsound risk-taking. The Bank has channelled via Central Treasury out into the on the basis of what the Bank deems is required worked with maturity-based internal prices for a operations. to fulﬁl the Bank’s obligations, both in normal long time. They ensure that the price at contract In the wake of the ﬁnancial crisis of recent circumstances and in larger ﬂows. If the ﬂow level takes into account the liquidity risk that the years, a number of new regulations will come changes, the size of collateral and liquidity are agreement has given rise to. This system was into force in the next few years. The Bank has adjusted, and in times of crisis, collateral can fully implemented at the Bank in 2010. made various changes to meet these new also be redistributed and the liquidity reserve requirements. These include a centralised can be activated. The Bank secures liquidity in treasury function with overall responsibility for its nostro accounts for expected payment and all funding and liquidity risk management, an settlement undertakings through active liquidity increased proportion of long-term funding, interplanning and monitoring in all currencies. nal prices that reﬂect the market price, liquidity Funding programmes/limits as at 31 December 2013 Unutilised amount, Programme Programme size Currency current programme Countervalue SEK m ECP1 5 000 EUR 3 080 27 430 ECP (Stadshypotek)1 4 000 EUR 2 521 22 452 French Certiﬁcates of Deposit 7 500 EUR 6 889 61 352 EMTCN (Stadshypotek)1 20 000 EUR 8 384 74 666 MTN1 100 000 SEK 75 639 75 639 Swedish Commercial Paper 25 000 SEK 24 805 24 805 Swedish Commercial Paper (Stadshypotek) 90 000 SEK 90 000 90 000 EMTN1 50 000 USD 25 660 166 030 Other funding > 1 yr1 15 000 USD 12 650 81 851 USCP 15 000 USD 7 994 51 724 Extendible Notes 15 000 USD 7 920 51 246 US 144A / 3(a)(2) 15 000 USD 5 150 33 323 Stadshypotek US 144A 15 000 USD 12 250 79 262 Stadshypotek AUD Covered Bond Programme 5 000 AUD 4 250 24 409 Samurai 400 000 JPY 349 500 21 503 Total 885 692 Total programme or limited amounts, SEK m 1 402 188 Unutilised amount, SEK m 885 692 Remaining to utilise, % 63 1 It is possible to issue in other currencies than the original programme currency under these programmes, where currency conversion takes place at the time of issue. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 94 NOTES | GROUP Maturity profile long-term funding Composition of funding SEK bn The Bank used all funding programmes during the year. They were supplemented during the 200 year with a funding limit in Japan. During the year, Handelsbanken issued covered and non150 covered long-term bonds in all currencies that are relevant to the Bank. Short-term funding 100 mainly takes place through issues of certiﬁcates of deposit under the various loan programmes 50 in Sweden, Europe and the US. These loan programmes are supplemented by funding in the international interbank market. Central Treasury 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 >2026 ensures that the maturity structure and currency Covered bonds Senior bonds composition in the balance sheet are in keeping Subordinated debt with the Bank’s risk tolerance. In total SEK 290 billion (239) in long-term funding was issued Refers to issued securities as at 31 December 2013 with an original maturity exceeding one year. during the year. Short-term funding per currency Long-term funding per currency Long-term funding per instrument 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 31 December 2013 SEK 20% (16) SEK 54% (58) EUR 17% (18) EUR 21% (25) Covered bonds 63% USD 50% (53) USD 17% (9) Senior bonds 35% Other 13% (13) Other 8% (8) Subordinated debt 2% Refers to the currency distribution as at 31 December 2013 Refers to the currency distribution as at 31 December 2013 Refers to distribution per instrument as at 31 December for issued securities and ﬁnancing from credit institutions for issued securities and ﬁnancing from credit institutions 2013 for issued securities with residual time to maturity of with a residual maturity of less than one year. with a residual maturity of more than one year. more than one year. Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve, 31 December 2013, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 2 034 48 127 235 115 83 075 368 351 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 3 487 539 1 153 2 182 Government-issued securities 20 609 7 690 12 979 1 462 42 740 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 6 6 Covered bonds 26 097 2 329 0 8 267 36 693 Own covered bonds 6 499 73 53 6 625 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 0 2 974 0 976 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 1 130 788 417 170 2 505 Other securities Total 56 378 59 496 250 024 94 180 460 078 Holdings with central banks and banks, and securities holdings in the liquidity reserve, 31 December 2012, market value SEK m SEK EUR USD Other Total Cash and balances with and other lending to central banks 1 398 77 217 148 312 19 167 246 094 Balances with other banks and National Debt Ofﬁce, overnight 12 790 313 734 3 451 17 288 Government-issued securities 20 463 3 830 10 939 218 35 450 Securities issued by municipalities and other public entities 507 0 130 637 Covered bonds 47 557 2 268 4 525 1 846 56 196 Own covered bonds 15 286 286 1 773 17 345 Securities issued by non-ﬁnancial companies 1 233 1 233 Securities issued by ﬁnancial companies (excl. covered bonds) 660 1 591 455 2 706 Other securities Total 98 661 85 505 166 328 26 455 376 949 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 95 NOTES | GROUP Liquidity reserve mented by scenario tests, in which the effect on Bank will continue to conduct its core activities, To ensure sufﬁcient liquidity to support its core liquidity is stressed and analysed using various i.e. that ﬁxed-term deposits from and loans to operations in stressed ﬁnancial conditions, the assumptions. These stress tests are performed households and companies will be renewed Bank holds large liquidity reserves. Liquidity reat Group level and individually for the currencies at maturity and that issued commitments and serves are kept in all currencies that are relevant that are important to the Bank. The internal govcredit facilities will be partly utilised by customto the Bank and are accessible from Central ernance of the Bank’s liquidity situation is based ers. The Bank also takes into account that Treasury. The liquidity reserve is independent of on these stressed liquidity ﬁgures. balances with central banks and banks will be funding and foreign exchange markets and can As a measure of short-term disruptions in the utilised and that Central Treasury’s securities provide liquidity to the Bank at any time – some funding market, both the Basel Committee and can immediately supply liquidity if provided as parts immediately and other parts gradually over the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority collateral in central banks. a period of time. have proposed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio Measures to create liquidity are also used to The liquidity reserve comprises several differ(LCR). It is not deﬁned in the same way by the gradually provide the Bank with liquidity. With ent parts. Cash, balances and other lending to Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and the these conditions, the Bank will be liquid for central banks are components which can provide Basel Committee. over two years. Thus, the Bank also has major the Bank with immediate liquidity. The reserve Since 2013, LCR has been a binding requirepowers of resistance to very serious long-term also comprises government bonds, covered ment for Swedish banks, and Handelsbanken disruptions in the funding markets. bonds and other high-quality securities which are reports it according to the Swedish Financial SuA prerequisite for the Bank to be able to mainliquid and eligible as collateral with central banks. pervisory Authority’s deﬁnition. The requirement tain such substantial resistance to disruptions in These can also provide the Bank with immediate applies to LCR at aggregate level and separately the ﬁnancial markets as stated above consists liquidity. The remainder of the liquidity reserve for USD and EUR. The ﬁgure states the ratio of ensuring that the balance sheet is balanced comprises an unutilised issue amount for covered between the Bank’s liquidity buffer and net cash in the way that is schematically described at the bonds and other liquidity-creating measures. As ﬂows in a very stressed scenario during a 30-day start of this chapter. Furthermore, the volume at the year-end, the Bank’s total liquidity reserve period. The ratio must be more than 100 per cent. and quality of unutilised collateral must be able exceeded SEK 800 billion. A short-term liquidity ratio may display a to give the Bank the liquidity it needs in times of degree of volatility over time, for example when crisis. Consistently steering the Bank towards Liquidity risk funding that was originally long term and that positive future net cash ﬂows, instead of point in The Bank handles a large number of incoming ﬁnances mortgage loans is replaced by new time ratios, also secures this over time. and outgoing cash ﬂows every day. The gap long-term funding, or when the composition of The maturity analysis table shows cash ﬂows between incoming and outgoing cash ﬂows is counterparty categories varies in the short-term for the contracted payment commitments that restricted by means of limits. Central risk control funding. At the year-end, the Group’s aggregated are due for payment at the latest within the reports risk utilisation daily to the CFO, weekly to LCR, according to the Swedish Financial Supervistated time intervals, including interest ﬂows. the CEO and on a regular basis to the Board. sory Authority’s deﬁnition was 128 per cent (136), The table shows holdings of bonds and other Liquidity planning is based on an analysis which shows that the Bank has large resistance interest-bearing securities in the time intervals of cash ﬂows for the respective currency. As a to short-term disruptions on the funding markets. in which they can be converted to liquidity if general rule, a larger exposure is permitted in This also applies in US dollars and euros. they are pledged as collateral or sold. This currencies with high liquidity than in currencies Daily stress testing of cash ﬂows based on means that the table does not reﬂect the actual where the liquidity is low. The strategy is that certain assumptions is used to test resistance maturities for the securities included. Assets, expected outgoing cash ﬂows from the Bank to more long-term disruptions in the market. liabilities and interest ﬂows are also shown that must always be matched with incoming cash For example, it is assumed that the Bank canmature in the time intervals corresponding to ﬂows into the Bank that are at least of the same not obtain funding in the ﬁnancial markets at the contractual maturity dates. Interest ﬂows for amount, and that a positive cash ﬂow and cash the same time as 10 per cent of deposits from lending in the mortgage operations are matched position must be maintained – even in stressed households and companies disappear gradually in time with the liabilities that funded the lending. conditions. This kind of gap analysis is supplein the ﬁrst month. It is further assumed that the Financial guarantees, committed loan offers and unutilised overdraft facilities are reported in their Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), entirety in the 0–3-month interval. The total out% 2013 2012 standing amount of these commitments does EUR 110 301 not necessarily represent future funding requireUSD 170 174 ments. For derivative instruments, cash ﬂows Total 128 136 are reported net for interest rate swaps and Calculated according to the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directive 2012:6 which came into force on 1 January 2013. gross for instruments where gross cash ﬂows are paid or received, such as currency swaps. Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) – decomposition, SEK m 2013 2012 Liquidity stress test including liquidity-creating Liquid assets 162 346 210 299 measures – cumulative liquidity position Liquid assets level 1 130 591 161 442 SEK bn Liquid assets level 2 31 755 48 857 600 Cash outﬂows 507 882 402 356 Deposits 165 295 149 860 500 Market funding 265 572 207 681 400 Other cash outﬂows 77 016 44 815 Cash inﬂows 380 912 247 176 300 Inﬂows from maturing lending to non-ﬁnancial customers 22 080 26 122 200 Other cash inﬂows 358 832 221 054 The components are deﬁned in line with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directives and requirements for the 100 liquidity coverage ratio and reporting of liquid assets and cash ﬂows, FFFS 2012:6. Liquid assets level 1 corresponds to Chapter 3, Section 6. Liquid assets level 2 corresponds to Chapter 3, Section 7. Customer Deposits corresponds to Chapter 0 4, Sections 4–9. Market funding corresponds to Chapter 4, Sections 10–13. Other cash ﬂows corresponds to Chapter 4, 4 4 4 4 4 14 4 4 4 4 4 4 n-1 eb-1 ar-1 Apr-1 ay-1 JunJul-1 ug-1 ep-1 ct-1 ov-1 ec-1 Sections 14–25. Loans to non-ﬁnancial customers corresponds to Chapter 5, Section 4. Other cash inﬂows corresponds to Ja F M M A S O N D Chapter 5, Sections 6–12. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 96 NOTES | GROUP Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2013 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 369 957 369 957 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 58 112 58 112 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 64 863 64 863 Loans to credit institutions 57 769 1 075 1 878 2 441 291 63 454 of which reverse repos 33 892 33 892 Loans to the public 139 112 198 242 412 719 1 063 934 3 859 1 817 866 of which reverse repos 15 714 15 714 Other 55 730 183 309 239 039 of which shares and participating interests 48 595 48 595 of which claims on investment banking settlements 7 135 7 135 Total 745 543 199 317 414 597 1 066 375 187 459 2 613 291 Due to credit institutions 138 694 4 673 2 024 14 511 17 197 177 099 of which repos 748 748 of which central banks 68 544 1 404 1 634 71 582 Deposits and borrowing from the public 198 909 20 696 5 074 10 145 591 646 826 470 of which repos 7 606 7 606 Issued securities3 212 815 242 028 673 606 113 676 1 242 125 Subordinated liabilities 3 800 1 709 10 123 3 245 18 877 Other 29 947 296 749 326 696 of which short positions 23 170 23 170 of which investment banking settlement debts 6777 6 777 Total 584 165 269 106 690 827 141 577 905 592 2 591 267 Off-balance sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 378 136 Derivatives 2013 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 465 618 284 153 437 695 133 681 1 321 147 Total derivatives outﬂow 481 367 268 287 424 401 127 844 1 301 899 Net -15 749 15 866 13 294 5 837 19 248 1 SEK 26,098m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 11,192m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 424,710m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column ”Unspeciﬁed maturity” refers to deposits payable on demand. Reference numbers for 2012 are not recorded according to the more speciﬁc presentation 2013. The table contains interest flows which means that the balance sheet rows are not reconcilable with the Group’s balance sheet. Maturity tables without interest flows including maturity tables in foreign currencies can be found in the Fact Book. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2012 Unspeciﬁed SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 248 917 248 917 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 119 019 119 019 Loans to credit institutions 67 130 692 942 3 954 17 473 90 191 of which reverse repos 59 257 59 257 Loans to the public 246 870 221 126 349 089 938 782 15 777 1 771 644 of which reverse repos 33 800 33 800 Total 681 936 221 818 350 031 942 736 33 250 2 229 771 Due to credit institutions 132 664 6 235 454 17 225 33 683 190 261 of which repos 2 394 2 394 Deposits and borrowing from the public 129 799 23 471 5 562 11 124 515 826 685 782 of which repos 12 295 12 295 Issued securities 322 185 277 089 553 903 90 840 1 244 017 Other trading liabilities 14 261 14 261 Subordinated liabilities 607 4 242 13 429 6 091 550 24 919 Total 599 516 311 037 573 348 125 280 550 059 2 159 240 Off-balance sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 393 087 Derivatives 2012 SEK m Up to 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 712 417 327 296 514 236 132 378 1 686 327 Total derivatives outﬂow 714 534 322 003 503 293 131 641 1 671 471 Net -2 117 5 293 10 943 737 14 856 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 97 NOTES | GROUP RISKS IN THE INSURANCE OPERATIONS risk, equity risk, credit risk, property risk and curinsurance products are generally designed in rency risk. The main risk at Handelsbanken Liv is such a way that the premium can be changed interest rate risk. At year-end, VaR was SEK 893 annually, thus allowing the company to commillion (995). pensate for changes in morbidity. The sickness/ The risks in the insurance Liquidity risk in the insurance operations is disability result for 2013 is SEK 67 million, where business mainly comprise the risk that the company will not be able to SEK 70 million is attributable to sickness cases market risks and insurance risks. meet its payment obligations when they fall due, reported during the year, SEK -19 million to existor that the company will not be able to sell secuing sickness cases which are being closed and rities at acceptable prices. This risk is limited by the remaining SEK 16 million to sickness cases most of the investment assets being invested in which have occurred but not yet been reported. Market risk listed securities with good liquidity. The insurance operations report their market, Handelsbanken Liv conducts life insurance insurance and operational risks to the insuroperations with traditional management, unitInsurance risk ance company’s board and chief executive, to linked insurance and portfolio bond insurance. Insurance companies set their premiums based Handelsbanken’s central risk control and to the For unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance, on assumptions regarding the size of costs for Bank’s CFO and CEO. The risk situation is also the customer chooses the investment option future insurance events. Insurance risk is the reported regularly to the Board of the Bank. and bears the market risk. In traditional insurrisk that the actual and assumed insurance ance with guaranteed interest, Handelsbanken costs differ. The ultimate controlling document Solvency II Liv bears the risk of the ﬁnancial guarantees enis the insurance risk policy issued by the board During the past few years, Handelsbanken Liv tailed by the insurance terms not being fulﬁlled. of Handelsbanken Liv, specifying the amounts has worked actively on adapting its operations The ﬁnancial guarantee means that the comwithin which insurance policies may be issued. to future new regulatory demands and this will pany makes a capital contribution at the value continue during 2014. The full introduction of of the insurance contract at speciﬁc points in Insurance risk at Handelsbanken Liv is related to the Solvency II regulations is expected in 2016 time when the value is less than the guaranteed the following events: when the directive will also be implemented in value of the insurance. Any capital contributions Ř PRUWDOLW\ŎSD\PHQWWRWKHSROLF\KROGHULQWKH Swedish law. As of January 2014 parts of the are realised at the year-end or when there is an event of the death of the insured person regulations are being introduced into the superinsurance event. Ř ORQJHYLW\ŎSD\PHQWWKDWLVGHSHQGHQWRQWKH visory authorities’ practical supervision work. Handelsbanken Liv’s board establishes the insured person living, e.g. pension disburseFor example, new stipulations on calculating annual investment guidelines for the company, ments discounting curves for solvency, a trafﬁc-light and this is the ultimate controlling document for Ř PRUELGLW\ŎSD\PHQWLQWKHHYHQWRILOOQHVVRU model and cover of liabilities will come into force. allocation of the company’s investment assets work incapacity One overall purpose of the regulations is to relating to traditionally managed insurance. Ř DFFLGHQWŎSD\PHQWLQWKHHYHQWRIDFFLGHQW strengthen protection for insurance policyholdThe purpose of the investment guidelines is ers by linking the solvency requirement and to provide instructions on how the assets are An insurance policy may contain combinations thereby the capital requirement more clearly to to be invested given the undertakings to the of these four events. how the insurance companies identify, measure policyholders and the statutory requirements Most of Handelsbanken Liv’s policies are and manage all risks. of the Swedish Insurance Business Act and the taken out by small companies and private indiapplicable regulations of the Swedish Financial viduals. There is no risk concentration in terms Supervisory Authority. of insurance risk, other than that most of the OPERATIONAL RISK Handelsbanken Liv has a low risk tolerance. policies are taken out in Sweden. The goal of the asset management is to secure Increased longevity in Sweden has an impact the company’s obligations to the policyholders. on the life insurance company’s future comMarket risk at Handelsbanken Liv arises in mitments. The effect is positive for mortality Operational risk refers to the the management of investment assets for the insurance, but for life insurance it could become risk of loss due to inadequate or traditional insurance and from the fact that valuan economic burden for the company since failed internal processes, people ation of the company’s obligations is sensitive to average life expectancy is rising and pension interest rate changes. disbursements must then be made over a and systems, or external events. The total market risk at Handelsbanken Liv longer period. Since 2009, Handelsbanken The definition includes legal risk. is calculated using Value at Risk (VaR) with a Liv has used life expectancy assumptions 99.5 per cent conﬁdence level and a holding according to DUS06, which is the industry period of one quarter. In addition, the company’s standard. If mortality continued to decline and solvency ratio, the so-called trafﬁc-light model in general were to be 10 per cent lower than the Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of operaand cover of liabilities are checked accordcompany’s assumptions, the present value of tional risks and works actively to identify and ing to statutory requirements. The market risk the expected increased cost would be SEK 56 manage operational risks. This work is supmanagement model used by Handelsbanken million, for the older section of the group who ported by the Bank’s strict attitude to risk, but Liv weights the risk of a capital contribution at have lifelong payouts. Most of Handelsbanken also by the strong focus on cost-effectiveness, insurance contract level together with the risk of Liv’s insurance policies with mortality risk are, since deﬁciencies in administrative order can a capital contribution at company level due to however, priced annually. This means that the easily lead to unnecessary costs. the increased present value of future guaranteed company can unilaterally change the premium Operational errors and deﬁciencies are amounts. Market risk is measured in terms of from year to year. Thus, an incorrect mortality therefore reduced as far as possible. This applies the overall sensitivity of the capital contribuassumption can be changed with rapid effect. to minor but frequent events and major events tions to market disruptions. The risk exposure Changes in morbidity occur much more which could cause major unexpected losses. is checked daily against a limit stipulated by the rapidly than changes in mortality, which may conThe Bank’s management performs frequent, Board of Handelsbanken. The larger of the value tribute to variations in the risk result. The result active follow-ups of operational risk through the of contributions to policyholders or contributions therefore depends both on how many insured organisation for risk control. Operational risks due to solvency constitutes the risk utilisation. persons fall ill and how many recover in relation which may lead to the most serious conseSub-categories of ﬁnancial risk are interest rate to the assumptions applied. Sickness/disability quences are the subject of special attention. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 98 NOTES | GROUP Internal Audit’s examination of the operations regular co-operation with the local co-ordinators regularly followed up during the year by the busialso focuses on operational risk. for operational risk and the local risk control funcness operations with the support of the local coOperational risk exists in all operations tions. Central risk control is also responsible for ordinator for operational risk. The local risk control within Handelsbanken, and the responsibility analysing and reporting the Group’s operational is informed about the completed OPRA analysis, for the day-to-day identiﬁcation, management risks to the management and Board. including the action plan so that it can evaluate the and control of risk is a clear, integrated part As an aid to continual identiﬁcation, handling procedure. Central risk control provides regular of managerial responsibility at all levels of the and management of operational risks, the Bank support to the co-ordinators for operational risk in operations. The Bank’s decentralised method has a reporting and case management system planning, implementation and follow-up and also of work promotes cost-consciousness that for incidents and a self-assessment procedure. performs an annual aggregate assessment of the results in vigilance against potential loss risk in All employees throughout the Group must evaluations from all local risk control units. daily procedures and events. By focusing on collect facts about incidents which have affected The Bank pays great care when processing good administrative order and possible proactive their unit and which result in a loss in excess new products and services and major changes measures, all parts of the operations keep their of SEK 25,000. To further promote the unit’s to existing products and services. Each business risks at an acceptable level. proactive work with risks, all employees are area, subsidiary and regional bank with product Operational risks are included in internal encouraged to collect facts about incidents responsibility processes new products in accordinstructions issued by managers with function which lead to smaller losses or no loss at all. ance with central guidelines, which are minimum responsibility, where account is taken of whether Incidents reported are reviewed and categorequirements. This includes an established the division of work and responsibilities, the rised on a regular basis by the local co-ordinator process for deciding how products are to be control structure of procedures, and information for operational risk. The Bank categorises introduced. A risk analysis led by the local risk and reporting systems are ﬁt for purpose. Rules operational risk according to Basel’s seven event control is always performed before a product and procedures are assessed annually and the types: execution, delivery and process manageis launched. The analysis takes account of the internal control of procedures and business ﬂows ment; business disruption and system failure; risks for the Bank and for the customer, including is documented. The manager of each unit also clients, products and business practices; external operational risks. Central risk control is informed conducts annual security reviews with their staff, crime; damage to physical assets; employment of the results of the analysis and is involved in including internal control, information security, practices and workplace safety; internal fraud. complex cases when this is justiﬁed. bank conﬁdentiality and other security measures. The work also includes following up proactive There are emergency and continuity plans in Apart from the responsibility for operational risk measures in collaboration with the units and place in all parts of the Group for dealing with borne by the managers, there are ofﬁcers with branches affected. Local compliance also has serious disruptions. The emergency plans help special responsibility for information security and access to and can monitor incidents reported the crisis team to quickly and systematically start Group security who report directly to the CEO. in their part of the business operations. Local to deal with a crisis situation and its effects. There The responsibility for the management of risk control performs an annual evaluation of the is a central crisis team for the whole Group, and a operational risks is distributed between the procedure. Central risk control then performs an local crisis team within each regional bank, subbusiness operations, local co-ordinators for aggregated evaluation at Group level. sidiary and international unit outside the Bank’s operational risk, local risk control and central risk OPRA Risk Analysis is a self-assessment prohome markets and also at the Central IT Departcontrol. cedure to document and assess operational risks ment and Handelsbanken Capital Markets. The business operations are responsible for which may have an impact on the Bank. These The central crisis team has permanent staff the regular identiﬁcation and management of are carried out at least once a year at all units. The consisting of members of management and/ risks and for implementing proactive measures. respective head of all regional banks, main units, or those close to them. The central crisis team Local co-ordinators for operational risk are subsidiaries and international units outside the functions as a liaison crisis team in the event of a in place at regional banks, main departments, Bank’s home markets is responsible for this being major crisis in the Group, supports any local crisis subsidiaries and units outside the Bank’s home performed. The local co-ordinator for operational team(s) working with an acute crisis and functions markets. These co-ordinators are responsible for risk provides support for the planning and impleas a crisis team for the main central departments. ensuring that existing methods and procedures mentation. Units with more complex operations Continuity planning focuses on taking preventive for managing operational risks are used in the divide the self-assessment procedure into several measures to minimise the consequences of a business operations. They are also responsible sessions. Normally, between ﬁve and eight expeserious disruption of business operations. Local for monitoring that the business operations take rienced employees who have a good overview of risk control performs an annual evaluation of the and implement appropriate proactive measures. the unit’s operations and risks participate in the procedure. Central risk control then performs an There are also local risk control functions to sessions. The aim is to assess the consequence aggregated evaluation at Group level. check that management of operational risk is and likelihood of an event. The assessment of Handelsbanken uses the standardised correctly performed at regional banks, main the impact includes both ﬁnancial losses and approach to calculate the capital requirement for departments, subsidiaries and units outside the lost reputation. Important input includes facts operational risks. According to the standardised Bank’s home markets. This is achieved by means and statistics from incidents reported during the approach, the capital requirement is calculated of regular quality assurance and evaluation. previous year together with incidents that have by multiplying a factor speciﬁed in the regulations Central risk control has the overall responaffected other parts of the Group or other banks by the average operating income during the last sibility for the methods and procedures used and companies. The self-assessment procedure three years of operation. Different factors areto identify, steer, control and report operational results in an action plan stating the risks to be applied in different business segments. risks, and for follow-up at overall Group level. reduced, how this will be done, who is responsible The total capital requirement for operational To achieve and maintain good quality in this and time limits for when measures are to be taken. risks for the whole of the Handelsbanken Group management, central risk control has close, The action plan is a working document that is was SEK 4,246 million (4,181) at the end of 2013. Operational risk management at Handelsbanken 1. Business operations 2. OpRisk Coordinator 3. Local Risk Control 4. Central risk control H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 99 NOTES | GROUP RISKS IN THE COMPENSATION SYSTEM tion policy is processed and established by ECONOMIC CAPITAL the Board. This is done at least once a year. The report analyses elements such as the incentive structure, the balance between Compensation risk is the risk of fixed and variable compensation, deferral Handelsbanken’s model for loss or other damage arising due rules, and effects on the capital base. In calculating economic capital to the compensation system. addition, central risk control evaluates the identifies in one measurement application of the compensation. Based on this risk analysis and evaluation, an assessthe Group’s overall risks and ment is made as to whether the compensaindicates the capital which, with The aim of Handelsbanken’s policy on salaries tion system is designed in a way that could very high probability, will cover is to increase the Bank’s competitiveness and threaten the Bank’s financial position. The unexpected losses or decreases proﬁtability, to enable the Bank to attract, retain responsibility also includes ensuring that risk and develop skilled staff, and to ensure good costs are calculated correctly in the context in value skills development and management succesof compensation. sion planning. Good long-term proﬁtability and Handelsbanken’s remuneration policy productivity performance at the Bank create the and compensation system are deemed The central risk control function is responsible conditions for stable and positive salary develto generate low risks and promote sound for comprehensive monitoring of the Group’s opment for the Bank’s employees. and effective risk management, counteract various risks. The Bank’s model for economic Compensation for work performed is excessive risk-taking, fit in with the Bank’s capital (EC) is an instrument in this monitoring. set individually for each employee, and is low tolerance of risks and support the It is a vital component in planning to ensure that paid in the form of a fixed salary, customary Bank’s long-term interests. The compensathe Group has sufﬁcient capital at all times in salary benefits and a pension provision. At tion system is designed in such a way that relation to all risks in the Group. The Group perHandelsbanken, salaries are set at the local there is no risk that the Bank’s capital base spective therefore means that economic capital level. Salaries are set in salary reviews beis undermined as a result of mandatory payalso includes risks in the insurance operations tween the employee and their line manager. ment of variable compensation. It is possible and risks in the Bank’s pension obligations. These principles have been applied for many to reduce or remove variable compensaEconomic capital is calculated with a time years with great success. They mean that tion, wholly or partly – this applies both to horizon of one year and a conﬁdence level managers at all levels participate regularly allocations for variable compensation and to that reﬂects an acceptable level of risk and in salary processes, and take responsibility deferred variable compensation which has desired rating. The Board has determined that for the Bank’s salary policy and the growth not yet been paid. the calculation of the EC must be made with a in their own unit’s staff costs. Salaries are For more detailed information and statis99.97 per cent conﬁdence level, which captures based on salary-setting factors defined in tics about the Bank’s compensation system, an event which is extremely unfavourable for advance: the nature and level of difficulty see the Corporate Governance Report and the Bank. EC is the difference between the outof the work, skills, performance and results note G8. come in an average year – with positive results achieved, leadership (for managers who and good growth in the value of the Bank’s are responsible for the career development assets – and the outcome at a 99.97 per cent of employees), supply and demand in the conﬁdence level. market, and the task of ambassador for the Diversiﬁcation effects between the different Bank’s corporate culture. risk classes are taken into account when calHandelsbanken has low tolerance of culating EC. The capital requirement for all risks compensation risks and actively strives to is therefore lower than the sum of the EC for keep them at a low level. This is achieved each individual risk, because the risks are partly in part by only using variable compensation independent of each other. to a very limited extent and only in the areas The capital and other ﬁnancial resources where this is market practice and is neceswhich form a buffer that can absorb negasary in order to achieve the goals for the tive outcomes are called available ﬁnancial unit’s operations. Where variable compensaresources (AFR). AFR is Handelsbanken’s equity tion exists, it is subject to deferred payment. The Bank’s principles for compensation Total of AFR and EC including diversification, to employees are long established. The prin31 December 2013 ciples for the Bank’s compensation system are stipulated in the compensation policy SEK bn which is decided by the Board. More detailed 150 implementation directives are decided by the CEO. The responsibility for identifying 120 and managing compensation risks rests with 90 every responsible manager in the operations and is managed according to internal 60 policy documents, guidelines and instructions. Local risk control regularly monitors 30 that the compensation system is applied as intended. The Bank’s central risk control is 0 AFR EC responsible for analysing the risks associated with the compensation policy and the Credit risk Market risk compensation system before the compensaNon-ﬁnancial risk Risk in pension obligations H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 100 with the addition of other ﬁnancial values on and CAPITAL PLANNING Capital planning is performed through an off the balance sheet, available to cover losses ongoing analysis of changes in volume, risk with a one-year time horizon. and performance, and by monitoring events In risk and capital management, the Group that may affect capital requirements and capital applies a shareholder perspective. The ecoHandelsbanken’s capital level. Short-term forecasting includes all subnomic capital model provides an overall view of planning aims to ensure that the components that make up the Group’s capital the Group which makes it possible to optimise Group has adequate financial base. This work also includes conducting the risk and capital situation from the shareholdvarious sensitivity analyses, with a short-term er’s perspective. The outcome of the calcularesources available at all times perspective, of the expected change in the tions plays an important role when new transacand that the capital is of optimal capital adequacy requirement and capital base. tions or structural changes are considered. composition. The Bank can thus be prepared to alter the size Credit risk is calculated using simulated outand composition of the capital base if required – comes of default for all the Group’s counterparfor example, through market operations. ties and exposures. The result of the short-term analysis forms Market risks comprise the risk of assets The capital planning unit is responsible for the basis of any capital operations performed classed as trading book, interest rate risk in the assessment of the Bank’s total capital requireand is continually reported to the CFO and, if banking operations, market risks in the insurment. The capital requirement is a function of necessary, to the CEO and Board. The analysis ance operations and the risk of value losses in the Group’s risks, expected development, the is based on a prudent basic scenario, with the Bank’s own share portfolio. regulations and target ratios, Handelsbanken’s decision points in the near future for how the exThe risk in the pension obligations mainly model for economic capital and also of stress isting earnings capacity can cope with various consists of the risk of a decrease in the values tests. The Bank’s capital requirement is reported changes in volume, as well as what effects arise that exist for securing the Bank’s pension weekly to the CFO, regularly to the CEO, and at from potential capital operations. obligations. Most of the pension obligations are least quarterly to the Board. The part of capital planning that comprises in Sweden and are secured there in a pension The targets for the Bank’s capital are determidto long-term forecasts aims to ensure foundation and insured in an occupational penmined regularly by the Board on the basis of compliance with statutory capital adequacy sion fund. stress tests of regulatory capital and EC. The requirements and that the Group’s AFR at all The non-ﬁnancial risks are operational risk, Board stipulates that the tier 1 ratio in Basel II, times covers by a good margin all risks calcubusiness risk, property risk and insurance risk. which is the relevant measurement for managelated according to the economic capital model. Business risk is related to unexpected variations ment of the Bank according to the 2013 rules, The objective is to forecast the expected in earnings in the business area in question. This must be between 9 and 11 per cent. performance and judge whether the Bank’s may arise if, for example, demand or competiIn view of the anticipated new rules with resistance is satisfactory in various scenarios. tion changes unexpectedly, thus resulting in increased capital requirements, the Bank has The planning horizon is at least ﬁve years and lower volumes and narrower margins. Property opted to increase its capitalisation above the takes account of the Group’s overall business risk captures the risk of a fall in the value of the target interval. An adjusted target for capital can performance trend. properties which the Bank owns. be established when the Swedish application of Scenario and stress tests are also continuAt year-end, EC was SEK 61 billion (57), of the new regulations has been decided. ously performed. A basic scenario forms the which credit risks accounted for the main part As part of proactive capital planning, there foundation of the capital forecast. This scenario of the total risks. The Board stipulates that the is a contingency and action plan with speciﬁc is obtained from expected performance in the AFR/EC ratio should be at least 120 per cent. measures that can be taken if the Bank needs next ﬁve years regarding proﬁt, volume growth, The ratio was 197 per cent (213) at year-end, to improve its capital position. The purpose ﬁnancial assumptions such as loan losses, and which illustrates that the Bank is well-capitalised of the contingency and action planning is to performance of the equity, property and ﬁxed in relation to its overall risks. The Swedish Finanensure that there is a warning system that income markets. The basic scenario is then cial Supervisory Authority has come to the same identiﬁes potential threats at an early stage and compared to the outcomes in a number of conclusion in its overall capital assessment of that the Group is prepared to take rapid action, business cycle and crisis scenarios. The stress the Bank. if necessary. scenarios have been established following The risk and capital situation reported is a A long-term capital plan is drawn up annually, analysis of the historical links between the imsnapshot picture, even though the risk calculawhich is designed to give a comprehensive pacts of different macroeconomic variables on tions include safety margins for business cycle overview of the Group’s current capital situation, the ﬁnancial markets and have been selected by ﬂuctuations. To perform a ﬁnal assessment of a forecast of expected capital performance, using the scenarios expected to have the most the Group’s capital adequacy requirements, and the outcome in various scenarios. These severe impact on Handelsbanken. account must also be taken of the stress and scenarios are designed to substantially differ The result of the internal capital adequacy asscenario analysis carried out as part of the from expected events and thus harmonise with sessment is reported quarterly to the Board. Bank’s capital planning. the Group’s low risk tolerance. The capital plan At the end of 2013, the tier 1 ratio according also contains proposals for how to maintain to Basel II was 21.5 per cent, since the Bank, the capital situation at a satisfactory level in a pending a decision concerning capital regulastrongly negative business environment, from tions, has decided to increase its capitalisation both a regulatory and shareholder perspective. to a level exceeding the Bank’s target interval in The capital planning is divided into short-term Basel II of 9–11 per cent. The ratio between AFR and midto long-term forecasting. The part and EC was 197 per cent at the same date. of capital planning that comprises short-term The Bank’s strong position is further emforecasts up to two years ahead principally phasised by the result of the various forwardfocuses on assessing existing performance and looking stress scenarios which are carried out, the development of the capital requirement. This showing that Handelsbanken’s long-term capiforecasting is necessary to enable continual tal situation is very stable from both a ﬁnancial adaptation of the size and composition of the and regulatory perspective. capital base. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 101 NOTES | GROUP G3 Net interest income SEK m 2013 2012 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 1 575 2 295 Loans to the public 52 614 59 084 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 2 106 1 534 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1 898 1 967 Derivative instruments -2 556 -1 198 Other interest income 1 459 1 498 Total interest income 57 096 65 180 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 2 633 2 366 Interest income according to income statement 54 463 62 814 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -1 287 -2 066 Deposits and borrowing from the public -4 608 -7 151 Issued securities -23 137 -25 527 Derivative instruments 3 591 -319 Subordinated liabilities -1 214 -1 359 Other interest expense -3 294 -2 633 Total interest expense -29 949 -39 055 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value -2 155 -2 322 Interest expense according to income statement -27 794 -36 733 Net interest income 26 669 26 081 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 107m (118). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 55,788m (62,655). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 31,385m (36,414). G4 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2013 2012 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 189 1 137 Mutual funds 2 008 1 680 Custody and other asset management fees 427 348 Advisory services 278 195 Insurance 571 583 Payments 2 813 2 676 Loans and deposits 1 124 1 195 Guarantees 438 466 Other 446 470 Total fee and commission income 9 294 8 750 Securities -228 -216 Payments -1 175 -1 070 Other -87 -95 Total fee and commission expense -1 490 -1 381 Net fee and commission income 7 804 7 369 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 102 NOTES | GROUP G5 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2013 2012 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc 2 026 80 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss -785 732 of which interest-bearing securities -707 730 of which loans -78 2 Financial instruments at amortised cost 149 103 of which loans 439 329 of which liabilities -290 -226 Financial instruments available for sale 24 18 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges -26 210 of which hedging instruments -1 575 925 of which hedged items 1 549 -715 Cash ﬂow hedge ineffectiveness 28 -5 Hedge ineffectiveness on net investment in foreign operations Gains/losses on unbundled insurance contracts -59 -18 Total 1 357 1 120 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc Financial instruments available for sale and interest expense deriving from hedging This item mainly contains unrealised and The item contains realised gains/losses on instruments are recognised in net interest realised changes in market value and interest ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for sale. income. Value changes of hedging instruments referring to ﬁnancial assets and liabilities held Interest income from these assets is recognised in cash ﬂow hedges which exceed the value for trading. under net interest income and dividends on the changes of hedged future cash ﬂows are reportline Other dividend income. Unrealised value ed under “Cash ﬂow hedge ineffectiveness”. Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated changes on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets The impact on earnings of ineffective portions at fair value in proﬁt/loss are recognised in other comprehensive income of net investment hedges in foreign operations The item contains unrealised and realised value and amounted to SEK 586 million (1,049) before is recognised in “Hedge ineffectiveness on net changes on instruments which upon initial tax during the ﬁnancial year. Realised value investments in foreign operations.” recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the changes in available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruincome statement.* Unrealised value changes ments previously recognised in other compreGains/losses on unbundled insurance on these instruments comprise interest rate hensive income and which were reclassiﬁed to contracts and currency effects and the effects of changed the income statement during the ﬁnancial year “Gains/losses on unbundled insurance concredit risk. The accumulated value change due amounted to SEK -51 million (-65) before tax. tracts” corresponds to the result generated to changes in credit risk from lending which upon This amount has been partly recognised in net when calculating the guaranteed yield on the initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in interest income. ﬁnancial component in unbundled insurance the income statement is SEK -14 million (-1). contracts. Hedge accounting Financial instruments at amortised cost “Fair value hedges” includes the net proﬁt/loss * Value changes deriving from ﬁnancial instruments which The item contains capital gains/losses that arise of unrealised and realised fair value changes on are plan assets in the Group’s insurance operations are not when loans are redeemed ahead of time, and hedging instruments and the hedged risk comincluded in this item. The principles for reporting results capital gains/losses generated from repurchasponent in ﬁnancial assets and liabilities which deriving from insurance operations are reported in note G1. es of the Bank’s own issued securities. are part of hedging packages. Interest income G6 Risk result – insurance SEK m 2013 2012 Premiums written 586 493 Insurance claims paid -433 -382 Change in provisions for unsettled claims 25 31 Other -36 54 Total 142 196 G7 Other income SEK m 2013 2012 Rental income 32 37 Other operating income 153 99 Total 185 136 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 103 NOTES | GROUP G8 Staff costs Staff costs, business segments SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Salaries and fees -7 107 -6 926 Branch operations in Sweden -3 300 -3 157 Social security costs -1 780 -1 682 Branch operations in the UK -1 059 -793 Pension costs1 -974 -1 117 Branch operations in Denmark -546 -537 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -1 096 -1 020 Branch operations in Finland -331 -326 Other staff costs -447 -422 Branch operations in Norway -662 -700 Total -11 404 -11 167 Branch operations in the Netherlands -96 -77 1 The components in the reported pension costs are shown in the Pension costs table. Handelsbanken International -510 -526 Capital Markets -2 033 -2 255 Average number Others -2 858 -2 745 of employees 2013 Men Women 2012 Men Women Adjustments and eliminations -9 -51 Sweden 7 537 3 465 4 072 7 526 3 475 4 051 Total -11 404 -11 167 Norway 755 412 343 765 405 360 Finland 615 256 359 610 252 358 Salaries and fees SEK m 2013 2012 Denmark 699 348 351 697 353 344 Senior management2 -134 -140 UK 1 351 813 538 1 031 641 390 Others -6 973 -6 786 Luxembourg 73 42 31 83 54 29 Total -7 107 -6 926 Germany 64 36 28 68 40 28 USA 76 48 28 77 51 26 Gender distribution 2013 2012 Netherlands 113 74 39 85 59 26 Singapore 37 9 28 36 8 28 % Men Women Men Women Hong Kong 68 26 42 32 19 13 Senior management excl. boards3 70 30 74 26 Poland 45 18 27 48 19 29 Board 73 27 75 25 Russia 5 2 3 22 6 16 Boards4 69 31 77 23 Other countries 65 25 40 112 37 75 2 Board members, chief executives and EVPs in the parent company and in subsidiaries. 3 Total 11 503 5 574 5 929 11 192 5 419 5 773 Chief executives and EVPs in the parent company and in subsidiaries. 4 Including boards of subsidiaries. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS for compensation and suitability assessment, compensation is based is offset by the actual Handelsbanken’s compensation principles are which is established by the Board after preparacosts of capital and the liquidity required by the long established. In general, the Bank has a tion by the Board’s remuneration committee. operations, this ensures that compensation low tolerance of risk and considers that ﬁxed The remuneration committee prepares matters levels are in line with the Bank’s overall goals. compensation contributes to healthy operations. regarding compensation to be decided on by the Variable compensation is based on HanThis is, therefore, the main principle. The Bank Board and the AGM. After the shareholders at the delsbanken’s model for setting salaries and the takes a long-term view of its staff’s employment. AGM have decided on guidelines for the terms salary-setting factors stated there. In addition to Salary growth and other forms of compensation and conditions of compensation to the CEO and these factors, operation-speciﬁc factors must be vary over an employee’s period of service with the Executive Vice Presidents (EVPs), the Board considered, with particularly sound risk-taking, the Bank, and good performance must always decides in accordance with the regulations of the observance of good order and compliance. Varibe rewarded. The total compensation will help Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority on comable compensation is only paid in cash. to develop the Bank’s competitiveness and pensation to the CEO, the EVPs and ofﬁcers with All employees eligible for variable compensaproﬁtability, so it can attract, retain and develop the main responsibility for the control functions: tion are in the ‘identiﬁed staff’ category, and are skilled staff, and ensure high-quality competence Compliance, Internal Audit and Risk Control. subject to rules regarding deferment of compendevelopment and management succession. Handelsbanken’s Policy for compensation sation. Where variable compensation amounts Compensation is paid as a ﬁxed salary, cusand suitability assessment is reviewed annually, to or exceeds SEK 100,000, Handelsbanken tomary salary beneﬁts and a pension provision. or when necessary. The policy is imbued with defers 40 to 60 per cent of the amount. For variSalaries are set locally pursuant to the Bank’s the Bank’s low risk tolerance. An evaluation of able compensation where the employee’s ﬁxed decentralised work model and are based on the compensation system and the application of and variable compensation exceeds the ﬁxed factors known in advance: the nature and level the policy is carried out annually by the control compensation of any member of the Group of difﬁculty of the work, skills, performance and functions at compliance and risk control and by management team, 60 per cent is deferred for results achieved, leadership (for managers who Central Personnel. four years. The main rule in the Bank’s policy are responsible for the career development of is that variable compensation at the individual employees), and supply and demand on the Variable compensation level must not exceed 150 per cent of the ﬁxed market, as well as performance as an ambasAt Handelsbanken, variable compensation compensation. Established rules for deferral of sador for the Bank’s business culture. occurs to a limited extent and only in the variable compensation apply to all employees Variable compensation only occurs to a limHandelsbanken Capital Markets business area and managers. Disbursement and right of ownited extent in operations where such compenand the British subsidiary Heartwood. Variable ership of the deferred compensation pass to the sation is assessed as being a market condition. compensation is not paid to the Bank’s manemployee at the end of the deferment period. The Bank’s Board decides on the ﬁnal amount agement, nor to any employee who makes deciDeferred variable compensation is removed or for variable compensation. A decision on where sions on credits or limits. Employees who, alone reduced if losses, increased risks or increased variable compensation is permitted is made by or together with others, are entitled to decide on expenses arise during the deferment period. the CEO, under conditions stated by the Board. credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, commodity Deferred variable compensation is also removed risk, currency risk or interest rate risk limits, as or reduced if payment of the compensation is Policy for compensation and well as employees who, by deciding on credits indefensible based on the Bank’s ﬁnancial situsuitability assessment or product terms and conditions, can affect the ation. For more details on the Bank’s principles The principles for the Bank’s compensation sysBank’s risk proﬁle, can have only ﬁxed compenon variable compensation, see page 58 of the tem are established in Handelsbanken’s Policy sation. Since the proﬁt ﬁgure on which variable Corporate Governance Report. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 104 NOTES | GROUP Total compensation 2013 2012 Executive Identiﬁed Executive Identiﬁed SEK m management1 staff Others management1 staff Others Earned ﬁxed compensation, SEK m2 95 4 648 2 412 90 4 546 2 234 Provision för pensions, SEK m 33 666 346 31 653 321 Earned variable compensation, SEK m 107 101 Total 128 5 421 2 758 121 5 300 2 555 No. of persons with ﬁxed compensation only 19 7 075 5 074 18 6 868 4 771 No. of persons with both ﬁxed and variable compensation 286 305 Total number of persons 19 7 361 5 074 18 7 173 4 771 Allocated variable compensation, SEK m 91 100 of which deferred 45 48 of which disbursed 46 52 No. of persons to whom variable compensation has been allocated 202 221 Deferred variable compensation at beginning of year 57 9 Allocated and deferred variable compensation during the year 45 48 Disbursed during the year Adjusted during the year Deferred variable compensation at end of year 102 57 Guaranteed variable compensation recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m 2 23 Contracted guaranteed variable compensation recognised as an expense in connection with new employment, SEK m Earned compensation has been recognised as an expense in its entirety. Earned variable compensation is allocated at individual level during the ﬁnancial year after it has been earned. Allocated variable compensation for the year was earned in its entirety during 2012. Allocated variable compensation is disbursed or deferred in accordance with the Bank’s policy for variable compensation. The right of disposal of the deferred compensation transfers to the employee at the time of disbursement. All variable compensation is paid in cash. The amounts are excluding social security costs. During the year, termination beneﬁts for 81 persons (122) have been recognised as an expense for SEK 51m (74), and have been contracted for SEK 46m (10) for 77 persons (21). The largest individual contracted termination beneﬁt is SEK 4.5m (1.5). During the year, guaranteed variable compensation has been allocated to 3 persons (18). ¹ The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority uses the concept of executive management in its regulations FFFS 2011:1. At Handelsbanken this corresponds to the CEO and the EVPs in the parent company. 2 Including other salary beneﬁts. TERMS AND COMPENSATION FOR All information concerning pensions during the The deﬁned beneﬁt pension earned is vested, SENIOR MANAGEMENT year has been reported in accordance with IAS 19. and if service ceases before the age of 60, the The AGM decides on guidelines for compensaCEO receives a paid-up policy for the deﬁned tion to the CEO and the EVPs. The Board of Board compensation beneﬁt pension rights earned. Handelsbanken decides on compensation to Board members in the Handelsbanken Group the CEO and EVPs. who are not employees of the Bank have reTerms for EVPs in the parent company For more information about the principles and ceived fees only in accordance with a resolution The lowest pension age for EVPs is 60*. They decision process concerning compensation, of the AGM. Board members who are employreceive a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pension of see the Corporate Governance Report on page ees of the Bank or its subsidiaries receive coma maximum of 65 per cent of their ﬁxed salary 58 of the Administration Report. pensation and pension beneﬁts by reason of at the time of retirement and also receive a pentheir employment. No further compensation or sion premium of a maximum of two per cent of General pension beneﬁts are paid for serving on a board. their ﬁxed salary. Compensation to the CEO and EVPs of the parThe fees for the Board of the parent company For three EVPs, a deﬁned contribution retireent company is paid in the form of ﬁxed salary, are presented on pages 60–61. Fees for the ten ment pension of a maximum of 35 per cent of customary beneﬁts such as a company car or (ten) board members of subsidiaries who are the ﬁxed salary applies instead. similar, and a pension provision. Following a spenot employees of the Bank or its subsidiaries Deﬁned beneﬁt retirement pensions for EVPs cial decision by the Board, Handelsbanken can are SEK 0.8 million (0.6). are earned successively during the years until provide housing as part of the compensation. retirement age, and are fully earned by the time No variable compensation is paid to individuTerms and compensation for the CEO retirement age is reached. The pension earned als holding these positions. Nor are there any In 2013, the parent company’s CEO, Pär Boman, is vested, and if service ceases before retireagreements on termination beneﬁts. The AGM’s received a ﬁxed salary of SEK 11.3 million (10.9). ment age, the employee receives a paid-up polguidelines for compensation to senior managers Other salary beneﬁts were SEK 0.2 million (0.4). icy for the pension rights earned. The pension state 65 years as the retirement age for new senExternal fees for serving on the boards have rights earned are secured in the Bank’s pension ior managers*.The CEO and EVPs receive allocabeen invoiced and delivered to the Bank. foundation or in the Bank’s pension fund. tions in Handelsbanken’s proﬁt-sharing scheme, The CEO’s retirement age is 65. Deﬁned For one EVP, a deﬁned beneﬁt retirement Oktogonen. Allocation is made according to the beneﬁt pension is earned successively until he pension is earned until the age of 60, after same principles as for all other employees of the reaches the age of 60, when it is equivalent to which a deﬁned contribution pension of a Bank in the countries where Oktogonen has been 60 per cent of the ﬁxed salary, including exmaximum of 35 per cent of the salary applies implemented. In 2013 (relating to 2012), the allopected payments from statutory insurance. The between the ages of 60 and 65. cation in Sweden corresponded to SEK 74,892. deﬁned beneﬁt pension earned is recalculated In 2012, the equivalent amount was SEK 67,552. in accordance with technical principles for insurIn Sweden, the CEO and EVPs at Handelsance to be disbursed at the time of retirement. banken are entitled to sacriﬁce salary for Between the ages of 60 and 65, a pension * In new pension terms for EVPs in the parent company entered into after 1 January 2012, the retirement age is 65. pension according to the same principles as for premium is instead received, amounting to 35 See also the Corporate Governance Report on page 53 of other employees. per cent of the ﬁxed salary. the Administration Report. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 105 NOTES | GROUP G8 Cont Compensation to EVPs in the parent company compensation (46.4). The cost of earned penat 31 December 2013. The number of people Lars Kahnlund, EVP, received compensation sion rights in 2013 for the other 17 (16) EVPs covered by these obligations in the Group is 75 and other beneﬁts amounting to SEK 5.3 million within the parent company totalled SEK 24.4 (76), of whom 44 (44) are pensioners. The cor(5.2), with SEK 0.2 million (0.2) of this amount million (22.6), which corresponds to 42.6 per responding number for the parent company is being other beneﬁts. cent of the pensionable compensation (44.0). 57 (57), of whom 38 (39) are pensioners. The other 17 (16) EVPs received compensaEarned pension rights during 2013 for chief tion totalling SEK 78.2 million (73.9), including executives and EVPs within subsidiaries totalled Credits to and deposits from Board other beneﬁts amounting to SEK 5.4 million SEK 5.7 million (5.2), which corresponds to 24.8 members, chief executives and EVPs (5.4). Fees from external board assignments per cent of the pensionable compensation (25.2). Credits to board members, the CEO Pär Boman that are deemed to be in the interest of the Bank Pension rights are not earned for chief execuand EVPs in the parent company total SEK 105 have been delivered to the Bank. tives and EVPs at subsidiaries who have other million (124) in the parent company and SEK 50 main work tasks at Handelsbanken. million (45) in the subsidiaries. Deposits in the Compensation to chief executives and EVPs ‘Earned pension rights’ refers to deﬁned parent company from these persons total SEK at subsidiaries beneﬁt pensions earned, as well as premiums 629 million (672). The Bank’s interest income Compensation and other beneﬁts to the 17 (19) for deﬁned contribution pensions. from these persons for credits in the parent chief executives and EVPs at subsidiaries have company totals SEK 3.8 million (4.5) and in been paid in the amount of SEK 35.7 million Pension obligations** for all current and prethe subsidiaries SEK 1.9 million (1.5). Interest (37.6), with SEK 1.9 million (2.0) of this sum bevious board members, CEOs and EVPs paid to these persons for deposits in the parent ing other beneﬁts. As at 31 December 2013, the pension obligacompany totals SEK 13.3 million (9.5). Compensation is not paid to chief executives tions for the CEO, Pär Boman, were SEK 143.3 Credits to board members, chief executives and EVPs at subsidiaries who have other main million (134.5). As at 31 December 2013, the and EVPs in the subsidiaries total SEK 192 million work tasks at Handelsbanken. pension obligations for Lars Kahnlund, EVP were (189) in the Handelsbanken Group. SEK 72.1 million (70.1). In 2013, the pension Credit and deposit terms for the aforemenCost of accrued pension rights during the obligations for the other 17 EVPs (16) within the tioned individuals are in accordance with the year for chief executives and EVPs parent company were SEK 790.5 million (685.2). same principles as for all other employees of the The cost of earned pension rights in 2013 for Pär As at 31 December 2013, the pension obligaHandelsbanken Group. All credits are subject to Boman, CEO, was SEK 5.8 million (6.0), which tions in the Handelsbanken Group for all current the customary credit assessment. corresponds to 51.4 per cent of the pensionable and previous board members, CEOs and EVPs compensation (55.0) and for Lars Kahnlund, totalled SEK 2,308 million (2,329). For the same ** Pension obligations are amounts which the Bank according to IAS 19 reserves for payment of future deﬁned beneﬁt pensions. EVP, it was SEK 2.4 million (2.3), which corset of positions in the parent company, pension The size of the amounts depend on ﬁnancial and demographic responds to 46.8 per cent of the pensionable obligations totalled SEK 2,124 million (2,110) as assumptions which may change from year to year. Net pension assets Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation SEK m 2013 2012 2011 SEK m 2013 2012 Deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 21 556 20 712 19 696 Opening balance 20 712 19 696 Fair value of plan assets 23 289 21 478 18 295 Service cost 653 661 Net pension assets 1 733 766 -1 401 Past service cost Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation 640 615 In addition to the deﬁned pension obligations and plan assets in the above table, provisions Paid beneﬁts -650 -495 have been made in the years 1989–2004 to Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse Redemption of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to a special supplementary pension (SKP). This includes plan assets whose market value amounts to SEK 11,042m (9,508). SKP entails a commitment to the Bank amounting to Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments -46 the same amount as the plan assets. Part of this commitment, SEK 8,655m (7,312), is Effect of business combinations and disposals conditional. Actuarial gains (-) / losses(+) 306 246 In 2013, there was a change to the plan where the possibility of taking early retirement from the age of 60 has been restricted. For employees born in 1967 and later, this possibility Foreign exchange effect -59 -11 has been entirely removed; for those born in 1956 or previously, it remains in its entirety and Closing balance 21 556 20 712 for those born in intervening years, transitional rules apply. In addition, an assumption about future special pension agreements have been made, which represents a new obligation. These two changes are recognised as Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments. Plan assets SEK m 2013 2012 Pension costs Opening balance 21 478 18 295 SEK m 2013 2012 Interest on plan assets 659 568 Service cost -653 -661 Funds contributed by the employer 148 243 Past service cost Compensation to employer -575 -599 Interest on deﬁned beneﬁt obligation -640 -615 Funds paid directly to employees -159 17 Interest on plan assets 659 568 Actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) 1 774 2 964 Redemption of deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Foreign exchange effect -36 -10 Gains and losses from settlements and curtailments 46 Closing balance 23 289 21 478 Social contributions, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -10 -19 Pension costs, deﬁned beneﬁt plans -598 -727 Return on plan assets Pension costs, deﬁned-contribution plans -392 -342 SEK m 2013 2012 Social contributions, deﬁned-contribution plans 16 -48 Interest on plan assets 659 568 Total pension costs -974 -1 117 Actuarial gains (+) / losses (-) 1 774 2 964 Actual return 2 433 3 532 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 106 NOTES | GROUP Allocation of plan assets SEK m 2013 2012 Shares listed on an active market 20 825 19 052 Shares not listed on an active market 414 522 Interest-bearing securities listed on an active market 1 580 1 610 Interest-bearing securities not listed on an active market 165 130 Other plan assets 305 164 Total 23 289 21 478 The plan assets include shares in Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) with a market value of SEK 0m (0) on the balance sheet date 31 December 2013. Bonds issued by Svenska Handelsbanken AB (pubi) are included with a market value of SEK 561m (546). Actuarial gains (-)/losses (+), deﬁned beneﬁt obligation SEK m 2013 2012 Changes in demographic assumptions 1 194 328 Changes in ﬁnancial assumptions -888 -82 Total 306 246 Future cash ﬂows Outcome Forecast SEK m 2013 2014 Paid beneﬁts -650 -595 Deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are mainly paid to employees in Sweden, Norway and the UK. In addition, there is small deﬁned beneﬁt plan in Germany which, given its size, is not considered material and therefore is not presented in more detail. In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) and the Swedish Financial Sector Union/Swedish Confederation of Professional Associations. The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, the retirement pension is 65% and in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, it is 32.5 % of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. In Norway, retirement pensions are paid from the age of 67. The amount of the pension is partly dependent on the period of service and the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. The retirement pension Including the statutory pension is expected to be approximately 70% of the ﬁnal salary up to 12 base amounts. In the UK, deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions are paid to employees who were employed before 1 January 2006. For employees who started after this date, deﬁned-contribution pensions are paid. The normal retirement age is 65. The maximum retirement pension is some 67% of the pensionable salary, which is achieved after 40 years of service. The pensionable salary is limited to a maximum amount which is currently GBP 137,400. The pension plans are funded externally, meaning plan assets are held by trusts or similar legal entities. The trust’s (or equivalent) activities are regulated by national laws and practices, as is the relationship between the Group and the trust (or equivalent) managing the plan assets, and provides the framework for how the plan assets shall be composed of different types of assets. In Sweden, the Pension Obligations Vesting Act and the Mutal Beneﬁt Society’s Act are applied, in Norway the Norwegian National Insurance Act is applied and in the UK, the standard UK pensions and tax law is applied. The average duration of the Swedish part of the deﬁned beneﬁt obigation is 15.6 years. Main assumptions Sweden Norway UK 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Discount rate, % 3.3 3.0 4.1 3.8 4.4 4.0 Expected salary increase, % 3.5 3.5 3.8 3.5 5.0 4.6 Pension indexing, % 2.0 2.0 3.5 3.0 3.4 3.0 Income base amount, % 3.0 3.0 na na na na Staff turnover, % 3.0 3.0 0-81 0-81 na na Expected remaining years of employment 20.0 20.0 15.0 15.0 16.0 17.0 1 Age-related interval; 8% for the youngest annually, gradually decreasing to 0% for the oldest. Sensitivity analysis Effects on the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation Increased deﬁned Decreased deﬁned Changes in beneﬁt obligation, beneﬁt obligation, assumptions, % SEK m SEK m Discount rate 0.5 2 063 -1 808 Expected salary increase 1.0 962 -1 287 Pension indexing 0.5 988 -1 430 The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. When calculating the sensitivity of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation to signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions, the same method has been applied as when calculating the pension liability recognised within the statement of ﬁnancial position. The method is described in the accounting principles (see note G1, section 20). Through its deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans, the Bank is exposed to a number of risks, the most signiﬁcant of which are detailed below: Asset volatility: The plan liabilities are calculated using a discount rate set with reference to corporate bond yields. If plan assets underperform this yield, this will create a deﬁcit. The pension plans hold a signiﬁcant proportion of equities, which are expected to outperform corporate bonds in the longterm while providing volatility and risk in the short term. The Bank believes that due to the long term nature of the plan liabilities, a level of continuing equity investment is an appropriate element of the Bank’s long term strategy to manage the plans efﬁciently. Changes in bond yields: A decrease in corporate bond yields will increase plan liabilities, although this will be partially offset by an increase in the value of the plans’ bond holdings. Inﬂation risk: The plans’ beneﬁt obligations are linked to inﬂation, and higher inﬂation will lead to higher liabilities. The plan’s assets are not affected by inﬂation in a material way, meaning that an increase in inﬂation will also increase the deﬁcit. Life expectancy: The plans’ obligations are to provide beneﬁts for the life of the member, so increases in life expectancy will result in an increase in the plans’ liabilities. Asset-Liability matching (ALM):The composition of the plan assets is matched to the pension liabilities composition and expected development. The overall goal is to generate a return, over the medium and long term, that at least corresponds to the development of the pension liability. The largest part of the plan assets is invested in equities, but investments are also made in ﬁxed income instruments and cash. A high proportion of shares is deemed appropriate in order to manage the plans effectively. Funding arrangements: Funding levels are monitored regularly. The Bank considers that the current contribution rate is appropriate. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 107 NOTES | GROUP G9 Other expenses Remuneration to auditors KPMG Ernst & Young AB and audit companies SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 Property and premises -1 118 -1 232 Audit assignment -12 -11 -3 -3 External IT costs -1 704 -1 588 Audit operations outside the audit Communication -369 -345 assignment -4 -6 0 0 Travel and marketing -378 -392 Tax advice 0 0 -1 -1 Purchased services -1 031 -1 003 Other services 0 0 0 0 Supplies -202 -190 Internal audit costs were SEK 132m (129) during the year. Other administrative expenses -379 -319 Total -5 181 -5 069 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -687 -763 Variable fee -109 -20 Total -796 -783 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2013, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 165m (130). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. G10 Loan losses SEK m 2013 2012 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year's provision -1 287 -1 460 Reversal of previous provisions 289 344 Total -998 -1 116 Collective provision The year's net provision for individually assessed loans -60 77 The year’s net provision for homogeneous loans 15 5 Total -45 82 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items -9 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 0 0 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items -10 5 Total -19 5 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -1 503 -1 383 Utilised share of previous provisions 1 174 975 Recoveries 196 186 Total -133 -222 Net loan losses -1 195 -1 251 Impaired loans etc SEK m 2013 2012 Impaired loans 6 944 7 325 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -3 454 -3 725 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value -92 -115 Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -357 -288 Net impaired loans 3 041 3 197 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 56.2 56.4 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.18 0.18 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding collective provisions, % 51.1 52.4 Non-performing loans but not impaired loans 2 150 2 563 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 30 41 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. Non-performing loans are loans where interest, repayments or overdrafts have been due for payment for more than 60 days. For other deﬁnitions, see page 216. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 108 NOTES | GROUP Change in provision for probable loan losses 2013 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 725 -288 -115 -4 128 The year's provision -1 287 -60 -55 -1 402 Reversal of previous provisions 289 15 304 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 174 56 1 230 Foreign exchange effect etc. 95 -9 7 93 Provision at end of year -3 454 -357 -92 -3 903 Change in provision for probable loan losses 2012 Collective Provision for Provision for provision for collectively Total provision individually individually assessed for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans homogeneous loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 680 -366 -115 -4 161 The year's provision -1 460 -82 -1 542 Reversal of previous provisions 344 77 15 436 Utilised for actual loan losses 975 72 1 047 Foreign exchange effect etc. 96 1 -5 92 Provision at end of year -3 725 -288 -115 -4 128 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans by sector 2013 Loans past due Of which past >60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due >60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 634 -790 844 689 1 316 Housing co-operative associations 101 -33 68 45 7 Property management 1 299 -394 905 560 526 Manufacturing 890 -517 373 189 9 Retail 705 -362 343 210 42 Hotel and restaurant 37 -24 13 11 9 Passenger and goods transport by sea 424 -423 1 1 1 Other transport and communication 110 -80 30 28 5 Construction 194 -116 78 71 88 Electricity, gas and water 72 -44 28 28 7 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 33 -25 8 7 2 Other services 153 -101 52 43 33 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 1 138 -569 569 61 4 Other corporate lending 154 -68 86 74 101 Credit institutions Total 6 944 -3 546 3 398 2 017 2 150 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans by sector 2012 Loans past due Of which past >60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due >60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 541 -852 689 584 1 611 Housing co-operative associations 32 -17 15 12 46 Property management 1 004 -365 639 365 465 Manufacturing 829 -473 356 174 118 Retail 1 085 -441 644 399 45 Hotel and restaurant 79 -36 43 42 19 Passenger and goods transport by sea 419 -406 13 13 0 Other transport and communication 288 -182 106 105 17 Construction 216 -106 110 107 66 Electricity, gas and water 88 -25 63 1 13 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 26 -15 11 9 36 Other services 415 -213 202 190 59 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 1 153 -601 552 25 13 Other corporate lending 150 -108 42 42 55 Credit institutions Total 7 325 -3 840 3 485 2 068 2 563 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 109 NOTES | GROUP G10 Cont Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans geographic distribution 2013 Loans past due Of which past >60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due >60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 605 -1 367 1 238 1 106 1 126 Norway 433 -177 256 214 310 Finland 1 090 -444 646 396 153 Denmark 1 324 -871 453 173 19 UK 320 -106 214 47 459 Netherlands 15 -3 12 12 Rest of Europe 140 -65 75 69 83 North America 1 015 -513 502 Asia 2 0 2 Total 6 944 -3 546 3 398 2 017 2 150 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans geographic distribution 2012 Loans past due Of which past >60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due >60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 762 -1 653 1 109 989 1 327 Norway 645 -292 353 207 417 Finland 1 042 -318 724 415 278 Denmark 1 239 -811 428 237 34 UK 440 -158 282 177 441 Netherlands Rest of Europe 174 -92 82 43 66 North America 1 021 -516 505 Asia 2 0 2 Total 7 325 -3 840 3 485 2 068 2 563 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually valued loans and provisions for collectively valued loans but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2013 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Retail Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 3 088 1 174 4 262 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 395 166 561 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 247 117 364 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 614 405 1 019 Past due > 12 months 608 159 767 Total 4 952 2 021 6 973 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2012 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Retail Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 3 827 1 636 5 463 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 481 154 635 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 391 119 510 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 1 035 213 1 248 Past due > 12 months 591 214 805 Total 6 325 2 336 8 661 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2013 2012 Property 392 390 Movable property 12 18 Shares 73 39 Carrying amount 477 447 Movable property mainly consists of repossessed leased assets. In addition to repossessed property shown in the table above, repossessed property is also included in discontinued operations, see note G12. The valuation principles for assets and liabilities repossessed for protection of claims are described in note G1. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 110 NOTES | GROUP G11 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets SEK m 2013 2012 Equipment 16 -1 Property 1 -2 Total 17 -3 G12 Profit for the year pertaining to discontinued operations SEK m 2013 2012 Income 2 160 1 772 Expenses -2 015 -1 645 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations 145 127 Tax -23 -10 Total 122 117 Impairments -95 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations 122 22 Operating proﬁt from discontinued operations comprises return on the Bank’s holdings in the Plastal Group. The Plastal Group’s operations consist of manufacturing of exterior plastic components for the auto industry. The Bank intends to divest operations in the Plastal Group as soon as conditions permit. A description of the Bank’s valuation policy for discountinued operations is provided in note G1. G13 Earnings per share 2013 2012 Proﬁt for the year, continuing operations, SEK m 14 173 14 016 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -119 -162 Proﬁt for the year, discontinued operations, SEK m 122 22 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax Proﬁt for the year, total operations, SEK m 14 295 14 038 of which interest expense on convertible subordinated loan after tax -119 -162 Average number of shares converted during the year (millions) 2.1 4.9 Average holdings of own shares in trading book (millions) 0.2 0.5 Average number of outstanding shares (millions) 634.8 628.5 Average dilution effect, number of shares (millions) 12.7 21.4 Average number of outstanding shares after dilution (millions) 647.5 649.9 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 22.33 22.30 after dilution 22.07 21.82 Earnings per share, discontinued operations, SEK 0.19 0.04 after dilution 0.19 0.03 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 22.52 22.34 after dilution 22.26 21.85 Earnings per share after dilution is measured by taking the effects of conversion of outstanding convertible shares into account. The implication of this is that the number of potential converted shares are added to the average number of outstanding shares and that proﬁt for the year is adjusted for the year’s interest expense on outstanding convertible subordinated loans after tax. G14 Other loans to central banks SEK m 2013 2012 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 2 540 2 444 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 32 620 9 926 Total 35 160 12 370 Of which reverse repos 360 2 820 Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 Other loans to central banks in Swedish kronor 14 999 21 278 Other loans to central banks in foreign currency 27 218 66 272 Total 42 217 87 550 Of which reverse repos 1 969 2 997 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 201 3 111 NOTES | GROUP G15 Loans to other credit institutions SEK m 2013 2012 Loans in Swedish kronor Banks 2 902 5 022 Other credit institutions 1 218 4 283 Total 4 120 9 305 Loans in foreign currency Banks 23 492 25 943 Other credit institutions 35 286 54 263 Total 58 778 80 206 Probable loan losses Total loans to other credit institutions 62 898 89 511 Of which reverse repos 33 874 59 241 Of which subordinated Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 Loans to other credit institutions in Swedish kronor 17 140 23 661 Loans to other credit institutions in Swedish kronor, insurance operations 37 35 Loans to other credit institutions in foreign currency 86 277 116 813 Loans to other credit institutions in foreign currency, insurance operations 13 9 Total 103 467 140 518 Of which reverse repos 33 560 9 097 G16 Loans to the public SEK m 2013 2012 Loans in Swedish kronor Households 627 212 596 896 Companies 491 036 515 052 National Debt Ofﬁce 5 180 16 442 Total 1 123 428 1 128 390 Loans in foreign currency Households 200 098 182 164 Companies 376 716 374 053 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 576 814 556 217 Probable loan losses -3 903 -4 128 Total loans to the public 1 696 339 1 680 479 Of which reverse repos 15 711 33 799 Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2013 2012 Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 1 116 418 1 076 757 Loans to the public in foreign currency 557 638 539 371 Total 1 674 056 1 616 128 Of which reverse repos 22 665 19 472 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 112 NOTES | GROUP G17 Interest-bearing securities 2013 2012 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 56 402 57 471 57 451 44 853 48 973 48 906 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 61 936 64 123 64 125 65 125 68 351 68 354 Total 118 338 121 594 121 576 109 978 117 324 117 260 Of which unlisted securities 3 240 3 240 2 890 2 890 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer 2013 2012 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 48 878 49 857 49 837 41 068 45 098 45 031 Credit institutions 11 044 11 453 11 455 14 251 14 879 14 882 Mortgage institutions 41 987 43 671 43 671 41 890 44 396 44 396 Other 16 429 16 613 16 613 12 769 12 951 12 951 Total 118 338 121 594 121 576 109 978 117 324 117 260 Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 Interest-bearing securities 124 215 108 865 Interest-bearing securities, insurance operations 9 139 9 802 Total 133 354 118 667 G18 Shares SEK m 2013 2012 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Listed 41 019 23 894 Non-listed 1 851 1 047 Total 42 870 24 941 Classiﬁed as available-for-sale Listed 4 369 4 176 Non-listed 1 356 1 029 Total 5 725 5 205 Total shares 48 595 30 146 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 113 NOTES | GROUP G19 Investments in associates Investments in associates SEK m 2013 2012 Non-listed 272 203 Total 272 203 Carrying amount at beginning of year 203 205 Share of proﬁt for the year 8 8 Tax -2 -3 Shareholders' contribution 30 Dividend -11 -37 Acquisitions 73 0 Divestments 0 -2 Recoveries 0 Translation difference 1 2 Carrying amount at end of year 272 203 Corporate Carrying amount SEK m identity Number of Voting Associates number Domicile shares power % 2013 2012 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 48 48 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.90 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 9 9 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.40 68 63 Dyson Group plc 163096 Shefﬁeld 122 387 481 29.99 29 16 Festival AS 993 798 304 Kristiansand 9 800 000 49.00 7 13 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 20 22 Flisekompaniet Holding AS 992 999 136 Oslo 2 400 47.00 53 0 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 2 2 Upplysningscentralen UC AB 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 36 30 Total 272 203 Financial information on associates 2013 2012 referring to 100% of the companies SEK m Assets Liabilities Income Proﬁt/loss Assets Liabilities Income Proﬁt/loss Bankomat AB 5 392 5 161 505 0 758 528 4 -24 Bankomatcentralen AB 2 1 2 0 4 4 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 3 253 3 205 56 3 1 859 1 816 41 3 BGC Holding AB1 388 112 651 23 367 114 656 14 Dyson Group plc 199 12 85 -8 232 25 109 -7 Festival AS 83 69 134 -9 109 83 172 -3 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 88 18 109 -6 97 16 106 5 Flisekompaniet Holding AS 268 267 373 1 254 349 384 -16 Getswish AB 144 133 2 -1 10 0 0 0 Upplysningscentralen UC AB1 250 91 497 47 223 86 454 36 1 Information concerning the Group. G20 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2013 2012 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance assets 76 817 63 714 Other fund assets 4 064 2 702 Share of consolidated funds not owned 5 134 3 174 Total 86 015 69 590 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 114 NOTES | GROUP G21 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market values Negative market values Over 1 yr SEK m Up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 88 150 167 633 12 731 268 514 351 923 4 179 5 155 4 318 4 521 FRA/futures 1 814 427 1 157 801 2 972 228 2 987 099 421 1 347 143 1 512 Swaps 565 399 1 069 970 437 923 2 073 292 2 437 936 30 661 57 879 30 713 59 423 Other instruments 10 0 0 Currency-related contracts Options 43 144 1 490 44 634 89 107 311 467 234 599 Futures 103 932 7 058 223 111 213 184 435 1 085 1 840 1 313 2 633 Swaps 582 997 174 939 27 685 785 621 1 012 331 10 318 14 950 7 740 12 512 Other instruments 60 1 61 107 15 120 131 Equity-related contracts Options 18 836 23 605 258 42 699 47 180 3 019 2 652 5 112 3 806 Futures 4 416 4 416 2 222 9 19 35 6 Swaps 30 271 4 273 144 34 688 20 144 691 293 2 486 1 302 Other instruments 434 0 243 677 1 977 3 14 494 588 Commodity-related contracts Options 1 871 3 196 5 067 7 197 105 161 992 1 272 Futures 17 739 5 3 303 21 047 29 542 375 367 377 384 Swaps 300 13 313 1 031 9 49 49 Other instruments 372 3 82 457 729 132 150 420 718 Credit-related contracts Options 0 Swaps 893 7 900 1 256 10 049 12 585 544 253 46 Other instruments 0 45 Other derivative contracts 0 Total 3 273 241 2 614 690 487 045 6 374 976 7 185 555 51 868 85 556 54 591 89 502 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Options 2 705 9 840 12 545 12 713 21 6 Swaps 32 352 17 866 50 218 400 178 21 425 762 3 892 Other instruments Currency-related contracts Swaps 817 817 105 994 177 766 8 300 Total 35 057 27 706 817 63 580 518 885 198 22 197 762 12 192 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 62 892 297 229 94 625 454 746 154 247 17 995 6 720 4 313 1 328 Currency-related contracts Swaps 28 808 155 731 64 175 248 714 113 968 5 935 326 7 898 6 971 Total 91 700 452 960 158 800 703 460 268 215 23 930 7 046 12 211 8 299 Total derivative instruments 3 399 998 3 095 356 646 662 7 142 016 7 972 655 75 996 114 799 67 564 109 993 Amounts set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -3 949 -6 035 -3 949 Net amount in the balance sheet 69 961 110 850 61 529 106 044 Cleared derivatives 2 429 187 2 583 355 3 153 1 967 3 346 3 206 Currency breakdown of market values SEK 32 046 179 679 209 182 355 265 USD 44 929 -89 681 -204 134 -309 179 EUR 98 651 45 513 15 845 -81 760 Other -99 630 -20 712 46 671 145 667 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day-1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day-1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 396m (341) at year-end. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 115 NOTES | GROUP G22 Offsetting of financial instruments 2013 Repurchase agreements, securities lending/borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 75 996 53 586 129 582 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 69 961 53 586 123 547 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Collateral received -10 540 -53 569 -64 109 Net amount 18 385 17 18 402 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 67 564 8 352 75 916 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 61 529 8 352 69 881 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Assets pledged -4 793 -7 889 -12 682 Net amount 15 700 463 16 163 2012 Repurchase agreements, securities lending/borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 114 799 96 313 211 112 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -3 949 -3 949 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 110 850 96 313 207 163 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -78 534 -78 534 Collateral received -9 230 -96 290 -105 520 Net amount 23 086 23 23 109 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 109 993 14 686 124 679 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -3 949 -3 949 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 106 044 14 686 120 730 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -78 534 -78 534 Assets pledged -6 647 -14 686 -21 333 Net amount 20 863 20 863 Derivative instruments are set off in the balance duced through netting agreements, i.e. netting for the net exposure. The collateral used is sheet when the settlement of two or more positive values against negative values in all demainly cash, but government securities are also derivatives reﬂects the Bank’s anticipated rivative transactions with the same counterparty used. Collateral for repurchase agreements and cash ﬂows. This occurs when the Bank has in a bankruptcy situation. Handelsbanken’s borrowing and lending of securities is normally both a contractual right and intention to settle policy is to sign netting agreements with all bank in the form of cash or other securities. the agreed cash ﬂows with a net amount. The counterparties. Netting agreements are suppleremaining counterparty risk in derivatives is remented with agreements for issuing collateral H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 116 NOTES | GROUP G23 Intangible assets 2013 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2013 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 273 3 143 1220 7 639 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 144 51 209 336 740 Disposals and retirements -82 -82 Foreign exchange effect 14 3 15 2 34 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 431 57 367 1 476 8 331 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -31 -402 -433 Disposals and retirements 82 82 Amortisation for the year -6 -13 -121 -140 Impairments for the year -2 -2 Foreign exchange effect 0 -1 -2 -3 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -6 -45 -445 -496 Carrying amount 6 431 51 322 1 031 7 835 2012 Trademarks Internally and other Customer developed Total SEK m Goodwill rights contracts software 2012 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 6 352 3 149 911 7 415 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 333 333 Disposals and retirements -21 -21 Foreign exchange effect -79 -6 -3 -88 Cost of acquisition at end of year 6 273 3 143 1 220 7 639 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -25 -311 -336 Disposals and retirements 21 21 Amortisation for the year -7 -111 -118 Impairments for the year -3 -3 Foreign exchange effect 1 2 3 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -31 -402 -433 Carrying amount 6 273 3 112 818 7 206 Intangible assets with an Goodwill indeﬁnite useful life SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 Branch operations in Sweden 3 331 3 331 Branch operations in the UK 152 Branch operations in Finland 15 15 Branch operations in Denmark 2 224 2 148 Branch operations in Norway 699 769 Capital Markets 10 10 3 3 Total 6 431 6 273 3 3 Impairment testing of goodwill and For the ﬁrst ﬁve years, estimated future cash requirement. In the annual impairment testing, intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful life ﬂows are based on forecasts of risk-weighted the discount rate was 7.6 per cent after tax Recognised goodwill mainly derives from tradivolumes, income, expenses and loan losses. (7.9). The corresponding rate before tax was tional banking operations on Handelsbanken’s The forecasts are mainly based on an internal 10.8 per cent (10.9). home markets. Goodwill and intangible assets assessment of the future income and cost The difference between the recoverable with an indeﬁnite useful life are tested for impairdevelopment, economic climate, expected amounts and the carrying amounts in the annual ment annually in connection with the closing of interest rates and the expected impact of future impairment test of goodwill was deemed to the annual accounts. When performing impairregulations. After the ﬁrst ﬁve-year period, a be satisfactory. The calculated value in use of ment testing, the value in use of the units to forecast is made based on the assumption of goodwill is sensitive to a number of different which goodwill has been allocated is calculated a long-term growth rate. The estimated cash variables, which are signiﬁcant for expected by discounting estimated future cash ﬂows and ﬂows are based on historical real GDP growth, cash ﬂows and the discount rate. The varithe terminal value. In the above table goodwill as well as the Riksbank’s long-term inﬂation ables that are of greatest signiﬁcance to the has been allocated among the business segtarget. The year’s impairment test is based on calculation are assumptions for interest rates, ments. Goodwill which is followed up internally an assumption of a long-term growth rate of the business cycle, future margins and costat a lower level than business segments is 2 per cent. The total forecast period is 20 years. effectiveness. No reasonably possible change in tested at the lower level. This applies to the The terminal value used is the forecast value of the discount rate or growth rate would affect the newly acquired operations in Heartwood Wealth the net assets of the tested unit. Estimated cash reported value of goodwill. Group in the UK and to a small goodwill item ﬂows have been discounted at a rate based on allocated to the fund operations in the Capital a risk-free interest rate and a risk adjustment Markets segment. corresponding to the market’s average return H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 117 NOTES | GROUP G24 Property and equipment Property and equipment Property SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Equipment 492 475 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 092 2 086 Property 1 309 1 326 Cost of additional acquisition for the year Property repossessed for protection of claims 404 408 New construction and rebuilding 20 14 Total 2 205 2 209 Disposals and retirements Foreign exchange effect 8 -8 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measuCost of acquisition at end of year 2 120 2 092 red at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured at fair value is SEK 392m. Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -766 -717 SEK -10m on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market Amortisation for the year according to plan -45 -49 observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation Impairments for the year -3 of ofﬁce properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation Disposals and retirements interest rates. When valuing industrial property, an authorised valuer is always engaged. The Foreign exchange effect 0 3 valuation of industrial property is mainly based on the condition of the property, its location Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -811 -766 and alternative areas of use. As far as possible, the material for these assumptions is taken from external market observations. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 48m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G39. Valuations Carrying amount 1 309 1 326 where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 344m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK -17m. The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 81m of which SEK 64m Property in the insurance operations was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK m 2013 2012 SEK 50m, with SEK 48m of this classiﬁed as level 3. Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 140 New acquisition Equipment SEK m 2013 2012 Revaluation Disposals and retirements -1 140 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 617 1 701 Carrying amount Cost of additional acquisition for the year 265 240 Changes due to business combinations during the year 22 Disposals and retirements -256 -309 Foreign exchange effect -21 -15 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 627 1 617 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 142 -1 166 Accumulated depreciation due to business combinations during the year -15 Amortisation for the year according to plan -260 -291 Disposals and retirements 261 304 Foreign exchange effect 21 11 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -1 135 -1 142 Carrying amount 492 475 G25 Other assets SEK m 2013 2012 Claims on investment banking settlements 7 135 7 668 Other 6 127 5 144 Total 13 262 12 812 G26 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2013 2012 Accrued interest income 5 278 5 843 Other accrued income 1 649 1 361 Prepaid expenses 213 195 Total 7 140 7 399 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 118 NOTES | GROUP G27 Due to credit institutions Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Due in Swedish kronor Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 31 074 61 508 Banks 19 870 17 937 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 189 546 190 109 Other credit institutions 9 825 8 316 Total 220 620 251 617 Total 29 695 26 253 Of which repos 3 961 4 396 Due in foreign currency Banks 135 895 149 162 Other credit institutions 6 034 8 530 Total 141 929 157 692 Total due to credit institutions 171 624 183 945 Of which repos 748 2 391 G28 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Deposits in Swedish kronor Deposits from the public Households 208 147 191 162 Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 344 238 328 405 Companies 159 615 153 562 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 181 335 165 482 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 525 573 493 887 Total 367 762 344 724 Borrowing from the public Deposits in foreign currency Borrowing in Swedish kronor 55 329 59 491 Households 49 045 44 377 Borrowing in Swedish kronor, insurance operations 11 060 12 396 Companies 174 840 126 725 Borrowing in foreign currency 149 135 135 545 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 215 524 207 432 Total 223 885 171 102 Of which repos 10 551 11 305 Total deposits from the public 591 647 515 826 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2013 2012 Borrowing in Swedish kronor 61 378 69 126 Borrowing in foreign currency 172 180 97 271 Total 233 558 166 397 Of which repos 7 604 12 294 Of which insurance operations 10 759 11 685 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 825 205 682 223 G29 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk SEK m 2013 2012 Unit-linked and portfolio bond insurance liabilities 76 817 63 714 Other fund liabilities 4 111 2 750 Share of consolidated funds not owned 5 134 3 174 Total 86 062 69 638 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 119 NOTES | GROUP G30 Issued securities 2013 2012 Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m amount amount amount amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 15 613 17 299 19 057 19 494 Of which at amortised cost 101 101 5 996 5 992 for trading 15 512 17 198 13 061 13 502 Commercial paper in foreign currency 286 346 286 329 387 426 387 399 Of which at amortised cost 286 159 286 107 387 209 387 145 for trading 187 222 217 254 Total 301 959 303 628 406 483 406 893 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 437 977 460 093 431 356 458 751 Of which at amortised cost 437 977 459 801 276 689 295 461 for fair value hedges 292 154 667 163 290 Bonds in foreign currency 382 621 386 920 278 667 285 782 Of which at amortised cost 380 077 385 983 160 694 172 543 for fair value hedges 2 544 937 117 973 113 239 Total 820 598 847 013 710 023 744 533 Total issued securities 1 122 557 1 150 641 1 116 506 1 151 426 Turnover of own debt instruments Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Issued 1 680 745 1 713 555 Swedish kronor 475 734 490 455 Repurchased 271 918 226 080 Foreign currency 705 123 668 751 Matured 1 381 358 1 369 815 Total 1 180 857 1 159 206 G31 Short positions Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Short positions at fair value Swedish kronor 22 832 17 445 Equities 3 430 1 940 Foreign currency 1 214 2 406 Interest-bearing securities 19 415 14 261 Total 24 046 19 851 Of which other issuers 19 279 14 147 own issued 136 114 Total 22 845 16 201 G32 Insurance liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 Liability for sickness annuities 194 184 Liability for life annuities 146 149 Liability for other unsettled claims 273 286 Liability for prepaid premiums 9 47 Total 622 666 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 120 NOTES | GROUP G33 Taxes Deferred tax assets SEK m 2013 2012 2011 Derivative instruments 213 298 322 Property and equipment 37 41 45 Other 19 11 13 Total 269 350 380 Deferred tax liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 2011 Loans to the public1 6 616 6 649 7 879 Derivative instruments2 103 728 82 Intangible assets 93 32 36 Property and equipment 86 91 91 Pension assets3 464 198 1 282 Tax allocation reserve 926 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations2 14 43 52 Other 37 46 44 Total 7 413 8 713 9 466 Net deferred tax liabilities 7 144 8 363 9 086 Change in deferred taxes 2013 Recognised in Opening Recognised in other compreClosing SEK m balance income statement hensive income balance Loans to the public1 6 649 -33 6 616 Derivative instruments2 430 6 -546 -110 Intangible assets 32 -2 63 93 Property and equipment 50 -1 49 Pension assets3 198 -41 307 464 Tax allocation reserve 926 -926 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations2 43 -29 14 Other 35 -17 18 Total 8 363 -1 014 -205 7 144 Change in deferred taxes 2012 Recognised in Opening Recognised in other compreClosing SEK m balance income statement hensive income balance Loans to the public1 7 879 -1 230 6 649 Derivative instruments2 -240 670 430 Intangible assets 36 -3 -1 32 Property and equipment 46 4 0 50 Pension assets3 1 282 -170 -914 198 Tax allocation reserve 926 926 Hedges of net investments in foreign operations2 52 -9 43 Other 31 4 0 35 Total 9 086 -469 -254 8 363 Tax expenses recognised in income statement SEK m 2013 2012 Current tax Tax expense for the year -4 995 -3 567 Adjustment of tax relating to previous years 66 6 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences4 1 014 469 Total -3 915 -3 092 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 26.3 Deviations Different tax rate in insurance operations -0.5 -0.2 Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses 0.2 0.4 Changes Swedish tax rate 0.0 -8.5 Tax relating to previous years and other -0.1 0.1 Effective tax rate, % 21.6 18.1 As of January 1 2013, the Swedish corporate tax rate was changed from 26.3% to 22%. Deferred taxes in the balance sheet have been restated in accordance with the new tax rate. 1 Of which leases SEK 6,612m (6,639). 2 The deferred tax liability relating to Derivative instruments 2012 includes an adjustment of SEK 106m that was previously included in Hedges of net investments in foreign operations. 3 The deferred tax liability relating to Pensions 2012 is lowered by SEK 860m due to revised IAS 19, see note G48. 4 Change in temporary differences relating to pensions is lowered by SEK 54m due to revised IAS 19, see note G48. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 121 NOTES | GROUP G34 Provisions Provision Provision for for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m restructuring commitments provisions 2013 2012 Provisions at beginning of year 91 15 14 120 31 Provisions during the year 44 17 61 95 Utilised -40 -40 Written back -6 Provisions at end of year 51 59 31 141 120 The provision for restructuring relate to additional costs as a result of the decision to terminate rental contracts for premises. Most of the provision is expected to be settled during 2014. Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. G35 Other liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 6 777 8 093 Other 6 412 9 755 Total 13 189 17 848 G36 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2013 2012 Accrued interest expenses 16 865 17 013 Other accrued expenses 4 434 4 048 Deferred income 562 203 Total 21 861 21 264 G37 Subordinated liabilities 1 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called SEK m 2013 2012 in advance on each interest payment date from March 2019. Early redemption requires Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 472 10 897 the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. Subordinated loans in foreign currency 5 493 10 270 2 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called Total 15 965 21 167 in advance on each interest payment date from March 2014. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of Average volumes redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. 3 SEK m 2013 2012 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. The loan is a subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 2.5bn, issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 764 9 480 The loan has the status of tier 2 capital and can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. Subordinated loans in foreign currency 7 824 16 670 Conversion is possible after 1 May 2016 at an initial conversion price of SEK 256.52, correTotal 18 588 26 150 sponding to 122% of the average share price during the period 19 April–4 May 2011; the conversion price will subsequently be adjusted for dividend payments. After 31 May 2016 it will be possible to convert into Handelsbanken shares at the lower of the conversion price Speciﬁcation, subordinated and the market price of the share. The last day to initiate conversion is 30 November 2016. loans Original 4 Fixed term subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called nominal in advance on each interest payment date from October 2017. Early redemption requires amount in the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of Issue/conv./ﬁnal each Interest Outstanding redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Euribor. payment year Currency currency rate % amount 5 Other Swedish subordinated loans which are not speciﬁed here are issued in the form of IN SWEDISH KRONOR dated or perpetual subordinated loans. The total amount partly includes a subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 2.3bn, issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. 2008/perpetual1 2 350 11.000 2 348 The loan has hybrid status and can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. Conversion is 2008/perpetual2 2 905 10.500 2 897 possible after 1 June 2011 at a conversion price of SEK 187.56, corresponding to 110% of 2011/perpetual3 2 512 ﬂoating rate 2 230 the average share price during the period 6–12 May 2008, adjusted for the 2008 dividend. The outstanding nominal amount including conversions up to 31 December 2013 amounts 2012/ﬁxed-term4 1 750 4.472 1 740 to SEK 7.6m. After 21 May 2013 it is possible to convert to Handelsbanken shares at the Other Swedish5 1 257 conversion price, or the share price applying at this date if it is lower than the conversion Total 10 472 price, and the market price of the share. The additional outstanding amount constitutes one dated subordinated loan of SEK 1.25bn at ﬂoating rate. The term of this loan is ﬂexible and aims at making the instrument fully compliant with the coming regulation, CRDIV/ IN FOREIGN CURRENCY CRR. According to the terms the loan can be called in advance on each interest payment 2005/perpetual6 EUR 500 4.194 4 427 date from October 2017. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Other foreign7 1 066 6 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called in Total 5 493 advance on each interest payment date from December 2015. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of Total subordinated liabilitites 15 965 redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Euribor. 7 Other foreign subordinated loans which are not speciﬁed here are issued in the form of perpetual subordinated loans. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 122 NOTES | GROUP G38 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2013 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedge held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 185 609 334 794 334 794 Other loans to central banks 35 160 35 160 35 160 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 32 611 19 819 3 463 1 558 57 451 57 471 Loans to other credit institutions 62 898 62 898 62 413 Loans to the public 2 580 1 693 759 1 696 339 1 701 517 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 96 96 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 959 35 331 933 902 64 125 64 123 Shares 41 542 1 328 5 725 48 595 48 595 Investments in associates 272 272 272 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 85 319 696 86 015 86 015 Derivative instruments 46 692 23 269 69 961 69 961 Other assets 68 12 846 348 13 262 13 262 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 480 791 117 3 848 1 904 7 140 7 140 Total ﬁnancial assets 148 352 145 168 23 269 4 513 2 143 488 8 185 3 133 2 476 108 2 480 723 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 13 698 Total assets 2 489 806 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 171 624 171 624 173 128 Deposits and borrowing from the public 825 205 825 205 824 904 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 85 366 696 86 062 86 062 Issued securities 17 420 1 133 221 1 150 641 1 167 147 Derivative instruments 48 790 12 739 61 529 61 529 Short positions 22 845 22 845 22 845 Other liabilities 19 13 170 13 189 13 189 Accrued expenses and deferred income 357 21 504 21 861 21 861 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 15 965 17 710 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 89 431 85 366 12 739 2 181 385 2 368 921 2 388 375 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 9 546 Total liabilities 2 378 467 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 123 NOTES | GROUP G38 Cont 2012 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedge held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair 1 SEK m Trading Other instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 236 545 236 545 236 545 Other loans to central banks 12 370 12 370 12 370 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 26 474 17 622 3 759 1 051 48 906 48 973 Loans to other credit institutions 89 511 89 511 89 292 Loans to the public 4 078 1 676 401 1 680 479 1 689 938 Value change of interest hedged item in portfolio hedge 5 271 5 271 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 30 535 35 073 1 340 1 406 68 354 68 351 Shares 23 078 1 863 5 205 30 146 30 146 Investments in associates 203 203 203 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 68 565 1 025 69 590 69 590 Derivative instruments 83 357 27 493 110 850 110 850 Other assets 28 12 784 12 812 12 812 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 229 1 043 118 6 009 0 7 399 7 399 Total ﬁnancial assets 163 701 128 244 27 493 5 217 2 039 916 7 662 203 2 372 436 2 376 469 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 11 515 Total assets 2 383 951 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 183 945 183 945 186 259 Deposits and borrowing from the public 682 223 682 223 682 320 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 68 613 1 025 69 638 69 638 Issued securities 13 756 1 137 670 1 151 426 1 167 175 Derivative instruments 85 933 20 111 106 044 106 044 Short positions 16 201 16 201 16 201 Other liabilities 19 17 829 17 848 17 848 Accrued expenses and deferred income 54 21 210 21 264 21 264 Subordinated liabilities 21 167 21 167 22 507 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 115 963 68 613 20 111 2 065 069 2 269 756 2 289 256 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 10 345 Total liabilities 2 280 101 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets Holdings classiﬁed as loans Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed from from SEK m held for trading available for sale Carrying amount 74 5 375 Fair value 74 5 464 Carrying amount at reclassiﬁcation 1 July 2008 3 041 19 722 Carrying amount at beginning of 2013 96 7 782 Fair value at beginning of 2013 95 7 930 Value change recognised in income statement in 2013 170 Value change recognised in income statement in 2012 -5 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income in 2013 0 -3 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income in 2012 -5 -177 Value change which would have been recognised in income statement in 2013 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 1 170 Value change which would have been recognised in income statement in 2012 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 2 -5 Value change which would have been recognised in other comprehensive income in 2013 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed -25 Value change which would have been recognised in other comprehensive income in 2012 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 266 Proportion of amortisations and maturities since reclassiﬁcation 99.5% 75.1% Interest recognised as income 2013 69 137 The table shows the effects on reported amounts of the reclassiﬁcation of parts of the Group’s liquidity portfolio that was carried out on 1 July 2008. Since this date, no further reclassiﬁcations have been carried out. Unrealised proﬁt and loss on assets previously classiﬁed as available for sale is amortised over the remaining lifetime of the instruments. The amounts which would have affected the income statement/other comprehensive income as stated above, if the reclassiﬁcation had not been carried out, comprise the period’s change in fair value of the holdings which remained in the balance sheet at the end of the ﬁnancial year. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 124 NOTES | GROUP G39 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Valuation process models and input data which form the basis rum for spreading information and for preparing Handelsbanken’s independent central risk conof the valuations are regularly validated by the major matters in the valuation area. trol is responsible for the existence of appropririsk control to ensure that they are consistent ate processes, instructions and an appropriate with market practice and established ﬁnancial Differences between the transaction price allocation of responsibilities for valuation of theory. New and changed valuation models are and the value produced using a valuation ﬁnancial instruments at fair value in the Handelsalways validated before they come into use. The model banken Group. Independent Risk Control is also risk control also performs a regular assessment As stated in the accounting policies in note G1, responsible for issuing guidelines and approving of the uncertainty in the valuations. when performing model valuation of derivatives, general valuation instructions. Valuation matters which are of principle material positive differences between the valuThe daily valuation work is performed by importance are discussed by the Group’s valuation at initial recognition and the transaction local units. The basic principles for valuation of ation committee which includes representatives price (so-called day-1 gains) are amortised over ﬁnancial instruments at fair value is described in of both central and local risk control as well as the life of the derivative. As a consequence of the Group’s accounting policies in Note G1. In ﬁnancial functions. The valuation committee the application of this principle, SEK 81 million general, the valuations are based on externally ensures that general instructions for valuation of (55) has been recognised in net gains/losses generated data as far as is possible considerﬁnancial instruments are consistently followed on ﬁnancial transactions during the year. At the ing the circumstances in each case. In the case throughout the Group and serve as support for end of the year, non-recognised day-1 gains of model valuation, valuation models that are decision-making in valuation and accounting amounted to SEK 396 million (341). established in the market are always used. The matters. The valuation committee is also a foFinancial instruments at fair value 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 32 611 32 611 Denominated at fair value 19 819 19 819 Available for sale 1 558 1 558 Loans to the public 2 562 18 2 580 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 881 5 078 26 959 Denominated at fair value 30 149 5 182 35 331 Available for sale 582 320 902 Shares Held for trading 40 283 1 183 76 41 542 Denominated at fair value 733 595 1 328 Available for sale 4 368 640 717 5 725 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 84 829 490 85 319 Derivative instruments 1 333 68 628 69 961 Total 238 146 83 593 1 896 323 635 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 84 876 490 85 366 Issued securities 4 17 332 84 17 420 Derivative instruments 2 158 59 371 61 529 Short positions 21 951 894 22 845 Total 108 989 77 597 574 187 160 Financial instruments at fair value 2012 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 44 808 339 45 147 Loans to the public 4 054 24 4 078 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 53 204 13 810 67 014 Shares 28 060 526 1 560 30 146 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 68 565 68 565 Derivative instruments 1 242 109 608 110 850 Total 195 879 128 337 1 584 325 800 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 68 613 68 613 Issued securities 5 13 674 77 13 756 Derivative instruments 2 508 103 536 106 044 Short positions 15 430 771 16 201 Total 86 556 117 981 77 204 614 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 125 NOTES | GROUP G39 Cont Valuation hierarchy Financial instruments valued using models In all material respects, unlisted shares are In the tables, ﬁnancial instruments at fair value which to a material extent are based on input classiﬁed as available for sale. Value changes have been categorised in terms of how the valudata that is not possible to verify using external for these holdings are thus reported in other ations have been carried out and the extent of market information, are categorised as level 3. comprehensive income. market data used in the valuation. The categoThese holdings mainly consist of unlisted holdLevel 3 also includes loans at fair value and risation is shown as levels 1–3 in the table. The ings of equities and mutual fund units. Changes for which the valuation has been affected matecategorisation is based on the valuation method in level 3 holdings during the year are shown in a rially by a credit risk assumption which cannot used on the balance sheet date. If the category separate table. be veriﬁed with externally generated data. A for a speciﬁc instrument has changed since Investments in private equity funds are valued reasonable possible change in these credit risk the previous balance sheet date (31 December using valuation models mainly based on a relaassumptions would not have any signiﬁcant 2012), the instrument has been moved between tive valuation of comparable listed companies effect on the Group’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt. the levels in the table. in the same sector. The performance measureValue changes of loans at fair value are reported Financial instruments which are valued at the ments used in the comparison are adjusted for in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. current market price are categorised as level factors which distort the comparison between During the year, a review has been completed 1. These ﬁnancial instruments mainly comprise the investment and the company used for comof the valuation of assets and liabilities which are government instruments and other interestparison. Subsequently, the valuation is based reported as Assets or Liabilities where the cusbearing securities that are traded actively, listed on earnings multiples, e.g. P/E ratios. Value tomer bears the value change risk. As a result equities and short positions in corresponding changes and capital gains on investments in of this, SEK 490 million has been transferred assets. Level 1 also includes the majority of private equity funds which comprise part of the between level 1 and level 3 under both items. shares in mutual funds and other assets which investment assets in the insurance operations The items consist of fund shares which the are related to unit-linked insurance contracts are not reported directly in the income stateBank owns but for which the counterparty bears and similar agreements and the corresponding ment but are included in the basis for calculating the value change risk and the corresponding liabilities. the yield split in the insurance operations. liability. The year’s realised value changes on ﬁFinancial instruments which are valued using The Group’s holdings of unlisted securities nancial instruments in level 3 is SEK 141 million, valuation models which substantially are based mainly consist of the Bank’s participating interof which SEK 147 million is included for calculaon market data are categorised as level 2. Level ests in various types of joint operations which tion of the yield split in the insurance operations. 2 mainly includes interest-bearing securities and are related to the Bank’s business. For example, The remaining amount has been recognised in interestand currency-related derivatives. Since these may be participating interests in clearing net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions. the last ﬁnancial year, interest-bearing securities organisations and infrastructure collaboration worth SEK 1,733 million have been moved from on Handelsbanken’s home markets. In general, level 2 to level 1 due to increased market activsuch holdings are valued at the Bank’s share of ity. In addition, shares worth SEK 5 million have the company’s net asset value, or alternatively been moved from level 1 to level 2. at the price of the last completed transaction. Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2013 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 560 24 -77 Acquisitions/Issues 107 -1 Repurchases/Sales -304 Matured -1 -2 Unrealised value change in income statement -12 0 -6 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 38 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 3 490 -490 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -8 Carrying amount at end of year 1 388 18 490 -490 -84 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2012 Assets where the Liabilities where the Derivatives Loans to customer bears the customer bears the Issued SEK m Shares net position the public value change risk value change risk securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 1 802 -3 25 -77 Acquisitions/Issues 84 Repurchases/Sales -397 2 Matured -6 The period’s value change realised in the income statement 76 Unrealised value change in income statement 23 0 -2 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income -28 -1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 6 Transfer to level 1 or 2 3 Carrying amount at end of year 1 560 24 -77 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 126 NOTES | GROUP Principles for information about the fair The valuation of ﬁxed-rate lending is based on is categorised in the valuation hierarchy devalues of ﬁnancial instruments which are the current market rate with an adjustment for scribed above. Means of payment and deposits carried at cost or amortised cost an assumed credit and liquidity risk premium on are considered to be equivalent to cash and Information about the fair values of ﬁnancial market terms. The premium is assumed to be have been categorised as level 1. Level 1 also instruments which are carried at cost or amorthe same as the average margin for new lending contains interest-bearing securities (assets and tised cost is given in note G38 and in the below at the time of the measurement. Interest-bearliabilities) for which there is a current market table. These instruments essentially comprise ing securities have been valued at the current price. Lending where the assumption about lending, deposits and funding. For means of market price where this has been available. credit and liquidity premium has materially afpayment and short-term receivables and liabiliFunding and interest-bearing securities where fected the information about fair value has been ties, the carrying amount is considered to be market price information has not been found categorised as level 3. Other instruments are an acceptable estimate of the fair value. Thus, have been valued using a valuation model categorised as level 2. these items have not been subject to fair value based on market data in the form of prices or measurement. Receivables and liabilities with interest for similar instruments. the maturity date or the date for next interest In the table below, the valuation used for rate ﬁxing falling within 30 days are deﬁned as the information about the fair value of ﬁnancial short-term. instruments reported at cost or amortised cost Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments recognised at cost or amortised cost 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 334 794 Other loans to central banks 2 668 32 492 35 160 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 3 483 3 483 Loans to other credit institutions 15 228 46 248 937 62 413 Loans to the public 5 779 29 246 1 663 912 1 698 937 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 931 931 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 313 383 696 Total 362 883 108 299 1 665 232 2 136 414 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 33 487 139 641 173 128 Deposits and borrowing from the public 684 914 139 990 824 904 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 696 696 Issued securities 644 538 505 189 1 149 727 Subordinated liabilities 17 710 17 710 Total 1 362 939 803 226 2 166 165 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 127 NOTES | GROUP G40 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt SEK m 2013 2012 Cash 5 010 5 000 Government instruments and bonds 21 860 55 676 Loans to the public 619 110 610 659 Equities 3 086 161 Assets registered on behalf of insurance policyholders 92 197 79 188 Other 13 002 Total 754 265 750 684 Other pledged assets SEK m 2013 2012 Cash 702 257 Government instruments and bonds 30 483 679 Equities 6 482 1 628 Other 4 012 Total 41 679 2 564 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets pledged loans, securities are received that can be sold terparty. According to the standard terms of a Assets pledged in the form of interest-bearing or repledged to a third party. Such securities repurchase agreement, the right of ownership securities mainly comprise securities pledged are not reported in the balance sheet. The of the sold securities is transferred in its entirety as collateral to central banks and other credit fair value of received securities under reverse from the seller to the buyer. This means that the institutions, for payment systems, securities repurchase agreements and agreements on buyer has the right to sell on, repledge or othertrading and clearing and also securities sold equity loans was SEK 34,306 million (33,528) wise dispose of the purchased securities. under binding repurchase agreements. at the end of the ﬁnancial year, where collateral According to the standard agreements for eqAssets pledged in the form of equities mainly worth SEK 1,050 million (11,452) had been sold uity loans, the exposure to the value change in the comprise lent equities. or repledged to a third party. Information about lent equity remains with the lender. Lent equities Loans to the public pledged as security received pledges for lending and other received thus remain in the balance sheet throughout the mainly comprise collateral registered for the collateral is shown in note G2. life of the loan. Collateral for lent securities is norbeneﬁt of holders of covered bonds issued by mally in the form of cash or other securities. Cash Stadshypotek. The collateral mainly comprises Transferred ﬁnancial assets reported in the collateral received is carried as a liability in the loans granted against mortgages in single-famibalance sheet balance sheet. In the same way as for repurchase ly homes, second homes, multi-family dwellings Transferred ﬁnancial assets are assets where the agreements, the standard agreement used for or housing co-operatives with a loan-to-value rights to future cash ﬂows are directly or indirectly equity loans means that during the life of the loan, ratio within 75 per cent of the market value. In transferred to an external counterparty. Most of the borrower has the right to sell on, repledge or the event of the company’s insolvency, pursuant the transferred ﬁnancial assets carried in the balotherwise dispose of the borrowed securities. to the Covered Bonds Act and the Right of Priance sheet comprise interest-bearing securities Government instruments, bonds and equities ority Act, the holders of the covered bonds have which have been sold under binding repurchase provided as collateral for securities trading, prior rights to the pledged assets. If, at the time agreements and lent equities. Normally the terms clearing etc. where the title to the instrument of a bankruptcy decision, the assets in the total for the binding repurchases and equity loans are has been transferred to the counterparty are collateral fulﬁl the terms of the Act, these must stipulated in framework agreements between the reported as other transferred ﬁnancial assets. be kept separate from the bankruptcy estate’s Bank and the respective counterparty. Transferred ﬁnancial assets also includes certain other assets and liabilities. The holders of the Binding repurchase agreements imply selling assets where the customer bears the value bonds will then receive contractual payments securities with an undertaking to repurchase change risk. This item comprises portfolios of under the terms of the bond until maturity. them at a ﬁxed price at a pre-determined time ﬁnancial instruments where the Bank has the Assets registered on behalf of insurance in the future. The seller of the securities thus formal right of ownership but where the risks policyholders comprise assets under life insurcontinues to be exposed to the risk of value related to the assets and also the right to future ance contracts in Handelsbanken Liv where the changes during the life of the agreement. Secucash ﬂows have been transferred to a third party. policyholders have priority rights. rities sold under repurchase agreements remain The valuation of these assets reﬂects the valuaat market value in the balance sheet throughout tion of the corresponding liability item. Collateral received the life of the agreement. The purchase price For reverse repurchase agreements and equity received is reported as a liability to the counTransferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2013 2012 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 3 641 3 086 453 1121 Shares, other 5 927 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 6 685 6 689 5 706 5 705 Government instruments and bonds, other 1 184 57 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 203 2 203 1 025 1 025 Total 19 640 11 978 7 241 6 842 1 Received cash collateral. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 128 NOTES | GROUP G41 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 Guarantees, loans 8 371 10 723 Guarantees, other 58 568 39 913 Letters of credit 4 842 26 004 Other 2 348 4 183 Total 74 129 80 823 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. G42 Other commitments SEK m 2013 2012 Loan commitments 246 518 239 774 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 122 572 132 534 Other 9 046 20 779 Total 378 136 393 087 Contracted irrevocable, future operating lease charges distributed by the year they fall due for payment SEK m 2013 2012 2014 701 530 2015–2018 1 781 1 101 2019 and later 564 373 Total 3 046 2 004 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. G43 Leases Disclosures on gross investment and present value of future minimum lease payments SEK m 2013 2012 Gross investment 43 308 47 984 The present value of future minimum lease payments at balance sheet date 40 375 44 111 Distribution of gross investment and minimum lease payments by maturity Between Over SEK m Within 1 yr 1 and 5 yrs 5 yrs Total 2013 Distribution of gross investment 4 181 15 847 23 280 43 308 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 4 157 15 368 20 850 40 375 2012 Distribution of gross investment 5 477 16 756 25 751 47 984 Distribution of the present value of future minimum lease payments 5 439 16 146 22 526 44 111 Unearned ﬁnance income SEK m 2013 2012 Unearned ﬁnance income 2 932 3 873 The Group is lessor in all ﬁnance leases. All leases have guaranteed residual values. The book value of the provision for impaired loans with respect to minimum lease payments is SEK 22m (36). The variable part of the lease fee included in this year’s proﬁt is SEK 431m (742). The decrease is partly due to the lower interest rates in 2013 compared with 2012 but also to lower volumes. At the end of the year in the Group there were six lease exposures each with an individual carrying amount exceeding SEK 1bn. The total carrying amount of these exposures was SEK 18.9bn (19.8) which is equivalent to 1.1% of the Group’s total credit volume as at 31 December 2013. The carrying amount of the largest individual exposure was SEK 8.3bn (8.7). The average remaining maturity for this exposure was 6.2 years (7.2). These exposures are in the transport and energy sectors. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 129 NOTES | GROUP G44 Segment reporting Segment reporting 2013 Home markets Branch HandelsBranch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations banken Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the InterCapital and Continuing SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands national Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 16 424 2 624 1 519 1 219 3 574 230 660 151 313 -45 26 669 Net fee and commission income 3 528 213 329 412 364 23 308 2 658 -31 7 804 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 462 120 97 40 83 1 79 977 -502 1 357 Risk result, insurance 142 142 Share of proﬁt of associates 9 9 Other income 27 13 18 5 12 6 10 255 346 Total income 20 441 2 970 1 963 1 676 4 033 254 1 053 3 938 44 -45 36 327 Staff costs -3 300 -1 059 -546 -331 -662 -96 -510 -2 033 -2 858 -9 -11 404 Other administrative expenses -1 190 -243 -175 -145 -232 -21 -181 -785 -2 209 -5 181 Internal purchased and sold services -3 027 -317 -252 -239 -368 -56 -153 31 4 336 45 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -87 -41 -17 -10 -10 -1 -11 -50 -249 -476 Total expenses -7 604 -1 660 -990 -725 -1 272 -174 -855 -2 837 -980 36 -17 061 Proﬁt before loan losses 12 837 1 310 973 951 2 761 80 198 1 101 -936 -9 19 266 Net loan losses -357 -168 -161 -268 -169 -7 -65 -1 195 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 9 1 0 0 0 0 7 17 Operating proﬁt 12 489 1 143 812 683 2 592 73 133 1 101 -929 -9 18 088 Proﬁt allocation 902 30 47 70 43 4 38 -1 134 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 391 1 173 859 753 2 635 77 171 -33 -929 -9 18 088 Internal income 1 -1 104 -1 212 -395 -417 -3 606 -140 -50 -1 414 8 338 C/I ratio, % 35.6 55.3 49.3 41.5 31.2 67.4 78.4 101.2 47.0 Loan loss ratio, % 0.03 0.14 0.25 0.30 0.08 0.05 0.22 0.07 Assets 1 325 261 194 503 78 830 153 436 202 567 33 039 76 640 294 607 1 533 505 -1 402 582 2 489 806 Liabilities 1 263 456 186 859 73 482 147 315 190 444 32 221 72 419 291 546 1 533 505 -1 412 780 2 378 467 Allocated capital 61 805 7 644 5 348 6 121 12 123 818 4 221 3 061 10 198 111 339 Return on allocated capital, % 17.7 13.2 12.7 9.9 17.0 7.7 3.1 13.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 71 22 37 10 14 8 22 225 233 642 The year's investments in associated companies 53 53 Average number of employees 4 420 1 260 624 490 650 102 511 1 464 1 982 11 503 1 Internal income which is included in total income comprises income from transactions with other operating segments. Since interest income and interest expense are reported net as income, this means that internal income includes the net amount of the internal funding cost among segements. Geographical information 2013 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 17 925 2 429 2 623 7 951 4 101 394 904 36 327 Assets 1 458 999 97 940 142 878 215 909 219 267 26 520 328 293 2 489 806 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 515 41 13 21 22 8 22 642 Income and assets presented in the Geographical information are composed only of external income and assets in the respective country. The business segments are recognised in are located outside Sweden. Each regional with the Bank, regardless of the segment where compliance with IFRS 8, Operating Segments, bank is led by a head of regional bank, and is the transaction was performed. Furthermore, which means that the segment information is monitored as an independent proﬁt centre. The income and expenses for services performed presented in a similar manner to that which is Capital Markets segment is Handelsbanken’s internally are reported net on the separate applied internally as part of company governinvestment bank, including securities trading line “Internal purchased and sold services”. ance. Handelsbanken’s operations are presentand investment advisory services. Its operations Transactions among the segments are reported ed in the following segments: Branch operations also include asset management and insurance primarily according to the cost price principle. in Sweden, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway operations. The Other and Adjustments and eliminations and the Netherlands; Handelsbanken InternaProﬁt/loss for the segments is reported columns show items which do not belong to tional and Capital Markets. Handelsbanken’s before and after internal proﬁt allocation. Internal a speciﬁc segment or which are eliminated at branch operations, which provide universal proﬁt allocation means that the unit which is Group level. Other includes Treasury and central banking services, are divided into 14 regional responsible for the customer is allocated all the departments and also the cost of the Oktogobanks. Six of these are Swedish, and eight proﬁts deriving from its customers’ transactions nen proﬁt-sharing plan which is SEK 1,096 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 130 NOTES | GROUP Segment reporting 2012 Home markets Branch HandelsBranch Branch Branch Branch Branch operations banken Adjustments operations operations operations operations operations in the InterCapital and Continuing SEK m in Sweden in the UK in Denmark in Finland in Norway Netherlands national Markets Other eliminations operations Net interest income 16 781 2 142 1 397 1 032 3 098 177 766 517 209 -38 26 081 Net fee and commission income 3 375 94 290 375 329 26 328 2 438 114 7 369 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 579 91 55 30 87 2 86 658 -468 1 120 Risk result, insurance 196 196 Share of proﬁt of associates 8 8 Other income 18 15 19 5 15 2 11 203 288 Total income 20 753 2 342 1 761 1 442 3 529 205 1 182 3 820 66 -38 35 062 Staff costs -3 157 -793 -537 -326 -700 -77 -526 -2 255 -2 745 -51 -11 167 Other administrative expenses -1 218 -178 -173 -143 -235 -18 -192 -768 -2 144 -5 069 Internal purchased and sold services -2 828 -201 -235 -208 -316 -37 -108 -127 4 022 38 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -90 -12 -16 -21 -12 -7 -13 -54 -239 -464 Total expenses -7 293 -1 184 -961 -698 -1 263 -139 -839 -3 204 -1 106 -13 -16 700 Proﬁt before loan losses 13 460 1 158 800 744 2 266 66 343 616 -1 040 -51 18 362 Net loan losses -420 -151 -368 -128 -200 0 16 -1 251 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets 0 -1 -2 0 0 -3 Operating proﬁt 13 040 1 006 432 616 2 066 66 357 616 -1 040 -51 17 108 Proﬁt allocation 641 15 27 44 31 1 20 -779 0 Operating proﬁt after proﬁt allocation 13 681 1 021 459 660 2 097 67 377 -163 -1 040 -51 17 108 Internal income 1 -2 178 -1 308 -538 -689 -4 131 -235 -44 -1 167 10 290 C/I ratio, % 34.1 50.2 53.7 47.0 35.5 67.5 69.8 105.4 47.6 Loan loss ratio, % 0.04 0.16 0.61 0.15 0.11 0.00 -0.04 0.08 Assets 1 275 804 147 787 74 077 134 985 212 392 21 482 67 594 317 892 1 335 051 -1 203 113 2 383 951 Liabilities 1 218 560 141 909 69 151 129 558 200 519 20 942 63 593 313 705 1 335 051 -1 212 887 2 280 101 Allocated capital 57 244 5 878 4 926 5 427 11 873 540 4 001 4 187 9 774 103 850 Return on allocated capital, % 18.5 13.9 7.3 9.8 13.5 10.4 6.8 14.8 The year's investments in non-ﬁnancial non-current assets 78 14 2 20 7 2 15 222 228 588 The year's investments in associated companies 30 30 Average number of employees 4 397 944 617 478 647 82 536 1 550 1 941 11 192 Geographical information 2012 Other SEK m Sweden Denmark Finland Norway UK Netherlands countries Group Income 17 738 2 693 2 306 7 914 3 308 367 736 35 062 Assets 1 465 364 81 277 165 771 217 050 190 791 16 906 250 699 2 387 858 Other information Investments in non-ﬁnancial assets 531 6 10 9 14 3 15 588 million (1,020). The Adjustments and eliminacost price principle. In branch operations, Income per product area tions column includes adjustments for staff assets consist mainly of loans to the public SEK m 2013 2012 costs. Adjustments for staff costs contains the and liabilities of deposits from the public and Investment bank 4 272 4 230 difference between the Group’s pension costs also internal borrowing. In the Capital Markets Bank deposits and corporate loans 11 913 11 720 calculated in accordance with IAS 19, Employee segment, assets mainly consist of securities Finance company services 1 887 1 982 Beneﬁts, and the standard pension costs, which that are managed within the asset manageBank deposits and loans to private total SEK -564 million (-611), and compensation ment and insurance operations. The assets in individuals 4 541 4 815 from the pension foundation of SEK 555 million the Other column are mainly internal lending Mortgages 9 369 7 747 (560). to the various segments while the liabilities are Pensions and insurance 1 031 1 105 Internal income mainly consists of internal mainly external borrowings. Return on allocated Capital market 1 914 1 547 interest and commissions. The segment income capital for the segments is calculated based Trade ﬁnance 477 570 statements also include internal items in the on average allocated equity and a tax rate of Other operations 923 1 346 form of payment for internal services rendered. 22 per cent. For the Group, return on equity is Total 36 327 35 062 Internal debiting is primarily according to the calculated after reported tax. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 131 NOTES | GROUP G45 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2013 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 342 48 191 4 263 85 46 585 235 126 202 334 794 Other loans to central banks 2 540 130 11 105 21 156 229 0 35 160 Loans to other credit institutions 4 120 11 124 132 151 583 43 811 2 977 62 898 Loans to the public 1 121 986 164 903 182 613 62 231 129 807 24 378 10 421 1 696 339 of which corporate 494 774 123 076 101 809 24 965 90 892 24 313 9 199 869 028 of which households 627 212 41 827 80 804 37 266 38 915 65 1 222 827 311 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 26 826 6 727 1 137 6 21 202 1 553 57 451 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 54 921 5 651 2 667 75 734 77 64 125 Other items not broken down by currency 239 039 239 039 Total assets 1 449 774 236 726 201 917 83 704 177 204 325 251 15 230 2 489 806 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 29 695 24 208 5 252 13 315 12 156 75 355 11 643 171 624 Deposits and borrowing from the public 429 266 83 433 52 273 32 072 69 091 153 580 5 490 825 205 of which corporate 192 500 70 681 36 810 20 758 59 905 151 938 5 293 537 885 of which households 236 766 12 752 15 463 11 314 9 186 1 642 197 287 320 Issued securities 477 393 227 389 18 769 226 89 640 317 453 19 771 1 150 641 Subordinated liabilities 10 472 4 427 143 923 15 965 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 326 371 326 371 Total liabilities and equity 1 273 197 339 457 76 294 45 613 170 887 546 531 37 827 2 489 806 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency and off-balance sheet items 102 703 -125 629 -38 049 -6 362 221 290 22 683 Net foreign currency position -28 -6 42 -45 10 86 59 2012 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 1 333 77 689 8 628 73 4 148 320 498 236 545 Other loans to central banks 2 444 -422 375 9 875 98 0 0 12 370 Loans to other credit institutions 9 928 11 844 2 845 250 134 60 822 3 688 89 511 Loans to the public 1 126 737 150 201 199 231 54 637 110 953 27 488 11 232 1 680 479 of which corporate 529 830 114 036 115 970 23 374 80 975 27 426 9 808 901 419 of which households 596 907 36 165 83 261 31 263 29 978 62 1 424 779 060 Interest-bearing securites eligible as collateral with central banks 28 612 3 332 183 5 0 15 727 1 047 48 906 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 57 812 5 971 3 081 107 1 251 132 68 354 Other items not broken down by currency 247 786 247 786 Total assets 1 474 652 248 615 214 343 64 947 111 189 253 608 16 597 2 383 951 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 27 773 46 440 12 076 12 109 3 811 66 438 15 298 183 945 Deposits and borrowing from the public 413 908 65 822 57 421 23 578 43 836 72 803 4 855 682 223 of which corporate 192 469 53 594 41 591 13 088 37 894 71 543 4 631 414 810 of which households 221 439 12 228 15 830 10 490 5 942 1 260 224 267 413 Issued securities 478 244 268 211 15 999 365 64 320 310 628 13 659 1 151 426 Subordinated liabilities 10 896 4 655 4 300 186 1 130 21 167 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 345 190 345 190 Total liabilities and equity 1 276 011 385 128 85 496 36 052 116 267 450 055 34 942 2 383 951 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency and off-balance sheet items 136 415 -128 745 -28 910 5 010 196 266 18 627 Net foreign currency position -98 102 -15 -68 -181 282 22 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 132 NOTES | GROUP G46 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 Loans to credit institutions 12 Loans to the public 729 227 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Other assets 85 587 579 Total 814 239 587 579 Due to credit institutions Deposits and borrowing from the public 186 152 334 227 Issued securities Subordinated liabilities 698 400 Other liabilities 56 92 Total 186 152 1 088 719 Related parties – income and expense Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest income 8 4 0 Interest expense -2 -3 -18 -18 Fee and commission income 2 0 0 Fee and commission expense -99 -17 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 Other income 3 4 Other expenses -2 -2 -24 -21 Total -93 -18 -39 -35 A list of associated companies and information about shareholder contributions to associated companies is presented in note G19. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies comprise the group of related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbankens Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening. These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for customary banking and accounting services. No material transactions between the Group and related companies have taken place during the year. The parent company’s Swedish subsidiary has paid pension premiums for deﬁned beneﬁt pensions to Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening (pension fund) amounting to SEK 46m (42). The pension fund’s commitments to the employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by the parent company, so if Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening cannot pay its commitments, the parent company is liable to take over and pay the commitment. The pension fund’s obligations are SEK 3,557m (3,959). Svenska Handelsbanken AB has asked for compensation from Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse amounting to SEK 555m (560). Information regarding loans to senior management, conditions and other remuneration to senior management is given in note G8. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 133 NOTES | GROUP G47 Business combinations On 24 May 2013, the acquisition of Heartwood value reported in accordance with IFRS 3 was set brand were identiﬁed, the values of which can Wealth Group Limited was completed with perat approximately GBP 44 million. The acquisition be reliably measured and which are therefore taining rights, asset management agreements analysis includes fair value measurement of the reported separately. Goodwill was also identiand subsidiaries, etc. Heartwood Wealth Group assets and liabilities in Heartwood, identiﬁable inﬁed. The goodwill arising from the acquisition Limited thus became a wholly owned subsidiary tangible assets, valuation of contingent liabilities, derives mainly from the synergy beneﬁts from of Handelsbanken. The reason for the acquisideferred taxes and maximum additional purchase Handelsbanken’s established operations in the tion is to allow the Bank to expand its customer price subject to certain conditions. UK and personnel-related resources. offering in the UK and take a major step forward The table below shows how the cost of Since the acquisition, Heartwood has confor further growth in its savings business. acquisition reported in the acquisition balance tributed SEK 101 million to the year’s income. Heartwood manages around GBP 1.8 billion sheet was allocated over the acquired assets The contribution to the year’s proﬁt is only and has some 90 employees. The company has and liabilities in Heartwood at the time of the marginal. If Heartwood had been included in the operations in London and Tunbridge Wells. It acquisition. The lower part of the table shows consolidated accounts from 1 January 2013, offers services such as discretionary managethe carrying amounts and fair values for Heartthe company would have contributed SEK 160 ment, ﬁnancial advice and pension solutions. wood’s assets and liabilities. million to the Group’s income. The impact on To establish an acquisition balance sheet at the At the time of the acquisition, a customerthe year’s proﬁt would have been only marginal. time of consolidation, the cost of acquisition at fair related intangible asset and the Heartwood Carrying amount Fair value upon in Heartwood SEK m SEK m acquisition before acquisiton Recognised cost of acquisition according to IFRS 3 446 Loans to credit institutions 93 93 Intangible assets 58 Fair value of carried assets (as speciﬁed below) 101 Property and equipment 7 7 Identiﬁable intangible asset 260 Other assets 34 34 Deferred tax -59 Total assets 134 192 Total net assets acquired 302 Acquisiton goodwill 144 Other liabilities 33 33 Total liabilites 33 33 Total net assets 101 159 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 134 NOTES | GROUP G48 Restating of financial reports due to revised IAS 19 The restatement relates to accounting for deﬁned-beneﬁt pensions in accordance with IAS 19 Employee beneﬁts. The initial effect is recognised against retained earnings as of 1 January 2012. The adjusted 2011 balance sheet comprises the new opening balance for 2012. More details about the implications of the change can be found in note G1. Adjustments 2012 SEK m 2012 IAS19 Adjusted Total income 35 062 35 062 Staff costs -10 711 -456 -11 167 Other administrative expenses -5 069 -5 069 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -464 -464 Total expenses -16 244 -456 -16 700 Proﬁt before loan losses 18 818 -456 18 362 Net loan losses -1 251 -1 251 Gains/losses on disposal of property, equipment and intangible assets -3 -3 Operating proﬁt 17 564 -456 17 108 Taxes -3 038 -54 -3 092 Proﬁt for the year from continuing operations 14 526 -510 14 016 Proﬁt for the year pertaining to discontinued operations, after tax 22 22 Proﬁt for the year 14 548 -510 14 038 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 14 547 -510 14 037 Minority interest 1 1 Earnings per share, continuing operations, SEK 23.11 -0.81 22.30 after dilution 22.60 -0.78 21.82 Earnings per share, total operations, SEK 23.15 -0.81 22.34 after dilution 22.63 -0.78 21.85 Proﬁt for the year 14 548 -510 14 038 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges 2 390 2 390 Available-for-sale instruments 984 984 Translation difference for the year -126 -126 Deﬁned beneﬁt plans 2 583 2 583 Tax related to other comprehensive income -913 -568 -1 481 Total other comprehensive income 2 335 2 015 4 350 Total comprehensive income for the year 16 883 1 505 18 388 Attributable to Shareholders in Svenska Handelsbanken AB 16 882 18 387 Minority interest 1 1 Adjustments 2011 Adjustments 2012 SEK m 2011 IAS19 Adjusted 2012 IAS19 Adjusted ASSETS Net pension assets 4 775 -4 775 4 673 -3 907 766 Other assets 2 449 591 2 449 591 2 383 185 2 383 185 Total assets 2 454 366 -4 775 2 449 591 2 387 858 -3 907 2 383 951 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Deferred tax liabilities 9 466 -1 624 7 842 9 573 -860 8 713 Net pension liabilities 1 401 1 401 Other liabilities 2 350 376 2 350 376 2 271 388 2 271 388 Total liabilities 2 359 842 -223 2 359 619 2 280 961 -860 2 280 101 Other equity 1 685 1 685 5 607 5 607 Deﬁned beneﬁt plans 2 015 2 015 Retained earnings 80 516 -4 552 75 964 86 743 -4 552 82 191 Proﬁt for the year 12 323 12 323 14 547 -510 14 037 Total equity 94 524 -4 552 89 972 106 897 -3 047 103 850 Total liabilities and equity 2 454 366 -4 775 2 449 591 2 387 858 -3 907 2 383 951 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 135 NOTES | GROUP G49 Capital adequacy CAPITAL POLICY the banking group is included in the capital base. right to suspend coupon payments, in other The Bank aims to maintain a robust capital level For the Bank’s risk management, it is important words, payment of interest can be suspended which meets the risk entailed in the Group’s that in risk terms, both the Group and the bankat any time. If there are no distributable funds, operations and which exceeds the minimum reing group can be viewed as one unit. To enable coupon payments must be suspended for both quirements prescribed by legislation. A healthy efﬁcient risk management in the Group, capital types of instrument. capital level is needed to manage situations of may need to be re-allocated among the various All tier 1 capital contributions are issued ﬁnancial strain and also for other events such as companies in the Group. In general, Handelsunder the previous regulatory framework. The acquisitions and major growth in volumes. banken is able to re-allocate capital among the entire amount is therefore included according to Group companies, to the extent that is permitted the transitional arrangements in FFFS 2010:10. LEGAL CAPITAL REQUIREMENT by legislation, for example capital adequacy reThe items to be excluded from tier 1 capital According to the new capital adequacy quirements and restrictions in corporate law. The are mainly goodwill and other intangible assets, regulations, Basel II, which were introduced in Bank sees no other material or legal obstacles as well as unrealised gains on shares classiSweden on 1 February 2007 through the Act to a rapid transfer of funds from the capital base, ﬁed as available-for-sale. Deferred tax assets (2006:1371) on Capital Adequacy and Large or repayment of liabilities between the parent and write-ups of properties also reduce the Exposures of Credit Institutions and Securicompany and its subsidiaries. tier 1 capital. Neutrality adjustments are made ties Companies, the Bank must maintain a for interest-bearing instruments classiﬁed as capital base at least corresponding to the sum Tier 1 capital available-for-sale and for the effect of cash ﬂow of the capital requirements for credit risks, The tier 1 capital consists mainly of equity in the hedges on equity. Due to the changed capital market risks and operational risks. In addibanking group. Since the Group’s insurance adequacy regulations applying from 31 Decemtion to maintaining capital according to the companies are not part of the banking group, ber 2011, a deduction must be made for value minimum requirement, the Bank must make retained earnings in these companies are not adjustments for all less liquid positions measan internal capital adequacy assessment. included in the tier 1 capital. With the consent ured at fair value. The previous regulations only Handelsbanken’s capital policy – most recently of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, included illiquid positions in the trading book. adopted during 2012 – states the guidelines for certain types of perpetual subordinated loans the internal capital adequacy assessment. The may be included in the tier 1 capital (so-called Tier 2 capital Bank must also comply with a capital requiretier 1 capital contributions). The proportion The tier 2 capital contains subordinated loans, ment at the ﬁnancial conglomerate level in that may be included net after reduction items reductions relating to write-ups of property accordance with the Financial Conglomerates depends on the contractual terms of the instruand unrealised gains on shares classiﬁed as (Special Supervision) Act (2006:531). See below ments issued. In total, tier 1 capital contributions available-for-sale. The gross amount of tier 2 for more information about capital adequacy can comprise at most 50 per cent of the overall capital must never exceed the tier 1 capital. A for the ﬁnancial conglomerate. During 2013, tier 1 capital. Tier 1 capital contributions which further restriction is that the maximum amount the Bank met the statutory minimum level for its are not convertible into shares, or which can be of the dated subordinated loans which can be capital base by a good margin. More detailed redeemed by the Bank at nominal value, can included in the capital base is 50 per cent of the information about the Bank’s capital base and comprise at most 35 per cent. Innovative tier 1 total tier 1 capital. Holdings of various types of capital requirement is available in note G2, Risk capital contributions, which contain an increase subordinated liabilities are included within the and capital management, and in the document of the interest margin (a step-up), may comprise regulatory restrictions. For more details of the entitled “Handelsbanken’s risk and capital at most 15 per cent. The total scope for issuing terms of outstanding subordinated loans, see management – information according to Pillar 3” tier 1 capital contributions was SEK 78.9 billion note G37 Subordinated Liabilities. (see handelsbanken.se/ireng). at the end of 2013, including an amount of SEK 52.1 billion for tier 1 capital contributions which Deductions from tier 1 and tier 2 capital DESCRIPTION OF THE BANKING GROUP are not convertible into shares, or which can Institutions with permission to use internal The banking group consists of the parent compabe redeemed by the Bank at nominal value. ratings-based models (IRB institutions) must ny, subsidiaries and associated companies that The scope for issuing innovative tier 1 capital make a deduction for the difference between are included in the consolidated group accounts, contributions was SEK 19.2 billion. expected loan losses under the IRB model and as shown in the table on page 137. Companies Of the total of the Bank’s issued tier 1 capital the provisions for probable loan losses if the exthat are included in the group accounts but are contributions, SEK 5.3 billion are regular tier pected loan losses exceed the provisions made. excluded from the banking group are shown 1 capital contributions and SEK 5.3 billion are Deductions must also be made for capital conin the table on page 137. For capital adequacy so-called enhanced tier 1 capital contributions. tributions in certain ﬁnancial companies where purposes all companies are fully consolidated; in Regular tier 1 capital contributions issued by the there is an associated company relationship, if the group accounts, associated companies are Bank up to and including 2007 give the Bank the share of the capital exceeds 10 per cent, or consolidated using the equity method. the right to convert the instrument into equity if the total contributions exceed 10 per cent of to avoid being forced to enter into liquidation. the company’s capital. Half of these deductions DESCRIPTION OF THE CAPITAL BASE FOR For enhanced tier 1 capital contributions issued must be made from the tier 1 capital and half THE BANKING GROUP since 2008, the Bank has the right to convert from the tier 2 capital. The capital base consists of tier 1 capital and tier the instruments into equity at an earlier stage to 2 capital. The tier 1 capital consists of the equity avoid breaching regulatory requirements. In the Deductions from the total capital base and issued tier 1 capital contributions in the comcase of liquidation, both types of instruments A deduction must be made from the total capital panies which are part of the banking group where will be classiﬁed as liabilities, including the part base for the net value of recognised surpluses Handelsbanken AB is the parent institution. The that was previously converted into equity, and in pension assets. However, the deduction may tier 2 capital mainly consists of perpetual and will then have the same residual claim to the be reduced by an amount corresponding to the dated subordinated loans. Certain reductions assets of the company. This claim is subordiBank’s right to reimbursement for pension costs are subsequently made from the capital base. nate to the claims of all other creditors. Only from Handelsbanken’s pension foundation. The reductions are made from the tier 1 capital, shareholders have a poorer claim to the assets The total capital base must also be reduced by from the tier 2 capital and from the capital base of the company. For enhanced tier 1 capital contributions to insurance companies provided as a whole. Only capital from companies within contributions, the Bank has an unconditional before 20 June 2006. From 2013, half of these H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 136 NOTES | GROUP Corporate identity contributions must be made from the tier 1 Companies included in the banking group number Domicile capital and half from the tier 2 capital. Handelsbanken AB (publ)1 502007-7862 Stockholm CAPITAL REQUIREMENT SUBSIDIARIES 1 Handelsbanken applies an internal method called Handelsbanken Finans AB 556053-0841 Stockholm the IRB model for categorising risk and calculation Kredit-Inkasso AB 556069-3185 Stockholm Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 0112308-8 Helsinki of credit risk. The capital adequacy regulations Kreditt-Inkasso AS 955074203 Fredrikstad contain two different IRB approaches: a foundaHandelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 310101717882194 Shanghai tion approach and an advanced approach. In the foundation approach, the Bank uses 1 Stadshypotek AB 556459-6715 Stockholm its own method to determine the probability of Svenska Intecknings Garanti AB Sigab (inactive) 556432-7285 Stockholm the customer defaulting within one year (PD), Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 556070-0683 Stockholm while the other parameters are set by the FinanHandelsbanken Fonder AB 556418-8851 Stockholm cial Supervisory Authority. In the advanced Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 12930879 Copenhagen approach, the Bank uses its own methods to Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 1105019-3 Helsinki calculate the loss in the case of default (LGD) Handelsbanken Kapitalförvaltning AS 973194860 Oslo and the exposure at default (EAD). Handelsbanken applies the foundation IRB AB Handel och Industri 556013-5336 Stockholm method for exposures to Institutions, and for Heartwood Wealth Group Limited 05498937 London certain product and collateral types related to Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 4132340 London corporate exposures for the whole regional Heartwood Nominees Limited (inactive) 2299877 London banking operations and in the subsidiaries Heartwood Second Nominees Limited (inactive) 3193458 London Stadshypotek AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB, Private Ofﬁce limited (inactive) 4332528 London Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Ejendomsselskabet af 1. januar 2002 A/S 38300512 Herning Leasing Co Ltd and Rahoitus Oy. Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 59173812 Hillerød The advanced IRB method is applied for Forva AS 945812141 Oslo most of the exposures to Large Corporates, Lejontrappan AB (inactive) 556481-1551 Gothenburg medium-sized companies, property companies Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc1 11-3257438 New York and housing co-operative associations in the Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB (inactive) 969710-3126 Stockholm regional banking operations (excluding the Handelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB (inactive) 556679-2668 Stockholm Netherlands), Handelsbanken Capital Markets, Lokalbolig A/S 78488018 Hillerød Stadshypotek AB and Handelsbanken Finans Rådstuplass 4 AS 910508423 Bergen AB, and retail exposures in Sweden, Norway, SIL (Nominees) Limited (inactive) 1932320 London Finland and Denmark and in the subsidiaries Svenska Handelsbanken Delaware Inc. 13-3153272 Delaware Stadshypotek AB, Handelsbanken Finans AB Svenska Handelsbanken S.A.1 RCS Lux B-15992 Luxembourg and Rahoitus Oy. Svenska Property Nominees Limited (inactive) 2308524 London As at the year-end, the IRB approach covered Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 556873-0021 Stockholm approximately 87 per cent of the total riskSvenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 15.367.073/0001-93 São Paulo weighted assets in terms of credit risk calculated EFN Ekonomikanalen AB 556930-1608 Stockholm according to Basel II. For the remaining credit risk ASSOCIATES exposures, the capital requirement during 2013 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm was measured using the Basel II standard reguBDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm lations. Figures reported in this section refer to BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm the minimum capital requirements under Pillar 1 Bankgirocentralen BGC AB 556047-3521 Stockholm of the Basel II capital adequacy rules. In the table, Devise Business Transactions Sweden AB 556564-5404 Stockholm “According to Basel II” means that the ﬁgures are Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm based on the minimum capital requirements after Upplysningscentralen UC AB 556137-5113 Stockholm the transitional rules have ceased to apply. The UC Ekonomipublikationer AB 556613-0042 Stockholm transitional rules apply until further notice. UC Ljungquist Information AB 556576-7133 Stockholm Repos and securities loans are reported UC allabolag AB 556730-7367 Stockholm Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm separately in the table of capital requirement Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm according to the IRB model, since they give rise to very low capital requirements, while the 1 Credit institution. volumes vary considerably over time. The low capital requirement is because the exposure is Corporate identity reported gross and the exposure is secured. Companies not included in the banking group number Domicile The total average risk weight for IRB expoHandelsbanken Liv Försäkring AB (group excl. Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB) 516401-8284 Stockholm sures went down by 1.2 percentage points durSvenska Re S.A. RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg ing the year. The decrease is mainly due to a deHandelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 516401-6767 Stockholm crease in the average risk weight for corporate Handelsbanken Renting AB (in liquidation) 556043-2766 Stockholm exposures. This in turn is mainly due to higher Flisekompaniet Holding AS 992999136 Oslo credit volume during the year to counterparties Dyson Group plc 163096 Shefﬁeld with relatively lower risk weights combined with Plastal Industri AB 556532-8845 Gothenburg a decrease in the volume to counterparties with Festival AS 993798304 Kristiansand relatively higher risk weights. For further information about changes during the year, see the Bank’s interim reports for H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 137 NOTES | GROUP G49 Cont Capital base 2012 Not adjusted 2013 and the Bank’s disclosures according to SEK m 2013 2012 IAS 19 the special information about capital adequacy TIER 1 CAPITAL stated in Risk and capital management – inforEquity, Group 111 339 103 850 106 897 mation according to Pillar 3. Accrued dividend, current year -10 485 -6 804 -6 804 Deduction of equity outside the banking group 1 727 -1 018 -1 167 Operational risk Difference in earnings between banking group and Group -680 2 851 2 853 Handelsbanken uses the standardised apMinority interests, Group -2 -2 -2 proach according to which calculation of the Equity, capital base 101 899 98 877 101 777 capital requirement is based on the Bank’s Minority interests, banking group 602 572 572 income in various business segments. Deducted items Goodwill and other intangible assets -8 296 -7 458 -7 458 MARKET RISKS Revaluation reserve -100 -108 -108 The capital requirement for market risks is Value adjustments for positions measured at fair value -1 -14 -14 calculated for the banking group. The capital reDeferred tax assets -58 -61 -61 quirement for interest rate risks and equity price Special deduction for IRB institutions -993 -1 094 -1 094 risks is, however, only calculated for positions in Capital contribution in companies outside the banking group -3 691 -1 483 -1 483 the trading book. When calculating the capital Positions in securitisation -245 -248 -248 requirement for market risks, standardised Adjustments in accordance with stability ﬁlter methods are applied. Cash ﬂow hedges 1 518 -1 149 -1 149 Unrealised accumulated gains, shares -1 216 -797 -797 Unrealised accumulated gains/losses, ﬁxed income instruments 116 170 170 CAPITAL ADEQUACY FOR Total common equity tier 1 capital 89 535 87 207 90 107 THE FINANCIAL CONGLOMERATE Innovative tier 1 capital contributions 7 705 9 323 9 323 Institutions and insurance companies which Non-innovative tier 1 capital contributions 2 897 2 903 2 903 are part of the ﬁnancial conglomerate must Total tier 1 capital 100 137 99 433 102 333 have a capital base which is adequate in relation to the capital requirement for the ﬁnancial TIER 2 CAPITAL conglomerate. The capital base for the ﬁnancial Perpetual subordinated loans 3 133 3 133 conglomerate has been calculated by means Dated subordinated loans 3 882 4 274 4 274 of a combination of the aggregation and settleAdditional items ment method and the consolidation method. Unrealised accumulated gains, shares 1 216 797 797 This means that the capital base for the banking Revaluation reserve 100 108 108 group has been combined with the capital Deducted items base for the Handelsbanken Liv AB Försäkring Special deduction for IRB institutions -993 -1 094 -1 094 Group. Correspondingly, in order to calculate Capital contribution in companies outside the banking group -3 691 -1 483 -1 483 the requirement for the conglomerate, the Positions in securitisation -245 -248 -248 solvency requirement for the insurance group Total tier 2 capital 269 5 487 5 487 has been added to the capital requirement for Total tier 1 and tier 2 capital 100 406 104 920 107 820 the banking group. Deductable items from total capital base Capital contribution in insurance companies -4 417 -4 417 Surplus value pension assets -1 524 Total capital base for capital adequacy purposes 100 406 100 503 101 879 Capital requirements, Standardised approach1 2013 2012 Exposure amount Capital Exposure amount Capital SEK m (EAD) requirement (EAD) requirement2 Sovereign and central banks 406 996 12 301 760 9 Municipalities 57 231 2 53 038 1 Multilateral development banks 1 647 0 673 0 Institutions 2 238 45 4 606 103 Corporate 23 032 1 842 22 325 1 786 Retail 11 117 667 9 340 560 Property mortgages 36 378 1 102 25 961 790 Past due items 168 18 173 19 Other items 14 748 537 10 283 531 Total 553 555 4 225 428 159 3 799 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. 2 Capital requirement for standardised not adjusted for IAS 19. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 138 NOTES | GROUP Credit risk IRB Exposure after credit risk protection (EAD) Average risk weight % Capital requirement SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Corporate exposures 915 218 944 987 28.4 30.5 20 824 23 026 of which repos and securities loans 8 376 23 286 0.5 0.6 3 12 of which other lending, foundation approach 140 425 341 048 35.8 44.5 4 023 12 137 of which other lending, advanced approach 766 417 580 653 27.4 23.4 16 798 10 877 Small and medium-sized companies 138 597 5.2 582 Property companies 153 810 72 467 52.5 61.2 6 458 3 549 Housing co-operative associations 72 305 380 147 57.4 21.7 3 323 6 612 Large Corporates 401 705 128 039 20 7 6 435 716 Retail exposures 789 722 752 176 7.3 7.5 4 604 4 530 of which property loans 705 004 665 969 5.2 5.4 2 934 2 885 of which other 84 718 86 207 24.6 23.8 1 670 1 645 Small companies 28 358 28 596 35.3 38.1 801 872 Institutional exposures 100 503 128 748 11.9 9.5 954 976 of which repos and securities loans 48 863 76 588 0.8 0.6 31 38 of which other lending 51 640 52 160 22.3 22.5 923 938 Equity exposures 5 693 5 206 143.6 140.1 654 584 Exposures wihout a counterparty 2 204 2 279 100 100 176 182 Securitisation positions 878 1 323 3.1 3.5 2 4 Traditional securitisation 878 1 323 3.1 3.5 2 4 Synthetic securitisation Total IRB 1 842 576 1 863 315 19.0 20.2 28 015 30 174 of which repos and securities loans 57 239 99 874 0.7 0.6 34 50 of which other lending, foundation approach 200 840 402 016 36 43 5 778 13 845 of which other lending, advanced approach 1 584 497 1 361 425 17.5 14.9 22 203 16 279 Capital requirement Capital adequacy analysis, SEK m 2013 2012 % 2013 2012 Credit risk Capital requirement in Basel II compared to transitional rules 46 48 Credit risk according to standardised approach 4 225 3 654 Capital ratio according to Credit risk according to IRB approach 28 015 30 174 Basel II 21.6 20.7 Market risk transitional rules 9.9 10.0 Interest rate risk 745 880 Tier 1 ratio according to of which general risk 493 660 Basel II 21.5 20.4 of which speciﬁc risk 252 220 transitional rules 9.9 9.9 Equity price risk 11 26 Common equity tier 1 ratio according to of which general risk 3 10 Basel II 19.2 17.9 of which speciﬁc risk 6 13 transitional rules 8.8 8.7 of which funds 2 3 Capital base in relation to capital requirement Foreign exchange risk Basel II 270 258 Commodities risk 14 9 transitional rules 124 125 Settlement risk 0 3 Operational risk History concerning statutory capital requirements (not adjusted for revised IAS 19) Operational risk 4 246 4 181 SEK m 31 December 2012 Total capital requirement according to Basel II 37 256 38 927 Common equity tier 1 capital 90 107 Adjustment according to transitional rules 44 039 41 454 Total tier 1 capital 102 333 Total capital requirement according to Basel II Total capital base for capital adequacy purposes 101 879 transitional rules 81 295 80 381 Total capital requirement, Basel II 39 072 Risk-weighted assets according to Basel II transitional rules 1 016 192 1 004 763 Capital requirement, Basel II, transitional rules 80 498 Risk-weighted assets according to Basel II 465 701 486 588 Risk-weighted assets in accordance with transitional rules 1 006 219 Risk-weighted assets, Basel II 488 400 Capital adequacy ﬁnancial conglomerate SEK m 2013 2012 Capital ratio, Basel II 20.9% Capital base after reduction and adjustments 107 365 107 482 Capital ratio, transitional rules 10.1% Capital requirement 82 180 81 451 Surplus 25 185 26 031 Tier 1 ratio, Basel II 21.0% Tier 1 ratio, transitional rules 10.2% H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 139 Parent company ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Administration report Parent company Performance in the parent company Risk management The Handelsbanken share The parent company’s accounts cover parts Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance that is Shares divided into share classes of the operations that, in organisational terms, maintained through a strong risk culture which 31 December 2013 are included in branch operations within and is sustainable in the long term and applies to all % of % of outside Sweden, Capital Markets, and central areas of the Group. For a more detailed descripShare class Number capital votes departments and administrative functions. tion of the Bank’s exposure to risks, and the Class A 623 895 352 98.15 99.81 Although most of Handelsbanken’s business management of these, see note G2. Class B 11 750 443 1.85 0.19 comes from the local branches and is coTotal 635 645 795 100 100 ordinated by them, in legal terms a sizeable Principles for compensation to senior manpart of business volumes are outside the agement Two shareholders own more than ten per cent of parent company in wholly-owned subsidiaries Handelsbanken’s principles for compensation the shares: Industrivärden and the Oktogonen – particularly in the Stadshypotek AB mortgage to senior management are set out in note G8 Foundation. Detailed information on the Bank’s institution. Thus, the performance of the parent and in the principles for compensation to senior largest Swedish shareholders can be found on company is not equivalent to the performance management section of the Corporate Governpage 45. of business operations in the Group as a whole. ance Report, see page 58. Handelsbanken’s articles of association state The performance of business operations is that at shareholders’ meetings, no shareholder therefore better illustrated by the administration Recommended appropriation of proﬁts is allowed to exercise voting rights representing report for the Group. To obtain a comprehensive The Board proposes a total dividend of SEK more than ten per cent of the total number of and more representative picture of Handels16.50 per share, with the ordinary dividend votes in the Bank. For more information regardbanken’s position, results and performance, see being SEK 11.50 per share (10.75). The Board’s ing shareholders’ rights, see page 52. the Group’s administration report. recommendation for distribution of proﬁts is At the AGM in March 2013, the Board During the ﬁnancial year, the parent comshown on page 175. received a mandate to repurchase a maximum pany’s operating proﬁt decreased by 12 per of 40 million shares during the period until the cent to SEK 16,380 million (18,602). The year’s AGM in March 2014. This mandate was not proﬁt rose by 39 per cent to SEK 16,028 million used during 2013. More detailed information on (11,552). Net interest income decreased by this can be found on page 45. 3 per cent to SEK 15,962 million (16,431) and net fee and commission income by 1 per cent Other to SEK 5,649 million (5,724). The parent comHandelsbanken continually works with measpany’s equity increased to SEK 90,758 million ures to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect (82,232). For the parent company’s ﬁve-year impact on the environment. For more informaoverview, see page 147. tion regarding the Bank’s environmental activities, see page 196. Handelsbanken strives for its decentralised work method and belief in the individual to permeate its operations. For a more detailed description of the Bank’s work method and staff development, see page 186. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 141 ADMINISTRATION REPORT | PARENT COMPANY Financial reports Parent company CONTENTS Income statement 143 P19 Intangible assets 162 Statement of comprehensive P20 Property and equipment 162 income 143 P21 Other assets 163 Balance sheet 144 P22 Prepaid expenses and 163 Statement of changes in equity 145 accrued income Cash ﬂow statement 146 P23 Due to credit institutions 163 Five-year overview 147 P24 Deposits and borrowing 163 Notes Parent company 149 from the public P1 Accounting policies 149 P25 Issued securities 164 P2 Risk and capital P26 Short positions 164 management 150 P27 Taxes 165 P3 Net interest income 152 P28 Provisions 165 P4 Dividends received 153 P29 Other liabilities 165 P5 Net fee and commission 153 income P30 Accrued expenses and 165 deferred income P6 Net gains/losses on 153 financial transactions P31 Subordinated liabilities 166 P7 Other operating income 153 P32 Untaxed reserves 166 P8 Staff costs 154 P33 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 167 P9 Other administrative 154 expenses P34 Fair value measurement of financial instruments 168 P10 Loan losses 155 P35 Pledged assets, collateral 170 P11 Appropriations 157 received and transferred financial assets P12 Loans to credit institutions 157 P36 Contingent liabilities 170 P13 Loans to the public 158 P37 Other commitments 170 P14 Interest-bearing securities 158 P38 Pension obligations 171 P15 Shares 158 P39 Assets and liabilities 171 P16 Shares in subsidiaries and 159 in currencies investments in associates P40 Related-party disclosures 172 P17 Derivative instruments 160 P41 Capital adequacy 173 P18 Offsetting of financial instruments 161 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 142 INCOME STATEMENT AND STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME | PARENT COMPANY Income statement Parent company SEK m 2013 2012 Interest income Note P3 29 295 35 933 Interest expense Note P3 -13 333 -19 502 Net interest income 15 962 16 431 Dividends received Note P4 8 995 9 152 Fee and commission income Note P5 7 423 7 131 Fee and commission expense Note P5 -1 774 -1 407 Net fee and commission income 5 649 5 724 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions Note P6 589 3 994 Other operating income Note P7 1 953 758 Total operating income 33 148 36 059 General administrative expenses Staff costs Note P8 -9 977 -9 808 Other administrative expenses Note P9 -5 075 -5 157 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets Note P19, P20 -498 -518 Total expenses before loan losses -15 550 -15 483 Proﬁt before loan losses 17 598 20 576 Net loan losses Note P10 -1 189 -1 154 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -29 -820 Operating proﬁt 16 380 18 602 Appropriations Note P11 4 267 -4 065 Proﬁt before taxes 20 647 14 537 Taxes Note P27 -4 619 -2 985 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 11 552 Statement of comprehensive income, Parent company SEK m 2013 2012 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 11 552 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges -3 009 2 522 Available-for-sale instruments 534 983 Translation difference for the year 879 -10 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations 901 481 Tax related to other comprehensive income 397 -962 of which cash ﬂow hedges 656 -608 of which available-for-sale instruments -61 -248 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -198 -106 Total other comprehensive income -1 199 2 533 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 829 14 085 The period’s reclassiﬁcations to the income statement are presented in Statement of changes in equity. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 143 BALANCE SHEET | PARENT COMPANY Balance sheet Parent company SEK m 2013 2012 ASSETS Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 236 447 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Note P14 53 785 45 259 Loans to credit institutions Note P12 475 440 422 897 Loans to the public Note P13 685 372 731 967 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Note P14 58 943 62 939 Shares Note P15 47 221 28 269 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Note P16 46 153 45 734 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 2 188 2 011 Derivative instruments Note P17 78 295 122 525 Intangible assets Note P19 1 750 1 643 Property and equipment Note P20 978 967 Current tax assets Deferred tax assets Note P27 202 333 Other assets Note P21 16 468 18 428 Prepaid expenses and accrued income Note P22 5 272 5 347 Total assets Note P33 1 806 861 1 724 766 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Due to credit institutions Note P23 226 631 243 332 Deposits and borrowing from the public Note P24 814 227 668 683 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 2 236 2 059 Issued securities, etc. Note P25 532 607 531 284 Derivative instruments Note P17 77 143 126 922 Short positions Note P26 22 845 16 201 Current tax liabilities 816 340 Deferred tax liabilities Note P27 114 707 Provisions Note P28 128 116 Other liabilities Note P29 12 703 17 154 Accrued expenses and deferred income Note P30 9 915 9 531 Subordinated liabilities Note P31 15 965 21 167 Total liabilities Note P33 1 715 330 1 637 496 Untaxed reserves Note P32 773 5 038 Share capital 2 956 2 943 Share premium 2 843 2 337 Other funds 1 911 3 110 Retained earnings 67 020 62 290 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 11 552 Total equity 90 758 82 232 Total liabilities and equity 1 806 861 1 724 766 MEMORANDUM ITEMS Assets pledged for own debt Note P35 25 216 59 195 Other assets pledged Note P35 41 679 2 564 Contingent liabilities/commitments Note P36 121 509 131 586 Other commitments Note P37 518 414 475 287 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 144 STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY | PARENT COMPANY Statement of changes in equity Parent Company Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2013 2 943 2 682 2 337 1 010 550 -1 132 73 842 82 232 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 16 028 Other comprehensive income -2 353 473 681 -1 199 Total comprehensive income for the year -2 353 473 681 16 028 14 829 Dividend -6 822 -6 822 Conversion of the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008 13 506 519 Changes in holdings of own shares in trading book Closing equity 2013 2 956 2 682 2 843 -1 343 1 023 -451 83 048 90 758 Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Statutory Share Hedge Fair value Translation Retained SEK m Share capital reserve premium reserve1 reserve1 reserve1 earnings Total Opening equity 2012 2 902 2 682 793 -904 -185 -1 016 68 385 72 657 Proﬁt for the year 11 552 11 552 Other comprehensive income 1 914 735 -116 2 533 Total comprehensive income for the year 1 914 735 -116 11 552 14 085 Dividend -6 110 -6 110 Conversion of the convertible subordinated loan issued in 2008 41 1 544 1 585 Changes in holdings of own shares in trading book 15 15 Closing equity 2012 2 943 2 682 2 337 1 010 550 -1 132 73 842 82 232 1 Included in fair value fund. During the period January to December 2013, convertibles for a nominal value of SEK 533m (1,641) relating to the 2008 subordinated convertible bond had been converted into 2,838,683 class A shares (8,744,470). At the end of the ﬁnancial year the number of Handelsbanken shares in the trading book was 0 (0). Speciﬁcation of changes in equity Change in hedge reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Hedge reserve at beginning of year 1 010 -904 Unrealised value changes during the year -2 353 1 914 Hedge reserve at end of year -1 343 1 010 Change in fair value reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Hedge reserve at beginning of year 550 -185 Unrealised value changes during the year 507 787 Realised market valuation reclassiﬁed in the income statement1 -34 -52 Hedge reserve at end of year 1 023 550 Change in translation reserve SEK m 2013 2012 Translation reserve at beginning of year -1 132 -1 016 Change in translation difference pertaining to branches 681 -113 Reclassiﬁed in the income statement2 0 -3 Translation reserve at end of year -451 -1 132 1 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item SEK 16m (-17). 2 Tax that has been reclassiﬁed to the income statement pertaining to this item (-). H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 145 CASH FLOW STATEMENT | PARENT COMPANY Cash flow statement Parent company SEK m 2013 2012 OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating proﬁt 16 380 18 602 of which paid-in interest 26 690 36 817 of which paid-out interest -13 280 -19 602 of which paid-in dividends 1 039 432 Adjustment for non-cash items in proﬁt/loss Loan losses 1 271 1 253 Unrealised changes in value -162 197 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments 527 1 339 Group contribution to be received -7 951 -7 477 Paid income tax -4 145 -3 393 Changes in the assets and liabilities of operating activities Loans to credit institutions -52 543 109 816 Loans to the public 45 214 -46 336 Interest-bearing securities and shares -24 281 -21 934 Due to credit institutions -16 701 -18 474 Deposits and borrowing from the public 145 544 -36 882 Issued securities 1 323 -12 592 Derivative instruments, net positions -5 245 8 368 Short-term positions 6 644 -5 196 Claims and liabilities on investment banking settlements -819 356 Other -4 813 15 303 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 100 243 2 950 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Acquisition of subsidiary -446 Change in shares -8 611 Change in interest-bearing securities 594 4 553 Change in property and equipment -248 427 Change in intangible non-current assets -322 -316 Cash ﬂow from investing activities -430 5 275 FINANCING ACTIVITIES Repayment of subordinated loans -4 048 -14 890 Issued subordinated loans 2 990 Dividend paid -6 822 -6 110 Dividends received from group companies 7 477 6 170 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -3 393 -11 840 Cash ﬂow for the year 96 420 -3 615 Liquid funds at beginning of year 236 447 251 592 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 100 243 2 950 Cash ﬂow from investing activities -430 5 275 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -3 393 -11 840 Exchange rate difference on liquid funds 1 927 -11 530 Liquid funds at end of year 334 794 236 447 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 146 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company Income statement SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net interest income 15 962 16 431 15 684 14 549 14 584 Dividends received 8 995 9 152 5 733 2 749 6 687 Net fee and commission income 5 649 5 724 6 026 6 455 5 995 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial transactions 589 3 994 458 790 2 453 Other operating income 1 953 758 640 624 597 Total operating income 33 148 36 059 28 541 25 167 30 316 General administrative expenses Staff costs -9 977 -9 808 -9 247 -8 838 -8 938 Other administrative expenses -5 075 -5 157 -4 723 -4 775 -4 450 Depreciation, amortisation and impairments of property, equipment and intangible assets -498 -518 -538 -533 -574 Total expenses before loan losses -15 550 -15 483 -14 508 -14 146 -13 962 Proﬁt before loan losses 17 598 20 576 14 033 11 021 16 354 Net loan losses -1 189 -1 154 -1 081 -1 466 -3 781 Impairment loss on ﬁnancial assets -29 -820 -375 -470 -30 Operating proﬁt 16 380 18 602 12 577 9 085 12 543 Appropriations 4 267 -4 065 106 108 1 100 Proﬁt before tax 20 647 14 537 12 683 9 193 13 643 Taxes -4 619 -2 985 -3 470 -2 548 -2 784 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 11 552 9 213 6 645 10 859 Dividend for the year 10 4881 6 804 6 085 5 611 4 988 1 As proposed by the Board. Statement of comprehensive income SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Proﬁt for the year 16 028 11 552 9 213 6 645 10 859 Other comprehensive income Cash ﬂow hedges -3 009 2 522 -264 -186 13 Available-for-sale instruments 534 983 -1 319 2 188 3 277 Translation difference for the year 879 -10 36 -1 462 51 of which hedges of net asssets in foreign operations 901 481 Tax related to other comprehensive income 397 -962 435 -549 -927 of which cash ﬂow hedges 656 -608 70 49 -3 of which available-for-sale instruments -61 -248 365 -598 -924 of which hedges of net assets in foreign operations -198 -106 Total other comprehensive income -1 199 2 533 -1 112 -9 2 414 Total comprehensive income for the year 14 829 14 085 8 101 6 636 13 273 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 147 FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW | PARENT COMPANY Five-year overview Parent company, cont Balance sheet SEK m 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Assets Loans to the public 685 372 731 967 686 827 691 221 741 496 Loans to credit institutions 475 440 422 897 532 713 505 049 396 001 Interest-bearing securities 112 728 108 198 94 237 103 836 154 790 Other assets 533 321 461 704 499 484 314 057 278 351 Total assets 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 1 614 163 1 570 638 Liabilities and equity Deposits and borrowing from the public 814 227 668 683 705 565 577 180 570 166 Due to credit institutions 226 631 243 332 261 806 260 117 225 049 Issued securities 532 607 531 284 543 876 483 305 474 205 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 21 167 35 325 43 959 59 021 Other liabilities 125 900 173 030 193 034 178 922 172 940 Untaxed reserves 773 5 038 998 1 110 1 368 Equity 90 758 82 232 72 657 69 570 67 889 Total liabilities and equity 1 806 861 1 724 766 1 813 261 1 614 163 1 570 638 Memorandum items Assets pledged for own debt 25 216 59 195 72 007 79 591 171 051 Other assets pledged 41 679 2 564 5 236 4 398 8 124 Contingent liabilities/contingent commitments 121 509 131 586 149 061 131 479 154 338 Other commitments 518 414 475 287 513 217 415 771 376 628 Key ﬁgures 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 Impaired loans reserve ratio, % 58.0 56.0 61.0 61.5 61.9 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.24 0.28 0.24 0.33 0.33 Capital ratio, % according to Basel II 21.4 20.6 20.9 19.3 20.2 Tier 1 ratio, % according to Basel II 20.5 19.0 16.9 12.9 12.0 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 148 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Notes Parent company Ř FODLPVRQFHQWUDOEDQNVWKDWDUHLPPHGLDWHO\ life are amortised in compliance with the proviP1 Accounting policies available upon demand that are reported in sions of the above-mentioned Annual Accounts the consolidated balance sheet under Other Act. According to experience, the customer loans to central banks, are reported as Loans relations that the acquisitions have led to are Statement of compliance to credit institutions in the parent company’s very long, and consequently the useful life of The parent company’s annual report is prebalance sheet. goodwill on acquisitions. The amortisation pared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Ř EURNHUDQGVWRFNH[FKDQJHFRVWVDUHUHperiod has been set at 20 years. Accounts Act for Credit Institutions and Securiported in the parent company as commission ties Companies (1995:1559) and the regulations expenses Dividends and general guidelines issued by the Swedish Ř GLYLGHQGVUHFHLYHGDUHUHSRUWHGRQDVHSDThe item Dividends received comprises all diviFinancial Supervisory Authority, FFFS 2008:25, rate line in the parent company’s income dends received in the parent company including Annual reports in credit institutions and statement dividends from subsidiaries and associated securities companies. In accordance with the Ř WKHJDLQORVVDULVLQJZKHQGLYHVWLQJSURSHUW\ companies, and group contributions received. transitional rules in FFFS 2013:24 Regulations equipment and intangible non-current assets Anticipated dividend is recognised only if the amending the Swedish Financial Supervisory in the parent company is reported as other parent company has the right to decide the Authority’s regulations and general guidelines income/expense amount of the dividend and the decision has (FFFS 2008:25) concerning annual reports in Ř PHPRUDQGXPLWHPVDUHUHSRUWHGLQGLUHFW been taken before the ﬁnancial reports were credit institutions and securities companies, conjunction with the parent company’s balpublished. these amendment regulations will be applied ance sheet in advance of the prescribed date. The parent Ř XQWD[HGUHVHUYHVWKDWDUHVSOLWLQWRHTXLW\ Accounting for pensions company also applies the Swedish Financial share and tax liability in the Group are reporThe parent company does not apply the Reporting Board’s recommendation RFR 2 ted as a separate balance sheet item in the provisions of IAS 19 concerning accounting for Accounting for legal entities and statements. parent company. deﬁned beneﬁt plans. Instead, pension costs In compliance with the Supervisory Authority’s are calculated on an actuarial basis in the parent general guidelines, the parent company applies Assets and liabilities in foreign currencies company in accordance with the provisions of statutory IFRS. This means that the international Loans in the parent company which are hedging the Act on Safeguarding Pension Obligations accounting standards and interpretations of net investments in foreign operations are measand the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authorthese standards as adopted by the EU have ured at the historical rate of exchange. ity’s regulations. This mainly means that there been applied to the extent that is possible within are differences regarding how the discount rate the framework of national laws and directives Held-for-sale assets and discontinued is established and that the calculation of the and the connection between accounting and operations future commitment does not take into account taxation. Net proﬁt after tax from discontinued operations assumptions of future salary increases. The is not recognised separately in the parent comrecognised net cost of pensions is calculated The relationship between the parent company’s income statement. Nor are held-for-sale as disbursed pensions, pension premiums and pany’s and the Group’s accounting policies assets presented separately in the balance sheet. an allocation to the pension foundation, with a The parent company’s accounting policies deduction for any compensation from the penmainly correspond with those of the Group. Shares in subsidiaries and associated sion foundation. The net pension cost for the The following reports only on the areas where companies year is reported under Staff costs in the parent the parent company’s policies differ from those Shares in subsidiaries and associated compacompany’s income statement. of the Group. In all other respects, reference is nies are measured at cost. Dividends on shares Excess amounts as a result of the value of the made to the accounting policies in note G1. in subsidiaries and associated companies are plan assets exceeding the estimated deﬁned recognised as income in proﬁt or loss under beneﬁt obligations are not recognised as an Changed accounting policies Dividends received. asset in the parent company’s balance sheet. The parent company’s accounting policies are in Deﬁcits are recognised as a liability. all material respects the same as those applied Financial guarantees The pension fund’s commitments to the in the 2012 ﬁnancial year. Financial guarantees in the form of guarantees employees of subsidiaries are guaranteed by in favour of subsidiaries and associated comthe parent company so if the pension fund Presentation panies are recognised in the parent company cannot pay its commitments, the Bank is liable The parent company applies the presentation as a provision in the balance sheet where the to take over and pay the commitment. models for the income statement and balance parent company has an existing commitment sheet in compliance with the Annual Accounts and payment will probably be required to settle Taxes Act for Credit Institutions and Securities Comthis commitment. In the parent company, untaxed reserves are panies and the Swedish Financial Supervisory recognised as a separate item in the balance Authority’s regulations. This mainly implies the Intangible assets sheet. Untaxed reserves comprise one compofollowing differences relative to the presentation In the parent company, acquisition assets and nent consisting of deferred tax liabilities and one by the Group: other intangible assets with an indeﬁnite useful component consisting of equity. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 149 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Risk and capital management The Handelsbanken Group’s risk management is described in note G2. Speciﬁc information about the parent company’s risks is presented below. For deﬁnitions, see page 216. Credit risk Credit risk exposure SEK m 2013 2012 Loans to the public1 685 372 731 967 of which repos 15 711 33 799 Loans to credit institutions 475 440 410 527 of which repos 34 259 62 104 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 124 778 134 262 Credit commitments 242 242 235 670 Other commitments 151 394 105 355 Guarantees, credits 54 386 65 216 Guarantees, other 62 126 39 914 Letters of credit 4 997 26 433 Derivatives 78 295 122 525 Treasury bills and other eligible bills 53 785 45 259 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 58 943 62 939 Total 1 991 758 1 980 067 1 SEK 2,580m (4,078) of this amount is loans which upon initial recognition were classiﬁed at fair value in the income statement. Loans to the public, by sector 2013 2012 Loans before Provisions for Loans after Loans before Provisions for Loans after deduction of probable loan deduction of deduction of probable loan deduction of SEK m provisions losses provisions provisions losses provisions Private individuals 132 880 -618 132 262 123 328 -655 122 673 Housing co-operative associations 11 796 -24 11 772 12 373 -13 12 360 Property management 306 280 -391 305 889 297 298 -360 296 938 Manufacturing 36 237 -516 35 721 41 427 -472 40 955 Retail 28 971 -361 28 610 30 741 -440 30 301 Hotel and restaurant 6 556 -24 6 532 7 357 -36 7 321 Passenger and goods transport by sea 13 285 -423 12 862 16 209 -406 15 803 Other transport and communication 6 089 -80 6 009 10 955 -181 10 774 Construction 9 409 -116 9 293 10 175 -106 10 069 Electricity, gas and water 12 483 -44 12 439 13 492 -25 13 467 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 4 951 -20 4 931 5 997 -12 5 985 Other services 19 007 -97 18 910 21 176 -208 20 968 Holding, investment, insurance companies, mutual funds etc. 67 426 -569 66 857 81 854 -601 81 253 Sovereigns and municipalities 7 648 0 7 648 25 669 25 669 Other corporate lending 26 042 -67 25 975 37 807 -101 37 706 Total loans to the public, before collective provisions 689 060 -3 350 685 710 -3 616 732 242 Collective provisions -338 -275 Total loans to the public 689 060 685 372 735 858 731 967 Loans to the public, collateral Credit risk exposure on balance, collateral SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Residential property1 163 375 151 103 Residential property1 163 375 151 103 Other property 192 153 190 973 Other property 192 153 190 973 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils 6 048 32 944 Sovereigns, municipalities and county councils 398 681 290 613 Guarantees 14 897 15 207 Guarantees 14 908 15 266 Financial collateral 12 650 25 938 Financial collateral 53 163 89 110 Collateral in assets 0 0 Collateral in assets 0 0 Other collateral 54 914 56 986 Other collateral 54 914 56 986 Unsecured 241 335 258 816 Unsecured 678 271 639 047 Total loans to the public 685 372 731 967 Total loans to the public 1 555 465 1 433 098 1 1 Including housing co-operatives. Including housing co-operatives. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 150 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Credit quality Proportion of exposure per product type Proportion of exposure per product type Proportion of exposure per product type per PD interval excluding defaulted credits per PD interval excluding defaulted credits per PD interval excluding defaulted credits – Corporate exposures – Institutional exposures – Retail exposures Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % Proportion of exposure, % 50 30 50 40 25 40 20 30 30 15 20 20 10 10 10 5 0 0 0 <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% <0.05 0.05–0.30 0.30–0.60 0.60–1.00 >1.00 PD,% Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Derivatives Loans Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Interest-bearing securities Other products Market risks1 SEK m 2013 2012 Interest rate risk -747 -491 Exchange rate risk2 5 -18 1 For information about equity and commodity risk in the parent company, see note G2. 2 Worst outcome in the case of +/5% change in SEK. Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities, 2013 Up to Unspeciﬁed SEK m 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Cash and balances with central banks 369 957 369 957 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks1 54 391 54 391 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities2 59 607 59 607 Loans to credit institutions 257 829 97 992 66 571 26 496 290 449 178 of which reverse repos 33 892 33 892 Loans to the public 119 587 113 227 281 914 224 364 1 992 741 084 of which reverse repos 15 714 15 714 Other 53 691 144 836 198 527 of which shares and participating interests 47 221 47 221 of which claims on investment banking settlements 6 470 6 470 Total 915 062 211 219 348 485 250 860 147 118 1 872 744 Due to credit institutions 159 757 10 990 28 265 13 874 20 850 233 736 of which repos 748 748 of which central banks 68 544 1 404 1 634 71 582 Deposits and borrowing from the public 202 022 22 775 3 326 499 586 677 815 299 of which repos 7 606 7 606 Issued securities3 159 053 115 714 210 650 74 488 559 905 Subordinated liabilities 3 800 1 709 10 123 3 245 18 877 Other 29 947 187 809 217 756 of which short positions 23 170 23 170 of which investment banking settlement debts 6 777 6 777 Total 554 579 151 188 252 364 92 106 795 336 1 845 573 Off-balance sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 518 414 Derivatives 2013 Up to SEK m 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 488 689 307 754 521 344 153 825 1 471 612 Total derivatives outﬂow 502 480 290 891 501 830 147 748 1 442 949 Net -13 791 16 863 19 514 6 077 28 663 1 SEK 25,022m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 2 SEK 11,192m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. 3 SEK 268,182m of the amount (excl. interest) has a residual maturity of less than one year. For deposit volumes the column ”Unspeciﬁed maturity” refers to deposits payable on demand. Reference numbers for 2012 are not recorded according to the more speciﬁc presentation 2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 151 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P2 Cont Maturity analysis for ﬁnancial liabilities, 2012 Up to Unspeciﬁed SEK m 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs maturity Total Due to credit institutions 184 976 21 994 185 10 170 33 663 250 988 of which repos 2 394 2 394 Deposits and borrowing from the public 126 112 22 804 3 226 676 519 033 671 851 of which repos 12 295 12 295 Issued securities 255 811 104 453 141 967 54 988 557 219 Other trading liabilities 14 261 14 261 Subordinated liabilities 607 4 818 14 874 4 621 24 920 Total 581 767 154 069 160 252 70 455 552 696 1 519 239 Off-balance sheet items Financial guarantees and unutilised commitments 475 287 Derivatives 2012 Up to SEK m 3 mths 3–12 mths 1–5 yrs Over 5 yrs Total Total derivatives inﬂow 714 535 334 438 528 529 133 964 1 711 466 Total derivatives outﬂow 718 076 332 489 527 453 133 431 1 711 449 Total -3 541 1 949 1 076 533 17 P3 Net interest income SEK m 2013 2012 Interest income Loans to credit institutions and central banks 6 936 9 710 Loans to the public 22 442 25 269 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 2 106 1 521 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 1 897 1 967 Derivative instruments -2 777 -1 524 Other interest income 1 324 1 356 Total interest income 31 928 38 299 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 2 633 2 366 Interest income according to income statement 29 295 35 933 Interest expense Due to credit institutions and central banks -1 319 -1 961 Deposits and borrowing from the public -4 609 -7 056 Issued securities -7 344 -8 183 Derivative instruments 2 267 -879 Subordinated liabilities -1 214 -1 359 Other interest expense -3 269 -2 386 Total interest expense -15 488 -21 824 Of which interest income reported in net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value -2 155 -2 322 Interest expense according to income statement -13 333 -19 502 Net interest income 15 962 16 431 Includes interest income on impaired loans SEK 93m (107). Total interest income on assets recognised at amortised cost and available-for-sale assets was SEK 30,841m (36,113). Total interest expense on liabilities recognised at amortised cost was SEK 15,600m (18,623). H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 152 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P4 Dividends received SEK m 2013 2012 Dividends on shares 1 039 432 Dividends from associates 5 Dividends from group companies 1 243 Group contribution received 7 951 7 477 Total 8 995 9 152 P5 Net fee and commission income SEK m 2013 2012 Brokerage and other securities commissions 1 171 1 112 Mutual funds 1 134 712 Custody and other asset management fees 316 304 Advisory services 263 195 Payments 2 784 2 676 Loans and deposits 856 892 Guarantees 434 461 Other 465 779 Total fee and commission income 7 423 7 131 Securities -544 -278 Payments -1 164 -1 056 Other -66 -73 Total fee and commission expense -1 774 -1 407 Net fee and commission income 5 649 5 724 P6 Net gains/losses on financial transactions SEK m 2013 2012 Trading, derivatives, FX effect etc. 1 214 -68 Other ﬁnancial instruments denominated at fair value in proﬁt/loss -785 733 of which interest-bearing securities -707 732 of which loans -78 1 Financial instruments at amortised cost 129 30 of which loans 170 59 of which liabilities -41 -29 Financial instruments available for sale -21 3 1671 Hedge accounting Fair value hedges 19 140 of which hedging instruments -160 140 of which hedged items 179 0 Cash ﬂow hedge ineffectiveness 33 -8 Total 589 3 994 1 During last year, subsidiary shares have been sold in an intra-group transaction. P7 Other operating income SEK m 2013 2012 Rental income 19 26 Other operating income 1 934 732 Total 1 953 758 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 153 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P8 Staff costs Gender distribution % 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Men Women Men Women Salaries and fees -6 497 -6 344 Board 73 27 75 25 Social security costs -1 622 -1 539 CEO and EVPs 79 21 82 18 Pension costs1 -346 -515 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation -1 022 -959 Other staff costs -490 -451 Total -9 977 -9 808 1 Information about pension costs is presented in note P38. Salaries and fees SEK m 2013 2012 Senior management2 -100 -100 Others -6 397 -6 244 Total -6 497 -6 344 2 Board-members, CEO and EVPs, 27 (26) persons. Average number of employees 2013 Men Women 2012 Men Women Sweden 6 966 3 201 3 765 6 984 3 222 3 762 Norway 745 411 334 753 403 350 Finland 526 216 310 530 218 312 Denmark 676 338 338 672 341 331 UK 1 294 780 514 1 024 637 387 Luxembourg 30 18 12 28 20 8 Germany 64 36 28 68 40 28 USA 76 48 28 77 51 26 Netherlands 113 74 39 85 59 26 Singapore 37 9 28 36 8 28 Hong Kong 66 26 40 32 19 13 Poland 45 18 27 48 19 29 Other countries 69 26 43 102 33 69 Total 10 707 5 201 5 506 10 439 5 070 5 369 Note G8 provides information about the principles for remuneration to CEO and EVPs in the parent company. P9 Other administrative expenses Remuneration to auditors KPMG Ernst & Young AB and audit companies SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 Property and premises -1 261 -1 239 Audit assignment -8 -7 -3 -3 External IT costs -1 653 -1 540 Audit operations outside Communication -341 -319 the audit assignment -2 -2 0 0 Travel and marketing -327 -337 Tax advice 0 0 -1 -1 Purchased services -952 -946 Other services 0 0 0 0 Supplies -191 -180 Other administrative expenses -350 -596 Total -5 075 -5 157 Of which expenses for operating leases Minimum lease fee -680 -670 Variable fee -109 -19 Total -789 -689 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. Rental costs for premises normally have a variable fee related to the inﬂation rate and to property taxes. In 2013, the cost of the largest individual lease contract was approx. SEK 165m (130). None of the major lease contracts has a variable fee. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 154 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Loan losses SEK m 2013 2012 Speciﬁc provision for individually assessed loans The year’s provision -1 241 -1 388 Reversal of previous provisions 277 329 Total -964 -1 059 Collective provision The year’s net provision for individually assessed loans -64 84 The year’s net provision for homogeneous loans 1 6 Total -63 90 Off-balance sheet items Losses on off-balance sheet items -9 Reversal of previous losses on off-balance sheet items 0 0 Change in collective provision for off-balance sheet items -10 5 Total -19 5 Write-offs Actual loan losses for the year -1 359 -1 227 Utilised share of previous provisions 1 134 937 Recoveries 82 100 Total -143 -190 Net loan losses -1 189 -1 154 Impaired loans, etc. SEK m 2013 2012 Impaired loans 6 360 6 949 Speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans -3 350 -3 616 Provisions for collectively assessed homogeneous groups of loans with limited value Collective provisions for individually assessed loans -338 -275 Net impaired loans 2 672 3 058 Total impaired loans reserve ratio, % 58.0 56.0 Proportion of impaired loans, % 0.24 0.28 Impaired loans reserve ratio excluding group provisions, % 52.7 52.0 Non-performing loans which are not impaired loans 1 266 1 425 Impaired loans reclassiﬁed as normal loans during the year 27 41 Loans are classiﬁed as impaired if it is probable that the contractual cash ﬂows will not be fulﬁlled. The full amount of each receivable that gives rise to a speciﬁc provision is included in impaired loans even if this amount is partly covered by collateral. Received collateral is thus not taken into account when calculating the reserve ratio. Non-performing loans are loans where interest, repayments or overdrafts have been due for payment for more than 60 days. For other deﬁnitions, see page 216. Reconciliation of provision for probable loan losses 2013 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 616 -275 -3 891 The year's provision -1 241 -64 -1 305 Reversal of previous provisions 277 277 Utilised for actual loan losses 1 134 1 134 Foreign exchange effect, etc. 96 1 97 Provision at end of year -3 350 -338 -3 688 Reconciliation of provision for probable loan losses 2012 Provision for Collective collectively Provision for provision for assessed Total provision individually individually homogeneous for probable SEK m assessed loans assessed loans loans loan losses Provision at beginning of year -3 589 -360 -3 949 The year's provision -1 388 -1 388 Reversal of previous provisions 329 84 413 Utilised for actual loan losses 937 937 Foreign exchange effect, etc. 95 1 96 Provision at end of year -3 616 -275 -3 891 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 155 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P10 Cont Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2013 Of which past >60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due >60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 226 -618 608 479 562 Housing co-operative associations 75 -24 51 45 6 Property management 1 166 -391 775 430 401 Manufacturing 890 -516 374 189 9 Retail 704 -361 343 209 42 Hotel and restaurant 37 -24 13 11 9 Passenger and goods transport by sea 424 -423 1 1 1 Other transport and communication 110 -80 30 28 5 Construction 193 -116 77 71 88 Electricity, gas and water 72 -44 28 28 7 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 25 -20 5 6 1 Other services 147 -97 50 43 33 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 1 138 -569 569 61 4 Other corporate lending 153 -67 86 74 98 Credit institutions Total 6 360 -3 350 3 010 1 675 1 266 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due by sector 2012 Of which past >60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due >60 days are not impaired Private individuals 1 213 -655 558 480 535 Housing co-operative associations 25 -13 12 12 43 Property management 993 -360 633 358 410 Manufacturing 828 -472 356 174 117 Retail 1 082 -440 642 397 45 Hotel and restaurant 79 -36 43 42 19 Passenger and goods transport by sea 419 -406 13 13 0 Other transport and communication 287 -181 106 105 17 Construction 216 -106 110 107 66 Electricity, gas and water 88 -25 63 1 13 Agriculture, hunting and forestry 20 -12 8 8 35 Other services 406 -208 198 188 58 Holding, investment and insurance companies, mutual funds, etc. 1 153 -601 552 25 13 Other corporate lending 140 -101 39 38 54 Credit institutions Total 6 949 -3 616 3 333 1 948 1 425 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographic distribution 2013 Of which past >60 days, which 1 SEK m Gross Provisions Net due >60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 224 -1 249 975 886 340 Norway 433 -177 256 214 285 Finland 934 -393 541 289 99 Denmark 1 294 -852 442 167 16 UK 320 -106 214 47 459 Netherlands 15 -3 12 12 Rest of Europe 123 -57 66 60 67 North America 1 015 -513 502 Asia 2 0 2 Total 6 360 -3 350 3 010 1 675 1 266 Impaired loans and loans which are overdue by more than 60 days, Impaired loans Loans past due geographic distribution 2012 Of which past >60 days, which SEK m Gross Provisions Net1 due >60 days are not impaired Sweden 2 521 -1 526 995 895 387 Norway 642 -290 352 207 383 Finland 970 -257 713 411 121 Denmark 1 195 -785 410 224 27 UK 440 -158 282 177 441 Netherlands Rest of Europe 158 -84 74 34 66 North America 1 021 -516 505 Asia 2 0 2 Total 6 949 -3 616 3 333 1 948 1 425 1 Carrying amount after taking into account speciﬁc provisions for individually assessed loans and provisions for collectively assessed loans, but excluding collective provisions for loans which are individually assessed. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 156 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2013 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 661 851 1 512 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 138 110 248 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 80 20 100 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 280 297 577 Past due > 12 months 431 158 589 Total 1 590 1 436 3 026 Maturity structure for past due loans which are not impaired 2012 Loans to the public Loans to SEK m credit institutions Households Corporate Other Total Past due ≥ 5 days ≤ 1 month 717 986 1 703 Past due > 1 month ≤ 2 months 171 137 308 Past due > 2 months ≤ 3 months 120 91 211 Past due > 3 months ≤ 12 months 429 167 596 Past due > 12 months 419 199 618 Total 1 856 1 580 3 436 Assets repossessed for protection of claims SEK m 2013 2012 Property 392 390 Movable property Shares 0 0 Carrying amount 392 390 P11 Appropriations SEK m 2013 2012 Tax allocation reserve 4 168 -4 168 Change in amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 99 103 Total 4 267 -4 065 P12 Loans to credit institutions Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Loans in Swedish kronor Loans to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 261 438 237 965 Banks 5 402 7 434 Loans to credit institutions in foreign currency 212 622 259 985 Other credit institutions 250 765 201 030 Total 474 060 497 950 Total 256 167 208 464 Of which reverse repos 35 528 12 093 Loans in foreign currency Banks 55 930 35 723 Other credit institutions 163 343 178 710 Total 219 273 214 433 Probable loan losses Total loans to credit institutions 475 440 422 897 Of which reverse repos 34 259 62 104 Of which subordinated 21 218 16 718 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 157 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P13 Loans to the public Average volumes, excl. National Debt Ofﬁce SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Loans in Swedish kronor Loans to the public in Swedish kronor 266 862 273 731 Households 42 794 43 732 Loans to the public in foreign currency 429 613 425 943 Companies 199 557 242 976 Total 696 475 699 674 National Debt Ofﬁce 5 180 16 442 Total 247 531 303 150 Of which reverse repos 22 665 19 472 Loans in foreign currency Households 105 864 93 101 Companies 335 665 339 607 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 441 529 432 708 Probable loan losses -3 688 -3 891 Total loans to the public 685 372 731 967 Of which reverse repos 15 711 33 799 Of which subordinated 1 129 1 129 P14 Interest-bearing securities 2013 2012 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government securities eligible as collateral with central banks 45 803 46 695 46 675 37 620 41 451 41 384 Other securities eligible as collateral with central banks 7 019 7 110 7 110 3 785 3 875 3 875 Total interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with cental banks 52 822 53 805 53 785 41 405 45 326 45 259 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 56 961 58 941 58 943 60 000 62 935 62 939 Total interest-bearing securities 109 783 112 746 112 728 101 405 108 261 108 198 Of which unlisted securities 3 240 3 240 2 890 2 890 Interest-bearing securities distributed by issuer 2013 2012 Nominal Fair Carrying Nominal Fair Carrying SEK m amount value amount amount value amount Government 45 803 46 695 46 675 37 620 41 451 41 384 Credit institutions 10 330 10 696 10 698 9 454 9 813 9 817 Mortgage institutions 37 933 39 476 39 476 41 890 44 396 44 396 Other 15 717 15 879 15 879 12 441 12 601 12 601 Total 109 783 112 746 112 728 101 405 108 261 108 198 Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 Interest-bearing securities 124 208 108 860 P15 Shares SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Holdings at fair value over the income statement Classiﬁed as available for sale Listed 40 287 22 883 Listed 4 368 4 163 Non-listed 1 256 194 Non-listed 1 310 1 029 Total 41 543 23 077 Total 5 678 5 192 Total shares 47 221 28 269 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 158 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P16 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates SEK m 2013 2012 Associates, unlisted 92 92 Subsidiaries, unlisted 46 061 45 642 Total 46 153 45 734 Associates Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Number of Ownership identity number Domicile shares share % 2013 2012 Bankomat AB 556817-9716 Stockholm 150 20.00 55 55 Bankomatcentralen AB 556197-2265 Stockholm 1 100 21.90 0 0 BDB Bankernas Depå AB 556695-3567 Stockholm 13 000 20.00 7 7 BGC Holding AB 556607-0933 Stockholm 25 382 25.40 4 4 Finansiell ID-teknik BID AB 556630-4928 Stockholm 12 735 28.30 24 24 Getswish AB 556913-7382 Stockholm 10 000 20.00 2 2 Upplysningscentralen UC AB 556137-5113 Stockholm 2 448 24.48 0 0 Total 92 92 Subsidiaries Carrying amount SEK m Corporate Number of Ownership identity number Domicile shares share % 2013 2012 Handelsbanken Finans AB1 556053-0841 Stockholm 1 550 000 100 11 672 11 672 Kredit-Inkasso AB 556069-3185 Stockholm 100 Handelsbanken Rahoitus Oy 0112308-8 Helsinki 100 Kreditt-Inkasso AS 955074203 Oslo 100 Handelsbanken Finans (Shanghai) Financial Leasing Co., Ltd 310101717882194 Shanghai 100 Stadshypotek AB1 556459-6715 Stockholm 162 000 100 26 870 26 870 Handelsbanken Fondbolagsförvaltning AB 556070-0683 Stockholm 10 000 100 1 1 Handelsbanken Fonder AB 556418-8851 Stockholm 100 Handelsinvest Investeringsforvaltning A/S 12930879 Copenhagen 100 Handelsbanken Fondbolag Ab 1105019-3 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Kapitalforvaltning AS 973194860 Oslo 100 Handelsbanken Liv Försäkrings AB 516401-8284 Stockholm 100 000 100 6 189 6 189 Handelsbanken Life & Pension Ltd 453703 Dublin 100 SHB Liv Forsikringsaktieselskab 20594942 Copenhagen 100 SHB Liv Försäkringsaktiebolag 2478149-7 Helsinki 100 Handelsbanken Fastigheter AB 556873-0021 Stockholm 100 AB Handel och Industri 556013-5336 Stockholm 100 000 100 104 63 Plastal Industri AB 556532-8845 Gothenburg 100 Heartwood Wealth Group Ltd 5498937 London 1 000 000 100 470 Heartwood Wealth Management Limited 4132340 London 100 Other subsidiaries EFN Ekonomikanalen AB 556930-1608 Stockholm 100 100 0 Ejendomsselskabet af 1. januar 2002 A/S 38300512 Herning 2 460 000 100 294 247 Ejendomsselskabet af 1. maj 2009 A/S 59173812 Hillerød 2 700 000 100 200 200 Forva AS 945812141 Oslo 4 000 000 100 1 1 Lejontrappan AB 556481-1551 Gothenburg 1 000 100 0 0 Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc.1, 2 11-3257438 New York 1 000 100 29 39 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Fond 1 KB 969710-3126 Stockholm Unit 100 0 0 Handelsbanken Mezzanine Management AB 556679-2668 Stockholm 5 000 100 1 1 Handelsbanken Renting AB 556043-2766 Stockholm 1 000 100 14 14 Handelsbanken Skadeförsäkrings AB 516401-6767 Stockholm 1 500 100 31 31 Lokalbolig A/S 78488018 Hillerød 540 000 68.35 1 1 Rådstuplass 4 AS 910508423 Bergen 40 000 100 0 0 SIL (Nominees) Limited 1932320 London 100 100 Svenska Handelsbanken Delaware Inc. 13-3153272 Delaware 1 000 100 0 0 Svenska Handelsbanken Representações (Brasil) Ltda 15.367.073/001-93 São Paolo 999 99.9 2 2 Svenska Handelsbanken S.A.1 RCS Lux B-15992 Luxembourg 1 000 000 100 147 147 Svenska Property Nominees Limited 2308524 London 100 100 Svenska Re S.A. RCS Lux B-32053 Luxembourg 20 000 100 35 35 ZAO Svenska Handelsbanken 1057711005384 Moscow 129 Total 46 061 45 642 The list of Group companies contains directly owned subsidiaries and large subsidiaries of these companies. 1 Credit institution. 2 A net impairment loss of SEK 10m concerning the shares in Handelsbanken Markets Securities, Inc. was recognised during the ﬁnancial year. The new carrying amount of the shares corresponds to their fair value less costs to sell. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 159 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P17 Derivative instruments Nominal amount/maturity Nominal amount Positive market value Negative market values over 1 yr SEK m up to 1 yr up to 5 yrs Over 5 yrs 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Derivatives held for trading Interest rate-related contracts Options 90 854 190 017 12 731 293 602 377 350 4 200 5 167 4 338 4 524 FRA/futures 1 814 375 1 157 801 2 972 176 2 994 787 420 1 344 143 1 512 Swaps 752 125 1 498 568 488 260 2 738 953 3 217 456 47 505 82 111 47 831 83 333 Other instruments 10 0 Currency-related contracts Options 43 144 1 490 44 634 89 107 311 467 234 599 Futures 103 899 7 048 223 111 170 154 018 1 083 1 735 1 313 2 414 Swaps 635 019 317 485 64 975 1 017 479 1 221 606 16 236 23 553 13 949 21 153 Other instruments 60 1 61 107 15 120 117 Equity-related contracts Options 18 836 23 605 258 42 699 47 180 3 019 2 652 5 112 3 806 Futures 4 408 4 408 2 222 8 19 34 6 Swaps 30 271 4 273 144 34 688 20 144 691 293 2 486 1 302 Other instruments 434 0 243 677 1 977 3 14 494 588 Commodity-related contracts Options 1 871 3 196 5 067 7 197 105 161 992 1 272 Futures 17 739 5 3 303 21 047 29 542 375 367 377 384 Swaps 300 13 313 1 031 0 9 49 49 Other instruments 372 3 82 457 729 132 150 420 718 Credit-related contracts Options Swaps 893 7 900 1 256 10 049 12 585 544 253 45 46 Other instruments Other derivative contracts 0 Total 3 514 600 3 208 208 574 672 7 297 480 8 177 048 74 647 118 295 77 937 121 823 Derivatives for fair value hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 26 261 1 188 749 Other instruments Currency-related contracts Swaps 817 817 1 789 177 426 Total 817 817 28 050 177 1 614 0 749 Derivatives for cash ﬂow hedges Interest rate-related contracts Swaps 14 670 101 056 69 457 185 183 144 278 4 773 6 239 2 002 1 328 Currency-related contracts Swaps 13 672 84 457 45 530 143 659 113 969 4 733 326 3 239 6 971 Total 28 342 185 513 114 987 328 842 258 247 9 506 6 565 5 241 8 299 Total derivative instruments 3 542 942 3 393 721 690 476 7 627 139 8 463 345 84 330 126 474 83 178 130 871 Amounts set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -3 949 -6 035 -3 949 Net amount in the balance sheet 78 295 122 525 77 143 126 922 Cleared derivatives 2 429 128 2 583 355 3 151 1 967 3 345 3 206 Currency breakdown of market values SEK 99 605 248 392 182 836 346 485 USD 23 433 -104 893 -199 795 -314 899 EUR 67 126 3 785 37 352 -60 208 Others -105 834 -20 810 62 785 159 493 Derivative contracts are presented gross in the table. Offsetted amounts consist of the offsetted market value of contracts for which the Bank has the legal right and intention to settle contractual cash ﬂows net (including cleared contracts). These contracts are presented on a net basis in the balance sheet per counterparty and currency. The Bank amortises positive differences between the value measured by a valuation model upon initial recognition and the transaction price (day-1 proﬁt), over the life of the derivative. Such not yet recognised day-1 proﬁt amounted to SEK 396m (341) at year-end. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 160 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P18 Offsetting of financial instruments 2013 Repurchase agreements, securities lending/borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 84 330 53 612 137 942 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 78 295 53 612 131 907 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Collateral received -10 540 -53 569 -64 109 Net amount 26 719 43 26 762 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 83 178 8 352 91 530 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -6 035 -6 035 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 77 143 8 352 85 495 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -41 036 -41 036 Assets pledged -4 793 -7 889 -12 682 Net amount 31 314 463 31 777 2012 Repurchase agreements, securities lending/borrowing SEK m Derivatives and similar agreements Total Financial assets subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting arrangements and similar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial assets 126 474 96 356 222 830 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -3 949 -3 949 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 122 525 96 356 218 881 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -90 209 -90 209 Collateral received -9 230 -96 333 -105 563 Net amount 23 086 23 23 109 Financial liabilities subject to offsetting, enforceable master netting agreements and similiar agreements Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities 130 871 14 686 145 557 Gross amounts of recognised ﬁnancial liabilities set off in the balance sheet -3 949 -3 949 Net amounts of ﬁnancial assets presented in the balance sheet 126 922 14 686 141 608 Related amounts not set off in the balance sheet Financial instruments not set off in the balance sheet -90 209 -90 209 Assets pledged -6 647 -12 279 -18 926 Net amount 30 066 2 407 32 473 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 161 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P19 Intangible assets 2013 Internally 2012 Internally Acquisition developed Total Acquisition developed Total SEK m assets software 2013 SEK m assets software 2012 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 072 1 104 3 176 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 2 126 811 2 937 Cost of acquisition of additional intangible Cost of acquisition of additional intangible assets 322 322 assets 317 317 Disposals and retirements -82 -82 Disposals and retirements -21 -21 Foreign exchange effect -1 2 1 Foreign exchange effect -54 -3 -57 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 071 1 346 3 417 Cost of acquisition at end of year 2 072 1 104 3 176 Accumulated amortisation and impairments Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 193 -340 -1 533 at beginning of year -1 111 -262 -1 373 Disposals and retirements 82 82 Disposals and retirements 21 21 Amortisation for the year according to plan -108 -106 -214 Amortisation for the year according to plan -110 -98 -208 Impairments for the year -2 -2 Impairments for the year -3 -3 Foreign exchange effect 3 -3 0 Foreign exchange effect 28 2 30 Accumulated amortisation and impairAccumulated amortisation and impairments at end of year -1 298 -369 -1 667 ments at end of year -1 193 -340 -1 533 Carrying amount 773 977 1 750 Carrying amount 879 764 1 643 P20 Property and equipment Property and equipment Property SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Equipment 466 452 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 190 1 853 Property 120 125 Cost of additional acquisition for the year Property repossessed for protection of claims 392 390 New construction and rebuilding 0 Total 978 967 Disposals and retirements -1 6631 Cost of acquisition at end of year 190 190 Property repossessed for protection of claims contains properties which are regularly measured at fair value in accordance with the Group’s accounting policies for assets repossessed Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning to protect claims. See note G1. The fair value of properties which are regularly measured of year -65 -708 at fair value is SEK 392m. Unrealised value changes on these properties had an impact of SEK -10m on the year’s proﬁt. The valuation of private housing is essentially based on market Amortisation for the year according to plan -5 -22 observations of comparable property purchases in the location in question. The valuation Impairments for the year -3 of ofﬁce properties is based on discounting future cash ﬂows using assumptions such as Disposals and retirements 668 rents, vacancy levels, operating and maintenance costs, yield requirement and calculation interest rates. When valuing industrial property, an authorised valuer is always engaged. The Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -70 -65 valuation of industrial property is mainly based on the condition of the property, its location and alternative areas of use. As far as possible, the material for these assumptions is taken Carrying amount 120 125 from external market observations. Valuations which are only based on market observations (SEK 48m) are classiﬁed as level 2 in the valuation hierarchy described in note G39. Valuations 1 where own assumptions are used to a material extent (SEK 344m) are classiﬁed as level 3 in During last year, property was sold to a subsidiary. the valuation hierarchy. Unrealised value changes in level 3 relating to properties which are regularly measured at fair value have affected the year’s proﬁt by SEK -17m. The year’s sale of properties which are regularly measured at fair value amounts to SEK 81m of which SEK 64m was classiﬁed as level 3 before the sale. The value of new properties added during the year is SEK 50m, with SEK 48m of this classiﬁed as level 3. Equipment SEK m 2013 2012 Cost of acquisition at beginning of year 1 513 1 588 Cost of additional acquisition for the year 265 234 Disposals and retirements -238 -296 Foreign exchange effect -23 -13 Cost of acquisition at end of year 1 517 1 513 Accumulated amortisation and impairments at beginning of year -1 061 -1 086 Amortisation for the year according to plan -248 -282 Change due to business combinations 1 Disposals and retirements 236 295 Foreign exchange effect 22 11 Accumulated amortisation and impairment at end of year -1 051 -1 061 Carrying amount 466 452 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 162 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P21 Other assets SEK m 2013 2012 Claims on investment banking settlements 6 470 6 966 Other 9 998 11 462 Total 16 468 18 428 P22 Prepaid expenses and accrued income SEK m 2013 2012 Accrued interest income 3 739 4 135 Other accrued income 1 341 1 052 Prepaid expenses 192 160 Total 5 272 5 347 Of which subordinated 11 13 P23 Due to credit institutions Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Due in Swedish kronor Due to credit institutions in Swedish kronor 52 839 75 681 Banks 19 869 17 937 Due to credit institutions in foreign currency 223 293 197 509 Other credit institutions 12 162 11 072 Total 276 132 273 190 Total 32 031 29 009 Of which repos 3 961 4 396 Due in foreign currency Banks 135 848 149 145 Other credit institutions 58 752 65 178 Total 194 600 214 323 Total due to credit institutions 226 631 243 332 Of which repos 748 2 391 P24 Deposits and borrowing from the public Deposits from the public Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Deposits in Swedish kronor Deposits from the public Households 207 374 190 328 Deposits from the public in Swedish kronor 348 970 332 836 Companies 165 314 159 348 Deposits from the public in foreign currency 178 337 165 123 National Debt Ofﬁce Total 527 307 497 959 Total 372 688 349 676 Borrowing from the public Deposits in foreign currency Borrowing from the public in Swedish kronor 53 434 56 033 Households 48 990 44 308 Borrowing from the public in foreign currency 146 665 132 434 Companies 172 779 125 330 Total 200 099 188 467 National Debt Ofﬁce Of which repos 10 551 11 305 Total 221 769 169 638 Total deposits from the public 594 457 519 314 Borrowing from the public SEK m 2013 2012 Swedish kronor 49 117 54 383 Foreign currency 170 653 94 986 Total 219 770 149 369 Of which repos 7 604 12 294 Total deposits and borrowing from the public 814 227 668 683 H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 163 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P25 Issued securities 2013 2012 Nominal Carrying Nominal Carrying SEK m amount amount amount amount Commercial paper Commercial paper in Swedish kronor 15 613 17 299 16 127 16 568 Of which at amortised cost 101 101 3 066 3 066 for trading 15 512 17 198 13 061 13 502 Commercial paper in foreign currency 227 719 227 754 319 610 319 647 Of which at amortised cost 227 532 227 532 319 393 319 393 for trading 187 222 217 254 Total 243 332 245 053 335 737 336 215 Bonds Bonds in Swedish kronor 14 822 14 298 19 165 18 633 Of which at amortised cost 14 822 14 006 19 165 18 465 for fair value hedges 292 168 Bonds in foreign currency 271 426 273 256 173 780 176 436 Of which at amortised cost 268 882 272 319 150 437 157 624 for fair value hedges 2 544 937 23 343 18 812 Total 286 248 287 554 192 945 195 069 Total issued securities 529 580 532 607 528 682 531 284 Turnover of own debt instruments Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Issued 864 221 1 153 240 Swedish kronor 32 140 36 452 Repurchased 25 575 47 788 Foreign currency 514 620 512 347 Matured 838 283 1 086 716 Total 546 760 548 799 P26 Short positions Average volumes SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Short positions at fair value Swedish kronor 22 832 17 445 Equities 3 430 1 940 Foreign currency 1 214 2 406 Interest-bearing securities 19 415 14 261 Total 24 046 19 851 Of which other issuers 19 415 14 261 own issued Total 22 845 16 201 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 164 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P27 Taxes Deferred tax assets Tax expenses recognised in income statemet SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Property and equipment 35 35 Current tax Derivative instruments 159 298 Tax expense for the year -4 604 -3 060 Other 8 0 Adjustment of tax relating to previous years -19 5 Total 202 333 Deferred tax Changes in temporary differences 4 70 Deferred tax liabilities Total -4 619 -2 985 SEK m 2013 2012 Property and equipment 16 18 Nominal tax rate in Sweden, % 22.0 26.3 Derivative instruments1 98 689 Deviations Total 114 707 Non-taxable income/non-deductible expenses 0.3 -6.0 Tax relating to previous years and other 0.1 0.2 Net deferred taxes -88 374 Effective tax rate, % 22.4 20.5 Change in deferred taxes 2013 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment -17 -2 -19 Derivative instruments1 391 6 -458 -61 Other 0 -8 -8 Total 374 -4 -458 -88 Change in deferred taxes 2012 Recognised Recognised in Opening in income other compreClosing SEK m balance statement hensive income balance Property and equipment 53 -70 -17 Derivative instruments1 -322 713 391 Total -269 -70 713 374 As of 1 January 2013, the Swedish corporate tax rate was changed from 26.3% to 22%. Deferred taxes in the balance sheet have been restated in accordance with the new tax rate 1 The deferred tax liability relating to Derivative instruments 2012 includes an adjustment of SEK 106m. This amount was previously included in the item Hedges of net assets in foreign operations, which has been removed. P28 Provisions Provision Provision for for guarantee Other Total Total SEK m restructuring commitments provisions 2013 2012 Provisions at beginning of year 91 15 10 116 24 Provisions during the year 44 8 52 98 Utilised -40 -40 Written back -6 Provisions at end of year 51 59 18 128 116 The provision for restructuring relate to additional costs as a result of the decision to terminate rental contracts for premises. Most of the provision is expected to be settled during 2014. Provision for guarantee commitments consists of provisions for a number of off-balance sheet items. The Group is the subject of claims in a number of civil actions which are being pursued in general courts of law. The Group’s assessment is that the actions will essentially be settled in favour of the Bank. The assessment is that the amounts in dispute would not have a material effect on the Bank’s ﬁnancial position or proﬁt/loss. The amounts allocated for future settlement of the claims towards the Bank are presented under other provisions. P29 Other liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 Liabilities on investment banking settlements 6 777 8 091 Other 5 926 9 063 Total 12 703 17 154 P30 Accrued expenses and deferred income SEK m 2013 2012 Accrued interest expenses 5 817 5 868 Other accrued expenses 3 889 3 567 Deferred income 209 96 Total 9 915 9 531 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 165 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P31 Subordinated liabilities 1 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms, the loan can be called SEK m 2013 2012 in advance on each interest payment date from March 2019. Early redemption requires Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 472 10 897 the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. Subordinated loans in foreign currency 5 493 10 270 2 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms, the loan can be called Total 15 965 21 167 in advance on each interest payment date from March 2014. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of Average volumes redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. SEK m 2013 2012 3 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬂoating rate linked to Stibor. The loan is a subordinated convertible loan of nominally SEK 2.5bn, issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. Subordinated loans in Swedish kronor 10 764 9 480 The loan has the status of tier 2 capital and can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. Subordinated loans in foreign currency 7 824 16 670 Conversion is possible after 1 May 2016 at an initial conversion price of SEK 256.52, correTotal 18 588 26 150 sponding to 122% of the average share price during the period 19 April–4 May 2011; the conversion price will subsequently be adjusted for dividend payments. After 31 May 2016 it will be possible to convert into Handelsbanken shares at the lower of the conversion price Speciﬁcation, subordinated loans and the market price of the share. The last day to initiate conversion is 30 November 2016. 4 Original Fixed term subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called nominal in advance on each interest payment date from October 2017. Early redemption requires amount in the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of each Interest Outstanding redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Euribor. Issue/conv./ﬁnal payment year Currency currency rate % amount 5 Other Swedish subordinated loans which are not speciﬁed here are issued in the form of dated or perpetual subordinated loans. The total amount partly includes a subordinated IN SWEDISH KRONOR convertible loan of nominally SEK 2.3bn, issued to the Group’s employees on market terms. 2008/perpetual1 2 350 11.000 2 348 The loan has hybrid status and can be converted into Handelsbanken shares. Conversion is 2008/perpetual2 2 905 10.500 2 897 possible after 1 June 2011 at a conversion price of SEK 187.56, corresponding to 110% of the average share price during the period 6–12 May 2008, adjusted for the 2008 dividend. 2011/perpetual3 2 512 ﬂoating rate 2 230 The outstanding nominal amount including conversions up to 31 December 2013 amounts 2012/ﬁxed-term4 1 750 4.472 1 740 to SEK 7.6m. After 21 May 2013 it is possible to convert to Handelsbanken shares at the Other Swedish5 1 257 conversion price, or the share price applying at this date if it is lower than the conversion price, and the market price of the share. The additional outstanding amount constitutes Total 10 472 one dated subordinated loan of SEK 1.25bn at ﬂoating rate. The term of this loan is ﬂexible and aims at making the instrument fully compliant with the coming regulation, CRDIV/ IN FOREIGN CURRENCY CRR. According to the terms the loan can be called in advance on each interest payment date from October 2017. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial 2005/perpetual6 EUR 500 4.194 4 427 Supervisory Authority. Other foreign7 1 066 6 Perpetual subordinated loan at ﬁxed rate. According to the terms the loan can be called in Total 5 493 advance on each interest payment date from December 2015. Early redemption requires the approval of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In connection with right of redemption, the interest rate is changed to ﬂoating rate linked to Euribor. Total subordinated liabilitites 15 965 7 Other foreign subordinated loans which are not speciﬁed here are issued in the form of perpetual subordinated loans. P32 Untaxed reserves SEK m 2013 2012 Tax allocation reserve 4 168 Accumulated amortisation of goodwill in excess of plan 773 870 Total 773 5 038 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 166 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Classification of financial assets and liabilities 2013 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedging held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 185 609 334 794 334 794 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 32 611 16 160 3 461 1 553 53 785 53 805 Loans to credit institutions 475 440 475 440 479 609 Loans to the public 2 580 682 792 685 372 685 711 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 26 959 30 149 933 902 58 943 58 941 Shares 41 543 5 678 47 221 47 221 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 46 153 46 153 46 153 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 860 328 2 188 2 188 Derivative instruments 69 471 8 824 78 295 78 295 Other assets 68 8 346 8 054 16 468 16 468 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 480 661 117 1 734 2 280 5 272 5 272 Total ﬁnancial assets 171 132 51 410 8 824 4 511 1 502 825 8 133 57 096 1 803 931 1 808 457 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 2 930 Total assets 1 806 861 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 226 631 226 631 228 131 Deposits and borrowing from the public 814 227 814 227 814 035 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 908 328 2 236 2 236 Issued securities 17 420 515 187 532 607 544 327 Derivative instruments 72 136 5 007 77 143 77 143 Short positions 22 845 22 845 22 845 Other liabilities 19 12 684 12 703 12 703 Accrued expenses and deferred income 357 9 558 9 915 9 915 Subordinated liabilities 15 965 15 965 17 705 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 112 777 1 908 5 007 1 594 580 1 714 272 1 729 040 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 1 058 Total liabilities 1 715 330 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. Reclassiﬁed ﬁnancial assets Holdings classiﬁed as loans Reclassiﬁed Reclassiﬁed from from SEK m held for trading available for sale Carrying amount 74 5 375 Fair value 74 5 464 Carrying amount at reclassiﬁcation 1 July 2008 3 041 19 722 Carrying amount at beginning of 2013 96 7 782 Fair value at beginning of 2013 95 7 930 Value change recognised in income statement in 2013 170 Value change recognised in income statement in 2012 -5 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income in 2013 0 -3 Value change recognised in other comprehensive income in 2012 -5 -177 Value change which would have been recognised in income statement in 2013 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 1 170 Value change which would have been recognised in income statement in 2012 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 2 -5 Value change which would have been recognised in other comprehensive income in 2013 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed -25 Value change which would have been recognised in other comprehensive income in 2012 if the assets had not been reclassiﬁed 266 Proportion of amortisations and maturities since reclassiﬁcation 99.5% 75.1% Interest recognised as income 2013 69 137 The reclassiﬁcation was carried out on 1 July 2008, see note G38 for more information. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 167 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P33 Cont 2012 At fair value in income Derivatives Financial Other statement divided into identiﬁed Investments assets ﬁnancial Total as hedging held to Loans and available assets/ carrying Fair SEK m Trading Other1 instruments maturity receivables for sale liabilities amount value Assets Cash and balances with central banks 236 447 236 447 236 447 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 26 474 13 981 3 757 1 047 45 259 45 326 Loans to credit institutions 422 897 422 897 428 503 Loans to the public 4 078 727 889 731 967 732 646 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 30 535 29 658 1 340 1 406 62 939 62 935 Shares 23 077 5 192 28 269 28 269 Shares in subsidiaries and investments in associates 45 734 45 734 45 734 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 676 335 2 011 2 011 Derivative instruments 116 096 6 429 122 525 122 525 Other assets 28 18 393 7 18 428 18 428 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 229 854 118 4 146 0 5 347 5 347 Total ﬁnancial assets 196 439 50 247 6 429 5 215 1 410 107 7 645 45 741 1 721 823 1 728 171 Other non-ﬁnancial assets 2 943 Total assets 1 724 766 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 243 332 243 332 245 672 Deposits and borrowing from the public 668 683 668 683 668 777 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 724 335 2 059 2 059 Issued securities 13 756 517 528 531 284 541 792 Derivative instruments 118 254 8 668 126 922 126 922 Short positions 16 201 16 201 16 201 Other liabilities 19 17 135 17 154 17 154 Accrued expenses and deferred income 54 9 477 9 531 9 531 Subordinated liabilities 21 167 21 167 22 507 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 148 284 1 724 8 668 1 477 657 1 636 333 1 650 615 Other non-ﬁnancial liabilities 1 163 Total liabilities 1 637 496 1 Classiﬁed to be measured at fair value. The principles for measurement at fair value are presented in note G39. For shares in subsidiaries and associated companies the acquisition cost is stated and not the fair value. P34 Fair value measurement of financial instruments Financial instruments at fair value 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks Held for trading 32 611 32 611 Denominated at fair value 16 160 16 160 Available for sale 1 553 1 553 Loans to the public 2 562 18 2 580 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Held for trading 21 881 5 078 26 959 Denominated at fair value 30 149 30 149 Available for sale 582 320 902 Shares Held for trading 40 284 1 183 76 41 543 Denominated at fair value Available for sale 4 367 634 677 5 678 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 860 1 860 Derivative instruments 1 328 76 967 78 295 Total 150 775 86 744 771 238 290 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 908 1 908 Issued securities 4 17 332 84 17 420 Derivative instruments 2 155 74 988 77 143 Short positions 21 951 894 22 845 Total 26 018 93 214 84 119 316 H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 168 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY Financial instruments at fair value 2012 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 41 163 339 41 502 Loans to the public 4 054 24 4 078 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 48 792 12 807 61 599 Shares 27 046 515 708 28 269 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 1 676 1 676 Derivative instruments 1 239 121 286 122 525 Total 119 916 139 001 732 259 649 Liabilities Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 1 724 1 724 Issued securities 5 13 674 77 13 756 Derivative instruments 2 508 124 414 126 922 Short positions 15 430 771 16 201 Total 19 667 138 859 77 158 603 The principles applied are described in note G39. Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2013 Derivatives, Loans to Issued SEK m Shares net position the public securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 708 24 -77 Acquisitions/Issues 44 -1 Repurchases/Sales -6 Matured -1 -2 Unrealised value change in income statement -30 0 -6 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income 38 1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 3 Transfer to level 1 or 2 -8 Carrying amount at end of year 753 18 -84 Reconciliation of ﬁnancial instruments in level 3 2012 Derivatives, Loans to Issued SEK m Shares net position the public securities Carrying amount at beginning of year 740 -3 25 -77 Acquisitions/Issues 14 Repurchases/Sales -18 2 Matured -6 The period’s value change realised in the income statement -8 Unrealised value change in income statement 8 0 -2 Unrealised value change in other comprehensive income -28 -1 Transfer from level 1 or 2 6 Transfer to level 1 or 2 3 Carrying amount at end of year 708 24 -77 Financial instruments at cost or amortised cost 2013 SEK m Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 334 794 334 794 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 3 481 3 481 Loans to credit institutions 17 693 460 979 937 479 609 Loans to the public 5 768 30 449 646 914 683 131 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 931 931 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 312 16 328 Total 362 667 491 740 647 867 1 502 274 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 47 866 180 265 228 131 Deposits and borrowing from the public 679 852 134 183 814 035 Liabilities where the customer bears the value change risk 328 328 Issued securities 136 324 390 583 526 907 Subordinated liabilities 17 705 17 705 Total 864 042 723 064 1 587 106 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 169 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P35 Pledged assets, collateral received and transferred financial assets Assets pledged for own debt Other pledged assets SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Cash 0 0 Cash 702 257 Government instruments and bonds 21 853 55 676 Government instruments and bonds 30 483 679 Loans to the public 0 3 358 Equities 6 482 1 628 Equities 3 086 161 Other 4 012 Other 277 Total 41 679 2 564 Total 25 216 59 195 Other pledged assets refers to collateral pledged for obligations not reported in the balance sheet. Assets received As a component in reverse repurchase agreements and securities loans, the Group has received assets that can be sold or repledged to a third party. The fair value of received assets of this type was SEK 34,306m (33,528) at the end of the ﬁnancial year, where assets worth SEK 1,050m (11,452) had been sold or repledged to a third party. Transferred ﬁnancial assets recognised in the balance sheet 2013 2012 Carrying amount Carrying amount Carrying associated Carrying associated SEK m amount liability amount liability Shares, securities lending 3 641 3 086 453 1121 Shares, other 5 927 Government instruments and bonds, repurchase agreements 6 685 6 689 6 566 6 564 Government instruments and bonds, other 1 184 57 Assets where the customer bears the value change risk 328 328 335 335 Total 17 765 10 103 7 411 7 011 1 Received cash collateral. P36 Contingent liabilities SEK m 2013 2012 Guarantees, loans 54 386 65 216 Guarantees, other 62 126 39 914 Letters of credit 4 842 26 004 Other 155 452 Total 121 509 131 586 Contingent liabilities mainly consisted of various types of guarantees. The nominal amounts of the guarantees are shown in the table. P37 Other commitments Contracted irrevocable future operating lease charges distributed by the year they fall due for payment SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Loan commitments 242 242 235 670 2014 694 535 Unutilised part of granted overdraft facilities 124 778 134 262 2015–2018 1 765 1 008 Other 151 394 105 355 2019 and later 556 288 Total 518 414 475 287 Total 3 015 1 831 Operating leases are mainly related to agreements that are normal for the operations regarding ofﬁce premises and ofﬁce equipment. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 170 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P38 Pension obligations Pension obligations SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 Fair value of plan assets 23 972 21 835 Opening balance 21 231 19 223 Pension obligations 25 234 21 231 Actuarial pension cost 422 479 Net pensions -1 262 604 Interest expense 416 385 Indexation 18 184 Pension obligations and plan assets are calculated in accordance with the Act on Safeguarding Early retirement 109 171 Pension Obligations and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s regulations. Plan assets Pensions paid -464 -464 are held by Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, and similar legal entities regarding commitments of the bank branches in the UK, Norway and Germany. The surplus in PensionsChanged assumptions1 1 819 225 kassan SHB, försäkringsförening can be used to cover the deﬁcit in the parent company. The Value change conditional obligation 1 343 1 064 pension obligations are SEK 3,557m (3,959) in the Bank’s pension fund (Pensionskassan SHB, Additional items retirement pension 480 försäkringsförening) and the market value of the assets is SEK 10,141m (8,941). The surplus value in Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening is thus SEK 6,584m (4,982). Given that the surOther change in capital value -140 -36 plus in Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening can be used to cover the parent company’s Closing balance 25 234 21 231 pension obligations, a deﬁcit is not recorded as a liability in the balance sheet for 2013. 1 Refers to the effect of changed discount rate in accordance with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority’s directives. Pension costs SEK m 2013 2012 Allocation of plan assets Pensions paid -464 -464 SEK m 2013 2012 Pension premiums -426 -463 Shares 19 565 18 646 Social contributions 16 -48 Interest-bearing securities 3 489 2 956 Compensation from pension foundation 555 560 Other plan assets 918 233 Payments to own pension trusts -27 -100 Total 23 972 21 835 Pension cost recognised in the income statement -346 -515 In Sweden, a retirement pension is paid from the age of 65 in accordance with the pension The expected payment for next year for deﬁned beneﬁt pension plans is SEK 595m. The agreement between the Employers’ Association of the Swedish Banking Institutions (BAO) costs for pension premiums include premiums to the BTPK plan (deﬁned-contribution penand the Swedish Financial Sector Union, and between BAO and SACO (the Swedish Consion) of SEK 80m (82). federation of Professional Associations). The amount is 10% of the annual salary up to 7.5 income base amounts. On the part of the salary between 7.5 and 20 income base amounts, Plan assets the retirement pension is 65% and in the interval between 20 and 30 income base amounts, SEK m 2013 2012 it is 32.5% of the annual salary. No retirement pension is paid on the portion of the salary in excess of 30 income base amounts. Opening balance 21 835 18 808 The value of the pension commitments is calculated annually on the balance sheet date, on Return 2 692 3 587 actuarial grounds. The most important calculation assumptions are mortality and the discount rate. The mortality assumption follows the assumptions in the Act on Safeguarding Pension Compensation from pension foundation -555 -560 Obligations. The discount rate is 2% (2.8) after tax and assumptions for costs. Closing balance 23 972 21 835 Percentage return on plan assets 12% 19% SEK 11,042m (9,508) of the fair value of the plan assets in Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse consists of the provisions made in the years 1989–2004 to a special supplementary pension (SKP). The obligations include a commitment regarding SKP of the same amount as the fair value of the plan assets. Part of this commitment, SEK 8,655m (7,312), is conditional. P39 Assets and liabilities in currencies 2013 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 342 48 191 4 263 85 46 585 235 126 202 334 794 Loans to credit institutions 256 800 61 117 55 136 41 214 1 510 55 844 3 819 475 440 Loans to the public 246 168 112 723 120 198 42 815 128 823 24 349 10 296 685 372 of which corporate 203 374 96 502 88 683 24 522 90 189 24 294 9 150 536 714 of which households 42 794 16 221 31 515 18 293 38 634 55 1 146 148 658 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 23 165 6 727 1 137 1 0 21 202 1 553 53 785 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 49 739 5 651 2 667 75 734 77 58 943 Other items not broken down by currency 198 527 198 527 Total assets 774 741 234 409 183 401 84 190 176 918 337 255 15 947 1 806 861 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 32 664 25 769 7 982 14 260 12 490 121 745 11 721 226 631 Deposits and borrowing from the public 421 806 81 255 52 376 32 395 68 467 152 487 5 441 814 227 of which corporate 190 365 68 902 36 967 21 093 59 592 151 289 5 286 533 494 of which households 231 441 12 353 15 409 11 302 8 875 1 198 155 280 733 Issued securities 31 597 154 408 5 190 226 74 753 254 048 12 385 532 607 Subordinated liabilities 10 472 4 427 143 923 15 965 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 217 431 217 431 Total liabilities and equity 713 970 265 859 65 548 46 881 155 710 528 423 30 470 1 806 861 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency and off-balance sheet items 31 421 -117 857 -37 267 -21 253 191 178 14 609 Net foreign currency position -29 -4 42 -45 10 86 60 H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 171 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P39 Cont 2012 Other SEK m SEK EUR NOK DKK GBP USD currencies Total Assets Cash and balances with central banks 1 333 77 611 8 628 73 4 148 320 478 236 447 Loans to credit institutions 209 087 72 468 50 742 24 942 1 015 60 827 3 816 422 897 Loans to the public 301 636 104 925 137 370 39 749 109 793 27 445 11 049 731 967 of which corporate 257 894 93 108 103 974 22 904 80 174 27 394 9 687 595 135 of which households 43 742 11 817 33 396 16 845 29 619 51 1 362 136 832 Interest-bearing securities eligible as collateral with central banks 25 101 3 199 183 1 0 15 728 1 047 45 259 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities 52 396 5 972 3 081 107 1 251 132 62 939 Other items not broken down by currency 225 257 225 257 Total assets 814 810 264 175 200 004 64 872 110 812 253 571 16 522 1 724 766 Liabilities Due to credit institutions 30 671 49 460 9 816 12 134 4 121 121 740 15 390 243 332 Deposits and borrowing from the public 404 142 63 303 57 524 23 883 43 153 71 776 4 902 668 683 of which corporate 188 799 51 513 41 775 13 399 37 545 70 755 4 734 408 520 of which households 215 343 11 790 15 749 10 484 5 608 1 021 168 260 163 Issued securities 35 200 190 197 5 728 365 58 610 235 708 5 476 531 284 Subordinated liabilities 10 897 4 655 4 300 181 1 134 21 167 Other items not broken down by currency, incl. equity 260 300 260 300 Total liabilities and equity 741 210 307 615 73 068 36 382 110 184 429 405 26 902 1 724 766 Other assets and liabilities broken down by currency and off-balance sheet items 43 342 -126 834 -28 505 -696 175 653 10 662 Net foreign currency position -98 102 -15 -68 -181 282 22 P40 Related-party disclosures Claims on and liabilities to related parties Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Loans to credit institutions 377 619 321 192 12 Loans to the public 1 207 1 162 729 227 Bonds and other interest-bearing securities Derivatives 8 338 11 778 Other assets 8 725 8 363 85 587 579 Total 395 889 342 495 814 239 587 579 Due to credit institutions 61 701 70 511 Deposits and borrowing from the public 7 214 4 527 186 152 334 227 Issued securities Derivatives 15 250 21 127 0 5 Subordinated liabilities 698 400 Other liabilities 325 308 56 87 Total 84 490 96 473 186 152 1 088 719 Contingent liabilities 55 907 61 461 Derivatives, nominal amount 475 041 512 532 Related parties – income and expense Subsidiaries Associated companies Other related parties SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Interest income 5 406 7 519 8 4 0 Interest expense -591 -680 -2 -3 -18 -18 Fee and commission income 25 27 2 0 0 Fee and commission expense 0 0 -93 -11 Net gains/losses on ﬁnancial items at fair value 0 0 Other income 1 835 709 3 4 Other expenses -438 -293 -2 -2 -24 -21 Total 6 237 7 282 -87 -12 -39 -35 During the year, improved methods of analysing the items in Claims on and liabilities to related parties have been implemented. This has resulted in adjustments of the comparative ﬁgures between the items Loans to credit institututions and Loans to the public. Total loans is unchanged. During the year, normal business transactions have been carried out between the parent company and subsidiaries. Note P16 contains a speciﬁcation of subsidiaries and associated companies. The associated companies’ operations comprise various types of services related to the ﬁnancial markets. The following companies are included in the group of other related parties: Svenska Handelsbankens Pensionsstiftelse, Svenska Handelsbanken Personalstiftelse and Pensionskassan SHB, försäkringsförening. These companies use Svenska Handelsbanken AB for normal banking and accounting services. Disclosures concerning shareholders’ contributions to Group and associated companies are provided in note P16. Information regarding loans to senior management, and conditions and other remuneration to senior management is given in note G8. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 172 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Capital adequacy Capital base Capital requirement SEK m 2013 2012 SEK m 2013 2012 TIER 1 CAPITAL Credit risk Equity, parent company 90 758 82 232 Credit risk according to standardised approach 3 836 3 486 Untaxed reserves 3 253 Credit risk according to IRB approach 27 081 29 067 Accrued dividend, current year -10 485 -6 804 Market risk Equity, capital base 80 273 78 681 Interest rate risk 745 880 of which general risk 493 660 Innovative tier 1 capital contributions 7 705 9 323 of which speciﬁc risk 252 220 Non-innovative tier 1 capital contributions 2 897 2 903 Equity price risk 11 26 Deduction items of which general risk 3 10 Goodwill and other intangible assets -977 -774 of which speciﬁc risk 6 13 Revaluation reserve -108 of which funds 2 3 Value adjustments for positions measured at fair value -1 -14 Foreign exchange risk Deferred tax assets -36 -35 Commodities risk 14 9 Special deduction for IRB institutions -806 -891 Settlement risk 0 3 Capital contribution in insurance company -32 -8 Operational risk Securitisation positions -245 -248 Operational risk 3 128 3 165 Adjustments in accordance with stability ﬁlter Total capital requirement according to Basel II 34 815 36 636 Cash ﬂow hedges 1 344 -1 010 Adjustment according to transitional rules 8 993 9 055 Unrealised accumulated gains/losses, equities -1 196 -777 Total capital requirement according to Basel II Unrealised accumulated gains/losses, transitional rules 43 808 45 691 ﬁxed income instruments 114 169 Total tier 1 capital 89 040 87 211 Risk-weighted assets according to Basel II 435 189 457 950 Risk-weighted assets according to Basel II, transitional rules 547 596 571 140 TIER 2 CAPITAL Perpetual subordinated loans 3 133 Dated subordinated loans 3 881 4 275 Capital adequacy analysis,% 2013 2012 Additional items Unrealised accumulated gains/losses, equities 1 196 777 Capital requirement in Basel II compared to transitional rules 79.5 80 Revaluation reserve 108 Capital ratio according to Deducted items Basel II 21.4 20.6 Special deduction for IRB institutions -806 -891 transitional rules 17.0 16.5 Capital contribution in insurance company -32 -8 Tier 1 capital ratio according to Securitisation positions -245 -248 Basel II 20.5 19.0 Total tier 2 capital 3 994 7 146 transitional rules 16.3 15.3 Common equity tier 1 capital ratio according to Total tier 1 and tier 2 capital 93 034 94 357 Basel II 18.0 16.4 transitional rules 14.3 13.1 Deductible items from total capital base Capital base in relation to capital requirement Capital contribution in insurance company -50 Basel II 267 257 Total capital base for capital adequacy purposes 93 034 94 307 transitional rules 212 206 For information on conditions and regulations for capital base items and sub-items, see note G49. Capital requirements, standardised approach1 2013 2012 Exposure amount Capital Exposure amount Capital SEK m (EAD) requirement (EAD) requirement Sovereign and central banks 403 612 12 299 065 8 Municipalities 31 115 2 30 498 1 Multilateral development banks 1 647 0 673 0 Institutions 402 234 69 345 327 117 Corporate 23 740 1 898 22 994 1 840 Retail 10 277 617 8 065 484 Property mortgages 35 349 1 072 25 304 770 Past due items 147 16 148 16 Other items 2 487 150 4 742 250 Total 910 608 3 836 736 816 3 486 1 Details of capital requirements for exposure classes where there are exposures. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 173 NOTES | PARENT COMPANY P41 Cont Credit risk IRB Exposure after credit risk protection (EAD) Average risk weight % Capital requirement SEK m 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 Corporate 642 301 697 512 36.3 37.3 18 655 20 810 of which repos and securities loans 8 376 23 286 0.5 0.6 3 12 of which other lending, foundation approach 139 862 340 098 35.9 44.5 4 015 12 108 of which other lending, advanced approach 494 063 334 128 37 32.5 14 637 8 690 Large Corporates 153 531 52.5 6 450 Small and medium-sized companies 65 961 65 812 60.1 64.1 3 172 3 373 Property companies 261 980 254 371 23.1 24.6 4 832 5 010 Housing co-operative associations 12 591 13 945 18.1 27.5 183 307 Retail 132 514 130 385 15.7 15.5 1 667 1 619 of which property loans 61 259 57 360 8.8 9.6 432 442 of which other 71 255 73 025 21.7 20.2 1 235 1 177 Small companies 21 631 21 778 39.4 43.1 682 751 Institutional 100 490 128 670 11.9 9.5 953 974 of which repos and securities loans 48 863 76 588 0.8 0.6 31 38 of which other lending 51 627 52 082 22.3 22.5 922 936 Equity 51 829 50 860 121.6 118.8 5 043 4 832 Exposures wihout a counterparty 978 967 100 100 78 77 Securitisation positions 878 1 323 3.1 3.5 2 4 Traditional securitisation 878 1 323 3.1 3.5 2 4 Synthetic securitisation Total IRB 950 621 1 031 495 35.6 35.2 27 081 29 067 of which repos and securities loans 57 239 99 874 0.7 0.6 34 50 of which other lending, foundation approach 245 174 445 330 51.3 50.4 10 061 17 957 of which other lending, advanced approach 648 208 486 291 32.8 28.4 16 986 11 060 H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 174 RECOMMENDED APPROPRIATION OF PROFIT Recommended appropriation of profit and statement from the Board In accordance with the balance sheet for Handelsbanken, proﬁts totalling SEK 85,121 million are at the disposal of the annual general meeting. The Board recommends that the proﬁt be distributed as follows: Dividend per share paid to the shareholders SEK 16.50 of which SEK 11.50 as ordinary dividend (SEK 10.75 for 2012) 10,488 Balance carried forward 74,633 Total allocated 85,121 When assessing the amount of the company’s proposed dividend, totalling SEK 10,488 million, (or a higher amount which may result if more shares are added as a result of the conversion of Handelsbanken’s outstanding 2008 convertible loan, but a maximum of 10,489 million), account has been taken of the nature of operations, their scope, consolidation requirement, risk-taking, liquidity, and the general situation in both the Bank and the rest of the Group. The Board’s assessment is that the above appropriation of proﬁts is prudent and well-adapted to the operations as a going concern. Unrealised changes in assets and liabilities at fair value have affected the equity by SEK 8,533 million net. The capital base for the banking group at the year-end, minus the proposed dividend based on completed conversions and other material changes in the capital base since the year-end, exceeded the statutory capital requirement by SEK 29,414 million; the equivalent ﬁgure for the parent company was SEK 59,529 million. We hereby declare that the consolidated accounts were prepared in accordance with international ﬁnancial reporting standards as referred to in the Regulation (EC) No 1606/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 19 July 2002 on the application of international accounting standards, that the parent company’s annual accounts were prepared in accordance with sound accounting practices for stock market companies, that the annual accounts and consolidated accounts give a fair presentation of the Group’s and the parent company’s ﬁnancial position and performance, and that the statutory administration report provides a fair view of the parent company’s and Group’s operations, ﬁnancial position and performance, and describes material risks and uncertainties to which the parent company and other companies in the Group are exposed. STOCKHOLM, 4 FEBRUARY 2014 Fredrik Lundberg Anders Nyrén Sverker Martin-Löf Chairman of the Board Jon Fredrik Baksaas Tommy Bylund Jan Johansson Ole Johansson Bente Rathe Lone Fønss Schrøder Charlotte Skog Pär Boman President and Group Chief Executive H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 175 AUDITOR’S REPORT Auditor’s report To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Corporate identity number 502007-7862 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND THE CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS We have audited the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2013, included in the printed version of this document on pages 7–175. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive for the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts The Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for the fair presentation of the consolidated accounts in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual accounts and the consolidated accounts that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts are free from material misstatements. During the year, the Bank’s internal audit department has continuously examined the internal controls and accounts. We have received the reports that have been prepared. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinions. Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2013 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, and present fairly, in all material respects, the ﬁnancial position of the group as of 31 December 2013 and of its ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for the year then ended in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies. A Corporate Governance Report has been prepared. The Board of Directors’ report and the Corporate Governance Report are consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet of the parent company and the group. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 176 AUDITOR’S REPORT REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and the administration of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) for the year 2013. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, and the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive are responsible for administration under the Companies Act and the Banking and Financing Business Act. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance on the proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss and on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed appropriations of the company’s proﬁt or loss, we examined the Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supporting evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. As a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and the consolidated accounts, we examined signiﬁcant decisions, actions taken and circumstances of the company in order to determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive is liable to the company. We also examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or the Chief Executive has, in any other way, acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Banking and Financing Business Act, the Annual Accounts Act of Credit Institutions and Securities Companies, or the Articles of Association. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Opinions We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the proﬁt be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the Board of Directors’ report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive be discharged from liability for the ﬁnancial year. STOCKHOLM, 14 FEBRUARY 2014 KPMG AB Ernst & Young AB Stefan Holmström Erik Åström Authorised Public Accountant Authorised Public Accountant H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 177 Sustainability Report Handelsbanken has gathered information about the Bank’s sustainability work in this sustainability report, in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. For many years, the Bank has reported relationships with our main stakeholders – customers, employees, investors and the community at large – and also how the Bank’s operations have affected the environment. CONTENTS INTRODUCTION Sustainability at Handelsbanken 179 OVERVIEW Key ﬁgures for sustainability work 180 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION Our concept and organisation 182 Handelsbanken’s stakeholders 183 CUSTOMERS Satisﬁed customers 184 EMPLOYEES Skilled staff 186 OWNERS Corporate Governance 189 SOCIETY Corporate social responsibility 190 Responsible lending 191 Responsible investments 192 Handelsbanken in the community 193 Economic value creation 194 High ethical standards engender trust 195 The Bank’s environmental activities 196 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, INDEXES AND SURVEYS 198 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE Content and restrictions 200 GRI index 201 EXAMINERS’ REPORT Auditor’s report 203 ABOUT THIS REPORT This section describes how Handelsbanken works with its most important sustainability issues, in relation to its main stakeholders. This is Handelsbanken’s fourth sustainability report prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) 3.0 guidelines for reporting and covers activities and results for the 2013 calendar year. The information refers to the Group unless otherwise stated. Handelsbanken’s reporting meets level C+, which has also been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s external auditors. See the combined assurance report on page 203. There is a comprehensive index according to GRI principles on pages 201–202. The report constitutes Handelsbanken’s Communication on Progress for the UN Global Compact. Additional information regarding Handelsbanken’s sustainability activities is presented in an expanded GRI supplement, published on Handelsbanken’s website. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 178 INTRODUCTION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Sustainability at Handelsbanken Handelsbanken’s business opportunities and successes depend upon the confidence that customers, investors, the general public and public authorities have in us and our employees. A condition for this confidence is that the Bank’s operations are subject to high ethical standards and responsible actions, and that employees of the Bank conduct themselves in a manner that upholds confidence. Handelsbanken is a bank that is stable over the holds that wish to spend and invest today. Together, puts the customer ﬁrst, focusing on long-term, long term – a bank which, regardless of the situation banks must also maintain an efﬁcient, functioning sustainable customer relationships. in the world around us, is there for our customers. payment system, as well as managing risk. Every day the Bank’s 11,500+ employees work Handelsbanken has six home markets: Sweto ensure that our customers are satisﬁed, that den, the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the OUR ANALYSIS OF THE IMPACT OF OUR our income is increasing more rapidly than our Netherlands. Handelsbanken has a nationwide OPERATIONS expenses, and that there is good administrative branch network in these countries, organised Taking responsibility is a vital element of a successorder in our operations. into one or more regional banks in each country. ful, sustainable banking operation. Handelsbanken Handelsbanken takes responsibility by managThe Bank is also opening new ofﬁces in other must meet its customers’ needs for ﬁnancial ing risks in such a way that as few customers as markets, to support the Bank’s customers in the products and services in a responsible manner, possible have difﬁculties in making payments, home markets with their international business. and provide its shareholders with a good return. and we can therefore remain a bank with stable Handelsbanken has a strong local presence The Bank also takes a social responsibility, acts ﬁnances that makes a positive contribution to its in its home markets. Handelsbanken’s high costethically in relation to all its stakeholders and works customers, its shareholders, and the community effectiveness allows the Bank to retain a local presto minimise the Bank’s environmental impact. in general. ence and thus continue to fulﬁl an important funcDifferent sectors have larger or smaller impacts Handelsbanken’s good proﬁtability, which is tion in local communities, including places where within different areas. For example, a bank’s direct mainly explained by the Bank’s good cost-effecother banks have closed their local branches. environmental impact is fairly limited, even though tiveness, also beneﬁts the community as whole; The Bank has an organic growth model that Handelsbanken endeavours to minimise the Handelsbanken has been one of the largest has proved successful in an increasing number of carbon dioxide emissions, etc. generated by its payers of corporate tax in Sweden for many years locations and an increasing number of countries. operations. and the largest payer to the Swedish Stabilisation Our growth model creates high availability and Handelsbanken’s customers have full responFund for the ﬁnancial system. satisﬁed customers, and means that the Bank siblity for their operations and how they are run. can achieve growth, coupled with low risk and Handelsbanken’s possibility of affecting customTHE MOST FUNDAMENTAL CRITERION good cost control. This, together with the Bank’s ers’ actions is normally relatively limited. FOR SUSTAINABILITY cautious view of risk and its tradition of prudent The latest global ﬁnancial crisis has shown clearly ﬁnancial reserves, makes it a stable, responsible RESPONSIBLE LENDING that, for a bank, the most fundamental criterion Bank over the long term. A bank has the opportunity to make a difference for sustainability is survival. A bank must be run in when it comes to social and civic responsibility, such a way that it is always able to fund its operaHOW WE WORK WITH SUSTAINABILITY particularly in its role as a lender. tions, so that it can survive unaided. Handelsbanken’s corporate goal is to have It is important that the Bank’s lending is responsiThis means that a bank’s top priority must be better proﬁtability than the average of peer ble, based on a close assessment of the customer’s to maintain the conﬁdence of its customers, its banks in our home markets. In addition, repayment capacity. A weak repayment capacity bond investors, the supervisory authorities and its Handelsbanken aims to act as a responsible can never be accepted with the argument that the shareholders. Such conﬁdence is based on the institution in society. customer is prepared to pay a high interest rate. The assumption that the bank’s operations are sound. It is therefore logical for the Bank to work with aim of short-term proﬁts for the Bank must take secIt is therefore vital that corporate social responsustainability issues, which entail a voluntary ond place to what can be considered sustainable in sibility is an integral part of all Handelsbanken’s responsibility for how the Bank’s operations affect the long term. This is one reason why Handelsbankoperations. the community from an economic, social, ethical en does not apply performanceor volume-based In times of ﬁnancial turbulence, it becomes and environmental perspective. For Handelsbonuses, or other forms of variable compensation, even clearer that banks which have acted responbanken, sustainability also means being an ateither for the Bank’s senior management or for any sibly have a competitive edge, for example in tractive employer and a stable market player that other employee who takes decisions on credits, or terms of their ability to fund themselves on the makes a positive contribution to the community who can affect the Bank’s risk proﬁle in any other international capital market and to attract talented and its development. way. Nor does the Bank make any budgets, or have staff. any volume or market share targets. Private customers, too, attach great imporSERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD tance to the fact that a bank has acted responBy delivering ﬁnancial services, Handelsbanken, OUR LONG TRADITION OF sibly. During the ﬁnancial crisis, having funds on together with other players in the ﬁnancial sector, SUSTAINABILITY WORK an account with a secure bank was seen as an comprises an important component in the basic Sustainability has long been a well-integrated part increasingly attractive option. infrastructure of society. of the Handelsbanken concept of how successful A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one hand, banking operations can be run in a sustainable way. to manage the money of those who wish to postHandelsbanken is an international group with pone their spending and save their money, and on operations in 24 countries. No matter where the other to lend money to companies and housein the world we work, Handelsbanken always H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 179 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Key figures for sustainability work To follow up the sustainability work, the Bank has identified a number of measurable indicators for how our sustainability activities perform over time, and compared them with those of peer companies with similar conditions. FINANCIAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Ř )RUDORQJSHULRGRIWLPH+DQGHOVEDQNHQKDV Ř ,Q+DQGHOVEDQNHQKDGWKHPRVWVDWLVŘ 7KHSURSRUWLRQRIJUHHQHOHFWULFLW\LVSHU had lower loan losses than peer players in the ﬁed customers of the four major banks* in cent for the Nordic region as a whole and banking sector. In 2013, Handelsbanken’s Sweden, according to SKI (Swedish Quality 99 per cent for Swedish operations. loan losses corresponded to 0.07 per cent Index). This applied to both private and Ř ,QDXWXPQWKH&DUERQ'LVFORVXUH3UR(0.08) of lending. Over the past ﬁve years, the corporate customers. In Handelsbanken’s ject (CDP) presented its annual report on how Bank’s loan loss ratio has averaged 0.10 per other home markets, the Bank was also topthe world’s 500 largest companies report their cent. This can be compared with the average ranked for customer satisfaction, according emissions, and how they manage their impact ﬁgure of 0.40 per cent for the other major to SKI’s associated organisation EPSI. on climate. It also presented the equivalent Nordic banks over the same period. Ř +DQGHOVEDQNHQLVDQDWWUDFWLYHHPSOR\HU report for Nordic companies. Handelsbanken Ř +DQGHOVEDQNHQKDVVWDEOHƂQDQFHVDQGRQ that offers its staff security. External staff improved its result to 81 points (71) out of a no occasion during the recent ﬁnancial crisis turnover remained low and, excluding possible 100. The average value in the CDP did it need to ask for liquidity support or capital retirements and deaths, was 2.9 per cent Nordic survey was 73 points. contributions, either from a central bank, the (3.6) in the Group, and 1.8 per cent in Ř )RUDOOWKH%DQNőVUHJLRQDOEDQNVLQWKH1RUGLF state or in the form of a new share issue. Sweden. countries, the UK and the Netherlands and Ř (YHU\\HDUVLQFHWKHHDUO\V+DQGHOVŘ 7RWDODEVHQFHGXHWRVLFNQHVVIRUVWDII also central units, carbon dioxide (CO2) banken has had higher proﬁtability than the in Sweden was 3.0 per cent (2.9), with emissions from the operations’ electricity conaverage of peer banks on our home markets. 1.3 per cent of this ﬁgure long-term sick sumption totalled 2,971 tonnes in 2013. For Ř +DQGHOVEDQNHQKDVSDLGDGLYLGHQGWRLWV leave (1.1). the Swedish operations, in addition to electricshareholders for many years in succession, ity consumption, we also measure transport, including every year during the recent period business travel and heating of properties of turbulence on the ﬁnancial markets. owned by Handelsbanken in Sweden. Total Ř %\YLUWXHRILWVSURƂWOHYHORYHUPDQ\\HDUV CO2 emissions for all reported units totalled Handelsbanken has been one of the largest 6,982 tonnes in 2013. payers of corporate tax in Sweden and is the Emissions of CO2 as reported above largest payer to the Swedish Stabilisation have increased compared with 2012. This is Fund for the ﬁnancial system. because the Bank’s operations grew in 2013, mainly in the UK and the Netherlands, which * Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. affects the Bank’s energy consumption. OVERALL GOALS Return on equity, 1973–2013 Corporate goal % Handelsbanken’s goal is to have better profitability than the average for peer 30 banks in its home markets. 25 20 Goal achievement 15 Handelsbanken’s return on equity for total operations was 13.9 per cent (14.9). 10 The corresponding figure for a weighted average of other major Nordic banks 5 was 10.2 per cent (10.4). This meant that for the 42nd consecutive year, Handelsbanken met its corporate goal. 0 -73 -75 -77 -79 -81 -83 -85 -87 -89 -91 -93 -95 -97 -99 -01 -03 -05 -07 -09 -11 -13 -5 -10 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2002 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 180 OVERVIEW | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT LOWER LOAN LOSSES MOST SATISFIED CUSTOMERS Handelsbanken has a low risk tolerance. This means that the quality of credits must Handelsbanken aims to achieve its profitability goal by having more satisfied cusnever be neglected in favour of achieving higher volume or a higher margin. tomers than its competitors. The quality and service must therefore at least meet customer expectations, and preferably exceed them. Outcome Loan losses were SEK -1,195 million (-1,251). Loan losses as a proportion of lending Outcome were 0.07 per cent (0.08). The corresponding figure for other major Nordic banks Handelsbanken continued to have the most satisfied customers of the four major was 0.15 per cent (0.26). banks in Sweden, both private and corporate. The Bank tops these lists in all the Nordic countries, the UK and the Netherlands. Satisfied customers are proof of the viability of Handelsbanken’s method of working. Loan losses as a percentage of lending Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction 1998–2013 – Private customers 2013 – Corporate customers 2013 % Index Index 1.2 90 90 1.0 80 80 0.8 0.6 70 70 0.4 0.2 60 60 0.0 -0.2 50 50 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* Handelsbanken Sector average Source:SKI/EPSI * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. SICKNESS ABSENCE A LONG-TERM PERSPECTIVE Handelsbanken aims for all its employees to enjoy good health, develop on a personal The Bank takes a long-term approach to customer relations and to its employees. level and function in an optimal way. This is a long-term goal that includes factors It sees each recruitment as a vital investment. Employees with long experience and such as clear and honest communication, having the skills and competence and the with broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a vital contribution to the Bank right conditions needed to perform tasks and deal with work-related situations, having having satisfied customers. pride and confidence in one’s work, respecting others, and being respected oneself. Outcome Outcome External staff turnover continued to be low and was 1.8 per cent in Sweden. Total absence due to sickness for staff in Sweden was 3.0 per cent (2.9), of which those on long-term sick leave represented 1.3 per cent (1.1). Sickness absence in Sweden 2009–2013* External staff turnover 2009–2013* % % 5 10 4 8 3 6 2 4 1 2 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 * Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. * The proportion of employees who have left externally (excluding retirements and deaths) in relation to the average number of employees. Sweden CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS Outcome To clarify Handelsbanken’s environmental impact and activities, the Bank has opted Carbon dioxide emissions for electricity consumption increased compared to 2012. to report carbon dioxide emissions from electricity consumption in the Nordic counThis is because the Bank’s operations grew in 2013, mainly in the UK and the Nethertries for 2008–2013 and in the UK for 2011–2013. For 2013, electricity consumption in lands, which affects the Bank’s energy consumption. the Netherlands is also reported. Emissions (CO2 ) tonnes 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Electricity consumption, Nordic region, UK and Netherlands 2 971 Electricity consumption, Nordic region and UK 2 846 2 170 3 763 of which electricity consumption, Nordic countries1 1 093 767 2 517 4 519 6 568 9 878 electricity consumption, Sweden 83 224 821 2 717 5 071 8 367 Heating etc for own properties, Sweden 1 143 1 480 1 466 1 569 1 181 1 344 External transport, Sweden 398 401 125 128 289 209 Business travel, Sweden 2 470 2 261 2 171 2 216 2 417 2 945 1 Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland. The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix Nordic countries, that is electricity where the source cannot be traced. Emissions of CO2 for 2008–2012 are recalculated retroactively according to residual mix Nordic countries. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 181 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our concept and organisation Handelsbanken is a full-service bank with a decentralised working method, a strong local presence due to nationwide branch networks and a long-term approach to customer relations. Handelsbanken primarily grows by opening new branches in locations where the Bank has not previously had operations. Handelsbanken has conducted banking since and Handelsbanken Direkt. Each product ing business in his/her local area of operations. 1871 and its share is the oldest listed share on owner packages their product, while the branch Handelsbanken’s branch managers have a the Stockholm stock exchange. takes responsibility for each individual customer very high degree of independence, as we are We aim to have better proﬁtability than the being offered services which are adapted to that convinced that those who work closest to the average of peer banks in our home markets. particular customer’s needs and circumstances. customer will make the most sensible decisions, This will mainly be achieved by Handelsbanken from the customer’s and from the Bank’s point having lower costs and more satisﬁed customMARKETS of view. This mandate to take the important ers than its competitors. Handelsbanken offers ﬁnancial products and business decisions on the spot with the cusservices in its six home markets: Sweden, tomer is a sound basis for successful customer AVAILABILITY, SIMPLICITY AND CARE the UK, Denmark, Finland, Norway and the meetings. Our customers meet the person who We put a great deal of effort into being available Netherlands. will make the decision, not a messenger. for our customers and this is a major comIn the UK, the Bank now has 161 branches The branches’ independence gives them ponent in Handelsbanken’s banking model. and four regional banks, and the Bank contina very strong local presence, with long-term We don’t close branches – instead we open ues to grow there. customer relationships. No one has better new ones. In Sweden, Handelsbanken Direkt We also opened several new branches in the knowledge of the speciﬁc demands applying Personal Service is open 24 hours a day, 365 Netherlands in 2013, and at the end of the year in the local market than the local branch. This days a year. We constantly strive to develop and had 18 branches there. is why the Bank does not normally use central improve our meeting-places and to increase the Handelsbanken has a nationwide branch marketing plans or advertising campaigns. level of availability for customers. This applies at network in its home markets, organised into one Handelsbanken has consistently and sucbranches, online, and at digital meeting-places, or more regional banks in each country. cessfully applied this decentralised working such as services in the form of apps for smartHandelsbanken currently has more than 800 method for many years. phones and tablets. ofﬁces in 24 countries, including 791 branches When a customer contacts us, the meeting in our six home markets. ORGANISATION FOR SUSTAINABILITY should be simple and unbureaucratic. We aim Handelsbanken’s Board has decided on the to have the same range of services in our variGROWTH MODEL Bank’s policy in a number of central sustainous meeting-places so customers can do the For Handelsbanken to achieve and retain high ability matters. same type of business with the Bank regardless proﬁtability, growth is also necessary. The Handelsbanken has a committee for sustainof how they contact the Bank. Bank primarily grows by opening branches in ability matters which was formed in 2010. The In everything it does, the Bank aims to create locations where it does not already have operachairman of the committee is an Executive Vice the best possible conditions for successful tions. In this way, the Bank grows customer by President and a member of the Group Managemeetings with customers. The Bank creates, customer, branch by branch. This method of ment and has overall responsibility for ensuring maintains and develops strong, long-term cusworking and of achieving growth has proved that Handelsbanken identiﬁes and addresses tomer relationships through these meetings. successful in more and more locations and the sustainability matters that are relevant to We always have the customer’s best at heart countries. This organic growth model means the Bank. The committee consists of repreand our aim is that they should feel that our that Handelsbanken can achieve growth, cousentatives from branch ofﬁces in Sweden and service is caring. pled with low risk and good cost control. the Handelsbanken Capital Markets business area, as well as representatives from the central PRODUCTS AND SERVICES DECENTRALISED ORGANISATION functions for Group Finance, Communications, Handelsbanken has a full range of products FOCUSING ON THE CUSTOMER Investor Relations, IT, Credits and Personand services to meet all the ﬁnancial needs All business decisions that affect the individual nel. And during the year, representatives from and wishes of its customers. Responsible for customer’s relationship with the Bank are based Handelsbanken International and the Handelsthis range are product specialists in the Bank’s on the customer’s requirements and are made banken Direkt business area were added. The four business areas: Handelsbanken Capital by the local branch. Every branch is led by a committee met regularly during the year. Markets, Stadshypotek, Forestry and Farming, manager who is solely responsible for all bankCentral Central business departments and Regional areas and Branches CUSTOMER administrative head ofﬁces product owners functions This is how we are organised Handelsbanken’s way of working can best be depicted by an arrow where all the operations focus on the customer. The branches are closest to the customer and are responsible for the Bank’s customers in their local market. Each home market has its own national organisation with responsibility for the proﬁtability of the branch operations in that country. For our customer offering to be of the highest quality, we have a number of central business areas where product owners design and develop our products and solutions. The central head ofﬁce also has administrative functions and specialist departments with overarching responsibility for various functions at the Bank. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 182 OUR CONCEPT AND ORGANISATION | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken’s stakeholders Many private individuals, organisations and companies are affected by how Handelsbanken acts in various matters. For Handelsbanken, corporate social responsibility means living up to the reasonable expectation of these stakeholders and acting in such a way that their confidence in the Bank is maintained. Handelsbanken’s principal stakeholders are our Employees three years, shareholders representing around customers, employees, shareholders and bond All employees participate and are active in their 50 per cent of the votes in the Bank have investors, as well as the community at large, for own unit’s business planning every year. This participated. example in the form of the supervisory authoriis followed by the individual planning dialogues The Bank’s Investor Relations unit provides ties where the Bank operates. and performance reviews which are the link investors, analysts, rating agencies and other between the goals of the business operations capital market players with information regardCONTINUOUS DIALOGUE and the goals of the employee. The result is an ing Handelsbanken’s share and its ﬁnancial It is important that the Bank keeps itself up-toaction plan which is followed up regularly during performance. date concerning the wishes and requirements the year and then forms the basis of an annual that various stakeholders have as regards salary dialogue review between the employee Society Handelsbanken. Therefore the Bank has a and manager. Handelsbanken has a continuous dialogue with continuous dialogue with its customers, staff, supervisory authorities, central banks, regulashareholders and investors, as well as with Shareholders tory bodies, etc. as well as with governments authorities and other public organisations. Handelsbanken’s shareholders are those who and parliaments, in both Sweden and abroad. ultimately decide about the Bank’s governThe Bank also has continuous contact with Customers ance. The shareholders exercise their right non-governmental organisations (NGOs). The most important dialogue occurs at the to decide on matters relating to the company thousands of meetings with customers that at general meetings of shareholders. Here, take place daily at the Bank’s 810 ofﬁces and by individual shareholders have the opportunity to phone and by email. put questions to the Bank’s board and senior By being responsive to customers’ requests management. and questions, Handelsbanken can provide Shareholders show great interest in the answers and meet the customers’ expectations. Bank’s annual general meetings. In the past The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders SEK bn 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Income after loan losses and before fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 29.5 Value created by serving customers 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 29.5 ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE ORS CU EST ST Employees NV OWN S ER Salaries 7.1 6.9 6.7 6.4 6.7 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 ER M S/ O Payroll charges and other staff costs 3.2 3.3 2.3 2.3 2.6 I Cost of employees 11.4 11.2 9.9 9.5 10.0 Public authorities and society at large Suppliers* 5.7 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.2 Tax costs** 3.9 3.0 4.4 4.0 3.5 ES Fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6 SO YE Government bank support received CI ET O Participation in government guarantee programmes Y PL To society 10.7 9.6 11.0 10.1 9.3 EM Shareholders Dividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 4.4 New share issue All stakeholders have expectations of Handelsbanken. Transactions with the shareholders 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 4.4 What they have in common is that they all wish the Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 7.3 8.0 6.6 5.8 5.8 Bank to be stable, and responsive to their wishes. How well the Bank manages to live up to these * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. expectations has an impact on the continued success ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. of Handelsbanken. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 183 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Satisfied customers For Handelsbanken, the starting point is always meeting the individual customers’ requirements. In this way we build a trusting, long-term relationship with every customer. Every year, Swedish Quality Index (SKI) measures customer satisfaction, including in the banking sector. For the 25th year running, customers rated Handelsbanken highest compared with the three other major banks* in Sweden. Handelsbanken always aims for all important When the branches are closed, Handelsbanken has increased compared to other major banks business decisions to be taken as close to the Direkt Personal Service is always open. This is a in Sweden. customer as possible. This contributes to better unique service since it is staffed by professional The 2013 results show that Handelsbanken meetings with customers, better decisions and bank ofﬁcers who help customers out by phone, also achieved top positions in all our home more satisﬁed customers. In everything it does, 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. markets, among both private and corporate the Bank aims to create the best possible conIn addition to personal service, we work all customers. ditions for successful meetings with customers. the time to improve our digital meeting-places By gaining its customers’ trust, Handelsbanken where customers can do most of their banking becomes their natural choice. transactions such as paying bills, transferring money, seeing balances and card transactions, buying and selling mutual fund units and reviewing their mutual fund savings directly via a “ When the branches are closed, Handelsbanken “ In everything it does, the Bank aims to create the smartphone or tablet device. There are mobile applications (apps) for Android, iPhone, iPad and Windows Phone. Direkt Personal Service best possible conditions SATISFIED CUSTOMERS IN ALL OUR HOME MARKETS is always open. ” for successful meetings Handelsbanken considers customer satisfaction surveys to be very important. Every year, In the UK, Handelsbanken continued to have the with customers. ” Swedish Quality Index (SKI) and its associated organisation EPSI carry out independent surveys of customer satisfaction. Every year most satisﬁed private and corporate customers. The result also shows that customer satisfaction is higher than the average for the sector. since the surveys started in Sweden in 1989, In Denmark, Handelsbanken had the most ALWAYS INCREASE AVAILABILITY Handelsbanken has had top positions for both satisﬁed private and corporate customers and An important starting-point for having satisﬁed private and corporate customers. the result showed that the Bank remains at a customers is to constantly increase our availabilThe results for 2013 show that Handelsstable, high level despite customer satisfaction ity, to be there for our customers, whenever and banken has the most satisﬁed customers of having fallen for the sector as a whole. wherever they need us. We don’t close branches the four major banks in Sweden. According to In Finland, the Bank is top-ranked in terms of – instead we open new ones. We also develop a the survey, local presence, service and cash most satisﬁed private and corporate customers, new type of physical meeting-place that is linked handling are all appreciated by the Bank’s as it has been in previous years. to the local branch ofﬁce in locations where cuscustomers. The result also shows that the gap The result in Norway showed that Handelstomers can meet the Bank when it suits them. Customer satisfaction – Private customers 2013 Customer satisfaction – Corporate customers 2013 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands * According to SKI (Swedish Quality Index), since surveys Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average started in 1989, Handelsbanken has had the most satisﬁed private customers among the four major Swedish banks – Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI Handelsbanken, Nordea, SEB and Swedbank. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 184 CUSTOMERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT banken had more satisﬁed customers – both they talk about their bank, and whether they Complaints must be dealt with in the ﬁrst place private and corporate – than the average for the would recommend their bank to other people. by the responsible branch, with the attention Norwegian banking sector. In addition to the fact that Handelsbanken’s that each case requires. If the customer wishes customers are very satisﬁed, the results for to pursue the matter, there is a designated com2013 show that they are also very loyal. In all plaints ofﬁcer in each regional bank. In addition, home markets, it can be seen that loyalty is there are complaints ofﬁcers at Group level who “ It is at least as important to have loyal customers considerably higher than for the average of the sector. This also applies to markets where Handelsbanken can be regarded as a major player, which must be considered unique. regularly report to Group management, regional banks and product owners. Information about complaints management at the Bank is easily available on the Bank’s as satisfied customers. ” REPUTATION According to the TNS Sifo Reputation Index for 2013, based on public opinion, Handelsbanken website: handelsbanken.com. In the Netherlands too, surveys showed that the Bank has more satisﬁed customers than the average for the sector. This applies to both private and corporate customers. is one of the ten companies in Sweden with the best reputation, regardless of the sector surveyed. The Bank’s index score of 60 can be compared with those of the other three major “ According to the survey, Handelsbanken To sum up, these independent surveys of Swedish banks, which are between 25 and 41. is perceived, among customer satisfaction are proof of HandelsAccording to the survey, Handelsbanken is perbanken’s success in working consistently ceived, among other things, to have high ethical other things, to have and continuously with building up long-term and moral standards and to be a good workplace; customer relationships. these are important factors inﬂuencing Handelshigh ethical and moral banken’s reputation in terms of sustainability. LOYAL CUSTOMERS standards and to be a It is just as important to have loyal customers as MANAGING CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS satisﬁed customers. In Swedish Quality Index’s (SKI) and EPSI’s annual surveys, loyalty, too is a key result linked to customer satisfaction. There is Handelsbanken takes customer complaints very seriously and has well-established procedures for handling these cases. We attach great good workplace. ” a positive connection between customer satisfacimportance to handling opinions and complaints tion and loyalty. Loyalty reﬂects whether customthat come in to the Bank in a manner which ers intend to remain with their bank, in what terms inspires conﬁdence. Loyalty – Private customers 2013 Loyalty – Corporate customers 2013 Index Index 90 90 80 80 70 70 60 60 50 50 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway NetherSweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands lands Handelsbanken Sector average Handelsbanken Sector average Source: SKI/EPSI Source: SKI/EPSI H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 185 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Skilled staff At Handelsbanken, we constantly strive for our corporate culture, with its decentralised work method and belief in the individual, to permeate our operations. This applies no matter where in the world Handelsbanken opens new branches. In 2013, Handelsbanken had 11,503 employees, working in 24 countries, almost 35 per cent of whom were employed outside Sweden. HANDELSBANKEN RECRUITS PEOPLE the Bank during their studies, their own action acquired being transferred to the employee’s WHO SHARE THE BANK’S BASIC VALUES plan and relevant studies for development at new tasks. Above all, working at Handelsbanken is about Handelsbanken. The purpose is to attract and relationships with other people. Without the recruit young employees as part of the Bank’s right staff, it does not matter how good the future management succession and to promote products or services are. When we recruit new employees, we therefore constantly seek people who share the Bank’s basic values. We want our employees to be driven by putting the gender equality. CONSTANT DEVELOPMENT The Bank’s strength is derived from the com“ Handelsbanken’s strength is derived from customer ﬁrst, to enjoy taking a large amount bined expertise of its employees. The most imthe combined expertise of individual responsibility, and to want to take portant source of increased professionalism is their own initiatives. learning in your daily work, where all employees are responsible for constant development – their own and that of the operations. Therefore, all employees participate in drawof its employees. ” “ When we recruit new employees, we thereing up their own unit’s business plan. This forms the basis of the PLUS performance dialogue, which every employee has with his/her line manager at least once a year. After this, each Employees with long experience and with broad knowledge from the whole Bank make a vital contribution to the Bank having satisﬁed customers. In order to retain an employee, fore constantly seek employee puts together an action plan setting there must be the right conditions for developout the goals to be attained and the conditions ment in their work, as well as a variety of career people who share the necessary for this. At the end of the year, the opportunities – and consideration must be employee has a salary dialogue review with his/ taken of the employee’s stage of life. External Bank’s basic values. ” her line manager, based on a follow-up of the action plan that has been carried out. staff turnover in the Group was 2.9 per cent (3.6) during the year. Managers at Handelsbanken must be exINTERNAL LABOUR MARKET AND emplary ambassadors for the Bank’s corporate HANDELSBANKEN’S STUDENT MANAGEMENT SUCCESSION culture, which explains why most managers PROGRAMME Since the corporate culture and the Bank’s are recruited internally. In 2013, 98 per cent Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from values are so vital for Handelsbanken’s suc(98) of all managers in Sweden were recruited upper secondary school who plan to study at cess, internal recruitment is important. Internal internally. For the Group as a whole, the correuniversity the opportunity to participate in the mobility contributes to the working method and sponding ﬁgure is 90 per cent (93), including the Bank’s student programme alongside their culture being spread to all parts of the Bank and markets where the Bank established operations studies. The programme comprises working at all countries, through the skills and experience relatively recently. The Wheel – the relationship between the Bank’s Age and gender distribution 2013 operations and the employee’s development. Age Men Women 65– 60–64 Business plan 55–59 process 50–54 Business planning 45–49 Salary 40–44 dialogue PLUS 35–39 review CUSTOMER 30–34 25–29 20–24 –19 Individual Action follow-up planning 1 400 1 200 1 000 800 600 400 200 0 200 400 600 800 1 000 1 200 1 400 Number of employees H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 186 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT One of the most important tasks for managthe same opportunities, chances and power Training is carried out for managers, staff at ers at the Bank is to identify, encourage and to shape the Bank and their own professional personnel functions and trade union representadevelop new managers. career. Gender equality is about making the tives in order to increase awareness of how most of all of Handelsbanken’s potential. social and cultural norms affect attitudes and LOCAL ACCEPTANCE In all countries where Handelsbanken operates, behaviour in everyday life. In the bank’s home markets outside Sweden – the Bank must produce a gender equality plan There is also an interactive training course with few exceptions – managers and employees which supports the Group’s equality goals. The aimed at all employees in Sweden. This has are locally employed. It is important that those gender equality plan is to be based on Handelsbeen designed in collaboration with the union who work at branches have natural links to and banken’s fundamental values and the laws and organisation and its purpose is to create a good knowledge of the town and local market. guidelines applying in the country concerned. dialogue and provide the tools for analysis and At the year-end, 86 per cent of senior managers At the year-end, 44 per cent (43) of the action from a gender equality perspective. (chief executives, executive vice presidents and Bank’s managers in Sweden were women. The The focus on rectifying unwarranted pay difchief executives of subsidiaries) in these home proportion of women among the total number of ferentials between women and men continued markets were locally employed. employees in Sweden was 54 per cent (54). during the year. Personnel functions and trade In the Group as a whole, 38 per cent (37) union representatives have organised joint FOR GENDER EQUALITY – AGAINST of managers were women. The proportion of meetings with salary-setting managers to DISCRIMINATION women among the total number of employees provide them with further support in the work Regardless of background, the Bank’s staff in the Group was 52 per cent (52). towards gender equality in salaries. are individuals with their own characteristics The work of promoting equality also aims and strengths and their own way of expressing to make it easier for both men and women to themselves. At Handelsbanken, there must be combine employment with parenthood. no discrimination on grounds such as gender, gender identity or expression, ethnicity, religion or other beliefs, disability, sexual orientation or age. “ Gender equality is about making the Handelsbanken subsidises home and family services for employees in Sweden who have children under the age of 12. Handelsbanken complies with the prevailing social insurance Incidents of discrimination concerning emmost of all of Handelsrules on parental leave. In addition to this, in ployees are normally managed in the operations most of its home markets, the Bank prothrough the local personnel functions, but cases which are reported to the national discrimination ombudsman or the corresponding ofﬁcial body are followed up at Group level. No such cases banken’s potential. ” vides compensation in accordance with local regulations; taken together, this means that employees receive 80 to 100 per cent of their salaries over a limited period. Employees who were reported in 2013. The Bank’s work with gender equality is contake parental leave have the same right to salary Handelsbanken aims to be an equal opportinuing, with various measures aimed at making development as other staff. tunities company where women and men have Handelsbanken a gender-equal company. Average number of employees 2009–2013 12 000 Sickness absence rate in Sweden 2013 2012 10 000 % Men Women Total Men Women Total 8 000 Aged 29 or younger 1.2 2.8 2.1 1.2 2.8 2.2 Aged 30–49 1.5 3.2 2.5 1.4 3.1 2.3 6 000 Aged 50 or older 2.5 5.8 4.3 2.8 5.3 4.2 Total sickness absence 1.8 4.0 3.0 1.8 3.7 2.9 4 000 of which long-term absence 0.6 1.9 1.3 0.5 1.6 1.1 2 000 Sickness absence is stated as a percentage of total normal working hours. Long-term absence is a continuous period of 0 absence of 60 days or more. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Sweden UK Denmark Finland Norway Netherlands Other countries H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 187 EMPLOYEES | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WORK ENVIRONMENT AND HEALTH of employees has increased in countries which of competitive beneﬁts, for both permanent Handelsbanken’s overall goal with its work traditionally have a low rate of membership and temporary employees in the Group. environment work focuses on employees of collective bargaining agreements. For this Pension beneﬁts are part of the total comenjoying good health, developing on a personal reason, the proportion of employees who are pensation to employees of Handelsbanken. The level and functioning in an optimal way. This is covered by a collective bargaining agreement pension terms in the countries where the Bank a long-term goal that includes factors such as has fallen slightly. pursues its operations must be competitive clear and honest communication, having the Various matters in Sweden, such as organiand adapted to legislation and regulations, in skills and competence and the right conditions sational changes, are regulated in Handelsaccordance with the local conditions prevailing needed to perform tasks and deal with workbanken’s co-determination agreement with in each country. related situations, having pride and conﬁdence the Financial Sector Union of Sweden’s local An occupational pension plan can include in one’s work, respecting others, and being bodies and in the collective agreement between a retirement pension, disability pension and respected oneself. the Employers’ Association of the Swedish surviving family member protection. The penAll employees are responsible for creating a Banking Institutions (BAO) and Jusek, the sion beneﬁts which can be offered to employees positive working environment at Handelsbanken. Swedish Association of Graduates in Business of Handelsbanken are deﬁned beneﬁt, deﬁned In co-operation with staff and employee repreAdministration and Economics and the Swedish contribution or a combination of the two. sentatives, managers are responsible for develAssociation of Graduate Engineers. In the Bank’s home markets, employees are oping a healthy and safe workplace in accordThere is an ongoing dialogue between union offered credits on favourable terms. These credance with the Bank’s work environment goal. representatives and managers concerning its are mainly granted for housing purposes. In Sweden, managers who have been asoperations – such as when changes and new The terms differ between countries depending signed responsibility for the work environment services are to be launched – where valuable inon the local conditions, and in Norway and must, in collaboration with work environment formation is exchanged at the very early stages. Sweden, this is a taxable beneﬁt. representatives and other staff, compile a In addition to the matters which are dealt with work environment status report at least once in a dialogue with the union organisations in OKTOGONEN – THE BANK’S PROFITa year. This includes the employees’ physical each country, there is also Handelsbanken’s SHARING SCHEME and psychosocial environment. The results are European Work Council (EWC), which functions A condition for achieving the Bank’s ﬁnancial discussed within each unit at the Bank, and any as a forum for joint and cross-border questions goal of achieving better proﬁtability than peer measures decided upon must be integrated into within the Handelsbanken Group. The EWC banks in its home markets is that employees the business plan/operational plan. consists of representatives from nine countries: outperform their peers in the rest of the sector. Health promotion and work environment Denmark, Finland, Luxembourg, the NetherTherefore, the Board considers it reasonable activities are components of the long-term prolands, Norway, Poland, the UK, Sweden and that employees should receive a share of any cess, called Sustainable Health, to create the Germany. extra proﬁts. Every year but two since 1973, conditions for good physical and mental health Handelsbanken has allocated part of the Bank’s in the workplace. proﬁts to a proﬁt-sharing scheme for its employIn connection with crisis situations, for many ees. The funds are managed by the Oktogonen years, Handelsbanken has had a support programme with the help of external partners. Employees are offered a wide choice and large number of subsidised group and individual “ Handelsbanken has had a sports association Foundation. Allocations are subject to the Handelsbanken Group achieving its goal of higher return on equity than a weighted average of comparahealthcare and health promotion activities. since 1919. With 4,000 ble listed Nordic, UK and Dutch banks. If this Handelsbanken has had a sports association is satisﬁed, one third of the extra proﬁts can since 1919. With 4,000 members, the associamembers, the associabe allocated to the employees. The allocated tion is one of the largest of its kind in Sweden. amount is limited to 15 per cent of the dividends To stimulate interest in art and crafts the tion is one of the largest to shareholders. If the Bank reduces the diviBank also has an Art Association with just over dend paid out to its shareholders, no allocation 3,500 members. It is the largest art association in Sweden. of its kind in Sweden. ” can be made to the proﬁt-sharing foundation. All employees receive an equal part of the allocated amount and the scheme includes all employWORKING CONDITIONS AND ees in the Bank’s home markets. In recent UNION RIGHTS STAFF MAGAZINE years, employees in Hong Kong, Luxembourg, All employees of Handelsbanken have the Handelsbanken’s staff magazine, Remissan, Poland, Singapore and Taipei have also been right to organise and join a union or employee started in 1948 and is a publication which is included in Oktogonen. organisation. Handelsbanken’s traditional good made by and for the employees of the Bank. Some 97 per cent of the Group’s employees relationship with unions is a valuable compoRemissan’s task is to create a sense of comare now covered by Oktogonen. The proﬁtnent of Handelsbanken’s culture. All employees munity, belonging and commitment among sharing scheme is long-term, as payments canin Denmark, Finland, France, Luxembourg, the employees, and to reﬂect Handelsbanken’s not be made until the year when an employee Norway, Sweden and Austria, comprising culture throughout the Group. The magazine is reaches the age of 60. almost 85 per cent of the Bank’s employees, published in Swedish and English. One of the fundamental concepts in managare covered by collective bargaining agreeing the foundation is that the funds are invested ments. In these countries, employees who are PENSIONS AND OTHER CONDITIONS in shares in Handelsbanken. not members of a union are also covered by the Handelsbanken aims to be an attractive emThe Oktogonen Foundation has two repreterms of the collective agreement. The number ployer. The Bank therefore offers various types sentatives on Handelsbanken’s Board. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 188 OWNERS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate Governance A Swedish bank’s operations are regulated by Swedish law, and banking operations may only be run with a licence from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Handelsbanken applies Swedish regulations in carried out. The Bank has a decentralised workcompliance within the Bank. Internal control its operations, both in and outside Sweden. The ing method with a high degree of autonomy exand compliance work are subject to internal and main principle is that outside Sweden, the host tending throughout the organisational structure. external risk-based auditing. country’s regulations are also applied, if these This corporate culture is described in detail in Sustainability issues, too, are part of the are stricter or deviate in other respects. an internal document called Our Way, which responsibility of all managers within the Group. Handelsbanken’s corporate governance sets out the Bank’s goals, business concept According to the Bank’s procedures, planning report is based on a shareholder perspective. and working method. All employees receive a and personal development dialogues (PLUS) There are, however, also other stakeholders personal copy of Our Way. must also be held with managers and in these with an interest in Handelsbanken’s corporate Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture discussions, the manager’s work with sustaingovernance, upon whose conﬁdence the Bank is of major importance in the governance of ability matters is followed up. is dependent. These include customers, emthe Bank. It works in parallel with and permeployees, shareholders, bond investors and the ates the principles, strategies, limits and target community in general. ﬁgures stated in policy documents and instructions. Handelsbanken’s Board has decided on the Bank’s policy in a number of central sustain“ Sustainability issues, too, are part of the “ Handelsbanken’s strong corporate culture is of ability issues, in particular by adopting ethical guidelines for the Handelsbanken Group which comprise matters such as economic crime, relations with customers, conﬂicts of interest, responsibility of all managers within the major importance in conﬁdentiality and the environment. the governance of the Internal control The responsibility for internal control and the Group. ” Bank. ” Bank’s compliance is an integral part of managers’ responsibility at all levels in the Bank. This responsibility means that ﬁt-for-purpose instructions and procedures for the operation must be PRINCIPLES FOR CORPORATE in place, and compliance with these procedures GOVERNANCE AT HANDELSBANKEN is monitored regularly. Handelsbanken has developed a strong corThe compliance function offers advice and porate culture for how banking work should be support in regulatory matters and follows up A SELECTION OF POLICY DOCUMENTS ESTABLISHED BY THE BOARD: MORE INFORMATION Ř &UHGLWSROLF\ For more information, please see the Bank’s full Ř 3ROLF\IRURSHUDWLRQDOULVNV corporate governance report, which can be found Ř &DSLWDOSROLF\ on pages 49–63 of the Annual Report. Ř )LQDQFLDOSROLF\ More information about Handelsbanken’s Ř )LQDQFLDOULVNSROLF\ corporate governance is available at Ř ,QIRUPDWLRQSROLF\ handelsbanken.se/ireng. The site includes the Ř (WKLFDOJXLGHOLQHV following information: Ř 3ROLF\IRUFRPSHQVDWLRQDQGVXLWDELOLW\DVVHVVPHQW Ř SUHYLRXVFRUSRUDWHJRYHUQDQFHUHSRUWVIURP Ř 3ROLF\IRUXVHRIWKHH[WHUQDODXGLWRUVőVHUYLFHV HVWDEOLVKHGE\WKHDXGLWFRPPLWWHH 2007 onwards Ř 3ROLF\IRULQGHSHQGHQWULVNFRQWURO Ř DUWLFOHVRIDVVRFLDWLRQ Ř 3ROLF\IRUFRPSOLDQFH Ř LQIRUPDWLRQDERXWWKHQRPLQDWLRQFRPPLWWHH Ř 3ROLF\IRUDJUHHPHQWVUHODWLQJWRWKHHQJDJHPHQWRIWKLUGSDUWLHV Ř LQIRUPDWLRQIURPDQQXDOJHQHUDOPHHWLQJVIURP Ř 3ROLF\RQPHDVXUHVDJDLQVWPRQH\ODXQGHULQJDQGƂQDQFLQJRIWHUURULVP 2004 onwards. Ř 3ROLF\IRUUHVSRQVLEOHLQYHVWPHQW HVWDEOLVKHGE\WKHDVVHWPDQDJHPHQWXQLW Ř 3ROLF\IRUFRQƃLFWVRILQWHUHVWDQGPHDVXUHVDJDLQVWEULEHU\DQGLPSURSHULQƃXHQFH Ř 3ROLF\IRUKDQGOLQJFXVWRPHUFRPSODLQWV A SELECTION OF CODES OF CONDUCT IN THE PERSONNEL AREA: Ř 3HUVRQQHOSROLF\ Ř *XLGHOLQHVIRUDOFRKRODQGGUXJUHODWHGPDWWHUV Ř *XLGHOLQHVIRUWKHSUHYHQWLRQRIYLFWLPLVDWLRQDWZRUN Ř *XLGHOLQHVIRUWKHSUHYHQWLRQRIVH[XDOKDUDVVPHQW Ř *XLGHOLQHVUHJDUGLQJEULEHU\DQGLPSURSHULQƃXHQFH Ř (QYLURQPHQWDOSROLF\ H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 189 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Corporate social responsibility Corporate social responsibility at Handelsbanken is manifested in responsible lending and advisory services, as well as our efforts to have satisfied customers and be a good employer. The actual words corporate social responsicircumstances. Based on this, the adviser and In addition, the Bank has a continual dialogue bility well reﬂect the strong social and ethical the Bank can provide guidance on ﬁnancing, with its customers in the thousands of customer aspects of a responsibly run banking operation. payments or investments that is adapted to meetings that take place at our 800+ ofﬁces, The Bank’s environmental impact is relatively each customer’s requirements. and also with our investors and the public limited, both directly and indirectly. But how the When providing investment advice, the proauthorities regarding matters which are of Bank acts can make a large difference – not posal is adapted to the customer’s goals, savimportance to a bank. This includes social least in the role of lender. Unless a bank acts in ings horizon and attitude to risk. The customer’s responsibility. a responsible manner, customers, the bank’s knowledge and understanding of the speciﬁc shareholders and taxpayers run the risk of being risks related to each type of ﬁnancial instrument, HUMAN RIGHTS negatively affected. Over-aggressive selling and how active the customer is as an investor, Handelsbanken endorses the principles set of credits which leads to an unhealthy level of are also taken into account. out in the United Nations Universal Declaration household and corporate debt always hits the The regulations require that all employees of Human Rights. Handelsbanken adheres to customer hardest. who provide customers with ﬁnancial advice UN’s Global Compact, cementing the Bank’s concerning investments and insurance have expressed support for universal human rights. LOW LOAN LOSSES relevant, up-to-date knowledge. In 2013, certiThis means that the Bank strives to support For those who wish to evaluate a bank in terms ﬁed staff were SwedSec-licensed by means and respect the protection of human rights of sustainability, one method is to study the of training and a qualiﬁcation test. At the last within the area which the Bank can inﬂuence. It bank’s risk tolerance. Handelsbanken has a year-end, Handelsbanken had just over 4,600 also means that the Bank ensures that it is not very low risk tolerance. Handelsbanken’s strict SwedSec-licensed employees in Sweden for involved in any breach of human rights. When approach to risk means that the Bank deliberadvisory services concerning ﬁnancial instrugranting credits, the Bank takes account of its ately avoids high-risk transactions, even if the ments and insurance. These employees take an customers’ attitudes to human rights. customer is willing to pay a high interest rate. annual knowledge update test. This low risk tolerance is maintained through a The Bank’s advice always prioritises the cusTHE BANK AS AN EMPLOYER strong risk culture that is sustainable in the long tomer’s interests and is professional, observes Handelsbanken has a long-term view of its relaterm and applies to all areas of the Group. high ethical standards and is executed in actionship with its employees and its belief in the For many years, Handelsbanken has had cordance with the current laws and regulations. individual’s will and ability is the foundation of much lower loan losses than peer banks. During The Bank’s customer information must be the Bank’s corporate culture. Since people have the 1998–2013 period, the average loan loss clear, factual and easy to understand. Terms different needs and capacity during their profesratio at Handelsbanken was 0.05 per cent, as and conditions for the Bank’s services must be sional life, the Bank as employer aims to provide compared to 0.18 per cent for the average of clear and not arbitrarily changed. the right conditions for its employees to develop the other three major Swedish banks. and contribute to the Bank’s success. EXTERNAL DIALOGUE CONCERNING Among other things, Handelsbanken in RESPONSIBLE SALES AND ADVISORY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Sweden has started working with Samhall. SERVICES Handelsbanken in Sweden has a representative Samhall’s task is to create meaningful work with When providing ﬁnancial advisory services and working with gender equality at the Employers’ development opportunities for people with variinsurance mediation, the Bank always considAssociation of the Swedish Banking Institutions ous functional disabilities. ers the customer’s overall situation and ﬁnancial (BAO). COOPERATION WITH ECPAT FIGHTING Loan losses as a percentage of lending 1998–2013 COMMERCIAL SEXUAL EXPLOITATION % OF CHILDREN 1.2 In Sweden, Handelsbanken co-operates with 1.0 the children’s rights organisation Ecpat Sweden 0.8 and is also a member of the Financial Coalition against Child Pornography. The overall objective 0.6 of the co-operation and membership is to pre0.4 vent trafﬁcking and commercial sexual exploita0.2 tion of children by means of information, and 0.0 preventing and obstructing monetary transac-0.2 tions made as payment for child pornography. 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 Handelsbanken Other Nordic banks* * For the period until 2000 inclusive, only Swedish banks are included. Handelsbanken has a low tolerance of risk. One manifestation of this is that for many years the Bank has had far lower loan losses than the rest of the sector. H A N D E L S BANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 190 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible lending Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always be based on the customer’s needs and financial position. Responsible lending means that Handelscustomer’s repayment capacity. This is particuenvironmental requirements for the customer’s banken does not grant credit to customers who larly important for customers engaged in environmanufacturing process will cause the comare not in a position to repay their loans. When mentally hazardous activities or selling products pany’s repayment capacity to deteriorate. the Bank grants credit, great importance is that involve environmental or health risks. For property-related lending, it is important therefore attached to customers’ ability to fulﬁl to take into account whether environmentally their commitments. This protects the individual harmful activities are or have been conducted in customer from running into ﬁnancial difﬁculties the property. due to excessive indebtedness – something that also beneﬁts the Bank and society at large. Financial advice in conjunction with lending must always be based on the customer’s “ Financial advice in conjunction with lending The branch which is responsible for the customer carries out the credit risk assessment. Thus, the branch also assesses how environmental risks will affect the customer’s needs and ﬁnancial position. Deﬁciencies in a must always be based repayment capacity. All this is part of the busicustomer’s repayment capacity can never be ness assessment which is the Bank’s method of ignored on the grounds that the Bank is being on the customer’s needs evaluating a customer. The business assessoffered good collateral or high margins. ment is a good aid for the branches when it SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS RELATED TO LENDING and financial position. ” comes to identifying and assessing risks. It is also good documentation for higher levels in the Bank to evaluate credit risk and monitor An important matter in terms of ethics and that branches take into account environmental principles is the extent to which the Bank should The Bank’s responsibility for sustainability issues in the credit risk assessment. bear the responsibility for what its customers do. matters related to granting credits is limited For a long time, the Bank has taken a restricThis could, for example, apply to a borrower that to an assessment of the customer’s repaytive approach to risk in its lending – including manufactures products that are dangerous to ment capacity and thus the credit risk. One environmental risk. This culture and expertise health, has a manufacturing process that affects example may be the risk that the customer’s on the part of the staff is best maintained and the environment adversely, or does not permit product cannot be sold, or that more stringent developed in day-to-day work at the branches. its employees to exercise their union rights. Handelsbanken’s view is based on the principle that it is the customer that is fully responsible Loans to the public, geographical distribution for its operation and how they are run. However, a fundamental condition for Handelsbanken’s lending is that the operation is legally compliant and fulﬁls all requirements from public authorities in terms of environmental questions and other sustainability matters. In the Bank’s home markets, which are countries with advanced legislation regarding health protection, the environment and union rights, there are public Sweden 68% authorities that monitor compliance with laws Norway 12% and regulations. UK 8% Finland 6% Handelsbanken’s credit policy states that the Denmark 4% Bank must maintain sound ethical standards Netherlands 1% in its lending operations. This means that in its Other countries 1% credit risk assessment, the Bank aims to take into account the customer’s attitude to human rights and fundamental principles of working conditions and environmental considerations. ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENTS WHEN LENDING In its credit assessments, Handelsbanken takes into account how environmental risks affect the H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 191 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Responsible investments Handelsbanken integrates sustainability matters with investment decisions which we make on behalf of our customers. This is a condition for creating long-term value growth. This work is based on the UN Principles for Responsible Investment, PRI. A responsible attitude is essential to long-term of the funds, has optimal performance in the companies which are involved in manufacturing value creation on capital markets. Investing our long term. This occurs, for example, in matters or selling prohibited weapons as deﬁned accustomers’ assets in a responsible manner is concerning the composition of the companies’ cording to international legislation. This applies, therefore a vital prerequisite for achieving our boards and the procedure prior to and at sharefor example, to cluster weapons and landmines. goal of generating a strong long-term return in holders’ meetings. Ahead of annual general Handelsbanken’s mutual funds. meetings in 2013, Handelsbanken Fonder FUNDS WITH SPECIAL CRITERIA Global Compact – a UN initiative which has participated in nine nomination committees. In Handelsbanken Fonder also offers funds which established a number of principles, relating addition, Handelsbanken Fonder voted at 55 observe special criteria in their investment to human rights, labour rights, corruption and annual general meetings. strategy. Sweden Index Criteria and Global environmental damage – also acts as guidance Index Criteria exclude companies which operate for the Bank in its work with responsible investRESPONSIBLE INVESTMENTS AT in certain sectors which can be considered conments. HANDELSBANKEN LIV troversial. These funds continued to see a good Handelsbanken integrates sustainability The Bank’s insurance company, Handelsinﬂow of capital in 2013. Together with some matters with the investment decisions made on banken Liv, has investment guidelines based other products with a sustainability proﬁle aimed behalf of customers. Our approach to this work on Global Compact and the UN Principles for at institutional investors, these funds have total is based on the UN Principles for Responsible Responsible Investment, PRI. Responsible assets of SEK 15 billion. Investment, PRI, which Handelsbanken signed asset management is a condition both for longin 2009. These principles now guide the way in term value creation and for meeting customer INVESTMENTS IN COMMODITIES which asset managers and capital owners work demand. When Handelsbanken Liv selects As a rule, ﬁnancial investments in commodities with sustainability issues. Signing PRI means and evaluates asset managers, funds and fund take place through the purchase of ﬁnancial that we are committed to integrating sustainmanagement companies for traditional insurinstruments such as derivatives, often on the ability matters into research and investment ance and unit-linked insurance, account must futures market. This market exists mainly so that decisions, and to be involved in greater transbe taken of Global Compact and PRI. producers and purchasers of various commodiparency relating to environmental, social and ties can reduce the effect of price changes, but corporate governance matters in the compaANALYSIS AND ACTION it also provides investors with the opportunity to nies that Handelsbanken Fonder invests in. All holdings in the funds and portfolios managed beneﬁt from movements in commodity prices. by Handelsbanken Fonder are regularly reviewed, Although supply and demand for the underlyCORPORATE GOVERNANCE IN with Global Compact as one of the starting ing physical commodity ultimately determine HANDELSBANKEN’S FUNDS points. These international standards and conthe price, some maintain that investments The Bank’s fund management company, ventions form the foundation of Handelsbanken in futures create price bubbles. One area is Handelsbanken Fonder, exercises its ownerFonder’s policy for responsible investments. agricultural commodities, where opinions differ. ship role in the companies in which its mutual This analysis is part of the fund management It is important for Handelsbanken to follow this funds own shares, on behalf of the unit-holders. but is also carried out with the help of external debate and participate where these matters are It exercises its ownership role with the goal that experts on responsible investment. Thus, we discussed. the value of the companies, and thus the value are able to follow up deviations from these standards, for example by having a dialogue HANDELSBANKEN PARTICIPATES IN with the company in question. Depending on SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION how this dialogue evolves, we decide on posTogether with a number of major Swedish sible future action. institutional investors, in 2013, Handelsbanken Our integrated work method means that we Asset Management took part in the Sustainable readily discuss sustainability issues as part of the Value Creation initiative. In a survey, the 100 1. Incorporate environmental, social and corporate ongoing dialogue we have with the companies companies on Nasdaq OMX Stockholm with governance (ESG) issues into investment that we invest in. The dialogue takes the form of the highest market capitalisation were asked analysis and decision-making processes 2. Be active owners and incorporate ESG issues regular meetings with company management and a series of questions regarding guidelines, iminto our ownership policies and practices other representatives of the companies. In 2013, plementation and governance of sustainability 3. Seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by analysts and portfolio managers at Handelsissues. The aim was to provide the companies the entities in which we invest banken Fonder held one or more meetings with with a better understanding of the issues that 4. Promote acceptance and application of the around 1,300 corporate management teams or are relevant to investors, and to provide supprinciples within the investment industry corporate representatives worldwide. In 2013, port for the development of communications 5. Work together to enhance our effectiveness in Handelsbanken Fonder speciﬁcally broached the and reporting. The project members will, in implementing the principles subject of deviations from international standards various ways, each use the companies’ survey 6. Each report on our activities and progress towards implementing the principles and conventions with some 20 companies. responses as a basis for their dialogues and Handelsbanken Fonder does not invest in investment decisions as owners. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 192 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Handelsbanken in the community Handelsbanken acts in a socially responsible manner and contributes to economic development in the community by running stable, long-term banking operations that focus on customer needs. HANDELSBANKEN IN THE COMMUNITY During 2013, Handelsbanken opened 37 new In addition, Handelsbanken is the largest payer Handelsbanken is a bank that is stable over branch ofﬁces in its home markets: two new to the Swedish Stabilisation Fund for the ﬁnanthe long term – a bank which, regardless of branches in Sweden, 28 new branches in the cial system. the situation in the world around us, is there UK, two branches in Denmark, two branches in For 2013, it is estimated that Handelsbankfor our customers. By being a bank with stable Norway and ﬁve new branches in the Netheren’s total taxes and state fees amount to over ﬁnances and a stable presence, Handelsbanken lands. Handelsbanken is currently the only bank SEK 7 billion. aims to fulﬁl its role as a responsible institution. in 59 locations. Handelsbanken also takes responsibility in this POLITICALLY INDEPENDENT role by managing risks in such a way that as ACCESSIBLE LOCAL BRANCHES Handelsbanken is not allied to any political few customers as possible have difﬁculties in The Bank’s local branches must also be acparties. The Bank does not provide ﬁnancial making payments, and the Bank can therefore cessible to customers with reduced mobility support to any political parties, nor does it make continue to be a bank with stable ﬁnances that or sense of direction. Most of the Bank’s 462 any other type of political donation. makes a positive contribution to its customers, branches in Sweden meet with these requireits shareholders, and the community. ments. In cases where these requirements are GRANTS FOR RESEARCH AND EDUCATION not met, it is usually due to restrictions regarding Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on HANDELSBANKEN IN THE LOCAL alterations to the exterior of the building or a number of occasions awarded grants for ecoCOMMUNITY the street environment. Our large number of nomic research, mainly through allocations to Handelsbanken is convinced of the need for a branches means that if necessary we can offer two independent research foundations: the Tore local presence. The basic concept of the Bank’s customers a nearby branch which is adapted to Browaldh Foundation and the Jan Wallander way of operating is that business decisions are these needs. and Tom Hedelius Foundation. Taken together, made as close to the customer as possible. these foundations are one of the most important This is why Handelsbanken offers a nationwide sources of funding for economic research branch network in the countries the Bank has in Sweden, and their ﬁnancing includes two identiﬁed as its home markets. The Bank’s professorships. In 2013, 148 (139) grants were decentralised organisational structure where the local branch manager is responsible for all the Bank’s business in its local area of operations means that Handelsbanken is ﬁrmly established “ Handelsbanken is convinced of the need awarded for a total of SEK 149 million (130). For several years, Handelsbanken has supported a project to improve young people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance though ﬁnancial in the local community. In recent years, most banks have decided to signiﬁcantly reduce the number of branches. Handelsbanken has instead elected to retain for a local presence. ” support for information campaigns and contributing the Bank’s expertise. its local branches and thus continues to ﬁll an SERVICES FOR THE PUBLIC GOOD important function in the local community. A bank’s fundamental tasks are, on the one The Bank is also developing a new type hand, to manage the money of those who of physical meeting-place linked to the local wish to postpone their spending and save branches in various locations. their money, and on the other to lend money to companies and households that wish to spend and invest today. Together, banks must Number of new branches opened, 2003–2013 also maintain an efﬁcient, functioning payment 50 system, as well as managing risk. 40 HANDELSBANKEN AS A TAXPAYER 30 For many years, Handelsbanken has been one of the largest payers of corporate tax in Sweden. 20 VAT is also a major cost for Handelsbanken 10 since VAT is to a large extent not payable on the Bank’s operations. This means that the 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Bank cannot deduct input VAT which it pays Sweden Outside Sweden when buying external services and products. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 193 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic value creation Handelsbanken’s higher profitability benefits society at large, as well as the Bank’s shareholders. Handelsbanken is one of the few Nordic banks that has not sought financial support from central banks, the government or its shareholders during the recent years of turbulence in the financial markets. VALUE CREATION DURING 2013 on the economy in general. This applies not DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE In 2013, Handelsbanken’s proﬁt before taxes only to direct economic effects such as paying During the most recent business cycle, Handelsand government fees was just over SEK 21 corporate tax, but also to the indirect economic banken has paid dividends to its shareholders billion. This created value was distributed as effects. every year, while remaining one of the largest follows: just over SEK 7 billion in taxes and payers of corporate tax in Sweden. government fees, just over SEK 10 billion in proposed dividends, to be paid to the shareINDIRECT ECONOMIC EFFECTS holders in the spring of 2014, and the remaining approximately SEK 4 billion, which is reinvested in the operations. “ A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and Handelsbanken is the largest ﬁnancer of companies in Sweden, and thus it ﬁnances growth and increased employment throughout the country. STABLE IN THE MIDST OF THE responsibly, has a subThe Bank enables households to fund propFINANCIAL CRISIS erty purchases and thus move to a new town During the ﬁnancial crisis, Handelsbanken has stantial positive impact where the employment situation is better, for not used the Swedish government’s capital example. The Handelsbanken Group ﬁnances support or guarantee programme and is the on the economy in one quarter of households’ mortgage loans in only listed Swedish bank that has not needed Sweden. to ask its shareholders for new capital. A well-run bank, which acts sustainably and responsibly, has a substantial positive impact general. ” The table, which is laid out according to GRI’s principles, shows how the income generated by the Bank’s operations is allocated over various groups of stakeholders. The data comes from the Group’s income statement and balance sheet. Direct economic value generated and distributed (according to GRI) Economic ﬂows to and from various groups of stakeholders SEK bn 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE CREATED Customers Income after loan losses and before fees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 29.5 Value created by serving customers 36.2 34.9 33.1 30.4 29.5 ALLOCATED ECONOMIC VALUE Employees Salaries 7.1 6.9 6.7 6.4 6.7 Provision to proﬁt-sharing foundation 1.1 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.7 Payroll charges and other staff costs 3.2 3.3 2.3 2.3 2.6 Cost of employees 11.4 11.2 9.9 9.5 10.0 Public authorities and society at large The table of created and delivered direct ecoSuppliers* 5.7 5.5 5.5 5.5 5.2 nomic value shows how the income generated by Handelsbanken’s operations during the year was Tax costs** 3.9 3.0 4.4 4.0 3.5 allocated over various stakeholders. The calculaFees to the Stabilisation fund, deposit guarantee etc. 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.6 0.6 tion is based on the ﬁgures in the income stateGovernment bank support received ment and in accordance with the GRI guidelines. Participation in government guarantee programmes The items allocated in the table are based on To society 10.7 9.6 11.0 10.1 9.3 broader value created where salaries and other administrative costs (suppliers) are added to the Shareholders operating proﬁt. The purpose is to show in a baDividends (refers to the year dividends were paid) 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 4.4 sic way how Handelsbanken creates value for its New share issue stakeholders and in the economic system in which Transactions with the shareholders 6.8 6.1 5.6 5.0 4.4 the organisation works. The table provides an Reinvested economic value (“remaining in the Bank”) 7.3 8.0 6.6 5.8 5.8 overview of the direct measurable monetary value contributed by Handelsbanken to its stakeholders, * Refers to Other administrative expenses and depreciation. and thus to development in the community. ** Refers to Tax costs according to the income statement. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 194 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT High ethical standards engender trust Handelsbanken has ethical guidelines stating that operations must be characterised by high ethical standards. ETHICAL GUIDELINES AT HANDELSBANKEN must comply with the Bank’s regulations regardTHE BANK AS A CUSTOMER Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are adopted ing conﬂicts of interest and in connection with Handelsbanken purchases goods and services by the Board of the Bank. They formulate the this identify conﬂicts of interest whenever they from Swedish and international suppliers. Ethibasic guidelines for every employee’s actions. arise and as far as possible ensure that they are cal considerations are just as important for the Employees who are in doubt when applying avoided. It is also important that the employees Bank in its role as customer as when it supplies the Bank’s ethical guidelines and dealing with comply with the Bank’s regulations regarding services and products. To avoid incurring related issues must contact their immediate bribery and improper inﬂuence so that they obligations to suppliers, the Bank also has rules superior to ﬁnd out what is ethically acceptable. avoid becoming dependent on a customer or regarding receiving and giving personal gifts and A self-evident rule is that the Bank and its supplier to the Bank or have improper inﬂuence for business entertaining. employees must comply with the laws and on a customer. In addition to the applicable Environmental considerations are also regulations that govern the Bank’s operations. legislation, employees must follow the Bank’s included in all decisions on purchases. When If the individual has poorer protection from local own regulations in this area and the recommenmaking purchasing decisions, the Bank must laws and regulations than Swedish laws, reguladations issued by the Swedish Anti-Corruption make enquiries as to whether suppliers: tions and principles, Handelsbanken applies Institute. Handelsbanken has identiﬁed a Ř FRPSO\ZLWKFROOHFWLYHEDUJDLQLQJDJUHHPHQWV the latter. suspected case of corruption during the year Ř KDYHDZRUNHQYLURQPHQWSROLF\ The guidelines are reviewed every year by the which the Bank is currently investigating. Ř KDYHDSROLF\FRQFHUQLQJJLYLQJDQGWDNLQJ Board. The starting point here is any changes The regulations must be followed in all conbribes. to the relevant legislation, but also changes in texts, including gifts, entertainment and other external expectations, the Bank’s experience of events. Employees’ business travel must always In order to ensure quality when making purchasregular internal work and observations from the be paid for by the Bank. ing decisions, the Bank has drawn up a checkBank’s comprehensive internal control. list. This list will be implemented during 2014. CONDUCT OF EMPLOYEES The Bank maintains an ongoing dialogue MEASURES AGAINST MONEY LAUNDERING Handelsbanken employees with its suppliers to promote and improve our AND FINANCING OF TERRORISM Ř PXVWQRWEHLQDSRVLWLRQZKHUHWKH\PD\EH environmental activities. To prevent banks being used for money suspected of taking improper advantage of Handelsbanken’s ethical guidelines are laundering and ﬁnancing of terrorism, there are knowledge about the ﬁnancial markets which also complied with when the Bank itself is a special rules which apply in large parts of the they obtain in the course of their work customer. world. This means, for example, that the Bank is Ř PXVWEHIDPLOLDUZLWKWKHORFDOLQVLGHUWUDGLQJ obliged to have good knowledge of its customlaws and observe the Bank’s own rules for ers and their banking transactions both at the employees’ private securities and currency time the business relationship starts and during transactions the period it lasts. Transactions, ownership Ř PXVWLQWKHLUZRUNDWWKH%DQNDQGLQWKHLU structures and business arrangements which private affairs, refrain from business transacare perceived as being unusual and where the tions that violate the Bank’s rules or current Bank does not understand the background are legislation HANDELSBANKEN’S ETHICAL examined. Ř PXVWUHIUDLQIURPWUDQVDFWLRQVRURWKHUFRPGUIDELINES COVER THE FOLLOWING The Bank’s instructions, procedures, trainmitments that could seriously jeopardise their AREAS: ing and system support in the area of money personal ﬁnancial position Ř +LJKHWKLFDOVWDQGDUGV laundering are intended to support employŘ DUHQRWSHUPLWWHGWRSURFHVVWUDQVDFWLRQV Ř /DZVUHJXODWLRQVDQGJXLGLQJSULQFLSOHV Ř (FRQRPLFFULPH ees so that good knowledge of customers in which they, or persons closely related to Ř &XVWRPHUUHODWLRQV is achieved. In this way, the Bank can avoid them, have a personal interest. This also apŘ &RQƃLFWVRILQWHUHVW participating in transactions which are susplies to companies to which these employees Ř 7KH81*OREDO&RPSDFW pected of being linked to criminal activities, or or persons closely related to them have a Ř &RQGXFWRIHPSOR\HHV Ř &RQƂGHQWLDOLW\ of which the employees do not understand the commitment Ř (QYLURQPHQWDOPDWWHUV implications. Ř PXVWQRWLI\WKHLUPDQDJHURUWKH&HQWUDO$XGLW Ř ([WHUQDOFRQWUDFWRUV Department if they suspect irregularities at CONFLICTS OF INTEREST AND the Bank CORRUPTION Ř PXVWQRWLI\WKH%DQNRIDVVLJQPHQWVRXWVLGH READ MORE Conﬂicts of interest occur daily in society and the Bank and obtain approval. These rules The Bank’s ethical guidelines are available on its the ﬁnancial sector is no exception. Regardless also apply to secondary occupations and website handelsbanken.se/ireng. of where they work in the Bank, employees certain posts in clubs, societies and the like. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 195 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Bank’s environmental activities Handelsbanken takes responsibility for how its operations affect society in several areas. Among other things, we work to minimise the Bank’s direct and indirect impact on the environment. HANDELSBANKEN’S ENVIRONMENTAL The proportion of green electricity is 99 per cent CLIMATIC IMPACT POLICY for Sweden. Handelsbanken strives to minimise Deep water source cooling is used from DeAs far as is technically and ﬁnancially possible, the CO2 emissions generated in its operations. cember to May for the head ofﬁce properties as and to the extent that is compatible with the Handelsbanken’s electricity consumption for a complement to the use of cooling machines Bank’s undertakings, Handelsbanken aims to its Nordic operations was at the same level in and district cooling solutions. Deep water promote long-term sustainable development. 2013 as in 2012. On the other hand, the proporsource cooling involves taking coldness from Therefore, the starting-point is that Handelstion of green electricity for the Nordic countries Baltic Sea water using heat exchangers. banken’s impact on the environment must be as a whole has decreased to 92 per cent. This A long-term maintenance plan has been minimised. Handelsbanken has signed and means that the total amount of emissions of drawn up for the properties owned by the complies with a number of voluntary agreeCO2 for electricity consumption in the Nordic Bank, to reduce the properties’ overall energy ments, such as the ICC Business Charter for countries increased in 2013 compared to 2012. consumption. Sustainable Development, the UN’s Banks and The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is a the Environment programme (UNEP FI), the global project where investors have joined MORE EFFICIENT EQUIPMENT AND UN’s Global Compact voluntary initiative, and together to urge listed companies worldwide to UTILISATION OF RESOURCES the UN Principles of Responsible Investment report their emissions, and how they are dealing Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly (PRI). with their impact on the climate. The initiators of being made which, together, are reducing envithe project include 500 major banks, instituronmental and climatic impact. HANDELSBANKEN’S DIRECT tional investors and insurance companies. The Ř &DUERQGLR[LGHHPLVVLRQVIURPHOHFWULFLW\ ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT report has been published annually since 2000. consumption in Sweden have decreased by A bank’s direct environmental impact is fairly 99 per cent over the past six years. This is limited. Handelsbanken’s direct environmental mainly due to reduced electricity consumpimpact derives mainly from its consumption of tion, but also to the decision to purchase a energy, materials, equipment, travel and transport. For several years, the Bank has measured and reported the carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions generated by its own operations as the result “ Throughout the Bank, changes are constantly higher proportion of electricity of guaranteed origin (100 per cent hydroelectric) Ř QHZFXVWRPHUVZKRVDYHUHJXODUO\HDFK month and who use Handelsbanken Online of its use of transport and its consumption of being made which, Banking receive electronic notiﬁcations electricity and heat energy. For all the Bank’s Ř WKHQXPEHURIYLGHRFRQIHUHQFHKRXUV regional banks in the Nordic countries, the UK together, are reducing increased by two per cent in 2013 compared and the Netherlands and also central units, CO2 with 2012 emissions from the operations’ total energy environmental and Ř HOHFWURQLFSURFHVVLQJRIVXSSOLHULQYRLFHVLV consumption totalled 2,971 tonnes for 2013. gradually being increased, which reduces the For the Swedish operations, in addition to electricity consumption, we also measure transport, business travel and heating/coolclimatic impact. ” use of paper and transport. The Bank continues to develop digital services for customers, branches and internal units, so as to further ing of properties owned by Handelsbanken in reduce paper consumption Sweden, which totalled 4,094 tonnes of CO2 for Handelsbanken improved its result and in the Ř WKHZRUNFRQWLQXHVRIUHGXFLQJWKH%DQNőV 2013. Emissions of CO2 in Sweden have gone Carbon Disclosure Project’s report for 2013, environmental impact in the IT area. In down by six per cent compared with 2012. The which was presented in late 2013, received 81 autumn 2013, work started on making old amount of CO2 emissions from electricity con(71) points out of a possible 100. The average servers more efﬁcient. So far, 15 servers have sumption has fallen but CO2 emissions related value in the CDP Nordic survey was 73 points. been upgraded which means they have a to business travel have increased in Sweden. reduced need for cooling and electricity Emissions (CO2 ) tonnes 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Electricity consumption, Nordic region, UK and Netherlands 2 971 Electricity consumption, Nordic region and UK 2 846 2 170 3 763 of which electricity consumption, Nordic countries1 1 093 767 2 517 4 519 6 568 9 878 electricity consumption, Sweden 83 224 821 2 717 5 071 8 367 Heating etc for own properties, Sweden 1 143 1 480 1 466 1 569 1 181 1 344 External transport, Sweden 398 401 125 128 289 209 Business travel, Sweden 2 470 2 261 2 171 2 216 2 417 2 945 1 Sweden, Denmark, Norway, Finland. The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix Nordic countries, that is electricity where the source cannot be traced. Emissions of CO2 for 2008–2012 are recalculated retroactively according to residual mix Nordic countries. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 196 SOCIETY | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Ř LQWKH%DQNőVSURSHUWLHVROGHUYHQWLODWLRQ Electricity consumption, Sweden systems have been modernised to reduce GWh CO2 tonnes energy consumption 60 9 000 Ř ROGSULQWHUVID[PDFKLQHVDQGVFDQQHUVDUH 50 7 500 being replaced by multi-function machines 40 6 000 which use less energy, are environmentally certiﬁed and have environmentally friendly 30 4 500 toner. A further long-term aim is to reduce 20 3 000 paper consumption when old equipment is to be scrapped; the Bank ensures that it is recy10 1 500 cled in an environmentally friendly manner. 0 0 Ř +DQGHOVEDQNHQKDVVXSSOHPHQWHGLWV 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 selection of leasing vehicles for employees in Electricity consumption (kWh) Sweden with plug-in hybrid cars that can be Of which green electricity (%) CO2 emissions (tonnes) charged from the electricity mains. The recalculation factor applied for emissions of CO2 for non-green electricity in the Nordic countries is residual mix Nordic countries, that is electricity where the source cannot be traced. Emissions of CO2 for 2008–2012 are recalculated “ retroactively according to residual mix Nordic countries. Emissions of carbon dioxide in Sweden have gone down by six per cent compared Business travel, Sweden Km million CO2 tonnes with 2012. ” 25 20 3 500 3 000 2 500 15 2 000 MEASURES TO REDUCE THE BANK’S ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 10 1 500 To reduce the Bank’s environmental impact, the 1 000 5 following initiatives are planned over the next 500 few years: 0 0 Ř )XUWKHULQFUHDVHWKHOHYHORIDZDUHQHVV 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 regarding measures to reduce the Bank’s Air Rail Car direct climatic impact. The aim of this is that CO2 emissions all parts of the organisation should be able to contribute effectively to reducing energy consumption, for example Ř LQFUHDVHWKHSURSRUWLRQRIJUHHQHOHFWULFLW\ purchased in 2014 Ř LQFUHDVHWKHDPRXQWRIUHF\FOHGUHIXVH Centrally distributed information Group Ř UHGXFHWKHDPRXQWRIEXVLQHVVWUDYHOE\ No. million No. of customers thous. 70 1 400 facilitating the use of video conferences Ř GHYHORSGLJLWDOVHUYLFHVIRUFXVWRPHUV 60 1 200 branches and internal units, so as to reduce 50 1 000 paper consumption. 40 800 30 600 HANDELSBANKEN’S INDIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 20 400 By joining the UN’s Global Compact, Handels10 200 banken undertakes to describe how it works 0 0 with environmental matters, etc. In addition 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 READ MORE Sheets Envelopes Additional information about how the Bank works to the Bank’s own consumption of resources, Active online customers* with environmental issues is given on the Bank’s this mainly concerns the indirect environmental website handelsbanken.se/csreng. * Private and corporate customers who have been active in the impact via lending and asset management. Bank’s online services at least once in the last six months of 2013. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 197 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, INDEXES AND SURVEYS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Initiatives, awards, indexes and surveys Handelsbanken works both within and outside the financial industry in various initiatives which are intended to increase the level of awareness relating to sustainability and corporate social responsibility. INITIATIVES Ecpat Personal ﬁnances for young people Global Compact In 2009, Handelsbanken, together Handelsbanken supports initiatives that improve In 2009, Handelsbanken signed the with the Swedish Bankers’ Associyoung people’s knowledge of personal ﬁnance by UN’s Global Compact, cementing the ation, started cooperating with Ecpat. supporting information campaigns and contributing support the Bank has expressed for The overall objective of the cooperknow-how. Ung Privatekonomi (“Young Personal universal human rights and corporate ation is to prevent commercial sexual Finances”) is a school information project that social responsibility. Global Compact exploitation of children by preventing and obstructteaches Swedish upper secondary school students is an initiative aimed at companies and advocates ten ing monetary transactions made as payment for and teachers about personal ﬁnances and savings. principles based on international conventions. These child pornography. principles, which were established in 2000, include Ecpat Sweden is part of Ecpat International, Collaboration with universities and colleges human rights, labour laws, the environment and which has member organisations in more than 70 Handelsbanken has a number of collaborations anti-corruption. countries. Ecpat is working to prevent and stop all with universities and colleges, and these are an forms of commercial sexual exploitation of children, important part of its long-term employer branding ICC child pornography and child sex tourism. work. Through these collaborations Handelsbanken The International Chamber of establishes contact with target groups that are Commerce (ICC) has developed Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography important in terms of recruitment. This is based a business charter, with the aim Handelsbanken has been on co-operation with and commitment from local of guiding the world’s companies in their efforts to a member of the Swedish personnel departments, as well as employees and fulﬁl their environmental commitments. These Financial Coalition Against managers from branches and internal units. commitments are in compliance with national and Child Pornography (the Financial Coalition) since international guidelines and standards for environ2009. The Financial Coalition works to impede and Handelsbanken’s student programme mentally aware governance. Handelsbanken has prevent trade related to child pornography, based on Handelsbanken in Sweden offers students from signed the charter and complied with it since the the overall crime-prevention goal of stopping child upper secondary school who plan to study at uni1990s. sexual abuse. With the intention of preventing this versity the opportunity to participate in the Bank’s trade from being conducted through the ﬁnancial student programme alongside their studies. The PRI systems, a unique cooperation has been developed programme comprises working at the Bank during PRI (United between public authorities, the private sector and their studies, their own action plan and relevant Nations backed the non-proﬁt sector. The fact that the Financial studies for development at Handelsbanken. The Principles for Coalition’s members impede the opportunity of using purpose is to attract and recruit young employees Responsible Investment Initiatives) was launched in the ﬁnancial systems for this kind of crime, helps to as part of the Bank’s future management succes2006. It is a network of investors that work together make it more complicated and limit its distribution. sion and to promote gender equality. with the UN to implement principles for responsible investment. Its aim is to promote responsible actions Economic research The Technology Leap among institutional investors and to work for Since the early 1960s, Handelsbanken has on a Since the autumn of 2013, Handelsbanken has takincreased openness and awareness of environmennumber of occasions awarded grants for economic en part in the Technology Leap (Tekniksprånget). tal, social and corporate governance issues in the research, mainly through allocations to two indeThe Technology Leap is run by the Royal Swedish companies in which these players invest. Handelspendent research foundations: the Jan Wallander Academy of Engineering Sciences (IVA), on behalf banken became a signatory to the principles in and Tom Hedelius Foundation and the Tore Browof the Swedish National Agency for Education. The 2009. A total of around 1,200 capital owners, asset aldh Foundation. Technology Leap is an initiative, the aim of which managers and other stakeholders have signed the Taken together, these foundations are one of the is to give young people who have graduated from principles. most important sources of funding for economic upper secondary school natural sciences and techresearch in Sweden, and their ﬁnancing includes nology programmes an insight into the engineering UNEP FI two professorships. In 2013, 148 (139) grants were profession. Over a four-month period, the young The UN Environmental Programme awarded for a total of SEK 149 million (130). people are offered work experience aimed at inspirhas a special organisation that works At the end of 2013, the foundations’ combined ing them to apply for technology degree courses in with how the capital markets can capital totalled some SEK 5,000 million. the future. promote the adoption of best environmental and sustainability practice. Some 200 ﬁnancial institutions which support the initiative contribute to research into and knowledge of how sustainability issues can be integrated into ﬁnancial decisions. Handelsbanken has been a member of UNEP FI since the mid-1990s. H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 198 INITIATIVES, AWARDS, INDEXES AND SURVEYS | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AWARDS Young professionals Both indexes are based on a ranking of how well Bank of the Year 2013 In Universum’s Career Barometer survey, Sweden’s companies are working with environmental, social Handelsbanken has been acclaimed ‘young professionals’ named their ideal employand governance (ESG) issues. The companies that Bank of the Year for 2013 by the ers. ‘Young professionals’ refers to people under receive the highest scores qualify for the indexes. business magazine Privata Affärer. With 40 with an academic background and one to the citation “The big bank which also eight years’ experience of working life. Among STOXX Europe Sustainability Index looks after the small needs of its customers,” the professionals working with ﬁnance HandelsHandelsbanken is included in the STOXX Europe Bank accepted the award for the third time in ﬁve banken achieved ninth place, and was thus the Sustainability Index. The companies included in years. This prize – which is by far the most highest-ranked Swedish bank. In this survey, too, the index were selected in an analysis process proimportant banking award in Sweden – has been participants answered questions about what is vided by Bank Sarasin. Companies are assessed awarded since 1991. It is based on the magazine’s a good employer based on the following criteria: in terms of environmental, social and corporate many readers’ opinions of the various banks in reputation and image; job characteristics; people governance criteria. Sweden, with a jury then picking the best bank. and corporate culture; compensation and opportunities to advance. FTSE4Good Business Bank of the Year 2013 Handelsbanken has been For the third consecutive Anna’s Gender Equality Prize 2012 selected to be included in the year, Handelsbanken In 2012, international FTSE4Good Index was acclaimed Business Bank of the Year in FinansHandelsbanken 2013. The research analysis is barometern’s annual survey. Handelsbanken was awarded provided by Eiris, one of the leading research received the highest rating of any bank during the Anna’s Gender Equality Prize for the work it has houses for analysis of corporate social responsibilentire eleven-year history of the survey when systematically and purposefully pursued for many ity. Investors and owners use the FTSE4Good assessments of customer satisfaction, electronic years in promoting equal rights and opportunities Index to identify companies that fulﬁl globally services, quality of advisory services, price, service for women and men. Anna’s Gender Equality Prize recognised standards for corporate social level, attitude and the range of products and was founded in 1993, and since then has been responsibility. The index is independent and based services were taken into account. awarded every year in Sweden to an individual, a on analyses of companies’ work with environmencompany, a club, a project or a working group for tal matters, human rights and the other areas that Small Enterprise Bank of the Year 2013, Sweden good efforts towards increased equality in the bankcome under corporate social responsibility. For the second consecing and ﬁnance sector. The prize is awarded by the Handelsbanken has been included in the index utive year, HandelsCentral Equality and Diversity Committee, formed since 2001. banken has been acclaimed Small Enterprise Bank by the Employers’ Association of the Swedish of the Year in Sweden in Finansbarometern’s annual Banking Institutions (BAO) and the Financial Sector Satisﬁed customers survey. Handelsbanken received the highest rating Union of Sweden. In 2013, Handelsbanken had given to any bank in this survey when assessments the most satisﬁed customers of customer satisfaction, electronic services, quality INDEXES AND SURVEYS of the major banks in Sweden. of advisory services, price, service level, attitude and Handelsbanken is scrutinised and assessed by This applies to both private the range of products and services were taken into both customers and ﬁnancial market players. The and corporate customers. account. outcome, and the assessment of the Bank that The Bank tops these lists in results from this, shows how well Handelsbanken is all its home markets. Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI) is Universum living up to their expectations. a system for compiling, analysing and distributing Employees information about customers’ expectations, During the year, the reEthibel Sustainability Index perceived quality and evaluation of goods and search company Universum The Brussels-based services. Helping to run SKI is the international performed three different Ethibel provides the organisation EPSI Rating (European Performance surveys in which Handelsﬁnancial market with Satisfaction Index), which conducts comparable banken received very high information on companies’ surveys in over 20 countries. Research and ratings. When Universum CSR work. Its analyses are carried out by the Vigeo development related to the surveys is conducted ranked Sweden’s Ideal Employer 2013, Handelsresearch company, and based on these results, regularly at SIQ (the Swedish Institute for Quality) banken came in eighth place, which is the best in Ethibel creates a universe that forms a platform for and the Stockholm School of Economics. the banking sector. This result was based on factors sustainability products and responsible investments. such as “internal identity” (i.e. employees’ views on The Svenska Handelsbanken class A share has Sustainable Value Creation their employers’ reputation and image), job characbeen included in the Ethibel Excellence Investment Since 2009, teristics, people and corporate culture, as well Register since 2004, and is also included in the ESI Handelsbanken as compensation and opportunities to advance. Excellence index, which is based on this universe. Asset Management, Employees also graded how satisﬁed they were in together with other major Swedish investors, has overall terms, and how inclined they were to remain OMX GES Sustainability taken part in the Sustainable Value Creation project. with their employer. Together with the GES For the participants, the aim of the project has been Investment Services to highlight the importance of Swedish companies Business students research company, OMX working with sustainability issues in a structured Handelsbanken achieved sixth place in the Corpohas launched a number of manner. rate Barometer 2013, a survey carried out by the sustainability indexes that In its capacity as one of the 100 largest listed Universum research company; it was thus the best provide investors with a universe of companies that Swedish companies, Handelsbanken has itself in its sector among business students in Sweden. are fulﬁlling sustainability requirements. Handelsresponded to the survey on its work. The survey’s participants responded to questions on banken has qualiﬁed for the OMX GES Sustainideal employers, and graded these according to the ability Sweden index, as well as the OMX GES following criteria: reputation and image; job charSustainability Nordic index. acteristics; people and corporate culture; as well as compensation and opportunities to advance. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 199 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Content and restrictions Since 2009, Handelsbanken has reported its relevant work with sustainability in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI 3.0. This year we are doing this as part of the Bank’s annual report; previously it was published in a separate sustainability report. The aim of the report is that our stakeholders – customers, employees, investors and the public in general – should be able to find out about our work in a simple manner, gaining a good understanding of the Bank’s performance. THE WORK OF PRODUCING THE REPORT Sector Supplement (FSSS). Banking operations DATA COLLECTION AND LIMITATIONS Handelsbanken’s committee for sustainability have a limited direct environmental impact, The Sustainability Report contains information matters (see page 182) identiﬁed the most reland therefore, a number of GRI environmental relating to the Group unless otherwise stated. evant aspects of the Bank’s sustainability work. indicators have been deemed to have less The information presented in the report covers Its starting-points were the Bank’s business relevance for Handelsbanken, and thus these the largest and most important parts of the opoperations, an internal analysis of the mutual inare not reported. Handelsbanken’s suppliers, erations, with the focus on banking operations. ﬂuences and relationship between the Bank and e.g. property owners that provide premises for Handelsbanken established a regional bank its stakeholders, and the results of a continuous bank branches, or suppliers of ofﬁce material, in the Netherlands in January 2013 which is dialogue with stakeholders. By “stakeholders,” are located in the regions where Handelsbanken thus the Bank’s sixth home market. the Bank is referring to groups that are affected operates. Risks associated with human rights The Report has certain limitations regardto a large extent by the Bank’s actions or that and working conditions among providers are ing labour practices and environmental data can affect the Bank’s ability to create value. therefore deemed to be limited. (LA and EN). Some personnel information In assessing the degree of relevance of a refers to the Swedish operations only, while RELEVANCE FOR A BANK IN THE NORDIC speciﬁc indicator, the starting point has been other information is for the Group as a whole. REGION, THE UK AND THE NETHERLANDS Handelsbanken’s operations and where they Environmental data refers to operations in Relevance and materiality are key GRI concepts are conducted. the Bank’s home markets, with focus on the in reporting. Handelsbanken reports the sustainIn addition to the information provided Swedish operations. Any limitations are shown ability issues that we consider to be particularly in the report, there is also a separate GRI in the report. Emissions of carbon dioxide for relevant to our stakeholders and to the Bank’s appendix on Handelsbanken’s website 2008–2012 have been retroactively recalculated ability as regards long-term value creation. handelsbanken.se/csreng. according to residual mix Nordic countries and The analysis of what is relevant and material For more information about GRI, visit the this has affected the information provided in has resulted in Handelsbanken also reporting organisation’s website globalreporting.org. previous reports. Apart from this, no other major in accordance with the GRI Financial Services corrections or amendments have been made relating to information provided in previous years’ sustainability reports. Proﬁle: Company information Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on Report on all criteria listed Same as requirement for 1.1 for Level C plus: Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Indicators: Indicators: Indicators: G3 Proﬁle Disclosures 3.1–3.8, 3.10–3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1–4.4, 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13, 4.16–4.17 Economic Environmental Social Performance (EC) Performance (EN) (LA, HR, SO, PR) Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not Required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Sector supplement: Indicator Category Indicator Category OUTPUT G3 Management FINANCIAL SERVICE SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Approach Disclosures (FSSS) Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Report on each core G3 Performance Indicators, at Performance Indicators, at and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance least one from each of least one from each of Indicator with due regard to OUTPUT Indicators & Economic, Social and Economic, Environmental, the Materiality principle. Sector Supplement Environmental. Human rights, Labor, Society, Performance Indicators Product responsibility. *Sector supplement in ﬁnal version H A N D E L SB ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 200 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEX ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL ted in February 2013, and related to the 2012 the indicator to have and also to what extent REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) calendar year. Handelsbanken reports on the indicator. Handelsbanken reports its sustainability in The information presented in this report is In addition to the information provided in accordance with guidelines from the Global Reintended to provide a clear picture of Handelsthis sustainability report, there is a separate porting Initiative (GRI) 3.0. The Sustainability Rebanken’s sustainability efforts and to meet the GRI appendix on Handelsbanken’s website port meets the information requirements of level information requirements of stakeholders. handelsbanken.se/csreng. C+ and this has been conﬁrmed by the Bank’s The table below contains the indicators external auditors. Handelsbanken reports the which are assessed to be relevant to HandelsCONTACT Group’s sustainability activities annually. This is banken’s operations including indicators from For questions or comments on this report, Handelsbanken’s fourth Sustainability Report in the GRI Financial Services Sector Supplement or on the Bank’s sustainability work, please accordance with GRI, and relates to the 2013 (FSSS). The symbols in the table show the contact Handelsbanken Central Personnel, calendar year. The latest report was submitdegree of relevance that Handelsbanken deems email csr@handelsbanken.se. PROFILE: COMPANY INFORMATION Page CSR Page AR/www Scope 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 Comments from the Group Chief Executive 4–5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 179, 190–197 12–13, 46–47 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation 3 2.2 Primary brands, products, and services 9, 14–17 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 14–15 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters 3 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates Inside cover, 16–17, 204–211 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 49 2.7 Markets Inside cover, 16–17, 204–211 2.8 Scale of the organisation Inside cover, 10–11, 19, 22–23 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period 200 20–21 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 190, 199 4–5 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period 201 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 201 3.3 Reporting cycle 201 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 201 3.5 Process for deﬁning report content 200 3.6 Boundary of the report 200 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 200 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc. 178, 200 70–71 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 200 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods regarding scope, boundaries, etc. 200 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report 201–202 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 203 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure 189 50–58, 60–63 4.2 The Chairman of the Board's role 53–54, 60 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 53–54, 60–61 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the Board 183 2, 50, 52–53 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives 53–54, 57–58, 104–106 4.6 Processes for avoiding conﬂicts of interests in the Board 52–54, 57 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations of Board members 52–54 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 179, 184–187, 189–193, 195–196 4.9 The Board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 189 50–57 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board’s own performance 52–53 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles or other initiatives 190, 192, 196, 198 4–5 4.13 Memberships in associations 198–199 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 183, 193 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 183–185 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 183–186, 188, 196 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement 183–185 Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2013 Annual Report Relevant Reported CSR Refers to the 2013 Sustainability Report Partly relevant Partly reported www Refers to the GRI supplement at handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant Not reported H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 201 GRI – GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDICATORS Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope 5. ECONOMIC INDICATORS (EC) Disclosure on management approach/Economic 9–15 EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed 183, 194 EC2. Financial impact, and risks and opportunities for the organisation due to climate changes 179, 191–192, 196–197 EC3. Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations 104–106 EC4. Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government 180, 194 EC7. Local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community 186–187 EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public beneﬁt through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement 193, 198 EC9. Signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 179, 193–194 6. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (EN) Disclosure on management approach/Environment 180–183, 191–192, 196–197 EN1. Materials used by weight or volume www EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source 180–181, 196–197 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efﬁciency improvements 196–197 EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-efﬁcient or renewable energy-based products/services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives 191, 196–197 EN7. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and results 196–197 EN16. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 180–181, 196 EN17. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 196–197, 200 www EN18. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved 180–181, 196–197 EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method www EN29. Signiﬁcant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce 196–197 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (LA, HR, SO, PR) Disclosure on management approach Employment and working conditions (LA) 179–183, 186–193, 195, 198 LA1. Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 186–187 104 LA2. Staff turnover and employees who have left the Bank 181, 186–187 LA3. Beneﬁts provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations 188 60–63, 104 LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 188 LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding major operational changes and whether this is speciﬁed in the collective agreement 188 LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, total work related fatalities per region 180–181, 187 LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 188 LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 186 LA13. Composition of governance bodies and employees according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity 186–187 60–63, 104 LA14. Ratio of basic salary of men to women per employee category 187 Human rights (HR) HR1. Proportion and number of Investment agreements that include human rights clauses, or that have been examined on the basis of human rights 190–193 HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 187 Society (SO) SO2. Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 55–57, 78–101 SO3. Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures 195 56–57 SO4. Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 195 SO5. Participation in public policy development and lobbying 193 SO8. Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance No signiﬁcant with laws and regulations incidents in 2013 Product responsibility (PR) PR3. Type of products and service information required by procedures, and percentage of products subject to such information requirements 190–192 PR5. Results related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 180–182, 184–185, 199 PR6. Programme for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications 190 PR9. Monetary value of ﬁnes for non-compliance with regulations concerning the use of products and services No signiﬁcant incidents in 2013 FINANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Page CSR Page AR/www Relevance Scope FS. PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT SECTION FS1. Policies with speciﬁc environmental and social components applied to business lines 182, 190–193, 195–197 FS2. Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks in business lines 191–192 FS3. Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions 191 FS5. Interactions with clients/investees/business partners regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities 191–192 FS10. Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation has interacted on environmental or social issues 192 FS11. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative environmental screening 192 FS12. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social issues for shares over which the reporting organisation holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting 192 FS13. Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type 182, 193 16–17 FS15. Policies for the fair design and sale of ﬁnancial products and services 179, 190 FS16. Initiative to enhance ﬁnancial literacy by type of beneﬁciary 193, 198 Key to symbols AR Refers to the 2013 Annual Report Relevant Reported CSR Refers to the 2013 Sustainability Report Partly relevant Partly reported www Refers to the GRI supplement at handelsbanken.se/csreng Not relevant Not reported H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 202 EXAMINERS' REPORT | SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Auditor’s Combined Assurance Report on Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report To the readers of Svenska Handelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability Report 2013. INTRODUCTION The Bank’s internal audit department has CONCLUSIONS We have been engaged by the Executive continuously examined the internal control and Based on the limited assurance procedures Management of Svenska Handelsbanken AB the Sustainability Report. We have received the we have performed, nothing has come to our (publ) to undertake an examination of Svenska reports that have been prepared. attention that causes us to believe that the SusHandelsbanken AB (publ) Sustainability A reasonable assurance engagement tainability Report is not prepared, in all material Report for the year 2013. The Sustainability includes examining, on a test basis, evidence respects, in accordance with the above stated Report also includes a separate GRI Appendix, supporting the quantitative and qualitative incriteria. Handelsbanken’s GRI Appendix 2013 at formation in the Sustainability Report. A limited In our opinion the information in the Sustainwww.handelsbanken.se/csreng. The Company assurance engagement is mainly focused on ability Report which has been subject to our has deﬁned the scope of the Sustainability making inquiries of personnel responsible for reasonable assurance procedures has, in all Report on page 3 in the Annual Report 2013. sustainability issues, and applying analytical and material respects, been prepared in accordance other limited assurance procedures. Hence, with the above stated criteria. RESPONSIBILITIES OF the conclusion based on our limited assurance THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND procedures does not comprise the same level of THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT FOR assurance as the conclusion of our reasonable THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT assurance procedures. Since this assurance The Board of Directors and the Executive engagement is combined, our conclusions Management are responsible for ongoing regarding the reasonable assurance and the activities regarding sustainable development, limited assurance will be presented in separate and for the preparation and presentation of the sections. Sustainability Report in accordance with the Stockholm, February 14, 2014 applicable criteria, as explained on page 201 Our reasonable assurance engagement in the Sustainability Report, and are the parts includes the following: KPMG AB of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, Ř 7DEOHœ([WHUQDOVWDIIWXUQRYHUŎŔ published by The Global Reporting Initiative Ř 7DEOHVœ5HWXUQRQHTXLW\ŎŔ (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability “Loan losses as a percentage of lending Stefan Holmström Åse Bäckström Report. 1998–2013”, “Customer satisfaction, private Authorised Public Expert Member of FAR customers and corporate customers 2013” Accountant RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE AUDITOR Ř &DUERQGLR[LGHHPLVVLRQVIURPHOHFWULFLW\ Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on consumption the Sustainability Report based on the procedures we have performed. The criteria on which our procedures are based We conducted our engagement in accordare the parts of the Sustainability Reporting ance with RevR 6 Assurance of Sustainability Guidelines G3, published by The Global ReportReports issued by FAR. The engagement ing Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the includes a limited assurance engagement on Sustainability Report. We consider these criteria the complete Sustainability Report and audit suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability of certain information as speciﬁed below. The Report. objective of an audit is to obtain reasonable We believe that the evidence we have obassurance that the information is free of material tained is sufﬁcient and appropriate to provide a misstatements. basis for our conclusions below. H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 203 Contact information CONTENTS CONTACT INFORMATION Regional head ofﬁces Central Head Ofﬁce Sweden 206 Regional Bank Northern Sweden 207 Regional Bank Central Sweden 207 Central Head Ofﬁce UK 206 Regional Bank Stockholm 207 Central departments and units Regional Bank Eastern Sweden 207 at the Head Ofﬁce in Sweden Regional Bank Western Sweden 207 Central Personnel 206 Regional Bank Southern Sweden 207 Central IT 206 Regional Bank Northern Great Britain 207 Central Credits 206 Regional Bank Central Great Britain 207 Central Infrastructure 206 Regional Bank South West Great Britain 207 Group Finance 206 Regional Bank Southern Great Britain 207 Central Legal Department 206 Regional Bank Denmark 207 Corporate Communications 206 Regional Bank Finland 207 Corporate Governance and contacts Regional Bank Norway 207 with public authorities 206 Regional Bank Netherlands 207 Independent control functions Handelsbanken International 207 Independent Risk Control 206 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS Central Compliance 206 Branches in Sweden 208 Central Audit 206 Branches in the UK 211 Business areas Branches in Denmark 213 Handelsbanken Capital Markets 206 Branches in Finland 213 Handelsbanken Direkt 206 Branches in Norway 214 Handelsbanken Forestry and Farming 206 Branches in the Netherlands 214 Ofﬁces outside the Nordic countries, Subsidiaries the UK and the Netherlands 215 EFN 206 Handel och Industri 206 Boards of subsidiaries 215 Handelsbanken Finans 206 Handelsbanken Fonder 206 Handelsbanken Liv 206 Heartwood 206 Stadshypotek 206 205 CONTACT US Contact information Web site: handelsbanken.com unless otherwise stated. CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE SWEDEN CORPORATE COMMUNICATIONS SUBSIDIARIES Johan Lagerström, Head Pär Boman, Group Chief Executive EFN Claes Norlén, Chairman regional bank board Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Carl Bjurling, Head Håkan Sandberg, Chairman subsidiaries and SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Blasieholmstorg 12 regional bank board SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Corporate identity no.: 556930-1608 CONTACTS WITH PUBLIC AUTHORITIES +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Klas Tollstadius, Head handelsbanken.com HANDEL OCH INDUSTRI Corporate identity no.: 502007-7862 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Bengt Kjell, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Nybrokajen 15 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 CENTRAL HEAD OFFICE UK SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 41 10 Anders Bouvin, Head INDEPENDENT CONTROL FUNCTIONS Corporate identity no.: 556013-5336 3 Thomas More Square London E1W 1WY, UK INDEPENDENT RISK CONTROL HANDELSBANKEN FINANS +44 (0)20 757 880 00 Maria Hedin, Head Marie Lundberg, Head handelsbanken.co.uk Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Torsgatan 12–14 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 46 00 CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS AND UNITS Corporate identity no.: 556053-0841 AT THE HEAD OFFICE IN SWEDEN CENTRAL COMPLIANCE Luciana Pacor Hygrell, Head HANDELSBANKEN FONDER CENTRAL PERSONNEL Katarina Berner Frösdal, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Javiera Ragnartz, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Blasieholmstorg 12 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 CENTRAL AUDIT Corporate identity no.: 556418-8851 Tord Jonerot, Head CENTRAL IT Anders H Johansson, Head Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 HANDELSBANKEN LIV SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Louise Sander, Head Tegeluddsvägen 10 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Blasieholmstorg 12 SE-115 82 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Box 1325 SE-111 83 Stockholm, Sweden BUSINESS AREAS CENTRAL CREDITS +46 (0)8 701 71 00 Lars Kahnlund, Head HANDELSBANKEN CAPITAL MARKETS Corporate identity no.: 516401-8284 Per Beckman takes over as Head on 1 May 2014 Michael Green, Head Jan Häggström, Head of Economic Research HEARTWOOD Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Blasieholmstorg 11 Simon Lough, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden 12 Henrietta Street +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Covent Garden CENTRAL INFRASTRUCTURE London WC2E 8LH, UK Agneta Lilja, Head HANDELSBANKEN DIREKT +44 (0)20 704 513 20 Yonnie Bergqvist, Head Corporate identity no.: 4132340 Torsgatan 14 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Torsgatan 12 SE-106 35 Stockholm, Sweden STADSHYPOTEK +46 (0)8 701 10 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Per Beckman, Head Ulrika Stolt Kirkegaard takes over as GROUP FINANCE HANDELSBANKEN FORESTRY Head on 1 May 2014 Ulf Riese, CFO AND FARMING Torsgatan 12 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Rainer Lawniczak, Head SE-103 70 Stockholm, Sweden SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Åsa Willén takes over as Head on 1 June 2014 +46 (0)8 701 54 00 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Corporate identity no.: 556459-6715 Torsgatan 14 CENTRAL LEGAL DEPARTMENT SE-103 70 Stockholm, Sweden Ulf Köping-Höggård, Head +46 (0)8 701 10 00 Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden +46 (0)8 701 10 00 H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 206 CONTACT US REGIONAL HEAD OFFICES REGIONAL BANK SOUTH WEST GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN SWEDEN Michael Broom, Head Annika Brunnéd, Head 1100 Parkway North Storgatan 48 Stoke Gifford Box 1002 Bristol BS34 8YU, UK SE-901 20 Umeå, Sweden +44 (0)11 793 110 08 +46 (0)90 15 45 60 handelsbanken.co.uk REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK Pontus Åhlund, Head SOUTHERN GREAT BRITAIN Nygatan 20 Simon Lodge, Head Box 196 3 Thomas More Square SE-801 03 Gävle, Sweden London E1W 1WY, UK +46 (0)26 17 20 60 +44 (0)20 757 880 00 handelsbanken.co.uk REGIONAL BANK STOCKHOLM Carina Åkerström, Head REGIONAL BANK DENMARK Kungsträdgårdsgatan 2 Frank Vang-Jensen, Head SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden Havneholmen 29 +46 (0)8 701 10 00 DK-1561 Copenhagen V, Denmark +45 (0)46 79 12 00 REGIONAL BANK EASTERN SWEDEN handelsbanken.dk Stefan Nilsson, Head Nygatan 20 REGIONAL BANK FINLAND Box 421 Nina Arkilahti, Head SE-581 04 Linköping, Sweden Aleksanderkatu 11 +46 (0)13 28 91 00 FI-00100 Helsinki, Finland +358 (0)10 444 11 REGIONAL BANK WESTERN SWEDEN handelsbanken.ﬁ Katarina Ljungqvist, Head Östra Hamngatan 23 A REGIONAL BANK NORWAY SE-405 40 Gothenburg, Sweden Dag Tjernsmo, Head +46 (0)31 774 80 00 Tjuvholmen Allé 11 Postboks 1342 Vika REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN SWEDEN NO-0113 Oslo, Norway Anders Ohlner, Head +47 (0)22 39 70 00 Södergatan 10 handelsbanken.no SE-205 40 Malmö, Sweden +46 (0)40 24 56 00 REGIONAL BANK NETHERLANDS Mikael Sørensen, Head REGIONAL BANK WTC Schipol Airport NORTHERN GREAT BRITAIN Schiphol Boulevard 135 John Parker, Head NL-1118 BG Schiphol, Netherlands 4M Building +31 (0)204 127 600 Malaga Avenue handelsbanken.nl Manchester Airport Manchester, M90 3RR, UK HANDELSBANKEN INTERNATIONAL +44 (0)16 160 202 00 Magnus Uggla, Head handelsbanken.co.uk Torsgatan 14 SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden REGIONAL BANK +46 (0)8 701 10 00 CENTRAL GREAT BRITAIN Göran Stille, Head Two Colmore Square 38 Colmore Circus, 3rd ﬂoor Queensway Birmingham B4 6BN, UK +44 (0)12 121 291 74 handelsbanken.co.uk H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 207 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS Branches and branch managers REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL SWEDEN Board Board Bob Persson Östersund, Chairman Ulf Bergkvist Insjön, Chairman Hans Jonsson Umeå Torsten Engwall Gävle Gunnar Liljedahl Luleå Peter Larsson Sandviken Agneta Marell Umeå Monica Oldenstedt Västerås Annika Brunnéd Umeå Åke Rydén Sveg Inger Nordström Härnösand, (E)* Anders Wiklander Sundsvall Pontus Åhlund Gävle Head of regional bank Monica Morén Hedemora, (E)* Annika Brunnéd Umeå Head of regional bank Pontus Åhlund Gävle Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arvidsjaur Ann-Louise Högberg Lövånger Kjell-Ove Lövgren Alfta Dan Silvroth Ludvika Carina Lundefors Backe Linnea Olsson Malå Ewa Lundqvist Arboga Larry Andersson Malung Martin Sellberg Bjurholm Linda Öhrman Mörsil Astrid Larsson Lindh Arbrå Pär Lindh Matfors Johan Billström Bjästa Kathrin Nordenberg Nordingrå Tommy Sjölund Avesta Ruben Bergdahl Mockfjärd Bengt Korning Björna Veronica Egnor Nordmaling Mats Ågren Bergby Susanne Persson Mora Henrik Ragnarsson Boden Ann-Christin Söderberg Rånman Norsjö Greger Holmström Bergsjö Rose-Marie Hildingsson Norberg Håkan Bjurling Bredbyn Anna Englund Näsåker Mari Tarander Jakobsson Bjursås Anders Rapp Norrtälje Bo Schotte Bureå Helen Sundström Offerdal Jörgen Nordqvist Björbo Jenny Åkerström Ockelbo Karin Eriksson Burträsk Joakim Löfbom Pajala Per-Anders Juntti Bollnäs Thomas Frykberg Orsa Anette Skoglund Byske Sören Markström Piteå Stefan Uddström Borlänge Caroline Cedergren Rimbo Iréne Widnersson Domsjö Patrise Halsius Ramsele Jan-Åke Sjömäling Bräcke Mikael Mellström Rättvik Maria Holmberg Dorotea Fredrik Sjöbom Robertsfors Jenny Berglund Delsbo Örjan Källman Sala Robert Karlsson Föllinge Bodil Edfeldt Olsson Råneå Maria Mörk Edsbyn Annika Wikström Sandviken Pia Källarbo Gammelstad Susanne Rudeklint Skellefteå Hans Albert Lindgren Enköping Lars Olsson Skinnskatteberg Niclas Zidén Gällivare Björn Nyström Sollefteå Sofia Bodin Fagersta Mikael Johansson Holst Skultuna Johan Gustavsson Hammarstrand Lars-Göran Fahlén Sorsele Fredrik Karlsson Falun Anders Forsgren Skutskär Magnus Sjökvist Hammerdal David Sjödin Storuman Fredrik Karlsson Fellingsbro Daniel Wallin Skärplinge Stefan Holmquist Haparanda Tomas Björnfot Strömsund Lars-Erik Olsén Fränsta Micaela Morén Skönsberg Urban Strömbom Holmsund Marina Lindgren Sävar Andreas Fors Frövi Mikael Jansson Stora Tuna Anette Köpman Hoting Berith Minasdotter Trehörningsjö Gunilla Näslund Furudal Margrethe Westerberg Storvik Helene Hedin Husum Veronica Egnor Ullånger Tommy Sjölund Gagnef Anders Rehn Sundsvall Owe Sundin Härnösand Åsa Starfelt Nilsson Umeå Gnarp Niclas Södergren Sveg Jörgen Andersson Jokkmokk Ulrica Kvickström City Anders Sundström Grangärde Johanna Sallander Svenstavik Bengt Nilzén Junsele Annica Olofsson Teg Thomas Rönnberg Grängesberg Mia Karlsson Säter Patrik Nylén Järpen Pär Jakobsson Västra Henrik Lundström Gällö Karin Evertsson Söderhamn Joakim Frithiof Kalix Ulla-Britt Söderberg Vilhelmina Karin Svensson Gävle City Svante Larsson Sörberge Ulrika Bolt Kiruna Andreas Karlsson Vindeln Anna Johansson Hallstavik Catarina Lyshag Tierp Micael Lindström Kramfors Susanne Moström Vännäs Helene Hedman Heby Maria Oscarsson Timrå Amanda Eriksson Krokom Ulf Hellström Ånäset Jenny Berglund Hede Mattias Sundt Torsåker Toni Soppela Liden Tobias Wiklund Åre Jenny Strand Hedemora Håkan Arvidsson Uppsala Lit Magnus Noren Åsele Anna Andersson Hedesunda Pernilla Strömberg City Johan Lindblom Lugnvik Tommy Sjölund Älvsbyn Eva Berggren Hudiksvall Thony Nylund Eriksberg Magnus Sundqvist Luleå Örnsköldsvik Lars Norlinder Insjön Oskar Ahlzén Industriområde Baruch Grauman Storgatan Jörgen Ericsson Östersund Petter Dahlin Järvsö Ove Larsson Luthagen Birger Kristiansson Örnäset Lisbeth Aidanpää Överkalix Maria Fältmark Kilafors Sten Morin Vansbro Fredrik Hallqvist Lycksele Henrik Johansson Övertorneå Asta Blombäck Knivsta Agneta Sturesson Västanfors Andreas Byrén Kolbäck Eva Klang Västerås Kopparberg Lena Ragnarsson Vöks City Per Karlsson Kungsör Stefan Granholm Emausgatan Therese Massaro Kvissleby Per Pettersson Kvarnryd Köping Peter Fällman Köpingsvägen Mats Söderlund Leksand Anders Ekström Stora Gatan Håkan Janson Lima Lena Eggens Ånge Andreas Abraham Lindesberg Maria Ekdahl Österbybruk Kristina Carlsson Ljusdal Tommy Bylund Östervåla Helena Kolström Ljusne Anna Ekström Östhammar Anna Lydell Bjälmén (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 208 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK STOCKHOLM REGIONAL BANK EASTERN SWEDEN Board Board Stefan Wigren Bromma, Chairman Jan Cedwall Nyköping, Chairman Ingalill Berglund Solna Santhe Dahl Växjö Carl-Olof By Saltsjöbaden Jan-Eric Nilsson Djursholm Jörgen Centerman Stockholm Sten Peterson Katrineholm Jan-Erik Lindstedt Stockholm Kenneth Synnersten Västerås Ulf Lundahl Lidingö Stefan Nilsson Linköping Carina Åkerström Stockholm Alf Åke Dratzén Visby, (E)* Anne Reis Stockholm, (E)* Head of regional bank Head of regional bank Stefan Nilsson Linköping Carina Åkerström Stockholm Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Alviks Torg Johan Lurén S:t Eriksplan Marika Hedblom Alvesta Maj-Lis Pettersson Norrköping Arlanda Sky City Carl-Fredrik Boija Salem Torsten Johansson Anderstorp Sten Berglund Drottninggatan Hans Widmark Birger Jarlsgatan Daniel Spangenberg Saltsjö-Boo Malin Meijer Bankeryd Åsa A Olsson Eneby Marie Kellgren Brommaplan Peter Lindh Sigtuna Christer Bengtsson Borensberg Malin Svanberg Fjärilsgatan Lars Blomqvist Bålsta Ann-Sofie Sivander Skanstull Mikael Wenngren Borgholm Conny Johansson Nybro Eric Elmlid Dalarö Kristina Jansenberger Skärholmen Anki Lenksjö Eksjö Karin Jönsson Nyköping Jens Fransson Djursholm Sune Werkell Sköndal Jessica Nirvin Emmaboda Johan Lorentzon Nässjö Cecilia Antonsson Ekerö Mathias Lindmark Sollentuna Fredrik Andersson Eskilstuna Oskarshamn Jenny Nilsson Farsta Ulrika Kallur Solna Fristadstorget Vacant Pålsboda Anders Lindfors Fleminggatan Tomas Wistedt Frösunda Ulf Eliasson Östermalm Bo Vallin Rörvik Christina Blomstrand Fridhemsplan Ann Lilja Solna Lisa Spangenberg Finspång Carina Karlsson Slite Catarina Bylund Frihamnen Johanna Lagerbäck Solna strand Lena Schaumburger Fjugesta Anders Hedvall Strängnäs Thomas Wedholm Gamla stan Carl-Magnus Gustafsson Spånga Anders Nygren Flen Lotta Peppas Sävsjö Cecilia Tahlin Globen Daniel Andersson Stockholm Sergel Maria Hellberg Fårösund Britt Nordstöm Söderköping Marika Ronnerheim Gustav Adolfs Torg Anders Lindegren Strandvägen Mats Ernborg Färjestaden Ida Petersson Tingsryd Peter Andersson Götgatsbacken Maria Wedholm Stureplan Peter Sturesson Gislaved Per Risberg Torsås Jeanette Karlström Hallunda Göran Rönngren Stuvsta Mats Nordling Gnesta Mårten Larsson Tranås Patrik Rosengren Hammarby Stefan Zettergren Sundbyberg Per Anders Tranberg Hallsberg Yvonne Bülow Trosa Anna-Karin Borg Haninge Pernilla Eldestrand Sveavägen Malin Bergström Hemse Lars Cramér Vadstena Christine Wallstén Hornsberg Jan Larsson Södertälje Bengt Bohman Hultsfred Monica Carlenskog Vaggeryd Inger Ågren Hornsgatan Lars Holm Tessinparken Lars Eberson Huskvarna Mats Andersson Vetlanda Jörgen Asp Huddinge Jenny Lööw Borsos Torsgatan Lena Stenmark Högsby Jonas Petersson Vimmerby Hans Will Humlegården AnneMarie Dahlstedt Trångsund Pia Bergkvist Jönköping Claes Ericson Virserum Monica Johansson Hägersten Anders Friman Tullinge Lena Lövkvist Kalmar Visby Hässelby Gård Anders Stenberg Tyresö Susanne Norman-Taube Kalmar Hansa Christin Abrahamsson Adelsgatan Niclas Boklund Högalid Per Lindholm Täby Centrum Johan Grahn Kvarnholmen Ola Tyrberg Öster Carl Oscar Sjöström Högdalen Maria Sjöstedt Ulvsunda Tina Nylén Katrineholm Göran Bjerke Vislanda Camilla Ivarsson Jakobsberg Marie Lindström Upplands Väsby Urban Wolters Klintehamn Linda Ewald Värnamo Jonas Flink Järna Ellinor Lindblom Vallentuna Fredrik Enander Kumla Thomas Ljungberg Västervik Michael Skännestig Karlaplan Johan Hilmersson Vanadisplan Stefan Sjöstedt, Acting Lammhult Christina Blomstrand Växjö Jonas Ahlqvist Karlavägen Mats-Jörgen Hansson Vasagatan Christer Örtegren Landsbro Kent Lind Ålem Ann Robertsson Kista Hans Lundin Vaxholm Maria Lindberg Linköping Åseda Mattias König Kungsholmstorg Jan Wallin Vällingby Kajsen Hansson City Staffan Krause Åtvidaberg Erik Torbrand Kungsträdgården Peter Einarsson Värmdö Niklas Eklund Tornby Mats Borgsjö Örebro Kungsängen Stina Marklund Värtavägen Anna Gustafsson Mjölby Michael Rimstedt Ekersgatan Kristina Dahl Kärrtorp Karl-Erik Bäckman Västerhaninge Göran Hartog Motala Anders Hättström Stortorget Kenneth Vallin Lidingö Västermalm Ulrika Staffas Nordqvist Mönsterås Ann Robertsson Våghustorget Bengt Gunnarsson Centrum Elisabeth Hiljebäck Åkersberga Christer Lövholm Mörbylånga Susann Svenzén Larsberg Mikael Gustafson Årsta Anna Karlsson Mörlunda Marie Jonsson Meeting-places Älvsjö Anna Blomstergren Norrköping Drottninggatan Näset Magnus Blomqvist Marieberg Lotta Adestam Ängby Blackeberg Marcus Lundgren Östra Husby Hans Widmark Marievik David Haqvinsson Ösmo Anna Persson Strängnäs Märsta Magnus Hedlund Östermalmstorg Marion Ulander Mariefred Thomas Wedholm Mörby Centrum Peder Wiberg Östra station Elisabeth Croon Nacka Forum Jörgen Nilsson Norrmalmstorg Johan Nordström Meeting-places Alviks Torg Norrtull Kjell Andersson Nynäshamn Anders Hagman Äppelviken Johan Lurén Näsby Park Cecilia Sonntag Högdalen Odengatan Catarina Thunstedt Stureby Maria Sjöstedt Odenplan Susanne Signell Solna Renstiernas gata Cecilia Hallqvist Arenastaden Lisa Spangenberg Rotebro Katarina Fridén Täby Centrum Arninge Johan Grahn Ängby Blackeberg Ängbyplan Marcus Lundgren (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN KEN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 209 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK WESTERN SWEDEN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN SWEDEN Board Board Lennart Mankert Gothenburg, Chairman Charlotta Falvin Genarp, Chair Stig-Arne Blom Ulricehamn Bengt Kjell Helsingborg Peter Claesson Gothenburg Claes Lindqvist Viken Thomas Dafgård Axvall Johan Mattsson Tomelilla Carin Kindbom Västra Frölunda Mikael Roos Malmö Claes Larsson Gothenburg Anders Ohlner Malmö Håkan Larsson Gothenburg Pia Håkansson Ystad, (E)* Vilhelm Schottenius Varberg M. Johan Widerberg Gothenburg Head of regional bank Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Anders Ohlner Malmö Lena Lindén Karlstad, (E)* Head of regional bank Katarina Ljungqvist Västra Frölunda Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Ale Torg Anna-Lisa Jansson Hjo Thomas Waller Arlöv Rickard Ohlsson Markaryd Maria Larsson Alingsås Staffan Svantesson Karlskoga Johan Dahl Bara Cecilia Leijgård Olofström Catharina Lydell Arvika Stefan Lindberg Karlstad Broby Catharina Munkberg Osby Henrica Lorentsson Bollebygd Malin Lignell Stora Torget Ulrik Wedelin Båstad Lars-Olof Ottosson Ronneby Magnus Jurvin Borås Våxnäs Sara Brask Eslöv Mats Jonsson Simrishamn Andreas Jeppsson Hulta Kenneth Källerman Kristinehamn Fredrik Ekenberg Halmstad Magnus Landbring Sjöbo Thomas Hansson Stora Torget Ingela Forsberg Kungsbacka Mats Rollof Helsingborg Skanör Björn Andersson Viared Thomas Bogsjö Kungälv Lena Gillholm Norr Olof Enander Skurup Jonas Sjöberg Falkenberg Kristian Gårdenfelt Landvetter Hanna Samuelsson Stortorget Göran Pelvén Staffanstorp Magnus Anderberg Falköping Magnus Kvarnmarker Lerum Ola Forsman Söderport Maria Brygg Svedala Cecilia Leijgård Filipstad Ida Sandgren Lidköping Nina Ahlén Hässleholm Rebecca Thörnqvist Sölvesborg Magnus Gardell Finnerödja Olle Jonsson Lilla Edet Ingela Karlsson Höganäs Gunilla Voss Sösdala Karin Eriksson Fristad Anders Roos Mariestad Torbjörn Läth Höllviken Ebba Olsson Tomelilla Pål Andersson Färgelanda Stefan Widlund Mellerud Claes Hernvall Höör Magnus Holmer Trelleborg Marianne Nilsson Gällstad Janne Pehrsson Mölndal Martin Henriksson Karlshamn Helén Olofsson Tyringe Marie Persson-Lärka Gothenburg Mölnlycke Ann Sundvisson Karlskrona Hedvig Stache Veberöd Hans-Åke Mårtensson Almedal Jan Gottberg Partille Anna Ekstrand Kivik Pontus Hansson Vellinge Susanne Linné Nilsson Avenyn Håkan Jarbeck Skara Anna-Lena Andersson Klippan Jonas Bondesson Vittsjö Henrica Lorentsson Backa-Ringön Deborah Moberg Skövde Martin Drebin Knislinge Catharina Munkberg Vollsjö Thomas Hansson City Peter Romedahl Sollebrunn Peter Kornesjö Kristianstad Thomas Johansson Ystad Mia Kristell Eriksberg Kent Larsson Stenungsund Anette Pettersson Kävlinge Sara Malterling Åhus Daniel N Högstedt Frölunda Fredrik Wiklund Strömstad Johan Rosengren, Acting Laholm Fredrik Johnson Älmhult Fredrik Roghner Första Långgatan Anders Olausson Sunne Maria Hannebo Landskrona Per-Ove Kamlund Ängelholm Irene Andersson Gårda Jens Persson Surte Allison Åsblom Ljungby Thomas Eldh Meeting-places Hisings Kärra Paula Johannesson Svenljunga Hans Qvist Ljungbyhed Jonas Bondesson Höganäs Hjällbo Börje Ström Säffle Dennis Göransson Lomma Erik Hultgren Viken Gunilla Voss Högsbo Marie Magnusson Tibro Hanna Rosing Lund Lund City Kortedala Per Stolpe Tidaholm Martin Ekman, Acting City Peter Andersson Hjärup Peter Andersson Landala Fredrik Olsson Torsby Pär Olsson Ideon Nils Möllerberg Sölvesborg Lilla Bommen Marie Kaptein Tranemo Christina Ljung Malmö Bromölla Magnus Gardell Lindholmen Gabriella Berndtsson Trollhättan Mats Johansson Amiralsgatan Göran Camitz Majorna Kajsa Mägi Uddevalla Stefan Widlund City Erik Bredberg Odinsgatan Annika Löfberg Ulricehamn Janne Pehrsson Fosie Anders Persson Sisjön Christian Pennert Vara Maj Rudell Fridhem Marie Brunstam Torslanda Jonas Sandberg Varberg Jonas Lagerqvist Hyllie Anna Harrison Barthold Volvo Jonas Almhöjd Vårgårda Ann Björn Köpenhamnsvägen Peter Ivarsson Örgryte Patrik Niklasson Vänersborg Jan-Olof Strand Limhamn Bengt Rosendahl Övre Husargatan Christian Nielsen Åmål Cecilia Blom Lundavägen Bengt Nyquist Hagfors Pär Skogfeldt Årjäng Peter Johansson Triangeln Annila Hansson Herrljunga Susanne Bender Älvängen Anette Winther Värnhem Annika Bäckström Västra Hamnen Mårten Edlund Meeting-places Gothenburg Frölunda Långedrag Fredrik Wiklund Kungsbacka Kungsporten Mats Rollof (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 210 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORTHERN GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK CENTRAL GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. Board Board Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Anders Bouvin London, Chairman, Anders Bouvin London, CEO of Handelsbanken UK CEO of Handelsbanken UK Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö John Parker Manchester Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Göran Stille Birmingham Head of regional bank John Parker Manchester Head of regional bank Göran Stille Birmingham Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aberdeen Neil Clark Leeds Banbury Paul Graham Luton Paul Drummond Altrincham Ian Noke The Embankment David Brady Bedford Mick Valerio Mansfield Darryn Evans Barnsley Suzanne Minifie Headingley Stephen Hill Birmingham Milton Keynes Derek Bell Beverley Ian Gatenby Wellington Street James Cornell Newhall St David Hastings Northampton David Rundle Blackburn Philip Skupski Liverpool Keith Lowe Temple Row Tony Hall Norwich Ian Hall Bolton Sean Greenhalgh Lytham Christopher Strahan Bromsgrove Stephen Ellis Nottingham Bradford Andrew Lowther Manchester Burton-on-Trent Ian Morris City Gate Andrew Tomlinson Burnley David Kovacs Spinningfields Joe McGrath Bury St Edmunds Nigel Foyster West Bridgford Ian Davys Carlisle Jason Smith Trinity Way John Burke Cambridge Richard Waters Peterborough Julian Turner Castleford Ian Mason Middlesbrough John Martinson Colwyn Bay Gareth Jones Rugby Andy McCabe Chester Chris Burgoyne Morpeth David Elliot Crewe Adrian Smith Shrewsbury Chris Hyde Chesterfield Phil Walker Newcastle Coventry Paul Belfield Solihull Richard Baker Darlington Mike Airey Grey Street Tom Ramshaw Derby Shaun Hill Stafford Mike Smith Doncaster Neil Ebden Saville Row Mike Brunskill Ipswich Andrew Pike Stoke-on-Trent Paul Stokes Durham Rory Gibson Perth Alexander McDougall Leamington Spa Paul Brooksbank Tamworth Christine Banks Edinburgh Michael Mullins Preston David Warbrick Leicester Simon Bradley Wolverhampton Steven Lewis Glasgow George Shanks Rotherham Mike Harrison Lincoln David Thompson Worcester Philip Dutton Grimsby Anthony Winn Scarborough Nick Sharples Loughborough Simon Grant Wrexham Vicky Davies Halifax Angela Dowd Sheffield Harrogate Richard Lally Riverside Stephen Tweedle Heswall Richard Malley Tudor Square Patrick McGarry Hexham David Wilson, Acting Stirling David Beggs Huddersfield Tony Jones Stockport Andrew Buckley Hull Neil Harrison Stockton-on-Tees David Filby Ilkley Sue Toulson Sunderland Granville Kelly Kendal Richard Lancaster Wakefield Ian Mason, Acting Lancaster Kevin Sanderson Warrington Lesley Cozens Wetherby Adam von Emloh Wigan Alan Bowers York Christopher Ibbotson H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 211 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK SOUTH WEST GREAT BRITAIN REGIONAL BANK SOUTHERN GREAT BRITAIN The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, London branch.. Board Board Anders Bouvin London, Chairman, Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman CEO of Handelsbanken UK Anders Bouvin London, Michael Broom Bristol CEO of Handelsbanken UK Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Håkan Sandberg Stockholm Simon Lodge London Head of regional bank Head of regional bank Michael Broom Bristol Simon Lodge London Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aylesbury Derek Beards Hereford Craig Wyer Bishop’s Stortford Steve Cooper London Ascot Richard Payton High Wycombe Vacant Brighton Simon Howe Holborn Sean McManus Barnstaple Peter Larcombe Newbury Geoff Dann Bromley Chris Pye London Bridge David Boaden Basingstoke Vacant Newport Martin Leech Canterbury David Kiernan Marylebone Andrew Rowlands Bath Chris Johnson Oxford David Woodhead Chatham Gavin Coleman Moorgate Paul Chapman Bodmin Phil Kerkin Plymouth Phill Harvey Chelmsford Mark Earlam West End Roy Budgett Bournemouth Jeremy Tollworthy Poole Dave Shering Chiswick Dermot Jordan Maidstone Jeremy Brett Bridgend Mark Standley Portsmouth Richard Gillard Clapham Neil Higgs Queen’s Park Steve MacDonald Bristol Reading Graham Beith Colchester Alan Barnard Redhill Clive Martin Clifton Martin Bidgood Salisbury Graham Renshaw Crawley Simon Briggs Richmond Mark Lobo Parkway Roger Bell Slough Sarah Dean, Acting Croydon Vacant Romford David Roe Queen Square Ian Dibble Southampton Craig Ward Dartford Trevor Adams Sevenoaks Nick Brooker Camberley Mark Clinkskel Swansea Steve Smith Ealing Chris Ttouli St Albans Anthony Fogden Cardiff Neil Humphreys Swindon Shaun Bradshaw Enfield Adrian Bennett Southend-on-Sea John Brooks Cheltenham Di Pitts Taunton Peter Kirby Epsom Phil Hunt Tunbridge Wells Nick Green Chichester Chris Golding Truro Denise Major Hampstead Denis McCarthy Uxbridge Steve Howarth Dorchester Andrew Denning Weston-super-Mare Martin Fey Harrow Paul Jarman Watford Andrew Samarasinghe Exeter Darren Galliford Yeovil Jim Durrant Hertford Debbie Chilton Wimbledon Barry Sexton Gloucester Simon Cropper Kensington Tom Fuller Guildford Neil Truman Kingston Peter Wylde H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 212 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK DENMARK REGIONAL BANK FINLAND The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Copenhagen openhagen branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Helsinki sinki branch. Board Board Claes Norlén Stockholm, Chairman Stig Gustavson Helsinki, Chairman Ulrik Kolding Hartvig Roskilde Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman Steen Winther-Petersen Copenhagen Bjarne Mitts Helsinki John Vestergaard Ikast Leena Niemistö Helsinki Lise Westphal Emdrup Elmar Paananen Helsinki Frank Vang-Jensen Gentofte Andreas Tallberg Kirkonummi Helle Rank Aalborg, (E)* Seija Turunen Helsinki Nina Arkilahti Espoo CEO of regional bank Tiina Pöyhönen Kuopio, (E)* Frank Vang-Jensen Copenhagen CEO of regional bank Nina Arkilahti Helsinki Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Aalborg Hillerød Espoo Lappeenranta Martti Mäkelä City Ole Dahl Nielsen Hillerød Steen Hirschsprung Leppävaara Nina Lukka Lohja Arto Finérus Syd Morten O. Hedemann Vest Lisbeth Arenfeldt Matinkylä Outi Vesanto Mikkeli Jouko Kervinen Allerød Mads Christian Heidemann Holstebro Henrik Kristiansen Tapiola Hannu Oksanen Oulu Timo Väisänen Amager Dorte Jellestad Horsens John Jørgensen Helsinki Pietarsaari Jörgen Blomqvist Aulum Gerda Kviesgaard Ikast Arnth Stougaard Aleksi Tuija Nuutinen Pori Sami-Pekka Ylikoski Ballerup Steen Hansen Karup Vibeke Hestbek Dianapuisto Ilari Tyrkkö Porvoo Annika Bergvall Birkerød Jesper Borglykke Kgs. Lyngby Preben Bjerrekær Hakaniemi Jussi Nikkanen Raisio Maaria Rahikainen Brande Henrik Overgaard Kibæk Preben Staal Itäkeskus Outi Vainikka Rauma Sami-Pekka Ylikoski, Acting Charlottenlund Allan Kandrup Kolding Jesper Andersen Kamppi Riitta Hallila Rovaniemi Pekka Pistokoski Copenhagen Køge Brian Jakobsen Munkkivuori Jouni Linnavuori Salo Teemu Alanko City Gorm Bjørkmann Lemvig Peter Tornbo Pasila Maria Kaisa Ylimäinen Seinäjoki Jorma Soukka Østerbro Bjarne Albrechtsen Lynge Kristian Løvgreen-Hansen Hyvinkää Risto Mäkeläinen Tammisaari Hannu Oksanen Large Corporates Knud Jacobsen Odense Klaus Rydal Hämeenlinna Pauli Ranta Tampere Vest Jan Arup Roskilde Stig Teilman Imatra Pekka Lankinen Kauppakatu Tarja Suvisalmi Esbjerg Morten Andersen Sdr. Felding Kristian Hansen Joensuu Mauri Kujanen Kyttälä Kari Koivisto Farum Jens Karlsson Silkeborg Stefan Brochmann Jyväskylä Jarkko Käki Tornio Roger Keisu Fredensborg Kjeld Aunstrup Slagelse Henrik Kragh Jävenpää Ilkka Arenius Turku Fredericia Brian Sørensen Slangerup Jørgen Torm Kerava Kimmo Heiskanen Hämeenkatu Risto Vihula Frederiksberg Stenløse Dennis Grouleff Kirkkonummi Päivi Toppari Kauppatori Josefiina Vornanen Frederiksberg Henrik Bengtsson Struer Poul Bakkegaard Kokkola Esa Alkio Vaasa Frej Björses Frederiksberg Vest Jesper Christensen Sunds Allan Eg Kotka Hannu Huostila Vantaa Frederikssund Michael Tøgersen Vejle Carsten Hjortflod Kouvola Henri Lilja Aviapolis Tero Juotasniemi Frederiksværk Alan Nielsen Viborg Jens Rahbek Kuopio Simo Sarkkinen Myyrmäki Matti Sulamaa Give Martin Skovgaard Larsen Videbæk Anja Lyhne Lahti Matti Nieminen Tikkurila Stephan Björkell Grindsted Lars Balle Olsen Vildbjerg Frank Jensen Hammerum Jakob Rousing Sloth Århus Helsinge Steen Malmqvist Århus City Esben Kjeldsen Helsingør Dan-Gösta Larsen Århus Syd Arne Vestergaard Knudsen Herlev Flemming Jensen Herning City Niels Viggo Malle Fredhøj Bruno Hansen (E)*= employee representative H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 213 BRANCHES AND BRANCH MANAGERS REGIONAL BANK NORWAY REGIONAL BANK NETHERLANDS The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken, Oslo slo branch. The operations are part of Svenska Handelsbanken AB, Netherlands lands branch. Board Board Bjørn Flatgård Kolbotn, Chairman Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Claes Norlén Stockholm, Vice Chairman Anders Bouvin London Hans Anfinn Eide Helland Sandnes Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Rebekka Glasser Herlofsen Oslo Mikael Sørensen Haarlem Dag Tangevald-Jensen Oslo Dag Tjernsmo Oslo CEO of regional bank Kjell Arild Andersen Bergen, (E)* Mikael Sørensen Haarlem CEO of regional bank Dag Tjernsmo Oslo Branch/branch manager Branch/branch manager Arendal Petter Anker Rasch Molde Jan Fredrik Fogth, Acting Amersfoort Robert van der Kolk Groningen Erwin van der Steur Asker Turid Williksen Moss Willy Fossum Amsterdam Het Gooi Lars Vissers Bergen Oslo Centrum Jasper Klok Leeuwarden Tammo Oosterhof Fana Monica Vågen Grev Wedels plass Thomas B. Tresselt Zuid Daniël van Til Maastricht Tim Neu Fyllingsdalen Gottlieb Gullaksen Large Corporates Sven Ove Oksvik Barendrecht Peter Bot Rotterdam Hans Troost Kokstad Jarle Hundven Majorstuen Bjørn Erik Røv Bergen op Zoom Patrick van Zon Schiphol Edwin Boonk Minde Åse Fluge Nordgreen Nydalen Bente Bjerkvold Breda Ton Schröder Twente Martijn Peters Sentrum Tore Svein Nese Olav Vs gate Harald Søreide Den Haag Roderick Mastenbroek Utrecht Michiel van Loon Strandgaten Erik Ramsdal Bryn Eirik Arnesen Eindhoven Marco van Tongeren Zwolle Wery Hegge Vest Mette Skauge Skøyen Thomas Stousland Emmen Marc Bruin Åsane Thomas Rasmussen Sandefjord Hans Jørgen Ormar Bodø Tore Halvorsen Sandnes Sindre Bergsagel Bryne Rolf Inge Knutsen Sandvika Kirsti Jensås Drammen Toril Garntangen Sarpsborg Tormod Sørum Fredrikstad Tove Anita R Torp Ski Geir Anders Sundnes Halden Roar Elsness Skien Jan Egil Hafredal Hamar Hans Skjelbreid Sotra Lisbeth Turøy Haugesund Knut Børge Lunde Stavanger Jessheim Inger Kyhen Sentrum Lynn Sperb Kolbotn Terje Andersen Straen Ole Henry Slette Kongsberg Kristin Franck Tromsø Yngve Haldorsen Kristiansand Vidar Akselsen Trondheim Larvik Bodil Hansen Heimdal Fredrik Lillemyr Lillehammer Lars Erik Jevanord Søndregate Ola Grøtte Lillestrøm Paal Tollefsen Tønsberg Per Skustad Lysaker Glenn Steinbø Ålesund Steinar Krøvel Mo i Rana Jonny I Bohlin (E)*= employee representative H A N D E L S B ANKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 214 BOARD SUBSIDIARIES OFFICES OUTSIDE THE NORDIC COUNTRIES, THE UK AND THE NETHERLANDS BOARD SUBSIDIARIES** Operations are conducted in Svenska Handelsbanken with branches in each country except for Luxembourg, where operations are conducted both as a subsidiary and a branch. As of January 2014, the Bank’s subsidiary in Luxemburg was merged with EFN the parent company which will conduct the operations in the existing branch. Board Johan Lagerström Täby, Chairman Branch/branch manager Magnus Berglund Saltsjöbaden Michael Green Västra Frölunda Austria Singapore Ulf Köping-Höggård Lidingö General Manager Christian Prinz zu Solms-Lich General Manager Jan B Djerf Carina Åkerström Stockholm Vienna Christian Prinz zu Solms-Lich Singapore Jan B Djerf Chief Executive Carl Bjurling Enskede China USA General Manager Mikael Westerback General Manager Rolf Marquardt Hong Kong Johan Andrén New York Rolf Marquardt HANDEL OCH INDUSTRI Shanghai Mikael Westerback Board M. Johan Widerberg Göteborg, Chairman Estonia Representative ofﬁces Olof Lindstrand Lidingö General Manager Annika Nordström Bo Annvik Hovås Tallinn Annika Nordström Beijing Chief Executive Representative Jason Wang Bengt Kjell Stockholm France General Manager Björn Torsteinsrud Kuala Lumpur Nice Anna Jansson-Clauzier Representative Abhinash Murukesvan HANDELSBANKEN FINANS Paris Jesper Hellström Board Marbella Yonnie Bergqvist Täby, Chairman Representative Jessika Kroon Kai Jokitullpo Stockholm Germany General Manager Elisa Saarinen Representative Vibeke Toustrup Bonne Göran Holgerson Gnesta Düsseldorf Thomas Kuhn Peter Gustafsson Farsta, (E)* Essen Thomas Kuhn Moscow Chief Executive Frankfurt Marie Jöhnk Representative Viktor Tsoy Marie Lundberg Stockholm Hamburg Kerstin Fuchs Mannheim Hans Jürgen Ding Mumbai Representative Ashish Gupta HANDELSBANKEN FONDER Munich Andreas Stein Board Stuttgart Hans Jürgen Ding Olof Lindstrand Stockholm, Chairman São Paolo Representative Carl-Gustav Moberg Michael Bertorp Stockholm Latvia Gunnar Båtelsson Sandviken General Manager Dzintars Salavs Sydney Åsa Magnusson Linköping Riga Dzintars Salavs Representative Robert Karlsson Lena Munkhammar Solna Ann-Christine Frilund Gustavsberg, (E)* Lithuania Taipei General Manager Håkan Molin Chief Executive Representative Amy Chen Javiera Ragnartz Stockholm Vilnius Håkan Molin Zurich Luxembourg Representative Torben Kragh HANDELSBANKEN LIV General Manager Jörgen Oldensand Board Luxembourg Jörgen Oldensand Thommy Mossinger Stockholm, Chairman Joakim Jansson Sundbyberg Poland Lennart Söderberg Täby General Manager Harri Tuohimaa Anna Hjelmberg Järfälla, (E)* Warsaw Harri Tuohimaa Chief Executive Louise Sander Danderyd HEARTWOOD Board Ian White Stockport, Chairman Simon Lough London Tracey Davidson London Nolan Carter Oxfordshire Karen Fryer Croydon Simon Dixon Battle STADSHYPOTEK Board Håkan Sandberg Stockholm, Chairman Yonnie Bergqvist Täby Olof Lindstrand Lidingö Thommy Mossinger Stockholm Michael Bertorp Stockholm Camilla Persson Farsta, (E)* Chief Executive Per Beckman Lidingö (E)*= employee representative ** For the complete name of the company, see note P16. H AN DELSBAN K EN | AN N U AL REPORT 2013 215 DEFINITIONS AND EXPLANATIONS Definitions and explanations ADJUSTED SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY bank and insurance sector. It describes the SOLVENCY RATIO PER SHARE average premium that an investor requires in A concept used in the Bank’s insurance Equity at the end of the year reduced by the order to accept credit risk on the companies. operations. The solvency ratio is the availequity effect of cash ﬂow hedges and the able solvency margin divided by the required minority share of shareholders’ equity. Adjusted LOAN LOSS RATIO solvency margin and is a measure of the margin equity is then divided by the number of ordinary Loan losses and changes in value of reposthe company has to meet its commitments. The shares at the year-end reduced by buybacks. sessed property in relation to loans to the public ratio for a demutualised, proﬁt-distributing life Where applicable, the dilution effect is taken into and credit institutions (excluding banks) at the insurance company cannot be compared with account. beginning of the year, and also repossessed the ratio for a mutual life insurance company. property and credit guarantees. CAPITAL BASE TIER 1 CAPITAL The capital base is the sum of tier 1 and tier 2 P/E RATIO Tier 1 capital is one of the components of the capital. To obtain the total capital base for capiThe share price at year-end divided by earnings capital base and comprises equity and tier 1 tal adequacy purposes, deductions are made per share. capital contributions. Deductions are made for, for capital contributions in insurance companies inter alia, dividends generated, goodwill and and reported surplus values of pension assets. PREMIUMS WRITTEN other intangible assets and also the difference For a more detailed description of the capital A concept used within the Bank’s insurance opbetween an expected loss and provisions made base, see note G49. erations denoting mainly the total of premiums for probable loan losses. Proﬁts generated in the paid in during the year. Group’s insurance company are not included in CAPITAL RATIO the tier 1 capital. For a more detailed description The total capital base for capital adequacy purPROPORTION OF IMPAIRED LOANS of the capital base, see note G49. poses in relation to risk-weighted volume. Net impaired loans in relation to total loans to the public and credit institutions (excluding banks). TIER 1 CAPITAL CONTRIBUTION C/I RATIO Impaired loans are reported without deduction Tier 1 capital contributions (hybrid loans) comTotal expenses in relation to total income. for the collateral that is security for the claim. prise subordinated loans that may be included in the tier 1 capital with the consent of the COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL RETURN ON EQUITY Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. Total tier 1 capital excluding tier 1 capital conThe year’s proﬁt in relation to average equity. tributions. Average equity is adjusted for value changes TIER 1 RATIO on ﬁnancial assets classiﬁed as available for Total tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted COMMON EQUITY TIER 1 CAPITAL RATIO sale and derivatives in cash ﬂow hedges and volume. Core tier 1 capital in relation to risk-weighted a weighted average of new share issues, divivolume. dends and repurchase of own shares. TIER 2 CAPITAL Tier 2 capital is one of the components of the DIVIDEND YIELD RETURN ON TOTAL ASSETS capital base and mainly consists of perpetual Dividend per share divided by the share price at Operating proﬁt in relation to average total assets. and ﬁxed-term subordinated loans. Deductions year-end. are made for, inter alia, the difference between RISK RESULT an expected loss and provisions made for probEARNINGS PER SHARE A concept used in the Bank’s insurance opable loan losses. For a more detailed description The proﬁt for the year attributable to holders of erations. The difference between the fees of the capital base, see note G49. ordinary shares divided by the average number the company charges to cover the insurance of outstanding shares. Where applicable, the risks (mortality, life expectancy, disability and TOTAL RETURN dilution effect is taken into account. accident) and the actual cost of the insurance The total of the year’s change in share price and claims. paid dividend per share divided by the share IMPAIRED LOANS price at the end of the previous year. Loans are classiﬁed as impaired loans if conRISK-WEIGHTED VOLUME tracted cash ﬂows are not likely to be fulﬁlled. The total risk-weighted amount from each YIELD SPLIT The full amount of all claims which give rise to a credit risk exposure. The risk-weighted amount When the total yield exceeds the rate guaranspeciﬁc provision are included in impaired loans is the same as the risk weight of the exposure teed by the insurance company, the company even if parts are covered by collateral. multiplied by its exposure amount. The risk will receive 10 per cent of the total yield as its weight is based on a number of factors, such as share in the yield split. ITRAXX the repayment capacity and debt-servicing of ITRAXX Financials is an index of CDS spreads the counterparty, type of product and the value for the 25 largest bond issuers in the European of any collateral. H A N D E L S B A NKE N | ANNUAL R E PO RT 2 0 1 3 216 handelsbanken.com | +46 8-701 10 00 | SE-106 70 Stockholm, Sweden
