196 Indosat 2013 Annual Report chapter 08 corporate social responsibility chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 197 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Thank you, Indosat, for supporting our community. 198 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Our numerous CSR activities are one of the ways through which we express our support and care for all concerned. chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 199 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Reflecting Indosat’s commitment to being a responsible corporate citizen, the Company carries out numerous corporate social responsibility (CSR) activities that are intended to benefit all stakeholders and support our For m ore pleas detail, business continuity. Indosat’s stated e to ou refer CSR goal is to grow, to comply with laws Susta r 2013 Repo inability rt. pa and regulations, and to care for the ge 40 6 community. This CSR section briefly details our approach to CSR, based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Scope of Work: • Defining the objectives, strategy and policies for CSR I. Governance & CSR Oversight • Monitoring system implementation As highlighted in the Good Corporate Governance • Approve annual budget and main programs chapter of this Annual Report, Indosat continuously • Review regular reports takes steps to implement and improve its governance, including oversight of our CSR Activities: activities. • Regular meetings once every 6 months • Regular reports at BoD meetings To ensure proper implementation of our CSR initiatives in a responsible, ethical and effective manner, a CSR Committee was established by the II. Economic Impact Board of Directors (BoD) in 2009 and its structure As a leading listed company and the second largest was subsequently revised at the May 10, 2011 BoD telecommunications provider in Indonesia, Indosat meeting. The CSR Committee is responsible for makes a significant economic contribution, both guiding, leading and assessing our CSR activities. directly and indirectly. The CSR Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief 1. Direct Value Creation Corporate Services Officer, and Group Heads. 2013 2012 Revenues (billion rupiah) 23.855,3 22, 418.8 EBITDA (billion rupiah) 10.376,0 10,540 BTS 24,280 21,930 Employees 3,046 2,967 200 Economic Impact Indosat 2013 Annual Report Five Talented Indonesian Children Meet Lionel Messi in Doha Continuously investing in infrastructure to develop our network: 24,280 2. Indirect Value Creation In addition to directly creating value, Indosat also BTS supported indirect value creation by: in 2013 • Supporting consumers in their telecommunications needs through better products and service quality. Among others, Indosat rolled out Super WiFi in Bali on the U900 frequency which can • Supporting the development of e-commerce support speeds of up to 42Mbps. through our e-commerce platform Dompetku. • Supporting local mobile developers • Creating thousands of jobs at Indosat dealers In 2013, Indosat launched its digital startand suppliers. up business incubator called IdeaBox. The • Supporting transfer of knowledge. incubator will offer facilities, funding, • Supported large enterprise in Indonesia mentoring, consulting, technical training, through targeted offerings such as data center business training, and fundraising help to services and more. start-ups, with an investment of $500,000 to • Improving the productivity of Small and create mobile products and services. Medium Size Businesses (SME) through • Contribution to national infrastructure information and technology solutions targeted development specifically for SMEs • Sourcing from local suppliers. During the year, the domestic network backbone capacity was upgraded to 100 Gbps, Indosat sources components where possible while the international backbone capacity from local suppliers rather than importing (Jakarta – Singapore) was upgraded via the these components. One is example is the Jakabare Submarine Cable System to 240 Gbps, implementation of fluidic batteries, which and the new Jambi – Batam cable system was are manufactured locally in Indonesia. By deployed with a capacity of 300 Gbps. expanding use of these batteries, we are further supporting local suppliers and the Indonesian economy. chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 201 Indosat 2013 Annual Report INSPERA (Inspirasi Perempuan Indonesia) Indosat invites customers to preserve batik. • Connecting rural areas, enabling isolated customers and businesses to be more productive. Indosat has commercially delivered mobile Helping over connectivity to rural Kalimantan, Sulawesi and Papua Island using lightweight, solar-powered 20,000 BTS, and plans to connect more customers throughout remote areas of Indonesia using this solution. Indosat won the “Wireless Network Infrastructure Innovation Award” for Indonesian this innovation. • Empowering women entrepreneurs. women develop Indosat operates the Usaha Wanita (Business Women) service which offers tips about their potential business management, banking and credit access, customer management and marketing as entrepreneurs for small businesses that are targeted at women. Usaha Wanita complements Indosat’s through mobile women-focused mobile initiatives including the award-winning Info Wanita (Information technology and for Women), which provides important information on financial management, life content. skills, health and childcare delivered through SMS; and Hebat Keluarga (Great Family), a dedicated offering targeting stay-at-home mums, with features such as a family-friendly tariff and a family finder geo-location tracker. 202 Environmental Conservation Indosat 2013 Annual Report III. Environmental Conservation V. Good Labor Practices With reference to the Law on Limited Liability Indosat strives to implement good labor practices to Companies Articles 40 and 70, Indosat is committed ensure the welfare of our employees. to reducing and preventing environmental pollution, and saving energy. • Equal opportunity career development regardless of gender, race or religion Indosat has also implemented an Environmental • Competitive remuneration and benefits Management system as embodied by its • Retention policies to reduce turnover ISO14001:2004 certification and has established • Good career development opportunities policies that include avoiding and decreasing • OSHAS certified environmental pollution and conserving natural • Earned an Audit Certificate for its Occupational resources. Safety and Health Management System from the Ministry of Manpower and Transmigration • Indosat does not employ underage employees ons Ac t i • Employees have the right to collectively organize and gather • A pension plan and benefits have been • Energy efficient power solutions have been established for eligible employees implemented in the form of CDC (Charge • Training to develop employees’ competencies Discharger Controller) switches at a number of Base Transceiver Stations (BTS). CDC work to optimize batteries as an alternative power % increase source in the case of a State Electricity (PLN) 2013 over 2012 blackout, extending battery life while saving No. of Training Programs 674 163% fuel by decreasing the need to run the diesel generators. No. of Participating Employees 9,772 158% • Indosat has installed more than 100 solarpowered BTS in remote and isolated areas like Total Cost of Training Rp25.0 billion 30% Mambi, Sulawesi. Training for New Managers Rp5.2 billion 18% • Indosat has started replacing traditional leadacid batteries in the BTS backup generators with environmentally friendly fluidic batteries. • The Indosat headquarters has a policy of waste management for hazardous substances such as used batteries and used oil. IV. Social & Community Development Indosat holistically supports social and community development in Indonesia, among others as an embodiment of our commitment to the Millennium Development Goals (MDG) established by the United Nations. We do this by implementing good labor practices, establishing a safe and healthy workplace, protecting consumers, and carrying out numerous social and community development programs including disaster relief, improving healthcare awareness, and promoting cultural activities. chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 203 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Health treatment statistics for employees and family members in 2013 Medical Check Ups 2,628 No. of Participating 163% Employees 158% Total Cost of Training 30% Training for New Managers 163% No. of Participating Employees 158% Number of Training Total Cost of Training Training for New 30% Programs Managers 163% VII. Consumer Responsibility The quality of our products and services as experienced by users is a frontline priority for Indosat. We strive to serve consumers responsibly by: VI. Safe & Healthy Workplace Environment • Improving overall service quality, with Rp9,329.1 billion budgeted in 2013 for network Indosat is committed to implementing a culture improvement that promotes Occupational Health, Safety and • Providing accurate product and service Environment (HSE), in line with the government information program of establishing a national HSE culture by 2015. • Protecting the confidentiality of data and customer profiles Indosat has established an HSE policy signed by • Using radio telecommunications equipment the President Director and CEO, which outlines the that is not hazardous to customer health company’s commitment to reducing workplace • Maintaining a secure network and data accidents, obeying laws and making continuous center with ISO 27001 information security improvements to HSE management systems. management system (ISMS) certification on progress, covering information technology, • The Company strives to provide a healthy and security techniques, and information security comfortable work environment management systems and requirements. • OHSAS 18001 international certification on • Monitoring network quality process related to Occupational Health and • Monitoring customer service satisfaction Safety management systems • Prohibition against smoking inside the office in • Providing channels for customer complaints order to create a healthy work environment • Establishment of a Safety and Health Guiding Committee to help protect employees against the risk of accidents and illness due to work • Protection for the rights of employees including occupational safety issues under the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) • Health insurance for eligible employees. 204 Community Initiatives Indosat 2013 Annual Report VIII. Community Initiatives In addition to the above, Indosat demonstrated its concern for society through numerous activities during the year, such as : Supporting Blood Donation Indosat supported the Indonesian Red Cross (PMI) by developing a web-based information system called “Ayo Donor” (“Come Donor”). The Ayo Donor website at www.ayodonor.pmi.or.id displays information related to blood donor services in real time, including information on blood stocks at the Blood Donation Units of the Indonesian Red Cross all over Indonesia and the location of blood donors in districts / cities throughout Indonesia, making it easier for people to donate blood or find blood at the Indonesian Red Cross Blood Donation Units. chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 205 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Qtel Group gives donations to assist flood victims in Indonesia. The Indonesian Red Cross and Leo Burnett encourage blood donation volunteers through Ayo Donor and Bloodbook. Showing we care Besides Ayo Donor, an application called bloodbook was also created to encourage people to become volunteer blood donors, primarily to help others in by supporting the need of blood through the Facebook social network. The bloodbook application connects individuals in communities need of blood with donors from their own network. around us. Assistance for Indonesian Flood Victims On January 22, 2013, Qtel Group donated approximately Rp1.8 billion through the provincial government, the Indonesian Red Cross, PKPU (Pos Keadilan Peduli Umat) and Dompet Dhuafa to help flood victims in Indonesia. During the disaster, Indosat helped people to communicate and stay in touch with their families by providing telephone and MS services to fellow Indosat subscribers and internet access including unlimited free calls to emergency numbers and the National Search and Rescue Agency for subscribers, even in the absence of credits. 206 Environmental Preservation Indosat 2013 Annual Report 5 Talented Indonesian Children Meet Lionel Messi in Doha Embodying Indosat’s commitment to the development of Indonesia’s youth, on May 20, 2013, Indosat sent 5 talented Indonesian children to meet their idol, football star Lionel Messi in Doha, Qatar. Thereafter the 5 talented children came to the Indosat Building to share their experiences meeting with Lionel Messi in Doha and to inspire the children of Indonesia to dream with passion. Aged 8 to 15 years of age, these five talented children were selected from various Indonesian cities. Indosat Held the 7th IWIC +1,600 Indosat held the 7th Indosat Wireless Innovations Contest (IWIC), a wireless application competition for the young generation, from June 2013 to October 2013 as part of the Indosat Innovation Program. Themed “Digital Innovation and Entrepreneurship for Stronger Indonesia”, this 7th IWIC aims to participants in improve the mobile application development knowledge and abilities of the young generation and provide them with the opportunity to start the 7th Indosat their own business. More than 1,600 participants sent in ideas and application prototypes. IWIC Wireless Innovations activities included among others: Contest (IWIC), • Roadshow Seminars at 18 Universities for 4,000 Students: These seminars, which were open to one of Indosat’s efforts to inspire all students free of charge, provided training and a chance to hear the shared experiences of successful entrepreneurs in the field of applications and technology (technopreneurs), and encourage the giving students access to the technopreneur world and encouraging them to achieve the same success. young generation to • Innovation Boot Camp. The Innovation develop their digital Bootcamp was a new event at the 7th IWIC, with 40 nominees participating, which was held technology skills. for 2 days in Jakarta. The participants in this event received intensive training to improve their capabilities and skills in the field of entrepreneurship, technology and innovation. chapter 08 Corporate Social Responsibility 207 Indosat 2013 Annual Report • Indosat ‘s Incubation Program. As part of • Usaha Wanita Application: a mobile application Indosat’s integrated program of innovation specifically for women entrepreneurs that through IWIC, the winners of this event is made accessible through the Nokia Life + will have the opportunity to obtain a web-app, providing a variety of information scholarship at the Founder Institute, a global on business management, banking and credit organization that supports and encourages access, customer management and marketing the novice application developers to become for small businesses. This service is targets technopreneurs based in Silicon Valley, women owners of small and medium-sized the United States. The winners who have business or women starting their business. graduated from this scholarship program will then join the Indosat digital business Through Info Wanita and Usaha Wanita incubator, Ideabox. services, Indonesian women can access a variety of information on topics ranging from INSPÉRA ( Inspiring Indonesian Women) business and finance, health, family / children, Giving special attention to women in Indonesia financial management, and communication as one of its customer segments, Indosat showed skills, to human resource development. further support for women through the INSPÉRA Approximately 20,000 women in Indonesia Inspiring Indonesian Women initiative that was have utilized information from these two introduced in Bali the theme “Start Up Your Dream services. Into Action”. Indosat is committed to improving the quality of life for women in Indonesia through Indosat and Ooredoo Send Indonesian telecommunications services and sustainable Youths to The Global Youth Summit forum community programs that cover commercial Indosat together with Ooredoo sent a delegation services as well as CSR programs, including : of Indonesian youths to the Global Youth Summit forum, which took place between Septmber 9 – • Indonesia Womenpreneur Competition (IWC): 11, 2013 in Costa Rica. The youthful delegation The Indonesia Womenpreneur Competition from Indonesia was represented by the young (IWC) is a national competition aimed at technopreneur winners of the Indosat Wireless developing the potential of independent and Innovation Contest (IWIC), Andry Soeprapto and strong -willed creative Indonesian women, and young inspirational teacher Hety Apriliastuti simultaneously benefitting the surrounding Nurcahyarini from Indonesia Mengajar (Teach community through the utilization of for Indonesia). The Global Youth Summit is an information and communication technology . international event organized by the International Telecommunications Union (ITU), an institution Indosat, together with the Ministry of Women under the United Nationas and Ooredoo, which is Empowerment and Child Protection, awarded founding partner of The Global Youth Summit. Indonesia Womenpreneur Competition Awards to 10 finalists chosen from about 800 Indosat Invites Customers to Preserve participants in the Indonesia Womenpreneur Batik Competition (IWC) held in June 2013. Conntinuing Indosat’s commitment to support the preservation and development of Indonesian batik, • Women’s Info Program: Indosat has created a Indosat launched a special rechargable voucher specific application, namely “Info Wanita” (Info edition for batik on October 2, 2013. For every for Women) which is an application for the voucher purchased, Rp150/voucher will be donated empowerment of women that is embedded in to the Indonesian batik industry, without cutting Nokia Life Service handsets. customers’ credits. 406 Indosat 2013 Annual Report The world is amazing, there’s so much to learn! I had no idea until we had internet connection. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 407 Indosat 2013 Annual Report chapter 11 Continuously Caring 408 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Continuously caring: our contribution to the wellbeing of our stakeholders will ultimately be the deciding factor in our long term sustainability. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 409 Indosat 2013 Annual Report This report sets forth Indosat’s progress in 2013 towards long term sustainability, for the benefit of all stakeholders and the Indonesian nation. Report Parameters Reporting Cycle: Scope of Report: Indosat produces this report on a yearly basis The material provided pertains to the operations to communicate its economic, environmental of Indosat and its subsidiaries in Indonesia. There and social impacts to its stakeholders, which were no significant changes from the previous include employees, customers, suppliers, dealers, reporting period in terms of the scope or boundary community groups, and government in Indonesia. applied in this report. Period Covered: Measurement and Reporting: This report covers the period between January 1, There have been no substantial changes in 2013 to December 31, 2013. The previous report reporting method or restatement from the previous covered the period between January 1, 2012 to sustainability report that would significantly affect December 31, 2012. comparability between this year’s sustainability report and the previous year’s. Financial figures Content of Report: are based on Indonesian Generally Accepted This report discusses aspects of Indosat’s business Accounting Principles (GAAP) accounting standards which have significant impact in the areas of (3.9). There were no significant accounting changes governance, community, environment, and causing restatement between 2012 and 2013 (3.10). economy, and is therefore considered material. Quantitative data is provided where possible, supplemented or substituted by qualitative data. Guidelines & Assurance This report refers to the Sustainability Reporting This information in this report is not subject Guidelines (SRG) that are released by the Global to specific limitations but there may be also Reporting Initiatives (GRI). This report has not been information that is not disclosed in this report submitted to external assurance, however it is because it is not believed to be of major significance submitted to the Financial Services Authority and to our stakeholders, namely our customers, Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX). partners, employees, shareholders, community and the government. Contact The content of this report is already in compliance PT Indosat Tbk with the core GRI 3.1 indicators which may be Jalan Medan Merdeka Barat No. 21 found at the GRI website www.globalreporting.org. Indosat Building, Jakarta, 10110, Indonesia Phone: 62 21 3000 3001 Fax: 62 21 3000 3754 410 Indosat 2013 Annual Report TABLE OF CONTENTS Content Page I. President Director & CEO Message 411 II. Organizational Profile 413 III. Governance, Commitment & Engagement 414 IV. Economic Impact 417 V. Environmental 419 VI. Labor Practices 421 VII. Human Rights 424 VIII. Society 424 IX. Product Responsibility 426 chapter 11 Sustainability Report 411 Indosat 2013 Annual Report I. President Director & CEO Message Closing out the first full year of our 3-year transformation towards market leadership, I am pleased to note that sustainability remained an underlying theme throughout all our activities. Facing market pressures and the volatile economic climate of 2013, Indosat nonetheless stayed the course to make key network, organizational and customer service investments with the goal of delivering long-term gains to all stakeholders. These improvements were rewarded with increased customer base and record revenues as yearend, as well as improved customer satisfaction. In parallel, we also strengthened our ability to create value for all concerned. This Sustainability Report documents the initiatives that we carried out in 2013 towards creating more value and sharing those benefits with stakeholders towards long term sustainability, using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines as a reference. Our definition of ‘sustainability’ is the ability to create long term value for all stakeholders with minimal negative impact on the environment. 412 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities Corporate Governance The financial performance of Indosat in terms of Supporting these goals, a number of governance revenues has steadily improved in the last few mechanisms have been established. These years, notwithstanding a number of one-time include a dual board structure which separates factors such as foreign exchange losses, mostly the management function exercised by the related to long term liabilities, that brought profits Board of Directors and the supervision function into the red in 2013. However, the fundamentals of exercised by the Board of Commissioners, an Audit Indosat have clearly strengthened as legacy assets Committee which reports directly to the Board of have been divested and our network is upgraded Commissioners, an Internal Audit function and in stages. a Risk Management Group which functions to facilitate the identification of risks and controls, As Indonesia expands and the economy grows, and mitigation. Indosat has a golden opportunity to position itself as a leader in the telecommunications market by We are also in the process of OHSAS 18001 providing more value. Among others, we have the certification for occupation health and safety and ability to positively impact the development of the ISO 20000 certification for IT Service Management, nation by contributing to national infrastructure, in addition to our other international certifications. creating jobs, developing the knowledge and skills of the Indonesian people, and supporting customers Summary in their daily activities. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like In order to secure market leadership, in the to thank all stakeholders for their support and medium-term we have established a 4+1 data encouragement throughout 2013. In particular, our strategy for leadership consisting of: leader in employees’ hard work, the Board of Commissioners’ data and smart device, best customer experience, input, and the support of our business partners best cost structure, and best people experience to have been crucial in enabling us to improve our deliver highest revenue growth. In particular, data products and services to win consumer trust is a growth key area for us in terms of securing our and give back to the community. I hope that competitive position going forward. you will continue to support us in our quest for sustainability. In parallel, we continue to focus on areas where we can create value. From environmentally solutions such as solar-powered BTS to connecting isolated rural communities to increased training for our own employees and support for communities such as women entrepreneurs and local mobile Alexander Rusli application developers, we aim to grow hand-inPresident Director & CEO hand with the Indonesian people. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 413 Indosat 2013 Annual Report II. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE Name of the Organization PT Indosat Tbk Primary brands, products and/ • Postpaid and Prepaid Cellular Services under the Mentari, Matrix and or services IM3 brands • Fixed data services, which include multimedia, data communications and Internet (MIDI) services marketed primarily to business customers. We also offer satellite-based services such as transponder leasing and VSAT services and IT services, such as Disaster Recovery Center, Data Center services, and Indosat Cloud Services with infrastructureas-a-service. We provide these services directly and through our subsidiaries, Lintasarta and IM2. • Fixed telecommunications (voice) services. Location of the organization’s Jakarta, Indonesia headquarters Operational area and markets Indosat serves both retail and business customers across the Republic of served Indonesia. Nature of ownership and legal Publically listed Indonesian legal entity form Scale of the company Number of cellular 59.6 million subscribers Number of employees 4,200 employees (3,956 of whom were permanent employees and 244 of whom were non-permanent employees) for Indosat and its subsidiaries Number of customer 270,000+ traditional regular outlets (Point of Sales) service points 48,000+ banking POS at ATMs 18,000+ modern channels consisting of modern retail outlets such as convenience stores and hypermarts 900+ Gadget Retail Chain outlets 296 integrated sales and customer walk-in centers (Galeri Indosat, Griya Indosat, KILAT) Number of BTS 24,280 2013 Revenues Rp23,855.9 billion Total capitalization Rp22.55 trillion Total assets Rp 54,520.89 billion Identity and percentage of Ooredoo Asia Pte Ltd. is the largest shareholder with 65% ownership. largest shareholders as of December 31, 2013 Significant changes in size or No significant changes took place during the reporting period with regard ownership to ownership or share capital structure. Certain assets/ facilities were strategically closed while new ones were opened such as Base Tower Stations and Sales Clusters, towards growing Indosat’s operations, but the scale of the overall organization did not change materially during the year. Operational structure of the For the complete Organizational Structure chart of Indosat, please refer to organization the Company Profile section of the attached Annual Report. 414 Indosat 2013 Annual Report III. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT & ENGAGEMENT Governance Structure The General Meeting of Shareholders (GMS) is the highest organ of authority, representing the interests of the shareholders. The Board of Commissioners (BoC) supervises and monitors the management of the Company, and reports to Shareholders at General Meetings. The BoC is supported by the: -Audit Committee -Risk Management Committee -Budget Committee -Remuneration Committee The duty of the Board of Directors is to lead and manage the Company in the best interest of the Company and in accordance with the objectives of the Company. Composition of the BoC and BoD by Independent Members, Nationality, Gender and Age as of December 31, 2013 Independent Indonesian Organ/ Members/ Female/ Oldest Youngest citizen/ Committee Total Male member Member Foreign Members Board of 4/10 6 /4 1/9 67 48 Commissioners Board of 0/3 2/1 0/3 50 43 Directors chapter 11 Sustainability Report 415 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Composition of Supporting Committees by Independent Members, Nationality and Gender Independent Indonesian Organ/ Female/ Members/ Total citizen/ Committee Male Members Foreign Audit 3 independent 4/1 0/5 Committee commissioners, 2 independent experts/5 total members Risk Management Committee 1/4 2/2 1/4 Budget Committee 2/4 1/4 1/3 Remuneration Committee 2/4 2/2 1/3 Mechanisms for Recommendations to the General Performance-Linked Compensation Meetings of Shareholders In establishing remuneration of the Board of • All shareholders including minority Directors, the Board of Commissioners takes shareholders are able to express their opinions into consideration input from the Remuneration at the General Meeting of Shareholders. Committee, of which one component is the performance of the Company. • All employees are able to express opinions to the management through: Avoiding Conflicts of Interest -The Indosat Employees Union (Serikat Pekerja In the interests of maintaining independence Indosat) and preventing conflicts of interests, members of -Formal mechanisms such as periodic Indosat’s Board of Commissioners and Board of Townhall meetings Directors are expected to inform the Company of -Employee interviews and surveys by the ongoing major leadership roles and appointments Human Capital in other companies or organizations. However, -Informal communications channels it is expected that such multiple appointments -Anonymous reports through the Whistle as the Commissioners and Directors chose to Blower mechanism undertake outside of PT Indosat Tbk will not hinder or encumber them in carrying out their duties towards the Company. Our Articles of Association, or the Articles, state that any transaction involving a conflict of interest as defined in prevailing capital market regulations should obtain the approval of the independent shareholders in a general meeting of shareholders especially convened for such purpose. 416 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Composition of the Board of Commissioners and Oversight of the Board of Commissioners’ Board of Directors and its Committee Performance The primary factor in determining the composition, The Board of Commissioners is answerable to the qualifications, and expertise of the members of shareholders at the Annual General Shareholders the Board of Commissioners and its committees is Meeting with regard to the economic, environmental competence and qualification. Other factors such as and social performance of Indosat. age, nationality and gender are secondary. Endorsement of External Principles Guiding Principles As mentioned above, in 2011 Indosat became one of Indosat’s vision, mission, corporate values, Code the first Indonesian signatories of the Millennium of Ethics and Code of Conduct all reflect the Development Goals (MDGs), a set of eight principles commitment to create value in terms of economic, established by the United Nations with the goal environmental or social benefits to stakeholders. of ending poverty. Indosat also upholds best These principles are in line with the Millennium practices as reflected by its multiple international Development Goals (MDG) established by the United certifications including ISO 9001:2000 for quality Nations, of which Indosat is a signatory. management (since 2006), ISO 27001 for IT security management (since 2013), and ISO 31000 for risk Across the organization, all employees are expected management (since 2013). to understand and embrace these principles. Additionally, employees must annually sign the Code Memberships in Associations of Conduct. Indosat is an active member of various industry associations and/or national/international advocacy Oversight of Indosat’s Performance organizations such as Apnatel (Indonesian Indosat’s economic, environmental and social Telecommunications Association), MASTEL performance, including relevant risks and (Masyarakat Telematika Indonesia), APJII (Indonesia opportunities, and adherence or compliance with ISP Association) and others. internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles, is periodically reviewed by the Board Stakeholder Groups Engaged by Indosat of Commissioners (BoC) as the highest governance These stakeholders groups were identified based body. The BoC is aided in this task by the Audit on the fact that Indosat actively engages with Committee Risk Committee, which function to them in the process of creating its products and identify relevant risks and help ensure compliance. services, and/or Indosat can actively affects the In parallel, the Board of Directors is assisted in wellbeing of these groups by contributing positive its management of the Company’s economic, or negative impact. environmental and social performance by the Internal Audit unit. In addition, to ensure proper implementation of Indosat’ Corporate Social Responsibility initiatives in a responsible, ethical and effective manner, a CSR Committee was established by the Board of Directors (BoD) in 2009 and its structure was subsequently revised at the May 10, 2011 BoD meeting. Comprising members of the Directors and Group Head personnel, the CSR Committee is responsible for guiding, leading and assessing our CSR activities. The CSR Committee is comprised of the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Corporate Services Officer, and various Group Heads. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 417 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Stakeholder groups engaged Engagement method by Indosat Customers Customers interact constantly with Indosat’s products and/or services. Promotions are held and targeted offerings are created to attract customer interest. Customer surveys are held to determine satisfaction. Employees, other workers and Besides implementing good labor practices and periodic performance reviews, their trade unions periodic employee surveys are held, and frequent talks are also held with the Indosat Employee Union. In addition a Collective Labour Agreement is negotiated every 2 years. Suppliers Working together to improve quality and ensure correct working procedures Business partners Working together on various initiatives Local communities Indosat helps connect local communities including in remote areas. In addition, Indosat supports local communities through initiatives such as disaster relief, seminars for university students, and more. Civil society Indosat supports the development of civil society at large by supporting knowledge transfer and supporting activities through its telecommunications network. Shareholders Indosat actively communicates its status to shareholders in a variety of ways including through formal General Shareholder Meetings. Material information is also publically disclosed on the website. Indosat strives to provide optimal returns to shareholders, among others through dividend payouts. Government and regulatory Indosat strives to comply with governmental and regulatory regulations. bodies Indosat also strives to support the government’s targets for example the government target of establishing a safe working culture by 2015. Finally, Indosat supports the government through its infrastructure and services where possible, for example by helping provide network connection for the government’s e-KTP (electronic identification card) project in certain cities. IV. ECONOMIC IMPACT As a leading listed company and the second largest telecommunications provider in Indonesia, Indosat makes a significant economic contribution, both directly and indirectly. Economic Performance Direct Value Creation 2013 (Rp billion) 2012 (Rp billion) Revenues 23,855.3 22,418.8 Operating Expenses 22,346.0 19,228.9 Investing Activities 9,067.9 2,688.9 Employee Compensation 1,727.6 1,427.2 Profit Attributable to Shareholders (2,644.1) 875.8 Taxes 667.4 25.8 418 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Impact of Climate Change Indosat’s operational activities are not directly Indosat’s activities dependent on the weather. However, many parts of Indonesia are vulnerable to natural disasters such directly and indirectly benefit as earthquakes, tsunamis, floods, volcanic eruptions as well as droughts, power outages or other events beyond our control and which may be affected by climate change. Most recently, in 2013, floods in the Indonesian Manado and Jakarta resulting from excessive rainfall resulted in disruptions to businesses and extensive evacuations in the city. In addition, the economy people. could be impacted by agricultural disruptions caused by changing weather patterns as a result of climate change. Such weather-related issues could severely disrupt the Indonesian economy and undermine investor confidence, thereby materially and adversely affecting our business, financial condition, transportation costs and energy, this helps to results of operations and prospects. support the local economy. The level of locally supplied content (Domestic Content Rate TKDN) Defined Benefit Obligations for Indosat’s operational expenditure and capital The Company, Satelindo and Lintasarta provide expenditure reached 87.09% and 30.59% respectively defined benefit pension plans to their respective in 2013. employees under which pension benefits to be paid upon retirement are based on the employees’ most Given that Indosat operates across the nation, recent basic salary and number of years of service. Indosat supports diversity in hiring. For regional PT Asuransi Jiwasraya (“Jiwasraya”), a state-owned sales offices, of which there were eight locations life insurance company, manages the plans. Pension throughout Indonesia as of December 31, 2013, contributions are determined by periodic actuarial preference may be given to local hires who are calculations performed by Jiwasraya. already familiar with the local market. For the year ended December 31, 2013, Indosat, While Indosat develops its network primarily for Lintasarta and IM2 incurred a total benefit of Rp180.2 the benefit of its customers, its infrastructure billion (US$14.8 million) for pension, post-retirement also provides a public benefit. In addition, Indosat benefits (i.e., benefits under Labor Law 13) and posthas supported infrastructure and services that is retirement healthcare for our employees. primarily intended for public benefit through various pro-bono community initiatives launched in 2013 Indosat does not receive significant financial such as: assistance from the government. -the INSPERA program providing women entrepreneurs with useful mobile application Market Presence content and technology Standard entry level wages are determined by -the 7th Indosat Wireless Innovation Contest, a position rather than by gender. Indosat is committed wireless application competition for the young to paying at least local minimum wage at the generation which aims to challenge pure ideas locations where it operates, in compliance with on mobile application and how they can start government regulations. their dream of being a technopreneur. IWIC heldvarious activities such as free seminars at The Company generally gives preference to local 18 universities, an innovation bootcamp and an (domestic) suppliers were economically feasible, accelerator class. rather than foreign suppliers. Besides saving chapter 11 Sustainability Report 419 Indosat 2013 Annual Report -a web-based information system called Energy “Ayo Donor” (“Come Donor”) that supports One of Indosat’s primary uses of energy is for the the Indonesian Red Cross by displaying operation of its Base Transceiver Stations (BTS). information related to blood donor services in real time, including information on blood BTS Site Fuel Consumption in 2013 (EN3) stocks at the Blood Donation Units of the Indonesian Red Cross all over Indonesia and Number of Sites (National) 13,000 the location of blood donors in districts/cities Total Fuel Consumption (liters) 12,605,623 throughout Indonesia, making it easier for Average National Fuel Consumption people to donate blood or find blood at the (liters) 970 Indonesian Red Cross Blood Donation Units at www.ayodonor.pmi.or.id Number of Sites in Java 9,000 Total Fuel Consumption for Java (liters) 630,844 -assistance to subscribers during flood disasters Average Fuel Consumption per Site for by giving free calls and SMS to fellow Indosat Java (liters) 70 subscribers and internet access including Number of Sites outside Java 4,000 unlimited free calls to emergency numbers Total Fuel Consumption outside Java 11,974,779 and the National Search and Rescue Agency for subscribers, even in the absence of credits. Average Fuel Consumption per Site outside Java (liters) 2,994 We managed this assistance for the Jakarta and Manado flood victims. In addition, many other facets of its operations such as commercial promotions, transportation, Indosat’s services have the potential for significant network expansion, call center, data center, and indirect economic impact by enabling customers more, consume energy indirectly. However, the to source information and carry out their activities total amount of indirect energy consumption is more efficiently for improved productivity, creating not measured. the potential for an economic multiplier effect. This is especially true of remote and isolated Indosat is always looking to save energy through areas that Indosat has connected such as rural conservation and efficiency improvements. As Kalimantan, Papua and Sumatera but also applies to an example, the new modernized network that communities in urban areas. Indosat also supports Indosat is implementing will deliver cost savings thousands of jobs at dealerships and suppliers. of more than 25% over the original design. In addition, the usage of fluidic batteries is expected to save up to 60% in fuel costs used by V. ENVIRONMENTAL BTS. Indosat has also moved to reduce indirect energy consumption through measures such as Material Usage decreasing unncessary travel. Indosat, as a telecommunications provider, uses a wide variety of materials in producing and delivering its products and services. As such, it does not aggregate the materials used by weight and volume. Due to the nature of our products and services, the materials used are not recycled input materials. 420 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Water Water is not a significantly factor in Indosat’s operations, and thus Indosat does not calculate or track total water withdrawal by source, nor does it recycle and reuse water in large quantities. No water sources were significantly affected by Indosat’s operations in 2013. Biodiversity The majority of Indosat’s infrastructure is found in inhabited areas. In general, Indosat’s infrastructure does not infringe on protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. In 2013, the company’s activities, products and services did Indosat’s operations do not involve or generate not significantly impact protected areas or areas of significant amounts of effluents or waste. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. Consequently the total water discharged was irrelevant as a measure of Indosat’s operations Emissions, Effluents and Waste and not measured. Nor was total waste by weight Indosat does not measure total direct and indirect recorded in 2013, including transported, imported, greenhouse gas emissions produced, or other exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions. the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and VIII, and the percentage of transported waste included using fluidic batteries to power BTS, shipped internationally. No spills took place in 2013. thereby reducing fuel usage by up to 60%. Products and Services The total amount of emissions of ozone-depleting Indosat continuously tries to make its infrastructure substances by weight NO, SO, and other significant and network more fuel efficient. By switching out air emissions by type and weight, have not yet been fluidic batteries and modernizing the network, and measured at this time. by using solar-powered BTS in remote areas, Indosat strives to provide better quality service while using fewer resources. At this point in time, packaging materials from products sold are not reclaimed/recycled. Compliance Indosat was not subject to any significant fines and or non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations in 2013. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 421 Indosat 2013 Annual Report VI. LABOR PRACTICES Employee Turnover Our turnover rate for employees during 2013 was 2.98% per annum, representing a decrease from As part of its commitment to becoming an employer 5.6% in 2012. As a result, as of December 31, 2013, of choice and retaining the best people, Indosat is our employees had worked for us for an average of committed to implementing good labor practices. 12.8 years. Employment Number of Years Worked 2012 2013 Composition of Total Workforce 0-5 406 421 Note: Figures are for Indosat employees only, not including subsidiary company employees, unless 6-10 480 410 otherwise stated. 11-15 1,073 1,158 16-20 788 713 Number of Employees by Level 21-25 120 225 2012 2013 26-30 76 93 BOD/Chief 9 6 31-35 23 26 Group Head/Advisor 60 63 36-40 1 0 Division Head/Expert 213 231 Total 2,967 3,046 Manager/Expert 675 697 Senior Staff 1,300 1,296 Employee Benefits Staff 710 753 Certain benefits are provided to full-time employees who meet eligibility requirements that are not Total 2,967 3,046 provided to temporary or part-time employees. These include: Number of Managerial vs. Non-Managerial -A pension plan, benefits and pension plan Employees as of December 31, 2013 provisions for employees who receive fully funded facilities from the company as laid forth Nonin the provisions agreed upon between the Managerial Managerial Total Company and pension scheme administrator Level Level (Jamsostek). 2013 997 2,049 3,046 -Social security for workers (Jamsostek) whereby Social Security contributions are made by the 2012 957 2,010 2,967 Company. -Medical Care and Treatment Facilities, consisting of: Number of Employees by Employment Contract on a a. Outpatient benefits Consolidated Basis (for Indosat and its subsidiaries) b. Inpatient benefits (including maternity as of December 31, 2013 hospitalization) c. Dental care & medical benefits Permanent Contract d. Glasses benefit e. General Benefits Check Up (GCU) 2013 3,956 244 -Life Insurance 2012 3,855 606 -Marriage Assistance for Employees. -Funeral & Burial Assistance. 422 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Parental Retention Rate Indosat has not measured the return to work and retention rates of employees following parental leave, by gender. Labor/Management Relations Collective Labor Agreement Prevention and Treatment of Disease All employees of Indosat are covered by the To assist with prevention and early treatment of Collective Labour Agreement (CLA). The CLA is diseases, eligible Indosat employees and their renegotiated and signed every two years between families may go for medical check ups and visits Indosat management and the Indosat Employee to the Indosat general health clinic as well as the Union (SPI). The purpose of the CLA is to support Indosat dental clinic. business success for the company while also safeguarding employee rights. Topics covered with Trade Unions The Collective Labor Agreement signed with the Notice of Operational Changes Indosat Employees Union covers issues related In order to give employees sufficient notice to health and safety including working hours and prepare in the interests of maintaining optimal occupational safety and health issues such as productivity, Indosat strives to give adequate notice As such, the CLA covers issues related to general beforehand of major operational changes. terms of employment including working hours, payroll, employee development and competency, occupational safety and health, employees’ welfare, Occupational Health & Safety social allowances, employees’ code of conduct and Indosat has established a Safety and Health mechanisms for handling labor disputes Guidance Committee that functions to help protect employees against the risk of accidents and illness Training & Education related to work. Indosat prioritized employee training and development in 2013 as part of its drive to create a Work Injury Rates high performance culture and strengthen employee There were no work related fatalities, serious engagement. injuries, or incidents of occupational diseases among Indosat employees in 2013. Average Training In 2013, a total of 5442 non-technical employee training program seats and 4329 non-technical employee training program seats were filled, at a total cost of Rp 25.04 billion or average cost of Rp2.45 million per employee. This included Rp 5.2 billion spent on training for new managers to develop their soft skills and leadership skills. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 423 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Employees by Gender 29.2% 70.8% Lifelong Learning Programs 867 2,100 2012 In 2013, Indosat began to implement programs employees employees to assist employees with skills management and lifelong learning to support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. These programs will continue to be developed so as part of pension and 70.4% career transition processes. 29.2% 901 2013 2,145 Performance and Career Development employees employees Reviews All full time employees of Indosat receive regular performance and career development reviews. Diversity & Equal Opportunity Indosat is committed to embracing diversity and providing all employees with equal opportunities. Remuneration Employees are rewarded based on performance, Composition of the Board of Commissioners and regardless of gender or race, in accordance with the Board of Directors guidelines of the Company. Indonesian Male/ Youngest Oldest Citizen/ Female Member Member Foreign Board of 6 /4 1/9 48 67 Commissioners Board of 3/0 0/3 43 50 Directors Breakdown of All Employees by Age Age 2012 2013 < 25 Years 66 91 25-35 Years 874 814 35-45 Years 1,668 1,680 45-50 Years 269 354 > 50 Years 90 107 Total 2,967 3,046 424 Indosat 2013 Annual Report VII. HUMAN RIGHTS Prevention of forced and compulsory labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced Indosat has a general commitment to uphold human or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute rights in line with the Millennium Development to the elimination of all forms of forced or Goals. At this time, referencing standard industry compulsory labor. practices in the Indonesian telecommunications sector, Indosat does not require human rights Security practices screening or clauses incorporating human Indosat’s security personnel do not receive specific rights concerns in its investment agreements human rights training as this is not considered and contracts, or human rights screening of its relevant to Indosat’s core operations. suppliers. Nor are employees required to undergo training on human rights as this aspect is generally Indigenous rights considered not relevant to our operations. However, No incidents of violations involving the rights of all employees are expected to behave ethically and indigenous people were recorded in 2013. respectfully of others. Assessment Non Discrimination Indosat does not conduct human rights reviews No significant human rights incidents of or impact assessments of its operations, as its discrimination or corrective actions were recorded operations do not significantly involve human in 2013. rights issues. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Remediation Indosat employees have the right to exercise No grievances related to human rights were filed freedom of association and carry out collective against Indosat in 2013. bargaining. The Indosat Labor Union (Serikat Pekerja Indosat/ SPI) was established on August 25, 1999. VIII. SOCIETY A Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) document is negotiated, agreed upon and signed by the Management of Indosat and the SPI for a period of As a leading telecommunications provider and listed 2 (two) years, every two years the terms of which company, Indosat has a responsibility to act as an cover general provisions governing working hours, ethical corporate citizen and contribute to society. salary, employee development, Health Safety Security and Environment (HSSE), employee welfare, Local Community social benefit, disciplinary procedures and dispute Indosat has implemented community engagement settlement mechanism. and development programs at both national and local levels. As such the Company has not Child labor categorized its community programs by operational Indosat does not hire underage employees. All unit and thus the percentage of operations which employees are above the minimum working age. has implemented local community development programs is not considered a valid measure. Overall, Indosat’s operations in 2013 were not considered to have significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 425 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Indosat continued to carry out its standard Any Director or employee found to have violated the prevention and mitigation measures with regard to Code of Ethics will be disciplined accordingly, up to its operations such as ensuring that new BTS are and including termination of employment. constructed in areas where they do not negatively impact the surrounding community or environment. Public Policy Indosat actively participates in industry associations Corruption and relevant business organizations such as Apnatel Business units at Indosat are selectively examined (Indonesian Telecommunications Association), by the Internal Audit function for risks related MASTEL (Masyarakat Telematika Indonesia), APJII to corruption. Any findings will be presented to (Indonesia ISP Association) and others, and engages the Audit Committee for further evaluation and with relevant governance bodies such as the possible action. Indonesian Telecommunication Regulatory Authority (Badan Regulasi Telekomunikasi Indonesia, BRTI) All employees (100% of permanent employees) in order to keep abreast of the latest developments, have been socialized in Indosat’s anti-corruption share information, and give inputs on the regulation policies and procedures. The Indosat Code of of the Indonesian telecommunications sector. Ethics strictly prohibits conflicts of interests, acceptance of gratuities, corruption, insider Anti-Competitive Behavior trading and illegal or unethical behavior. Each Indosat refrains from anti-competitive behavior as employee must sign a statement that they have prohibited by the regulator. However, on November read and understood the Code of Ethics. Employees 1, 2007, the Indonesian Supervising Committee for must reconfirm this statement periodically Business Competition (the “KPPU”) issued a decision through the Company Intranet. regarding a preliminary investigation involving us and eight other telecommunication companies based on allegations of price-fixing for SMS services and breach of Article 5 of the Law No. 5 of 1999 on Prohibition Against Monopolistic Practice and All employees and Unfair Business Competition (“Anti-monopoly Law”). On June 18, 2008, the KPPU determined management must that Telkom, Telkomsel, PT XL Axiata Tbk (“XL”), PT Bakrie Telecom Tbk (“Bakrie Telecom”), PT comply with the Mobile-8 Telecom Tbk (“Mobile-8,” and subsequent to March 2011, “Smartfren”) and PT Smart Telecom (“Smart Telecom”) had jointly breached Article 5 Code of Ethics. of the Anti-monopoly Law. Mobile-8 appealed this ruling to the Central Jakarta District Court, where Telkomsel, XL, Telkom, Indosat, PT Hutchison CP Telecommunication (“Hutchison”), Bakrie Telecom, Smart Telecom, PT Natrindo Telepon Selular (“Natrindo”) were summoned to appear as codefendants in the hearing, while Telkomsel appealed this ruling to the South Jakarta District Court. 426 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Although the KPPU decided in our favor with respect to the allegations of price-fixing of SMS, we cannot assure you that the District Court will affirm the KPPU decision. In 2011, the Supreme Court issued a ruling appointing the Central Jakarta District Court jurisdiction to examine the objections filed in the center as reflected by our ISO 27001 information appeal of the KPPU decision. The District Court security management system (ISMS) certification will consider objections against the KPPU decision covering information technology, security based on a re-examination of the KPPU decision and techniques, and information security management case files submitted by KPPU. If the District Court systems and requirements. issues a verdict against us, we could be subjected to the payment of a fine, the amount of which will There were no number of incidents of major nonbe subject to the discretion of the District Court, compliance with regulations and voluntary codes which could have an adverse effect on our business, concerning health and safety impacts of products reputation and profitability. This case is still ongoing. and services in 2013. Product and service labeling IX. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY All Indosat prepaid subscription vouchers are accurately labeled for ease of use including information on tariffs and user instructions. We also Customer health and safety try to give accurate information on all our products Indosat strives to ensure that its products and and services to customers, for more. services are safe for customers to use at all stages. Specifically, Indosat strives to ensure that it uses In 2013, there were no incidents of major nonradio telecommunications equipment that is compliance with regulations and voluntary codes not hazardous to customer health, in line with concerning product and service information and acceptable industry practices. It also strives to labeling. protect the confidentiality of data and customer profiles by maintaining a secure network and data Customer satisfaction Maintaining and improving customer satisfaction is at the forefront of Indosat’s efforts. A variety of initiatives were taken in 2013 to improve customer Indosat strives satisfaction such as improving the network quality, the launch of a web-based and multi-platform to ensure that application called ‘Indosat Assistant (INSTANT) and ICITY that enables customers to easily access its products and their subscriber profile information, more access to products and services such as Dompetku mobile services are safe for payment and interesting VAS content, as well as surveys to measure customer satisfaction. Among customers to use. others, enterprise customer satisfaction as surveyed by Mark Plus improved over the year to reach 79.1, the highest in the industry and on par with the market leader, with Indosat being perceived by customers as a trusted service provider with accurate billing. chapter 11 Sustainability Report 427 Indosat 2013 Annual Report Marketing communications the Corruption Law are baseless; violation (if any) of Indosat is committed to complying with any practices in the telecommunication sector should relevant law and standards related to marketing be subject to the Telecommunication Law, including communications, including advertising, promotion, the relevant administrative sanctions thereto. IM2 and sponsorship. Indosat also voluntarily strives and the Company are also seeking to nullify charges to ensure that all its commercial advertisements against their respective former President Directors safeguard customers from confusion or by arguing that the agreement between IM2 and our misperceptions. As such, in 2013 there were no Company was an agreement between two companies major incidents of non-compliance with regulations and was executed in accordance with all applicable and voluntary codes concerning marketing laws and regulations, including the prevailing communications, including advertising, promotion, regulations in the telecommunication and the or sponsorship. non-tax state revenue sectors. We and IM2 are also stating that IM2 was lawfully using Indosat’s cellular Customer privacy telecommunication network, and was not unlawfully In 2013, Indosat received no substantiated using the 2.1 GHz frequency band detached of the complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy cellular telecommunication network, as alleged. and losses of customer data. The court proceeding against, Mr. Indar Atmanto, the former President Director of IM2, commenced Compliance at the Corruption Court in January 2013. On July 8, On January 18, 2012, the former President Director 2013, the Corruption Court found Mr. Atmanto guilty of IM2, a subsidiary of the Company, was accused of of corruption for representing IM2 in entering into corruption by the Attorney General’s Office (“AGO”). a cooperation agreement with our Company and According to the AGO, a state loss amounting to sentenced him to four years imprisonment and a Rp1,358.3 billion was caused by an agreement monetary fine of Rp200 million (or additional three between IM2 and the Company, which relates to the months imprisonment). Furthermore, the Corruption alleged illegal use by IM2 of the Company’s 2.1 GHz Court found IM2 liable for restitution for state losses frequency band. The MOCIT issued letter No. 65/M. caused by such transaction and imposed a monetary KOMINFO/02/2012 on February 24, 2012 stating that fine of Rp1,358.3 billion. On July 11, 2013, Mr. Atmanto there was no breach of law, crime committed, and lodged his appeal against the Corruption Court’s no state loss resulting from the agreement between ruling. On January 10, 2014, the Central Jakarta’s High the Company and IM2. Moreover the MOCIT has also Court affirmed the Corruption Court’s and imposed sent a letter to the AGO directly which states that a higher sentence of eight years imprisonment neither our Company nor our subsidiary, IM2, has and a separate monetary fine Rp200 million (or an violated any regulation and the collaboration between additional three months imprisonment). However, the Indosat and IM2 is lawful under the prevailing laws High Court found that the Corruption Court could not and regulations, and also common practices in the impose a monetary sanction against IM2 which, as a telecommunication industry. In addition, the ITRA separate legal entity, had not been separately indicted publicly stated that IM2 had not breached any laws or in the AGO’s litigation against Mr. Atmanto, and prevailing rules. However, the AGO ignored the letters reversed the Corruption Court’s decision imposing a from the MOCIT and, on November 30, 2012, accused monetary fine upon IM2. the former President Director of Indosat of similar corruption charges. Furthermore, on January 3, 2013, the AGO also filed corruption charges against IM2 and Indosat as corporate suspects for the alleged illegal use of Indosat’s 2.1 GHz frequency band without proper permission from the Government. IM2, Indosat and their respective former President Directors are seeking to nullify the charges that have been filed against them by arguing that the AGO’s charges under
