GLOBAL COMPACT COMPLIANCE STATEMENT Year: 2014 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Octaga Green is proud to be a pioneer in our industry by setting international standards of corporate, social and environmental responsibility in our business practices from inception. To this end we support and uphold United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) goals. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies and practices incorporate and are constantly evolving to reflect our commitment to the tenets of human rights, labour standards, environment and corruption standards. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact charter. We welcome the recognition of the positive contributions, businesses must make to work together towards a sustainable prosperous global economy and society. Here we summarised the progress we have made for these principles and we will continue to communicate our progress in following them up in future. Basab B Paul, Managing Director 17/09/2014 30 Altamount Rd. Chapsey Terrace, Mumbai -400-026, email:octaga@gmail.com/info@octagagreen.com Page 1 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 1: Businesses should support Our Human rights policies are in operation respecting the legal principles and respect the protection of of our country. We are Promoting good practice in human rights, internationally proclaimed selecting appropriate business partners, addressing human rights issues, human rights. positively at site and within local communities. We have taken every step to:  Develop company policy and strategy to support human rights,  Develop & sustain a health and safety management system,  Provide staff training on human rights issues and monitor on a regular basis their progress.  Set procedures to uphold human rights standards,  Improve working conditions of workers and their representatives,  Provide safe and healthy working conditions, 2: And make sure that they are Our Management teams are carrying-out surveys and committed to not complicit in human rights providing right information. By educating the village and needy people we abuses. also give financial help for girls education in nearby villages. We have established a wing to inform the concerned departments if there are any human rights abuses in the vicinity. 3: Businesses should uphold Our company has taken every step to eliminate of all forms of the freedom of association and forced and compulsory labour, child labours, discrimination in the effective recognition of the respect of employment. Workers and employees are given right to right to collective bargaining; set up, join and run their own organization without interference from other entities. Workers are free to bargain their rights with the employer. 4: The elimination of all forms of We have a separate department for Human Rights to oversee forced and forced and compulsory labour; compulsory labour. This department is interacting with the labourers / employees on a daily basis. This department oversees even external threats to the workers, if any, and vouching their wages are given in time. Company provides substantial help in the construction of roads and helping in digging of irrigation Canals. Monthly Meetings held to oversee the needs and provide help 30 Altamount Rd. Chapsey Terrace, Mumbai -400-026, email:octaga@gmail.com/info@octagagreen.com Page 2 5: The effective abolition of child We are well aware child labour will jeopardise childrens future labour; education and development. We make sure no use of child labour and in fact our work is not performed by children. We do not have any labour working under 18 years of age. This is also part of the law of the land. 6: And the elimination of I Our company has taken every step to avoid discrimination of workers at discrimination in respect work in a any form direct and indirect, such as their sex, race, skin colour, of employment and origin, religion etc. All are treated equally. occupation. 7. Businesses should Ours is zero pollution Plant and it is first of its kind in India. Precautionary support a precautionary measures are taken where ever risk factors are seen. The level of risk approach to environmental considered, typically relates to standards of environment, health and challenges; safety. Even though our project cost is high, it ensures that irreversible environmental damage does not occur. Created managerial committee to oversee the companies application of precaution, in particular risk management in sensitive issue areas. M/s. Octaga Green Power and Sugar Co. Ltd. and the surrounding environment shall be backed with CDM revenue, which shall be filed through M/s. CantorCo2e Pvt. Ltd. as per their presentation on 2/1/2007. OUR COMMITMENT :  Non-conventional energy is only sustainable future.  OCTAGA GREEN POWER & SUGAR ensures a green carbon and water neutral footprint in all its projects as its commitment to the Environment. 8. undertake initiatives to Our vision is to lead the renewable energy space occupying a promote greater environmental combination of cutting edge techniques, sustainable business practices responsibility; with a green carbon and water treatment footprint to ensure superior quality products. It is the only zero pollution plant in the region, which develops economic prosperity, environmental quality and social equity. OUR COMMITMENT : Best practices and Zero Effluent Technology have enabled OCTAGA to engage local farmers and stakeholders in Kolhapur, the heart of India's sugar belt, with potash rich water harvesting for their own agricultural benefits. 30 Altamount Rd. Chapsey Terrace, Mumbai -400-026, email:octaga@gmail.com/info@octagagreen.com Page 3 9: Encourage The Development Ours is zero pollution environmentally friendly project with sound and diffusion of environmentally technologies, which protect the environment, are less polluting, use all friendly technologies. resources in a more sustainable manner and handle residual wastes in a more acceptable manner. They include effluent treatment plant in process and pollution prevention technologies to reduce day-to-day operating inefficiencies, emissions of environmental contaminants. OUR COMMITMENT :  Drawing on its four decades of expertise in the alcohol and sugar industries, OCTAGA produces the highest grade of potable and industrial grade spirits.  Our own LabelOCTAGA GREEN a portfolio of Premium tripledistilled grain alcohol made by the best, for the best. 10. Businesses should work I Our management is reports to the media not only the corruption of against all forms of corruption, financial gain but also non-financial advantages . We have introduced including extortion and bribery. anti-corruption policies and programs to address corruption with more transparency by conducting various meetings internally and externally. 30 Altamount Rd. Chapsey Terrace, Mumbai -400-026, email:octaga@gmail.com/info@octagagreen.com Page 4
