BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 bp.com/sustainability Building a stronger, safer BP Report scope This report covers the activities of BP Georgia, focusing on performance in 2013 while providing updates on developments in 2014. It has been prepared by our business in Georgia. Data is shown for activities where we are the operator, unless indicated otherwise. In the report, references to ‘BP’ and Unless otherwise indicated all currency the ‘BP group’ shall mean BP p.l.c., its amounts are denominated in US subsidiaries and affiliates and, unless dollars. As with all our previous BP otherwise stated, the text does not in Georgia sustainability reports, this distinguish between the operations report has been independently verified. and activities of BP p.l.c. and those of its subsidiaries and affiliates. Unless specified otherwise, references in this report to ‘us’, ‘we’, and ‘our’ shall refer to companies in the BP group operating in Georgia. Front cover imagery Pump station 1 Georgia (PSG 1) is one of the two pumping stations on the BTC pipeline located in Gardabani district close to the Georgia-Azerbaijan border. Left image: Operations performed at PSG 1 are pumping, pipeline pigging operations, fiscal metering, and process monitoring and control. Centre image: On average 35 BP employees and contractors work and live at PSG 1 during a day. Right image: MOL turbine arrangement with turbine enclosure and exhaust stacks at the PSG 1 in Gardabani. An introduction to Ernst & Young’s assurance process We have reviewed the BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 in order to provide assurance to BP management that the data, statements and assertions made regarding the sustainability performance of BP in Georgia are supported by evidence or explanation. Our scope of work and conclusions can be found on page 40. factors including future levels of industry product supply; demand Report and Form 20-F 2013. Material is used within this document Cautionary statement and pricing; operational problems; general economic conditions; to describe issues for voluntary sustainability reporting that are conBP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 contains certain forpolitical stability and economic growth in relevant areas of the sidered to have the potential to significantly affect sustainability in ward-looking statements concerning the businesses, operations world; changes in laws and governmental regulations; exchange the view of the company and/or are expected to be important in the and strategy of BP. rate fluctuations; development and use of new technology; changes eyes of internal or external stakeholders. Material for the purposes By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncerin public expectations and other changes in business conditions; of this document should not, therefore be read as equating to any tainties because they relate to events and depend on circumstancthe actions of competitors; natural disasters and adverse weather use of the word in other BP p.l.c. reporting or filings. es that will or may occur in the future. Actual results may differ conditions; wars and acts of terrorism or sabotage; and other from those expressed in such statements depending on a variety of factors discussed elsewhere in this document and in BP Annual 2 in Georgia BP Sustainability Sustainability BP in Georgia ReportReport 2013 2013 Contents Overview Overview 2 Management introduction 3 Achievements and challenges BP Georgia’s general manager reviews developments in 2013 and future 4 Our progress in 2013 prospects. How we operate Focus areas 6 How we operate 26 Environment BP Georgia in context, governance and Environmental performance and how we management systems, human rights and manage our impact. delivering local benefit. 30 Society 16 Our people and values Our people Our approach to engagement with Workforce composition, learning and communities, building local capacity and development, our values and the BP code social investment projects. of conduct. 36 Our stakeholders and reporting 20 Safety Our safety performance, safety management, risk management and emergency response. Safety Our reporting and performance data 38 BP Georgia in figures 40 Assurance statement Ernst & Young’s conclusions on BP Georgia’s reporting. Environment Society Our reporting BP Georgia in figures BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 1 A view from BP Georgia’s general manager 2013 was another good year for our safety It has been a major piece of work to get this and operational integrity. We suffered just two far with this massive project, even though recordable injuries in more than three and a half construction work – which presents challenges million man-hours of operations. Our workforce we are familiar with from previous projects – is drove more than nine million kilometres – and only just beginning. SCP expansion will put new did so without any severe vehicle accidents. We demands on our own people, not least the need continued to work closely with our contractors, to maintain the reliability of existing operations who log about 70% of our annual man-hours, while simultaneously delivering a major project. It to develop their safety standards. By working will also be demanding for local contractors. We with them on site – where they are frequently anticipate spending approximately $400 million carrying out hard physical labour, using heavy with local contractors during the construction equipment, and often in geographically challenging phase of the project. The challenge will be whether environments – and by engaging with their there is sufficient depth of local contractor capacity executives and leaders, we are helping to make and appropriate levels of competency to meet sure that a strong safety culture is in place. our high standards. We will need skilled local tradesmen, such as welders, electricians, and We have maintained our excellent record of pipe fitters, who are certified against reputable reliability in our operations. We operated the standards. South Caucasus Pipeline (SCP) at more than 99% of its capacity in 2013, and achieved more than There are many opportunities ahead as well 99% operational efficiency on both the Western as challenges. But there is evidence, not Route Export Pipeline and the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan only in our own operations, but more widely oil pipeline. We have now achieved this highly across Georgian society, that the country is efficient operating record for several years, and increasingly well-positioned to address the I would like to thank all those who have made it demands ahead. The rapid establishment of a happen by doing their jobs so well, every day. The stable operating environment for business after professionalism of our operating and maintenance government elections in 2013 was a positive staff has been exemplary; when we maintain and sign. We look forward to working effectively fix equipment, we do it well, and our reliability with the new administration, and in playing our We have now achieved this record is maintained. part in contributing to the country’s continuing development, through our operations and in the highly efficient operating We continued to make progress with the planning varied social investment programmes that we and permitting required for the SCP expansion record for several years, and project, which will see the construction of two support. I would like to thank all those new compressor stations on the pipeline and the The five years I have had as general manager creation of approximately 62 kilometres of new here in Georgia have seen a lot of positive who have made it happen by pipeline in parallel with the existing line in Georgia. change. I wish my successor, Chris Schlueter, doing their jobs so well, every We have completed the required programme who succeeds me in March, every success going of consultation with potentially affected parties, forward. day. engaging local communities, landowners, local government, central government departments, Neil Dunn and others. We passed an important milestone in 2013 with the government’s acceptance of the environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA), which was the documented result of this wide-ranging consultation and evidence Neil Dunn gathering effort. The ESIA builds on the trust General Manager, BP Georgia we have developed with stakeholders from past projects and operations. SCP expansion, which February 2014 forms an integral part of the stage 2 development of the Shah Deniz field in the Caspian Sea, will contribute to the creation of a new southern gas corridor from the Caucasus through to customers in Europe. Establishing this corridor is a very important development for the region as a whole. 2 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Achievements and challenges Overview We highlight below our most significant achievements in 2013 and the challenges we face in the future. Achievements Challenges Our values Effective operations: We continued the safe and Maintaining safe operations on WREP: We have five values that express our efficient operation of all three existing pipelines The age of certain sections of the pipeline shared understanding of what we in Georgia, and successfully completed coupled with its passage through areas with believe, how we aim to behave and what a number of significant maintenance and geo-hazards and many river crossings makes we aspire to be as an organization. modification projects (page 8). WREP maintenance and monitoring a constant challenge (page 8). Safety HSE performance: We maintained a good health, safety and environmental record. While Competency requirements: As we move from Safety is good business. Everything we do we had two day away from work case incidents, early construction works on the SCP expansion relies upon the safety of our workforce and we had no major vehicle accidents and no project into full construction in the years ahead, the communities around us. We care about major incidents in our operations and projects we will need access to skilled contractors with the safe management of the environment. – in approximately 3.7 million man-hours of internationally recognized levels of competence We are committed to safely delivering energy work, and while driving more than nine million who are able to meet our high standards to the world. kilometres (page 21). (page 17). Respect ESIA approval: We secured the approval from Contractor performance: We will continue to the Georgian government of the environmental work with our contractors to develop their We respect the world in which we operate. and social impact assessment, and began capabilities, especially in areas such as safety It begins with compliance with laws and early works on the SCP expansion project, and environmental performance, as well as regulations. We hold ourselves to the highest while continuing to work with the government on issues including employment practices and ethical standards and behave in ways that earn of Georgia on the approval of design changes awareness of social risk (page 23). the trust of others. We depend on the (pages 10 and 27). relationships we have and respect each other and Maintaining reliability in operations: It will those we work with. We value diversity of people Building positive relationships: We continued require extra vigilance to maintain our excellent and thought. We care about the consequences of to build positive relationships with key reliability record in existing operations while our decisions, large and small, on those around us. stakeholders in Georgia. This included engaging simultaneously working on the major SCP with the new government as well as extending expansion project (pages 12-13). Excellence our community programmes to engage communities newly affected by SCP expansion We are in a hazardous business, and are (page 32). committed to excellence through the systematic and disciplined management of our operations. We follow and uphold the rules and standards we set for our company. We commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to learn, and to improve. If something is not right, we correct it. Courage What we do is rarely easy. Achieving the best outcomes often requires the courage to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by what we believe. We always strive to do the right thing. We explore new ways of thinking and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest with ourselves, and actively seek feedback from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short term priorities of our world. One Team Whatever the strength of the individual, we will accomplish more together. We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. Loading buoy in Supsa. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 3 Our progress in 2013 Here we report on where we are today and our plans for the future. How we operate Our people Safety Our operations in Georgia are We strive to provide our people with We continue to work to embed shaped by the BP group’s approach opportunities for development safety and operational risk to sustainability, our strategy and within a work environment shaped management into the heart of values, and by our management by distinctive values and a clearly what we do. systems and processes. articulated code of conduct. Commit to the safe and efficient Develop the skills and experience of Take systematic steps to deliver excellent What we said transportation of oil and gas through local people. business performance, safely and reliably. Georgia to world markets. Provide opportunities for development, Identify and manage risks, and carry out we would do Take steps to build the capacity of local providing out-of-country assignments or training and exercises to prepare for an people and contractor companies. tailored development programmes. emergency. Conduct our operations based on Continue to highlight the importance Protect the health of employees, BP’s values and code of conduct of operating under the BP code of contractors, visitors and members of the requirements. conduct. local community who live or work near our operating sites. Where we 308 m 94% 4 3.7 m SCP and BTC continued to operate at more of total employees new challenge man-hours worked and 9.5 million are today than 99% capacity, safely delivering more in BP Georgia are graduates in 2013, kilometres driven with no fatalities and no than 308 million barrels of hydrocarbons. Georgian nationals. and more major accidents. employees on Continued to work assignments outside Have a wide in accordance Georgia. range of with our values occupational and our code of conduct, with Code of conduct certification health and industrial 103 strong systems of incorporated into hygiene emergency response governance. annual performance initiatives in exercises safely carried review processes. place. out in 2013. Work to continue the safe and efficient Continue the strong track record of Continue to deliver excellent business What we plan operations of our existing assets, Georgian nationals working in the performance, safely and reliably. generating benefit for the Georgian business. Continue to strive for improvements in economy and local people. Provide opportunities for team leaders to personal and process safety performance. to do next Progress the SCP expansion project, enhance their skills. Work, as in the past, with contractors investing in and supporting local to develop strong safety attitudes and companies where possible. culture. Continue to develop the skills and expertise of our local workforce. For more R  ead more about our risk View statistics on our workforce  ead more about working with R  management practices on page 12. profile on page 17. contractors on page 23. View SCPX project details online at R  ead more about people development View our crisis and continuity information  bpgeorgia.ge. on page 17. management practices on page 24. 4 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Overview Environment Society We take a systematic approach to We aim to make sure that we environmental management and bring benefit to local communities strive to continuously improve our by supporting programmes and environmental performance. initiatives that build capacity and promote enterprise. Manage our operations in accordance Build open and constructive What we said with our ISO 14001 environmental relationships with the communities management system. near our assets. we would do Assess and monitor our environmental Help to build local economic capacity impacts to air, land and water and work to by supporting agriculture, rural continuously improve our performance. infrastructure and business enterprise. Work with our contractors to support Strive to bring lasting benefit to compliance with our environmental Georgian society. standards. ISO 14001 Maintained active engagement with Where we pipeline affected communities, and Our ISO 14001 certificate expanded our engagement with new are today has been formally communities affected by SCP expansion. re-issued for the next three years. Secured government $25 m Put in place invested approximately approval of the SCP measures to in social projects in the expansion project strengthen last five years. environmental and social environmental impact assessment requirements Supported diverse projects in education, (ESIA), and took further in contracting. economic development, enterprise, action to minimize cultural heritage and the environment operational impacts. over the past ten years. Maintain our systematic approach Reinforce the positive relationships we What we plan to environmental compliance and have with the communities near our management. operations. Minimize our environmental impacts to Continue to build local skills and to do next air, land and water. capacity. Develop processes and people to Continue to support local economic safeguard future environmental development and enterprise. performance. For more See the audit reports by the Read more about our engagement   independent environmental consultant with local communities on page 32. (IEC) at bp.com. V  iew Community Development information Read more about managing our Initiative reports at bpgeorgia.ge.  impact on page 29. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 5 How we operate Our operations in Georgia are shaped by the BP group’s approach to sustainability, our strategy and values, and by our management systems and processes. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Commit to the safe and efficient 308 million SCP and BTC continued to Work to continue the safe and efficient transportation of oil and gas through operate at more than 99% capacity, operations of our existing assets, Georgia to world markets. safely delivering more than 308 million generating benefit for the Georgian barrels of hydrocarbons. economy and local people. Take steps to build the capacity of local people and contractor companies. Continued to work in accordance with Progress the SCP expansion project, our values and our code of conduct, with investing in and supporting local Conduct our operations based on strong systems of governance. companies where possible. BP’s values and code of conduct requirements. Continue to develop the skills and expertise of our local workforce. 6 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 BP in Georgia Our activities in Georgia are operated in accordance with our values, systems and processes. How we operate BP operated interests in Georgia BP is one of the world’s leading integrated oil and gas companies on the basis of market capitalization, proven reserves and production. Our 9 1 objective is to create value for shareholders by helping 8 BP 35.7828 SOCAR 11.6461 to meet growing demand for energy in a responsible 7 Chevron 11.2729 way. Globally, we employ approximately 84,000 6 INPEX 10.9644 people. We had exploration and production WREP Statoil 8.5633 activities in 27 countries in 2013, including our ExxonMobil 8.0006 midstream pipeline activities in Georgia. 5 TPAO 6.7500 2 ITOCHU 4.2986 In Georgia, we operate the Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan oil 4 3 ONGC 2.7213 pipeline (BTC) and South Caucasus gas pipeline (SCP) on behalf of two international consortia of energy companies and investors. These facilities are now in their eighth full-year of operation. The BP 30.10 10 11 1 BTC and SCP pipelines run side by side for 248 AzBTC 25.00 Chevron 8.90 9 kilometres within Georgia, with two BTC pump stations, gas offtake pressure reduction and Statoil 8.71 8 People at work at BTC pump station 1. TPAO 6.53 7 metering facilities on SCP. There are a total of 16 BTC Total 5.00 2 block valves and 11 check valves on BTC, and six Eni 5.00 6 3 block valves on SCP. Operational performance ITOCHU 3.40 INPEX 2.50 5 We also operate the Western Route Export In 2013, we transported more than 249 million Conoco Philips 2.50 4 Pipeline (WREP) and Supsa terminal on behalf of barrels of oil through BTC and approximately 30 ONGC(BTC 2.36 an international consortium of energy companies. million barrels of oil through WREP, with both Three hundred and seventy three kilometres of pipelines operating at more than 99% efficiency. WREP lies within Georgia, with 27 block valves, We safely delivered more than 170,000 mmscf of BP 28.8,5 four check valves and one check/block valve. It gas, equal to approximately 30 million barrels of 1 7 SOCAR 16.7,7 carries oil from the Caspian Sea via the Sangachal oil equivalent (mmboe). Statoil 15.5,5 terminal in Azerbaijan to the Supsa oil terminal on In the course of the year, we completed 329 6 LUKoil 10.0 the Georgia Black Sea coast. tanker loadings from the marine oil terminal at Total 10.0 SCP 2 NICO 10.0 We are constantly seeking the best strategic Ceyhan on the Turkish Mediterranean coast, 5 TPAO 9.0 positioning for our business and in 2013 sold our where the BTC pipeline ends, and 50 tanker share in the Air BP joint venture in Georgia as we loadings from the Supsa terminal, the end point 4 did not hold a competitive advantage in this market. of WREP. 3 BP’s interests in the Caspian region Armenia Technician performing instrument checks at Pump Station 2. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 7 Maintenance and integrity management In 2013, we safely carried out a range of maintenance and integrity management projects on pipelines and facilities. The most complex project involved replacing two We also enhanced 12 river crossings in 2013 on of the six mooring chains at the Supsa terminal, WREP. This involves various measures to protect where the export line goes to the sea and the pipeline from becoming exposed on the river where 250-metre long mooring chains are fixed bed, such as bolstering the river banks to avoid to the sea bed. Independent technical analysis washouts, or extending the length of river banks suggested that two of the chains had been and beds. This can also work to encourage damaged over time by movement and needed natural deposit of sediment which protects the replacement. This complex and expensive project pipe. required a special vessel and diving work, and Work of this nature requires environmental took approximately 45 days to complete. The experts to assess the potential impacts. work was completed in-between tanker loadings Enhancement projects also need regulatory so it did not interrupt regular operations. approval. In addition we carry out an annual river A further significant effort involved the crossing survey – examining conditions at 35 Gabions protect WREP integrity completion of a multi-year project on WREP valve rivers which have been identified as posing a replacement. This required the isolation of the higher than average risk to the pipeline. Geo-hazard risk has been rated as a significant pipeline to enable work to be carried out safely. Our maintenance and inspection regime, using risk to the integrity of WREP, which passes The work also required a three-week shutdown intelligent pigging, helps identify any anomalies through areas susceptible to landslides and of the pipeline. in the pipeline. In December 2013, this analysis seismic activity. A landslide in April 2013 We continued to make the transition to using enabled us to identify an illegal hot tap – the required prompt response and stabilization local grid power where possible at our operational unlawful siphoning of oil from the pipeline. The work involving the construction of gabions facilities. It is only in recent years that the capacity incident was notified to the authorities, and we – robust walls made from caged rock – at has existed for us to do this. Using grid power is were able to rectify the integrity of the WREP several points along the pipeline. more cost effective and reduces air emissions pipeline in a secure and safe manner. Tariel Margvelashvili, BP Georgia onshore site from diesel use. In 2013, we converted to grid manager at WREP, describes the background: power at the emergency drain down facility and WREP sectional replacement “A landslide, triggered by melting snow and Supsa facilities. We are maintaining plans to upgrade sections of water content in the soil, occurred after a WREP to replace Soviet-era pipe. The proposed heavy rainfall in April. It started as a washout, WREP maintenance work will involve replacing older pipe and rebut due to ground saturation, turned into an We maintain a continuous pipeline maintenance routing the pipeline, which will reduce the risk earth flow. The landslide became 26 metres programme for WREP. Every six months we of geo-hazards such as landslides, erosion and wide and 80 metres long, with a main scarp run inspections (using sophisticated inspection flooding and will take the pipeline out of the varying from 1.5 to 6 metres high. It resulted gauges, called ‘intelligent pigs’) through the territory of Akhalgori district. This is intended to in the exposure of the WREP pipeline over old section of the line, covering about 154 reduce the majority of safety and access risks to a four metre length, but the pipe remained kilometres. These analyses help our integrity the pipeline operations and maintenance. supported by the original ground. In addition, management team and geo-hazard experts Technical and commercial negotiations with our a 25 metre section of the abandoned old examine potential risks and possible impacts. partners have been extensive and are continuing. WREP pipeline was exposed.” In 2013, we completed two extensive repairs They have included discussions about the scale (installing 180 metres of new pipeline sleeve – Following a geo-technical assessment which of investment required, and the manpower or wraparound protection) in areas where the we conducted immediately after the landslide, resources that would be needed to complete the metallurgy required it and where there was a we began construction of the gabions. Tariel work. higher than normal risk of landslide. continues: ”This was a good example of BP people from different functions working as one team. When the first report came Anchor chain replacement works in Supsa. from the site about abnormal conditions, all available resources were mobilized to take immediate action, followed by the geotechnical assessment.” Tariel says the response was fast and effective. ‘All functions within the organizationallocated resources to take the measures needed. We successfully maintained the integrity of the pipeline and ensured that everything was done in time without harm to people, environment or the business.” The experience has generated a number of lessons, making us well-prepared to take similar action at other gully crossing sites if needed. 8 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Shah Deniz full field development We work to enhance safety and risk management, maintain the trust of people and grow value. How we operate Map of the southern corridor Bob Dudley BP Chief Executive ‘‘Very few projects have the ability to change the energy map of an entire region. Shah Deniz 2 and the Southern Corridor pipelines will not only change the energy map, but will give customers in Europe direct access to the gas resources of Azerbaijan for the first time. The final investment decision would not have been possible without years of co-operation between many companies and many countries. I am proud that BP can be part of this historic moment, and grateful for the efforts of so many people in making this possible. As well as creating tens of thousands of jobs along the route of the pipelines in Azerbaijan, Georgia, Turkey and We are continuing to pursue our plans for the full Europe, this project represents the largest field development of the Shah Deniz field in the SCP expansion: a snap shot ever foreign investment to Azerbaijan.’’ Caspian Sea, the source of the gas transported The proposed project comprises: through the South Caucasus Pipeline (SCP). The A new 48 inch pipeline running besides the Shah Deniz full field development project entails BTC/SCP corridor for 63 kilometres from several elements: offshore it includes drilling and the Azerbaijan-Georgia border and then completion of 26 subsea wells and construction reconnecting into the existent SCP. of two bridge-linked platforms; onshore there will A new block valve and pigging station. SCP expansion project: participating interests be new processing and compression facilities A new compressor station (CSG1) at the Sangachal terminal in Azerbaijan and co-located with PSG1 in Gardabani. 7 1 1. BP 25.5% expansion of the SCP pipeline. 2. Statoil 25.5% A second compressor station (CSG2) on 3. Total 9.0% The current carrying capacity of SCP is seven the existent SCP, to the west of lake Tsalka 6 4. LUKoil 10.0% billion cubic metres of gas per year. The next at around KP 143. 5. NIKO 10.0% SCP stage of the Shah Deniz development will 2 6. Azerbaijan SCP ltd 10.0% A new 16-kilometre long access road that 5 7. TPAO 10.0% increase the gas available for delivery to Turkey will connect CSG2 to the millennium road and Europe by 16 billion cubic metres annually. in the vicinity of the village of Nardevani. 4 The international consortium that owns and 3 operates SCP is therefore proposing to expand A pressure reduction metering station the pipeline further to a total of 23 billion cubic (PRMS) close to the Georgia/Turkey border Note: Following the project final investment decision, SOCAR co-located with Area 80. purchased 6.7% and BP 3.3% equity in SCP from Statoil. Both metres of gas annual transportation capacity. This these transactions are subject to conditions that are expected to is known as the SCP expansion project. A 2.5 kilometre pipeline connection from be satisfied in 2014. PRMS to the Turkey border to connect into SCP expansion the Trans Anatolian Natural Gas Pipeline In Georgia, the SCP expansion project will involve (TANAP _ to be built). the construction of a new 48 inch pipeline loop, Associated temporary construction camps, which will run from the Azerbaijan-Georgia border pipe storage areas and laydown yards. in parallel to the existing line. It will have a valve (located in a small fenced and walled area) after The total cost of the Shah Deniz Stage 2 and SCP 27 kilometres and pipeline inspection equipment expansion projects will be around $28 billion. and a pigging station where the new equipment An additional sixteen billion cubic metres per pipeline connects to SCP. We will build a new year (bcma) of gas will be carried some 3,500 compressor station (CSG1), co-located with kilometres to provide energy for millions of the existing BTC/SCP facility near Gardabani. consumers in Georgia, Turkey, Greece, Bulgaria A second compressor station (CSG2) will be and Italy. First gas is targeted for late 2018, with constructed on the existing SCP, west of lake sales to Georgia and Turkey. First deliveries to Tsalka, with a 16-kilometre access road. A Europe will follow approximately a year later. pressure reducing and metering station will be Condensate production from the Shah Deniz field located at the border with Turkey, co-located with is expected to increase to 120,000 barrels per the existing SCP facility. day, from current levels of about 55,000 barrels per day. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 9 Environmental and social impact assessment We carry out extensive analysis and consultation to make sure we understand and minimize the environmental and social impacts of our operations and projects. Stakeholder consultation has been an integral Land acquisition and permitting Q: What kind of regulatory part of developing the SCP expansion project. requirements exist before Land acquisition for the facilities and the pipeline The focal point for this effort has been the projects can go ahead? loop is a vital element of the planning and environmental and social impact assessment engagement process, as is land leasing for areas (ESIA), which enables those who will be affected needed temporarily during construction. Land by the project to become better informed about A: As well as the formal public consultation owners and users whose livelihoods are affected it and to provide their views on possible impacts processes within the ESIA, a variety by loss of crops or restriction of access to their and how they should be managed. Stakeholder of permits are required from local and land are eligible for compensation payments. opinion can have an impact on the overall project national authorities to ensure that work is design and implementation plan. Identifying land owners, contacting them, carried out in accordance with regulatory determining title, agreeing sale, leasing and requirements. Permits are required to We completed work on the ESIA in 2013 compensation arrangements and managing the conduct evaluations and assessments, and received approval of it from the Georgian administration of these processes is challenging. long before construction work actually government in June. It was carried out in line To simplify the process for landowners, the land begins on the ground. My team’s task with the requirements of the host government acquisition and compensation arrangements have is to make sure that all our permitting agreement (HGA), which states that an ESIA been fully described in two documents: the Land needs are met. must be undertaken in accordance with the EU Acquisition and Compensation Framework and directive on environmental impact assessment. Joseph Metreveli the Guide to Land Acquisition and Compensation. More broadly, the HGA requires the project BP Regulatory Affairs Team Leader These have been made available to view in to follow standards and practices generally public locations and the GLAC provided to each prevailing in the international natural gas pipeline individual land owner or user at the start of the industry, and applicable technical standards. process. The ESIA provides a baseline against which By the end of 2013, rights to private land for project impacts can be assessed, identifies the pipeline had been obtained for 92% of 710 potential negative and positive environmental land owners, involving payments totaling one and social impacts, sets out mitigation measures, million GEL. Rights for the CSG2 access road informs project design, and provides opportunity construction were obtained for 84% of 300 land for engagement with stakeholders. owners. Private land acquisition activities for As part of the ESIA process, consultation was CSG1, CSG2 and Area 81 have been completed, held with national government departments, with 7.5 million GEL paid in total. Land purchase regional and local authorities in the regions of for new requirements will continue in 2014. Kvemo Kartli and Samtskhe-Javakheti, the city A wide range of permits are required for the of Rustavi, and the municipalities of Gardabani, SCPX project, including the main construction Marneuli, Tetritskaro, Tsalka, Adigeni, and permit which gives approval for on-site Akhaltsikhe. A total of 45 communities closest construction work to begin. to the work were also consulted via face-to-face meetings. Non-governmental organizations (NGOs) and members of the scientific community were involved. BTC pump station 2. We documented the views expressed and maintained them in a database which has been taken into consideration during preparation of the ESIA. We made the draft ESIA widely available in libraries and NGO offices, and used a number of other feedback mechanisms, including feedback forms and public meetings. BP’s community liaison officers were also on hand to respond to Find more online at issues raised by community members. bpgeorgia.ge We distributed approximately 17,500 copies of Read more detail about the a community pamphlet in Georgian, as well as environmental and social impact around 7,500 copies in Russian. assessment in the ESIA non-technical summary. Read the ESIA community leaflet See the Land Acquisition and Compensation Framework and the Guide to Land Acquisition and Compensation. 10 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 How we operate Cultural heritage studies Minimizing potential impacts An example of baseline assessment and Measures, often called mitigations, for information gathering is the extensive cultural reducing the potential impacts or enhancing heritage survey work that was undertaken in the potential benefits of the project have been 2013. generated by the ESIA, and included in the Phase I surveys, involving landscape walkover project design and in the way the project will surveys and desktop reviews, were undertaken be constructed and operated. at all known and potential sites of cultural heritage based on available scientific literature Soil and previous BTC/SCP experience. Phase II Reinstatement of the pipeline and temporary and phase III archaeological excavations have areas will be undertaken; topsoil storage will also been undertaken at areas which contained be managed to maintain its properties and visible archaeological features or had some engineering design measures will be used to archaeological potential in the Tsalka and Marneuli reduce erosion potential. regions. Phase II studies, which involve test trenching, have been implemented at SCPX KP Cultural heritage 54 at Marneuli. The area included a large number A cultural heritage management plan will of pre-historic lithic materials that were found be implemented; the pipeline route will be during the archaeological excavations of the fine-tuned to avoid archaeological areas, medieval site in 2012. where practical and sites of potential cultural heritage interest will be investigated before We have also applied insights gained from construction, etc. previous pipeline construction which has enabled us to plan for operational improvements that will Employment minimize environmental and social impact: The project will disseminate its policy Contracting strategies have been changed Daily walk around at BTC pump station 2. on prioritizing recruitment from affected so that management of some areas has communities and community liaison officers been given to specialists, for example in will work with communities to explain New plans formulated land acquisition and ecological management recruitment procedures and conditions. In October 2013, the SCP partners applied to the including bio-restoration. government for an amendment to the proposed Infrastructure and services Waste minimization will be promoted through plan to extend the length of the existing high treatment at source, wherever practical, Surveys of existing infrastructure will be pressure gas pipeline by six kilometres, with the thereby reducing the volume of waste required undertaken before construction; access roads diameter of the new pipeline being 48 inches to be transported and disposed. have been selected to minimize the use of rather than 56 inches. village roads by construction vehicles; required Habitat and land reinstatement will maintain According to these plans, an additional 6 roads will be repaired, upgraded and widened the high standards adopted during BTC and kilometers of pipeline will be constructed, plus an as necessary so they are suitable for use by SCP, by using operational recovery data to additional 2.5 kilometre connection at the Turkish construction traffic and roads will be restored develop habitat specific re-vegetation targets. border which will connect to export pipelines in after construction so they are at least as good Turkey to deliver gas to Europe. These changes New requirements are being placed on the as before construction. do not affect the construction schedule but will contractor to minimize the length of open Community health and safety require the development of an addendum to the trench at any one time and thereby reduce the original approved ESIA for the small sections that potential safety risk. Workforce health screening and awareness were not covered under the main assessment. training will be undertaken; BP’s driving rules We believe the project will bring additional benefit will be enforced and driving performance Sensitivity versus impact to Georgia, from increased government revenue, will be assessed and monitored; community and through economic opportunities in the supply The ESIA process involves extensive data liaison officers will meet local communities chain and in local communities. gathering and analysis of the baseline to explain the dangers associated with conditions relating to the project and its construction and the pipeline will be patrolled potential environmental and social impacts. daily. These include considering potential sensitivities such as community safety and disturbance The project will implement a grievance due to increases in traffic that the project will process with community liaison officers acting bring to the area, employment and economic as the main point of contact for local residents opportunities, the project’s impact on to raise concerns or provide feedback, which infrastructure quality including water resources, will be formally responded to. roads and local facilities, landscape and visual impacts and cultural heritage, land ownership and registration. A range of alternative project development options are also considered. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 11 Governance and management systems We carry out our operations in Georgia in the context of BP’s approach to sustainability, our strategy, values, management systems and procedures. BP’s strategy and sustainability Governance and risk management BP’s objective is to create value for shareholders BP’s risk management system is designed to and supplies of energy for the world in a safe and help ensure that risks are identified, understood responsible way. We strive to be a world-class and managed so that we can deliver safe and operator, a responsible corporate citizen and a strong operations. good employer. Day-to-day risk identification and management Keeping a relentless focus on safety is naturally occurs at our group’s operations and functions, a top priority for us. Rigorous management of such as our activities in Georgia. We assess and risk helps to protect the people at the frontline, manage day-to-day operating risks with reference the places in which we operate and the value to our management systems and actions to we create. We understand that operating in improve the management of risk are put in place politically-complex regions and technicallywhere necessary. Periodic review of risks and risk demanding geographies, such as deep water management plans happens at the business and and oil sands, requires particular sensitivity to functional levels, including major accident risk and local environments. We continue to enhance our other potentially high-consequence risks. systems, processes and standards, including Oversight and governance occurs at board, how we manage the risks that can be created by executive and function levels to help foster the actions of our contractors and the operators effective group-wide oversight, business of joint ventures in which we participate. planning and resource allocation, intervention and We can only operate if we maintain the trust of knowledge sharing. Pipeline specialist performing block valve people inside and outside the company. We must The board provides direction and oversight inspection. earn people’s trust by being fair and responsible in of BP on behalf of the shareholders for all everything we do. We monitor our performance aspects of our business, including sustainability closely and aim to report in a transparent way. We performance. The board also reviews key group believe good communication and open dialogue risks and how they are managed and delegates are vital if we are to meet the expectations of our some of its oversight and monitoring activities employees, customers, shareholders, and the to its six committees, composed entirely of local communities in which we operate. non-executive directors. These include the safety, We are working to become a simpler business, ethics and environment assurance committee focusing on where we can generate the most which reviews BP’s processes to identify and value, and not necessarily the most volume, mitigate significant non-financial risks and through our production. We are strengthening our receives assurances that they are appropriate in portfolio of high return and longer life upstream design and effective in implementation, and the assets, while building high quality downstream group ethics and compliance committee which businesses. We are also investing in lower-carbon provides information and assurance on the ethics options that have the potential to contribute to and compliance programme. meeting growing energy demand over the longAs an operating business within BP, we are term. All of this is underpinned by our expertise, accountable for delivering safe, reliable and technology, and relationships. compliant operations. We are supported by our Strong financial performance is vital, because it safety and operational risk (S&OR) function, enables us to make the investments necessary which provides independent advice, scrutiny, to produce the energy that society requires, while challenge and, if needed, intervention. S&OR, rewarding and maintaining the support of our which consists of a central team and teams in the shareholders. businesses, sets clear requirements, maintains an independent view of operating risk, provides By supplying energy, we support economic deep technical support to the business, and development and help to improve quality of life intervenes and escalates if necessary. for millions of people. Our activities also generate jobs, investment, infrastructure and revenues for governments and local communities. 12 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Managing operations in a systematic way Our operating management system provides the foundation for a safe and strong BP. How we operate 13 BP’s operating management system (OMS) Environmental management provides the basis for managing our operations We have long taken a systematic approach to the in a systematic way. Conformance to OMS is a years of ISO 14001 management of environmental issues in Georgia. dynamic process designed to help manage risk certification. We carried out thorough environmental and social and drive performance improvements. impact assessments (ESIA) when first developing OMS integrates BP requirements on health, the BTC and SCP pipelines, which resulted in safety, security, the environment, social commitments in an environmental and social responsibility and operational reliability, as well as action plan. Similarly, we have recently completed 15 related issues, such as maintenance, contractor relations and organizational learning, into a common management system. OMS addresses an ESIA for the SCP expansion project. These processes identify potential impacts and mitigations and necessitate a rigorous approach external audits of our eight elements of operating, under the areas of to action tracking and closure. Our environmental environmental management people, plant, process and performance. management system is based on the ISO 14001 system have been carried out. ‘plan-do-check-act’ cycle, which is also fully Successful delivery of our performance goals incorporated into the OMS improvement cycle. and targets requires the rigorous application of a systematic improvement process. Our operations here have been certified against The performance improvement cycle helps ISO 14001 for 13 years, with the scope of identify, prioritize, plan, implement and embed activities covered under the system expanding improvement opportunities, and provides steadily. As required under ISO, the system is a common approach to drive and embed regularly audited by an external assessor and we improvements through its annual application and have disclosed our record of compliance in our link to the annual planning process. previous sustainability reporting. The principles and standards of the system The effectiveness of our environmental are supported by our environmental and social management is also reviewed by internal practices. These set out how our major projects management system and compliance audits identify and manage environmental and social as well as annual reviews by the independent issues. They apply to projects that involve new environmental consultant appointed on behalf of access, projects that could affect an international the original project lenders. To date, 15 of these protected area and some BP acquisition external audits have been carried out, including OMS performance improvement cycle negotiations. the most recent review in 2013. In the early planning stages, projects that Responsibility for implementing and maintaining are subject to our environmental and social the environmental management system (EMS) practices complete a screening process to rests with the leadership team. The Georgia Risk assessment identify the most significant environmental compliance and environment team is responsible and prioritization and social impacts associated with the project. for EMS co-ordination and maintenance, while Planning and controls Following screening, projects are required to the regulatory compliance and environment carry out impact assessments, identify mitigation director oversees the system across the BP measures and implement these in project design, regional business. At site level, site managers are Management construction and operations. These processes responsible for its maintenance. review and have been followed in the development of the improvement SCP expansion project in Georgia. Further detail Implementation is provided on page 9 of this report. and operation Measurement, See the audit reports by the independent evaluation and environmental consultant at bp.com. corrective action BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 13 Human rights We recognize that our activities can bring about significant changes in communities and people’s lives, and we seek to treat everyone with fairness, respect and dignity. Protecting human rights The commitment to respect human rights is a central principle within the host government agreement and security agreement between BP and the government of Georgia. To communicate these principles with our stakeholders, BP conducts human rights and use of force training sessions for the SPPD, which provides security on the BTC/SCP pipelines. Peter Bing, an external consultant, conducted sessions with 30 officers at the SPPD headquarters in Rustavi. The training was attended by the regional head and his deputy, the sector commander, his mid-level commanders and members of the unit’s instructor team and specialist quick reaction force. A second training session was conducted in Tbilisi for 25 officers from the Samskhe-Javakheti region. “The training objectives were three-fold,” explains Peter. “First, to reinforce officers’ commitment to respect and protect human rights through reviewing guidelines and standards, as set out in the UN Code of Conduct for Law Enforcement Officials, and UN Basic Principles on Use of Force and Firearms. Second, to provide officers with a clear set of procedures, by which they Delivering human rights session for SPPD staff. can assess a threat and determine what level of BP is committed to respecting internationally The goal of the training was to develop Veziri’s force is reasonable, proportionate and necessary recognized human rights as set out in the skills in communicating effectively with external to cause the threat to cease. The final objective International Bill of Human Rights and the stakeholders, to build their understanding of was to ensure officers fully understand the International Labour Organization’s Declaration the need for restraint in response to potential limited circumstances where it could be lawful to of Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. security threats, and to enhance their knowledge use lethal force.” This means carefully managing issues such of international standards, relevant Georgian “In recent years, we have established a close as workforce welfare, safety and health and legislation and BP’s own position on human relationship with the governmental security the potential impacts of our activities on local rights. Training was provided to 38 officers, a legal forces responsible for protection of our assets,” communities. representative and instructors. says Sandro Chitadze, BP Georgia’s security BP’s human rights policy, published in 2013, We are signatories to the Voluntary Principles on manager. “SPPD is the major player in this role. elaborates on the requirement in our code of Security and Human Rights, a series of principles By providing these sessions, we strengthen conduct to treat everyone at BP and everyone that guide us on maintaining the safety and our commitment to human rights and voluntary with whom we come into contact, with fairness, security of our operations within a framework principles not only within our organization but respect and dignity. that ensures respect for human rights and also externally. The training is a good example of fundamental freedoms. This year, we provided bilateral cooperation, establishing a culture of We expect our contractors to act consistently training to the Strategic Pipeline Protection experience sharing and continuous improvement.” with our code of conduct. In 2013, we organized Department (SPPD) on the Principles. The training training for our private security contractor, Veziri, also covered human rights within international on key human rights principles and practices. standards, guidelines for the use of force and BP has incorporated security and human rights threat assessment. principles into its contract with Veziri, and monitors its performance. Veziri are required to maintain policies on appropriate conduct and to engage in preventative and defensive services only. They are also required to make best efforts to recruit from local communities. 14 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Delivering local benefit Our investment and activities in Georgia generate positive economic and social impact by generating government revenue, creating jobs and providing opportunity in the supply chain. How we operate Operational and capital expenditure Making a financial and economic Working with local contractors ($ million) contribution We continue to work with local contractors Operational expenditure Capital expenditure where possible. When contracting with suppliers, Our tariff and profit tax payments, which are 160 linked to pipeline throughput, make a significant we encourage them to describe their plans for contribution to national tax revenues: increasing the number of local hires in their workforce. We estimate that approximately 90% 120 Profit tax payments from all the BTC of our suppliers are local companies. The types business partners in 2013 totalled $35 million of work we require involves both skilled and 80 (2012 $36 million). unskilled labour. We made WREP tariff payments to In 2013, our payments to local companies totalled 40 the Georgian government of $7 million $77 million (2012 $76 million). (2012 $6.8 million). 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 We also contribute to the value of Georgia’s Raising standards among local exports: companies Contractors are obliged to meet our standards Payments to local companies ($ million) Government statistics show that our pipeline and to do so they often have to complete operations contributed approximately 8% of training, often before starting work, and then 80 the total value of service exports in 2013. during operations. At work sites, contractors We also invest to renew our own business in do technical training on a regular basis, and we 60 Georgia: assure competency. Some contracts contain In 2013 our operational expenditure in Georgia mandatory training in areas such as HSE and 40 totalled $133 million (2012 $118 million). In information systems. 2013 capital expenditure in 2013 amounted to Raising standards extends beyond developing 20 approximately $17 million (2012 $27 million). people’s technical capability. However it also The SCP expansion project represents a major deals with broader standards of conduct. Under 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 investment for Georgia. We anticipate that the BP code of conduct, contractor employees we will spend some $400 million with local can contact BP if they believe a breach of the contractors over the life of the project. The project code has been committed in their work with us. will also generate employment in an area that If this happens, we might engage with contractor Tax and tariff payments ($ million) has high levels of unemployment and poverty. management to determine if the complaint is Profit tax payments WREP tariff payments The early works will employ approximately 100 legitimate, and work with them to resolve the 50 people at each facility. The construction phase issue. In other cases, BP might engage with the will last approximately four years and it will offer employee directly. The code of conduct makes temporary employment. There will be two low, clear that we can run investigations if necessary. 40 short-term peaks with 800 and 1,400 workers We audit our contractors’ employment practices 30 respectively and two higher peaks with 1,700 to check their compliance with the social and local and 2,000 workers respectively. Operation of the content requirements set out in the BTC ESIA. facilities will require a much smaller workforce of The audits examine issues such as recruitment 20 skilled technical personnel and security staff. practices, working conditions, redundancy It is likely that a proportion of the workers for and termination procedures, and disciplinary 10 and grievance procedures. In 2013, all actions the facilities and the pipeline will come from local communities. An increase in incomes from arising from a 2012 audit of our security services 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 employment will strengthen the local economy, provider Veziri Ltd were completed. as people buy more goods and services from We work with our contractors to develop their local businesses. Increased incomes will improve awareness of social risks and mitigations. In July the standard of living for households with 2013, we held a full-day workshop involving 18 members employed on the project. Contracts contractors to increase their awareness of social for catering, food supplies, security, building commitments and requirements. We discussed materials and equipment will also help the the need for businesses to demonstrate respect economy and will make a positive contribution to for human rights and reviewed BP’s recently economic growth. issued human rights policy. One of the key areas was employment issues. Senior management and HR managers attended. Examples and social incidents from current operations were discussed. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 15 Our people and values We strive to provide our people with opportunities for development within a work environment shaped by distinctive values and a clearly articulated code of conduct. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Develop the skills and experience of local 94% of total employees in BP Georgia Continue the strong track record of people. are Georgian nationals. Georgian nationals working in the business. Provide opportunities for development, 4 new Challenge graduates in 2013, and providing out-of-country assignments or more employees on assignments outside Provide opportunities for team leaders to tailored development programmes. Georgia. enhance their skills. Continue to highlight the importance of Code of conduct certification incorporated operating under the BP code of conduct. into annual performance review processes. 16 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Our workforce composition We aim to develop skills of our workforce through the range of trainings and other development opportunities, and to attract the best people. BP Georgia headcount 2009-2013 The size and composition of our workforce Building skills and experience reflects the type of activities we are engaged Agency expatriate staff Agency national staff We offer all our employees a range of training and in at any one time. While we have consistently BP expatriate employees BP national employees development opportunities. For example, we run increased the number of Georgian nationals courses for team leaders to help them develop 600 working in our business in recent years, their managerial skills. These include courses expatriate contractors take up positions in on improving personal performance, effective 500 Georgia to transfer their knowledge or when their team working and managing agency personnel. Our people specialist skills are required. Across the business in 2013, the average number 400 In 2013, the total size of the BP Georgia workforce of training hours per employee in Georgia was increased with the proportion of Georgian approximately 39. 300 nationals working in the business remaining We also provide in-house team leader awareness steady. At the end of 2013, 94% of total sessions. These focus on challenges facing employees in BP Georgia were Georgian nationals, 200 team leaders such as how to handle difficult slightly higher than the average rate over the conversations with employees; conducting past seven years since pipeline operations began 100 performance reviews; recruitment processes; full-time. Approximately 90% of managers and diversity and inclusion; and employee allowances. supervisors involved in operations are Georgian To develop the skills of our new team leaders, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 nationals, a percentage that has remained we developed a team leader pack in 2013. The constant from last year. When project staff are pack provides references and summaries of key BP Georgia nationalization 2009-2013 included, this number falls to approximately 85%, policies and tools and indicates where managers reflecting the need for specialist personnel for a BP national employees BP expatriate employees can find more information. defined timeframe, who are often expatriates. 100 96 94 94 About 13-14% of managers and supervisors, We sponsor continuing professional education to 95 95 covering both operations and projects, are female. help employees gain a formal degree or externally recognized certificate. We also provide English 80 We also engage 69 Georgian contracting language training. In 2013, 120 employees, companies, employing people who are mainly technicians, attended English language 60 embedded in our organization and support our classes. daily operations. We also give opportunities for our people to 40 Attracting and recruiting new graduates is move within the BP Azerbaijan-Georgia-Turkey challenging in Georgia. To improve the prospects business region to broaden their experience. 20 for recruitment, our human resources specialists During 2013, a further four employees were have been working with colleagues in Azerbaijan given assignments in Azerbaijan, adding to those 5 4 5 6 6 to share and apply regional experience. We have 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 already working on assignment there, in Turkey approached specific universities and held meetings and the UK. with academic staff and students in relevant departments such as engineering to provide Having adopted the Challenge graduate information about BP, and to clarify what type of programme in Georgia in 2012, we expanded talent we are interested in attracting. the initiative in 2013 by taking on four more Challenge graduates. Under the programme, One of the main reasons for the higher which is operated across the BP group, recently headcount in 2013 is the increase in staffing recruited graduates receive tailored training and for the SCP expansion project, for which development. The individuals involved typically appointments began in 2011. By December take on two different roles over 24-36 months, 2013, the number of SCPX employees totalled to develop a range of competencies. Graduation 32. The number is likely to increase gradually as depends on successful completion of all the the project develops in the years ahead. training and competency requirements. The new SCP expansion project: current headcount Challengers in 2013 have taken on positions in engineering, industrial hygiene and as an BP expatriate employees BP national employees environmental adviser. Contractors (expatriate) Contractors (Georgian nationals) 15 11 2 4 PIG launching activities at pump station 1. 5 10 15 20 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 17 About our people We aim to treat everyone fairly and with respect, and we know that good performance depends on having a highly-skilled, motivated and talented workforce. Supporting our people outside work Our values To maintain competitive advantage in the Georgian market and improve staff retention Safety and motivation, a new benefit programme was launched in October 2013 for national employees who have worked in the company for more than Respect three years. Under the initiative, BP is offering a contribution to subsidize bank loans taken by employees for buying, renovating, or building Excellence a house or apartment, or supporting children’s education up to the age of 18. In the first three Courage months of the programme, 53% of eligible Nino Sharukhia employees took up this benefit. PSCM Georgia Category Team Leader By introducing programmes like this, we hope to One Team help our employees and encourage them to stay with us. In 2013, long service awards were made Safety: Safety is good business. Everything “I have worked for BP for 13 years, always to employees who were hired by the company in we do relies upon the safety of our workforce within the procurement and supply chain Georgia in 1996. In 2013, 76 employees received and the communities around us. We management organization, where I started recognition for 15 years’ service and 34 for ten care about the safe management of the as a graduate. The function here in Georgia, years’ service. To date, a total of 163 employees environment. We are committed to safely although important, is relatively small, so have now been rewarded for their loyalty to the delivering energy to the world. I was excited to be given the opportunity company. Respect: We respect the world in which we to go to Baku on a two-year assignment. operate. It begins with compliance with laws I worked in the operations and production Living our values and regulations. We hold ourselves to the division, focusing on maintenance and repair Our values of safety, respect, excellence, highest ethical standards and behave in ways operations – which has responsibility for tens courage and one team, express what we believe, that earn the trust of others. We depend on of millions of dollars’ worth of procurement how we aim to behave and what we aspire the relationships we have and respect each and requires regular interaction with our global to be as an organization. The values are part other and those we work with. We value procurement colleagues. I had responsibility of our recruitment, promotion and individual diversity of people and thought. We care about for managing about 60 contractors. In the performance assessment processes. They define the consequences of our decisions, large and second year, I was promoted and moved what we expect from our employees and are small, on those around us. to the indirect procurement division as a reinforced by our remuneration structure, which connects how individuals are rewarded with how Excellence: We are in a hazardous business, category leader, looking after a wide range of we work at a group, team and individual level. and are committed to excellence through the business services contracts. systematic and disciplined management of Now back in Georgia, I am the category lead our operations. We follow and uphold the rules for the whole country. With my team of five, and standards we set for our company. We including two who were also on assignment commit to quality outcomes, have a thirst to in Azerbaijan, we are now managing largerlearn, and to improve. If something is not right, scale regional projects from Georgia. The we correct it. SCPX project will be happening too – an Courage: What we do is rarely easy. Achieving exciting development, with the potential for a the best outcomes often requires the courage lot of local spend. to face difficulty, to speak up and stand by The assignment was a great chance to what we believe. We always strive to do the develop and to gain experience of working right thing. We explore new ways of thinking on a bigger scale. It was really challenging and are unafraid to ask for help. We are honest being part of a larger, more international with ourselves, and actively seek feedback team, and adapting to a different culture – not from others. We aim for an enduring legacy, to mention combining a very demanding job An employee performing safety check of pipeline despite the short term priorities of our world. with looking after my two children. But it was inspection gauge. One Team: Whatever the strength of the a great experience and I am very pleased to individual, we will accomplish more together. have had the opportunity.” We put the team ahead of our personal success and commit to building its capability. We trust each other to deliver on our respective obligations. 18 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Our code of conduct BP’s code of conduct defines our commitment to high ethical standards throughout our operations. Irakli Kandelaki Rotating Equipment Engineer “I started working for BP Georgia in 1998. These 15 years have always been busy and Our people often been challenging – for me, for the company and for the country. But I have gained fabulous experience which I could not have got elsewhere. I was delighted to receive a long service award last year. My first job was on the pipeline patrol. Since then, I’ve been a plant operator at pump station 13 on WREP, and then part of what was a new mobile maintenance team for The BP code of conduct We provide a number of channels for people to diesel engines on the western route. report potential breaches of the code or other We operate under the terms of the BP code of In 2002, I was promoted from technician legal requirements, including line management, conduct, which sets out the basic rules we must to become a senior mechanical technician the human resources department, the ethics and all follow in BP and explains how our values for WREP, and the northern route export compliance team and the confidential helpline, should guide all our decisions. pipeline – now owned by SOCAR. This was OpenTalk, which is operated by an independent We run face-to-face code of conduct training company and is available anytime, every day a job that required a lot of travel – driving sessions for new joiners, covering both BP of the week, providing a multi-lingual service hundreds of kilometres into Azerbaijan to deal employees and new agency staff. Forty eight including Georgian. We encourage our people with problems and repairs. In 2006, I was people received this training in 2013. Existing to discuss any potential problems with their line appointed as a maintenance supervisor for all employees must refresh their ethics and manager, HR or legal department representative, the pipelines and the premises in Georgia – a compliance training every three years by completing or the in-house ethics and compliance officer. job where I spent much more time in the computer-based training on the code of conduct, office. Since 2011, I have been a rotating Once a year, employees are asked to confirm that conflicts of interest and anti-bribery and corruption. equipment engineer. they have complied with the code, making a selfBP Georgia has a dedicated ethics and declaration as part of their end of year performance I originally trained as a civil engineer but compliance officer, who reports into a regional review processes. Incorporating certification into through experience, I am now more of a team located in Azerbaijan to maintain these processes encourages further dialogue mechanical engineer. I am a member of independence. The officer’s role is to oversee around not only what people do but how they do IMechE – but am working towards chartered the implementation of the code, including their job, emphasising that we should all do our jobs engineer status. BP is helping me, providing training, and support staff with queries that arise. with high ethical standards and integrity, in line with funding and support. It will take some three The officer receives questions about what is our values and desired behaviours. to five years, but gaining an internationally permissible under the code, covering topics such recognized professional qualification is worth Investigations into potential breaches of the as whether it is acceptable or not to receive or the effort. code take place when necessary, conducted by provide gifts or entertainment, or concerns about When I look back to 1998, I think that BP HR, security or ethics and compliance officers potential conflicts of interest. Georgia has grown alongside the country as appropriate. A range of actions can result We maintain registers on these topics. from these, such as changes to procedures and – there has been good and bad; but the Approximately 20 individuals registered potential practices, disciplinary action up to and including company has always tried to keep high conflicts of interest in 2013, and 52 entries were dismissal, or termination of a supplier’s contract. standards. I have too: doing the maximum, logged registering gifts received, declined, or There were no employee dismissals arising from and not cutting corners. Fifteen years is not all given. The key elements in this are transparency breaches of the code in 2013. my working life but a large part of it. For me, and preventing conflicts from arising. The code BP Georgia is still a great place to work.” of conduct and a regional policy do not prohibit gifts and entertainment but provide guidance which includes clear thresholds and regulations. Our code of conduct recognizes that conflicts of interest may legitimately arise but requires for any potential conflict to be reported and satisfactorily resolved, involving discussion with management on the appropriate course of action. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 19 Safety We continue to work to embed safety and operational risk management into the heart of what we do. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Take systematic steps to deliver excellent 3.7 million man-hours worked and 9.5 Continue to deliver excellent business business performance, safely and reliably. million kilometres driven with no fatalities performance, safely and reliably. and no major accidents. Identify and manage risks, and carry out Continue to strive for improvements training and exercises to prepare for an Have a wide range of occupational health in personal and process safety emergency. and industrial hygiene initiatives in place. performance. Protect the health of employees, 103 emergency response exercises Work, as in the past, with contractors contractors, visitors and members of the safely carried out in 2013. to develop strong safety attitudes and local community who live or work near culture. our operating sites. 20 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Managing safety Our focus is on delivering safe, reliable and compliant operations. Protecting our people and plant while driving excellent performance is a key priority. We continue to apply our operating management We investigate every incident to identify its cause 3.7 m system (OMS) at a regional level, to govern our operations and drive safe and reliable performance. so that we can take the actions needed to try to prevent it from happening again. We continue to encourage our employees and our contractors man-hours worked in 2013 to report near misses. The number of reported with only 2 days away from As part of our ongoing work to achieve near misses has approximately doubled when work cases. conformance with its requirements, we have compared with 2012. Our aim is to learn from an annual assurance plan and undertake near misses and minor incidents in order to independent checks and self-verification to prevent incidents in future. 9.5 m check our performance against each of the requirements. We put plans in place to close any We had one fire, in which an item of waste gaps and we set priorities for improvement, with filter equipment self-ignited due to pyrophoric kilometres driven with no the aim of achieving risk reduction and driving exposure to oxygen and smouldered when fatalities and no major accidents. continuous improvement in performance. removed from use. Following the incident we shared learning about the potential hazards of Our commitment to no accidents, no harm pyrophoric materials. to people and no damage to the environment Safety remains unchanged. In 2013, we completed all the remaining actions from the group safety and operational Safety performance risk audit conducted in 2011. The original audit In 2013, BP Georgia and its contractors worked identified no major findings but made a number 3.7 million man-hours and drove 9.5 million of recommendations for improvement. In the kilometres with no fatalities and no major course of 2013, we completed the remaining accidents. There were two day away from work 10% of actions, as planned. This puts us in a cases; in both instances, the individual slipped good position for the next audit, which will take and broke their leg. place in 2014 in line with the planned audit cycle. We had six vehicle accidents, the same number as last year. None of these accidents were classified as severe and incident investigations showed that they were caused primarily by thirdparty vehicles. Five facts about Group S&OR audits Approved by Conducted on Checks conformance the group operations a three-year cycle with risk committee at sites which are _ HSSE and OMS and delivered by assessed to carry _ Group defined practices group S&OR the highest risks. _ Laws and regulations. audit team. Provides Verifies BP executives with a the implementation systematic, risk-based, of corrective actions operations assigned audit programme. to the audited sites. An employee taking readings from field equipment at pump station 1. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 21 Managing risk Our risk management system enables to identify, understand and manage risks so that we can deliver safe and reliable operations. Assessing, prioritizing and managing Maintaining a safe work environment risk Wherever BP operates, systematic In accordance with BP group requirements, we implementation of the group’s control of work systematically review BP Georgia major risks practice is a must _ both for BP employees and and update the risk register annually. Quarterly, contractors. control of work requires that all we bring together our leadership team and work activities are planned well in advance and specialists from operations, maintenance, delivered by competent people. Task related risks projects, HSE, security, engineering and must be assessed and managed and the work pipeline technical authorities to review actions controlled and executed under permit. Most and protective risk barriers. We consider the importantly, it obliges everyone to stop unsafe potential impact of risk incidents, and agree on work. To address the potential for risk and harm prioritization and management measures. The to people and the environment and for damage to BP Georgia risk assessment feeds into wider equipment, an effective control of work process onshore risk assessments covering operations provides a work environment that allows tasks to in both Georgia and Azerbaijan. Our goal is to be completed safely. continuously improve prevention barriers and A number of reviews were conducted in mitigation processes. BP Georgia over 2013 to rate how well the Learning from incidents arrangements we have in place meet group requirements. These included the annual We encourage the reporting of near misses and gap assessment, an assurance review and a investigate all incidents, to learn lessons and stop verification visit resulting in the development and similar accidents from happening again. We also agreement of an action plan. conduct quarterly reviews of incident trends, involving operations, maintenance, project, Overall, the reviews found that control of work engineering and HSE leaders. Immediate and foundations were in place, and that our processes root causes are analyzed, focus areas identified, were becoming systematic. The action plan was and improvement actions agreed and tracked in focused on continuous improvement in areas Employees preparing for an emergency response our action tracking system. This helps to support such as operational risk assessment, the quality exercise. a consistent and systematic approach across of planning and task risk assessment, and the BP Georgia to help reduce the frequency of standardization of documentation. incidents. Firefighting exercise at a pump station. 22 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Working with contractors Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator depends in part on the capability and performance of our contractors. Working with contractors Our annual contractors’ safety award scheme rewarded contractor companies that had shown Our ability to be a safe and responsible operator exemplary performance. In 2013, these were depends to a considerable extent on the presented to: capability and performance of our contractors. Historically, about 80% of our reported manNRC International Services Ltd in recognition hours are logged by contractors. of reporting near misses, effective leadership and teamwork in the field, sustainable driving To promote consistency and alignment, we hold safety standard conformance, ISO 18001, quarterly safety leadership meetings with our 14001 and 9001 certification, and Fire fighters’ contractors, where we review HSE performance, NFPA assessments. incidents and lessons learned, highlight and deliver key messages, share experience and raise EXINPRO Ltd (a new contractor) in recognition Supporting contractors in operating contractors’ awareness of safety-critical topics. of their strong commitment to safety when safely At annual contractors safety executive forums, carrying out BP Tbilisi office maintenance we interact with contractor management teams works, and their safe delivery of the garage to broaden their knowledge and understanding renovation project. “The safety leadership team meetings and of demonstrable safety leadership and what Safety annual safety executive forums arranged DS Plus for maintaining a sustainable pest we expect from them as leaders. We have by BP for contractors are very valuable for control programme and conforming with also carried out joint site visits to assess our company. They increase awareness of integrated pest management requirements work practices, equipment conditions and safety-critical subjects and contribute to the resulting in zero pest-related incidents. They housekeeping standards. These visits typically continuous improvement of our DS plus HSE also conducted regular management site visits, result in identifying opportunities to make management system. and obtained membership of UK and EU pest improvements. Outcomes from the discussions associations. The topics we discuss at the meetings are shared with the wider BP contractor guide us on the measures we can take to community at a contractors’ executive forum. Veziri Ltd in recognition of reporting near progressively improve our safety culture misses and alcohol abuse cases, improving One area where we have focused attention in among employees. They raise awareness conformance with the driving safety standard, 2013 is on encouraging higher levels of incident of near miss reporting, and of how to fulfil and conducting regular management site reporting among our contractors. The number of control of work requirements. They reduce visits. contractor-reported near misses and accidents in risks related to driving and other higher-risk 2013 has increased five-fold since 2012. activities, and verify winter preparedness. Hosting contractors at the annual contractors We have also focused on making sure that safety executive forum. We are very aware that our safety the individuals carrying out work on our behalf performance, and that of other contractors, (whether employees or contractors) have contributes directly to BP’s overall the right skills, experience and competency. performance. We know that everyone’s For contractors, especially those responsible commitment to safety is crucial and a culture for tasks where they must follow approved of no-complacency is vital to safe and reliable procedures and agreed risk mitigations, this operations. The incidents and lessons learned has involved training and interview assessment which we discuss at the meetings are shared with BP authorities in order to gain competency with DS plus technical personnel during the authorization certificates. HSE meetings arranged by our management team. The application of lessons learned is regularly verified during management site visits. The knowledge we have gained by participating in executive forums has increased our understanding of how important leadership is in achieving HSE goals and in driving continuous improvement in our safety culture and performance.” Katya Gegia DS Plus HSE/Business Manager BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 23 Personal and process safety Everything we aim to do relies upon the safety of our operations, our workforce, and the communities around us. Driving safely Process safety Q: How did the regional workshop on emergency response generate Driving safety continues to be one of the major In addition to personal safety, we focus on shared learning across BP? risks in Georgia as a result of large number maintaining the integrity of our operating of kilometres driven by the BP and contractor systems and processes by applying good workforce and the region’s hazardous driving design principles, engineering and operating and A: The regional workshop this year was a environment. We promote road safety in our maintenance practices – process safety. valuable gathering for this community of business and support road safety initiatives in the practice, where we shared information Our safety specialists support operations in community. and learning from country-specific raising awareness of process safety risks. We events. We participated in a syndicate BP Georgia workers and contractors drove more outline key process safety risks within employee table-top exercise with the involvement than nine million kilometres in 2013 and there induction, and on site we encourage people to of BP Shipping, which was a good were six vehicle accidents. report process safety incidents. Management learning point for us all. meetings, led by engineering and technical Our continuing emphasis on driving safety in professionals, include monthly review of key Pridon Niguriani 2013 included implementing BP requirements process safety and integrity management with contractors, defining an improvement plan BP Georgia Crisis and Continuity performance indicators, many of which are and discussing the subject at two dedicated Management and Emergency Response ‘leading’ indicators which give an indication of the contractor driving safety standard workshops. Team Leader strength of our controls. Like many organizations Our Baku-based driving safety specialists audited in the oil and gas industry, we are becoming a selection of our operations and those of seven more systematic in our reporting of process contractor companies against the requirements safety performance, as experience is gained. of the BP driving safety standard. These reviews address issues such as the condition of vehicles, In 2013, we suffered no severe losses of primary driver and passenger behaviour, securing loads, containment – meaning that there were no driver assessment, licensing, training and fitness, reportable spills or gas losses equivalent to journey management planning and seat belt use. more than one barrel of oil. We record and track any minor leaks or spills to help us improve For our contractors, who carry out the majority performance and try to minimize the risk of of our driving, a number of positive findings more serious incidents. We had no tier 1 or tier 2 were identified by the reviews, such as the good process safety incidents (which, under industry condition of contractor vehicles, the fact that Tool guidance, are those classified as most severe). Box talks for staff were regularly conducted, and that driver documentation was valid and accurate. In December 2013 we had one criminal property These encouraging findings were shared with damage incident, where a welded illegal tap our contractors. In addition, areas for action were connection was identified on the WREP pipeline. identified such as improving vehicle maintenance There was no actual leak or sign of ground documentation and ensuring that policies to contamination. secure loads were appropriate and in place. All improvement recommendations were reviewed Crisis and continuity management by contractor and BP management teams and We are continuously working to improve our were reflected in action plans developed for each crisis and continuity management and fireparticipating organization. fighting capability. This requires clear plans and processes, good quality equipment, and wellWe introduced a journey management trained personnel. Our activities in 2013 reflected web-based tool for contractors in 2012 which these priority areas. enables trips to BP sites and facilities to be better planned and co-ordinated. It considers factors For example, we reviewed our existing crisis such as road and weather conditions and enables response plan to improve and standardize it drivers to obtain and consider the most up-toin line with updated BP requirements. We are date information during planning. The system currently reviewing our oil spill response plan. helps minimize risk by preventing, for example, In 2013, we purchased two new aluminium unnecessary trips in winter. boats, located at the Supsa terminal. The new Safety awareness campaigns boats can be used for oil spill recovery operations in coastal and open sea and are capable of We continued to carry out regular awareness handling new booms introduced in 2012. campaigns for BP employees and contractors on important safety topics, such as risks from: To increase our fire-fighting preparedness, we snakes, heat, ice, fire, slips, trips and falls, bought an additional fire truck in 2013 and eight finger injuries, radioactive materials and carbon individuals from our oil spill response contractor, monoxide. NRC International Services, completed internationally recognized National Fire Protection Association fire-fighting training and passed the corresponding assessments. 24 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 103 We carried out 103 emergency response Managing occupational health and exercises in 2013, comprising a mix of desk hygiene exercises and field-based training. We trained emergency response and assured the competency of 22 on-scene Our occupational health programmes include exercises carried out in commanders and identified and trained 10 new first aid and substance abuse testing at our 2013. members of the incident management team. operating sites and offices. This year, we also carried out first aid and medical preparedness All our training exercises were conducted safely reviews and organized a mass casualty training and recorded, with summaries communicated exercise at PSG1. We supported the SCPX 22 monthly, including lessons learned and improvement actions. project team with food safety and hygiene inspections, assessments of the medical status of project employees, and by advising on medical on-scene commanders trained and To test emergency response effectiveness at the their competency assured. Georgia-Azerbaijan and Turkey-Georgia borders, emergency provision. two cross-border exercises were conducted. The We continued to implement an ergonomics exercises, involving large groups of people from programme in 2013, using a tool called ‘Remedy’ company and contractor organizations and local/ which seeks to prevent problems such as government authorities from all three countries, Safety repetitive strain injury (RSI). It features an online covered oil spill response scenarios for BTC self-assessment questionnaire, training and a pipeline in the Tovuz region of Azerbaijan, near the desktop application called RSI Guard. The tools river Tovuzchay and Potskhovi OSR containment assess levels of risk and provide guidance on site in Georgia. The aim of these exercises was prevention. to test cross-border procedures, protocols and effectiveness, to assess the effectiveness of We also run industrial hygiene programmes at aid arrangements between BP Georgia, BP our sites. These cover issues such as manual Azerbaijan and Turkey, and to review the response handling, noise monitoring, lighting, indoor air time for mobilizing resources and deploying spill quality, and chemical handling and exposure. Our response equipment. We also assessed how well annual food safety/water quality audit found no the Georgia, Azerbaijan and Turkey site response major issues. teams communicated and worked with each We completed a skin surveillance programme other as one team. for high-risk employees, such as those who In June 2013 we participated in a multi-country have exposure to chemicals. In August 2013, workshop in Budapest, Hungary, arranged for we contracted the Georgian National Centre for BP crisis and continuity management team Disease Control to carry out epidemiological representatives from a variety of locations. surveys along the SCP, BTC and WREP pipelines Presentations were made on new emergency because of potential exposure to naturally response systems, such as those designed to occurring anthrax. help account for people during an emergency. Health campaigns Representatives from each location presented The promotional campaigns we ran in 2013 country-specific 2012 achievements and forward encouraged people to seek good health in a plans. fun and competitive manner. They included the Health and wellbeing ‘Run-A-Muck’ challenge to encourage exercise Safety leadership team meeting. We take the welfare of our staff seriously and and fitness and a variety of sporting competitions strive to create and maintain safe and healthy in skiing, basketball, and futsal. Our healthy heart working environments. campaign provided employees with basic steps to better manage their heart along with health We work to manage health and employee tests to give them information on their current welfare in a systematic way, undertaking an state of wellbeing. Other wellbeing campaigns annual health risk assessment and using a included influenza vaccinations, and a head and tool called health map to help us to update our cold stress campaign. health risk register. We have a number of wellestablished processes for managing employee Providing health training health, including fitness for task assessments A healthy workforce also requires the support of and health screening. We maintain a body of expert medical professionals. We have a medical medical information which enables us to monitor emergency response strategy, and provide requirements such as check-ups and medical training for our first aiders, doctors, drivers and examinations. ambulance staff. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 25 Environment We take a systematic approach to environmental management and strive to continuously improve our environmental performance. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Manage our operations in accordance Our ISO 14001 certificate has been Maintain our systematic approach with our ISO 14001 environmental formally re-issued, for the next three to environmental compliance and management system. years. management. Assess and monitor our environmental Secured government approval of the Minimize our environmental impacts to impacts to air, land and water and SCP expansion project environmental air, land and water. work to continuously improve our and social impact assessment (ESIA), performance. and took further action to minimize Develop processes and people to operational impacts. safeguard future environmental Work with our contractors to support performance. compliance with our environmental Put in place measures to strengthen standards. environmental requirements in contracting. 26 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Environmental performance We strive to avoid, minimize and mitigate environmental impact from our activities, and we work to continuously improve our environmental performance. ISO 14001 and compliance A number of important milestones relating 2013 We continue to manage our operations in accordance with our ISO 14001 certified to compliance were reached in 2013. The secondary containment system on BTC – a system of containment sluices and dams The environmental and social environmental management system. In early designed to come into operation in the unlikely impact assessment for SCP 2013, our ISO certificate was formally reevent of a spill – was accepted into operation expansion was approved by issued for the next three years by Intertek, the by the Borjomi municipality, the permit issuing the government of Georgia. external certification authority. We will test authority in that region. The issue of the licence the performance of our environmental and fulfills one of the conditions from the government compliance management systems in 2014 by of Georgia in connection with the BTC project undergoing an external ISO 14001 surveillance oil spill response plan. According to the lender’s audit and through a BP group safety and independent environmental consultant, “these operational risk audit. projects represent an unprecedented level of spill We maintain comprehensive systems to stay control even when compared to worldwide best compliant with applicable HSSE requirements. practice.” We track compliance with our commitments In addition, the SCP expansion project ESIA was and maintain, update and assign specific approved by the Ministry of Environment in 2013. commitments and ensure their implementation. A review of the ESIA process and content is We continued to review, prioritize and allocate provided on page 10. environmental tasks in 2013. Environment Preparation for a wildlife response exercise. More detailed technical information on each aspect of the ESIA process is available on bpgeorgia.ge including the public Safe capturing of oiled wildlife during an consultation and disclosure plans which emergency response exercise. form an integral part of the process. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 27 Managing our impact In everything we do we aim to avoid, minimize or mitigate environmental impacts. Complying with our commitments Detecting leaks The fifteenth post-financial audit of the The government of Georgia accepted our plans independent environmental consultant acting for leak detection on the BTC pipeline, which on behalf of BTC lenders was undertaken in represented a further agreement on a condition Georgia in September 2013. These audits monitor associated with the oil spill response plan. compliance with BTC environmental and social This was of particular importance in the Tsalka commitments, captured within the operations section of the pipeline, which was deemed by environmental and social action plan and relevant the government to be of particular sensitivity management plans. No non-compliances were because of underground water supplies in the identified. area. Strengthening environmental In addition to the inherent design features of the An Environment Challenger: requirements in contracting pipeline which are intended to minimize the risk Marina Arabidze of spills and leaks, we have used specially trained We work with our contractors to try to make sure sniffer dogs capable of detecting hydrocarbon they meet our environmental standards. In 2013, leaks on pipelines and tanks regardless of soil “I joined BP in May 2013 as an Environmental we looked at how we can more precisely define conditions and even under snow. Challenger following a competitive selection the environmental standards and practices that process. While I have had some practical we expect our contractors to follow within their These measures were agreed with the and academic experience in the field, BP scope of work. government following several years of detailed has exposed me to a new, dynamic work studies, research, investigations and field trials, We continue to work with contractor personnel environment, where you are rewarded with onwith the help of experienced contractors. They to raise their awareness of environmental the-job learning and development opportunities. are designed to detect the smallest leaks or management and to help align all projects hydrocarbon vapour. Before coming to BP, I worked for the with the requirements of our environmental Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation overseeing management system. We use an environmental environmental permitting for new construction risk assessment tool for individual projects and projects. Before that, I had spent three modifications to give ourselves assurance that years in the US and Hungary working on requirements are being met in the field. my Master’s degrees at the University of We regularly monitor contractors’ work on site, Wisconsin-Madison and the Central European and obtain site completion reports that show University, with fellowships from the United how environmental requirements have been States Agency for International Development addressed. and the Central European University. These years abroad had a significant influence on me, professionally and personally. It is through An environmental officer performing shore check during a wildlife response exercise. these programmes that I first took interest in energy, environment and sustainability and how to meet the growing need for resources while maintaining the quality of life. This is why I am excited to join BP and to look forward to the challenges and opportunities that will come my way here. I want to use my knowledge and experience and benefit from the learning opportunities available. My first months here have clearly shown that the company takes great effort in systematically managing its impact on the environment and uses a variety of tools for this purpose. The things I am involved in are very diverse, ranging from regular operational oversight to incident management and investigation, working with contractors, carrying out field inspections, audits, reporting, impact assessments and many others. All these are done in compliance with rigorous international standards. The people I work with have wide experience and are approachable, ready to help and guide you if you need assistance. The combination of these factors makes me feel good about my future in BP.” 28 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Fulfilling our offset obligations Waste as a source of energy In partnership with the Georgia Energy Efficiency Finding innovative ways to manage waste Centre, we completed the third and final project is a continuous effort. We have put special begun in 2012 which acted as an offset to our emphasis on reducing hazardous waste by exceeding the nitrous oxide concentration limits buying modern waste processing equipment. specified in the environmental and social action We have also been putting waste products plan committed to BTC lenders. The final project, and substances to good use – sometimes using them as a source of energy. installing a solar heating system and carrying out building winterization at Tbilisi ‘Baby House’, was Most hazardous waste from our activities – such implemented in 2013. as oily rags, or sludge – is collected, compacted and stored at the central waste accumulation area Two previous projects, completed during 2012, (CWAA), near PSG1 on the BTC pipeline. Waste involved installing solar water heating systems is minimized by crushing, shredding, compacting, in a school in Tbilisi for children who are deaf or re-segregating and separating. It is then repacked have diminished hearing, and at the SOS Tbilisi and prepared for transport to waste treatment Children’s village. facilities within Georgia or abroad. Historically, hazardous waste was prepared for Managing waste export to EU-compliant facilities because local We installed a waste glycol treatment facility recycling companies could not ensure its safe at the waste processing and recycling centre disposal. Recently, however, we have found a in 2013. This equipment will enable us to treat local company which owns facilities that can used glycol currently stored at the central waste process dry cell batteries – hazardous waste accumulation area. To the best of our knowledge, generated from maintenance work at BTC this is the first facility of its kind in the region. block/check valves. It enables us to re-process used glycol – which Approximately 62m3 of waste stored at the is used as an anti-freeze within the water bath Environment CWAA has been supplied through this route heaters which heat process fluids to the desired to convert into energy. Before delivering the temperature – rather than export it abroad for batteries for treatment, we worked with the company to raise awareness of the treatment and disposal. The change will bring An environmental specialist participating in a hazards, and develop its safety culture. We cost and environmental benefits. In addition to wildlife response exercise. helped provide new equipment including fire making additional storage space available at the extinguishers, personal protective equipment central waste facility, the facility reduces the Our incident management system includes and new junction boxes. “In this way, we can need to purchase new glycol and cuts waste commitments related to responding to an be sure that BP’s HSE requirements will be management costs. incident in which wildlife suffer from the effects followed,” explains Misha Gurgenidze, BP of oil. Georgia’s Senior Field Environmental Adviser. Plastic waste recycling To this end, we built a wildlife response centre A fluorescent lamp crusher has also been installed In 2013, we employed a Georgian recycling adjacent to PSG1 in 2010 and run training and at the CWAA. This ‘bulb eater’ allows hazardous company capable of recycling greater amounts fluorescent lamps to be turned into non-hazardous awareness sessions with various stakeholders. and type of plastic waste than we could in glass powder. During crushing, asphyxiating In September 2013, we carried out an exercise the past. We have supported the company in mercury gas remains in a hermetic container adjacent to the BTC/SCP pipeline right of way, at developing its capacity, and have helped to to avoid evaporation. The result is that waste is Jandari Lake. The main aim of the exercise was promote an appropriate safety culture in its considerably reduced in size and its storage and to test the response preparedness level, and to transportation becomes easier and cheaper. operations. check that we had processes and procedures in In 2011, 46 drums of fluorescent lamps Wildlife protection: response planning place to respond efficiently to an incident which were processed in this way. About 9.2m3 of could threaten or lead to oiled wildlife. We tested hazardous waste was turned into 0.2m3 of and evaluated response protocols, equipment, non-hazardous waste. This was then moved facilities, key personnel, communication tools, to the EU-compliant non-hazardous waste de-contamination/waste management schemes, landfill in Rustavi which BP helped to establish and record-keeping. in 2009. Instead of 46 drums of hazardous waste, only a couple of small containers will be sent abroad for final disposal. According to George Guliashvili, head of our major environmental contractor for BP in Georgia: “BP’s waste management practices in Georgia are having a significant influence on the companies that co-operate with them. We pay great attention to the professional development of our personnel, possess high quality equipment, and are open to innovation. We’re always on the lookout for the newest technologies.” BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 29 Society We aim to benefit local communities by supporting programmes and initiatives that build capacity and promote enterprise. What we said Where we What we plan we would do are today to do next Build open and constructive relationships Maintained active engagement with Maintained active engagement with with the communities near our assets. pipeline affected communities, and pipeline affected communities, and expanded our engagement with new expanded our engagement with new Help to build local economic capacity by communities affected by SCP expansion. communities affected by SCP expansion. supporting agriculture, rural infrastructure Supported diverse projects – in $25 million invested approximately in and business enterprise. education, economic development, social projects in the last five years. Strive to bring lasting benefit to Georgian enterprise, cultural heritage and the society. environment – over the past ten years. Supported diverse projects in education, Invested approximately $25 million in economic development, enterprise, social projects since 2003. cultural heritage and the environment over the past ten years. 30 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Our programmes We support programmes that respond to local needs and which are relevant to our business activities. Ten years of social investment In 2013, we spent approximately $3.7 million on social investment, slightly more than the Ten years ago we launched our first community average since 2011. Over the previous five years, investment programme, linked to the start of we estimate we have spent approximately $25 construction work on the BTC/SCP pipelines. million. Since that time, we have contributed to a wide range of projects in Georgia which have sought The range of projects we have supported is to help local communities, promote business shown in the table below, which presents development, support education and protect a subset of the total projects we have been Georgia’s cultural and natural environment. involved with since 2003. Examples of our social investment programs Focus area Project title Duration BP and co-venturers’ spend (US $m) BP’s community liaison officer meeting with local communities. Pipeline Community Development 200319.9 communities Initiative along the BTC/SCP and to date WREP pipelines in partnership with national and international NGOs. Georgia Business Enabling 2006-09 0.75 Environment Project, in partnership with the International Business Finance Corporation. development Project Management College 2009-14 2.05 in partnership with ESI International and the Free University of Tbilisi. Renewable Energy and Energy 2011-13 0.6 Efficiency Project for Georgian Communities. Energy efficiency Technical Assistance to 2006-08 1.1 Society the Georgian Oil and Gas Corporation. Environment Construction and operations phase 2003-12 3.9 environmental improvement programme. Sponsoring the International 2006 2.3 School of Economics at Tbilisi to date State University. Education Masters Level Scholarship 2006-08 1.5 Programme. Partnership programmes 2005 0.5 with the Georgian National Cultural heritage Museum. 2006-08 0.4 A resident of Tsilkani village has established a greenhouse with BP’s and its co-venturers’ support. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 31 Engaging communities We engage regularly with the communities near our pipelines because we want to maintain constructive relationships with them. Liaising with local communities During 2013, we received 41 complaints, a higher number compared to 23 complaints BP seeks to maintain positive relationships received in 2012. We believe the increase reflects with the communities along the BTC and factors such as the increase in contact with SCP pipelines, and has worked to strengthen new communities as a result of SCP expansion. its established contacts with communities These factors mean that we are engaging with along WREP. Villages along the three pipelines a greater number of community groups than are categorized according to their social or previously. We hold regular meetings with target environmental sensitivity and meetings with local groups and tell them about the tools at their communities take place on a regular basis. disposal to raise concerns. In total, 38 complaints We continued local community engagement and were investigated and closed in 2013 out of held more than 780 consultation meetings with which 34 were received by the company in 2013 target groups in the villages along the pipelines and four from earlier years. and near to our facilities. This level of interaction Among the resolved grievances was a long2014 community calendar. ensures that the BP social team is well-aware standing complaint concerning lost access of local issues, listens to community concerns, to hayfields following BTC and SCP pipeline and can reinforce important messages about construction. Technical challenges related to the safety and restrictions along the pipelines. Our terrain made this a challenging issue to solve. target groups are village heads and trustees, local After consideration of a number of options, an residents, school representatives, complainants, approach was agreed and the required work Helping yourself and landowners. completed in September. We distributed an information booklet to There was a one-week work stoppage at the The highland village of Titvinistskaro in WREP communities which informed them WREP Tkhilnara river crossing activities in Khashuri district is almost deserted, of planned activities along the pipeline. The Sajavakho which arose from concerns about especially in winter, when the number of booklet contained information about upcoming disturbance to the community from effects such families staying in the village is just three pipeline repairs, erosion control and landslide as dust and noise, and its impact on livelihoods, or four. Life is hard in these remote areas monitoring, and embankment reinforcement and in particular on local beehives. Following and many there are officially designated as at river crossings. We also circulated a 2014 investigation and impact assessment, we paid socially vulnerable, making them eligible for community calendar in Georgian and Russian to compensation to the affected parties. financial support from the state. all communities in which we provided information about pipeline protection safety zones, containing We monitor the time it takes for us to deal with Mr Givi Barbakadze, who lives in the village, details about the measures we take to maintain complaints, while recognizing that the speed of started a sheep farming business in October pipeline safety and security. resolution may not be fully under our control. 2013 with the support of a small business Complaint resolution time increased in 2013 with programme grant under the CDI programme. Engagement relating to SCP expansion 51% of complaints closed in less than two months By the spring of 2014, he anticipates he will We continued to engage with communities in (2012 70%). already have income from selling new-born 2013 about the SCP expansion project, informing lambs. communities and local government about plans Complaint category Received 2013 in 2013 complaints When informed that his social aid may be and progress. Our team of community liaison closed cancelled when he starts a business, Mr. officers (CLOs), which now includes a CLO Additional land occupied 1 1 Barbakadze replied with a smile: “I have to dedicated to the SCP expansion project, plays an important role by listening to community Bee-related 3 3 become independent at some point; I prefer to run my own business and earn income concerns and sharing these with project staff Damage to community for my family. I will even employ others if my and giving guidance on local sensitivities. Our infrastructure 1 1 business is successful. Why should I ask for CLOs also communicate local concerns to our operations and projects team on routine Employment 1 0 state aid?” maintenance and modifications projects. Damage to household Responding to grievances infrastructure 2 2 As our activities take place near a large number Inventory/compensation of villages and municipalities and involve access disagreement 7 7 to and construction work on land, it is not Irrigation 2 1 surprising that occasional community grievances arise. As part of our approach to engagement, Land we have a clear process for managing third-party handback/reinstatement 5 3 complaints. Nuisance 1 1 Other land issue 11 9 Other social issues 7 6 Total 41 34 32 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Building capacity We work in partnership with a large number of organizations to help build the fabric of Georgian civil society. Promoting corporate responsibility Supporting education Social enterprise in Chivchavi BP Georgia continues to promote good corporate Support for education has long been an important responsibility among Georgian companies. A element of our community development BP Georgia representative is a member of the initiatives in Georgia. This includes support for Chivchavi, a village near to the BTC pump American Chamber of Commerce Corporate schooling, tertiary education, and continuing station 2, has set up a social enterprise Social Responsibility committee, which helps professional development. supported by a grant from CDI. The enterprise local companies adopt and improve their provides services to the villagers in what is We continue to provide financial support to the corporate responsibility practices through active mainly an agricultural area. International School of Economics in Tbilisi (ISET), exchange of experience and case studies as well “Having a social enterprise in the community as legal reviews. which aims to bring world-class teaching and is very useful for villagers in Chivchavi. We research methods to the study of economics We commissioned a study in 2013, which for the benefit of the region. In 2013, we don’t have to wait in endless queues for was undertaken by an independent expert, extended our agreement with ISET to enable the tractors and we are now avoiding problems to understand the baseline of corporate development of a focal area in the economics of with hiring. And more, the social enterprise responsibility activities in Georgian companies human resources within the MA programme. It has a service schedule which is very and to recommend how BP can best help in will prepare students for careers involving labour convenient. Besides, the price we pay for its promoting good practice locally. The results will market regulation, healthcare and education services are acceptable and cheaper than be available in 2014. reform in Georgia and the broader South hiring tractors from elsewhere.” Caucasus region. Leila Khachvani, a village resident. NGO capacity development We have taken steps to increase the role of Established in 2009 in partnership between Georgian non-governmental organizations (NGOs) BP, its co-venturers, ESI International and Free in delivering the capacity building programmes University of Tbilisi, the Project Management we support. College provides a seven-course curriculum leading to a Master’s Certificate from The George Within our Community Development Initiative Washington University School of Business. It also (CDI), described on page 35, we selected two provides the possibility of graduates becoming local NGOs (Centre for Training and Consultancy certified Project Management Professional. CDI implementing NGO representatives and the Regional Development Association) to presenting BP supported projects to visitors. The course involves 24 days of study, spread over be the implementing partners for the fourth phase of CDI. An independent evaluation of a year. A total of 194 students in ten streams the programme in 2013 concluded that this have studied during the first three years, with 174 nationalization strategy had been a success. of them graduating with Master’s Certificates, and 12 becoming PMPs. Forty more students Raising standards in partnership with have studied in the 11th and 12th streams in international organizations 2012-13 (and will graduate in spring 2014) with Society We partner with international aid agencies and the 13th group about to start. lenders to improve standards in various areas of Students represent senior to medium level Georgian industry. managers from more than 100 different In the past, we have worked with the organizations, ranging from private companies, International Finance Corporation (IFC) on an to NGOs, to international organizations and the initiative to promote better corporate governance public sector. in Georgia, and we also co-funded a threeBP and its partners provide financial support year IFC project to raise standards in the food to the college of $2 million over the duration of processing industry. Building on this relationship, the agreement with an additional $0.3 million we recently signed an agreement with the IFC to co-funding from the Free University. In the longer provide co-funding of $0.4 million in a new $1.9 term, our goal is to build local capacity so that the million project – called the Georgia Investment entire programme is run by Georgian nationals. Climate Project. Its main goal is to promote sustainable, private sector growth by improving the competitiveness of local companies. This will be facilitated by building on successful reforms to date, and promoting trade and foreign direct investment. The project will also address the most important compliance costs faced by businesses – notably costs incurred in VAT administration. It will be working with officials in the Ministry of Finance. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 33 Supporting development in the society where we work We want local communities to benefit from our presence and we support a wide range of projects that build local capacity. Encouraging trade and investment Developing energy efficiency We support the EU-Georgia Business Council Following a series of pioneering projects to raise (EUGBC), which was established with a $300,000 awareness and improve renewable energy and grant under the BP pledge agreement with the energy efficiency in Georgian communities, government of Georgia, signed in October 2004. we have initiated a new programme that will The EUGBC is a business – driven organization help local governments in Georgia implement whose main purpose is to: sustainable energy policies. Encourage investment and trade between EU The programme, which will last for two years and and Georgia. has a budget of just under $1 million, will support the efforts of an EU Covenant of Mayors, which Promote Georgia in the EU as a place to invest provides a framework for cities to undertake and do business and vice versa. ambitious energy and environmental plans to Developing local NGO capability Promote and protect the common business reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020. The interests of its members. project envisages support for seven large-scale demonstration projects in Georgia that will cut Foster ties in the EU and Georgia between In May 2012, BP entered into an agreement CO2 emissions, and act as practical examples businesses, governments and civil societies. with two Georgian NGOs to continue for other projects. A list of publicly owned implementation of the fourth phase of CDI EUGBC members include the Georgian Chamber buildings will be developed in the participating – a two-year programme that will benefit of Commerce and Industry, the American municipalities, such as schools, kindergartens, communities along the SCP and BTC pipeline Chamber of Commerce, the Federation of medical centres, art and sport schools, and route. Georgian Businessmen and the Association orphanages. One project for each city will be of Georgian Exporters. We provided financial selected, with an approximate investment value “About one year ago we made the decision support to EUGBC in 2013 totalling 30,000, of $60,000 per project. The Georgia Energy to select a local institution as the CDI comprising our membership fee and an additional Efficiency Centre, whom we have worked project implementing partner. Our goal was grant. with on previous programmes, are running the to develop local capability and to ensure initiative and will be looking for matching funding that they were capable of managing the from municipalities, the EU and other donors. implementation independently”, explains Eteri Kvirikashvili, BP Georgia Community Development Initiative adviser. Gvantsa Meladze, a representative of the Regional Development Association, which manages CDI implementation in the western region of BTC/SCP, says: “Co-operation with BP gave us good insight into corporate approaches we hadn’t experienced before. It affected our sense of corporate responsibility, time management, planning and reporting and most importantly, improved our environmental and safety consciousness.” “Moving away from more experienced international implementing organizations was not easy. But when I look at how the local implementing partners work, I see that it was the right decision made at the right time. They might need help with management systems, they may need coaching with safety practices and reporting skills, but they are enthusiastic in their work with communities, willing to learn and take on board the guidance that BP provides,” says Rusudan Medzmariashvili, BP’s social responsibility manager. A farmer from the Kveda Sakara village started a small business with the support of BP and its co-venturers. 34 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Supporting local enterprise We also seek to learn from independent views. A mid-term evaluation carried out in 2013 made Our Community Development Initiative (CDI) recommendations such as intensifying thirdis helping to develop local economic capacity. party communication and scaling up support for The initiative, which has changed to address rehabilitation projects and business start-ups, community needs as they have evolved over the resources permitting. Overall, the evaluation years, entered its fourth phase (CDI phase 4) in found that BP was widely considered to be May 2012. The original CDI programme began a ‘good neighbour’ and that favourable local in 2003. attitudes have increased significantly since 2003CDI phase 4 aims to deepen the positive 04. The programme was also found to have a relationship between BP and communities along beneficial multiplier effect in which farmers have the pipeline routes. It does this by supporting replicated models and shared the experience sustainable forms of social co-operation, they have gained from demonstration projects A ministerial visit to see CDI in improving agricultural production, and developing with others and on other initiatives. action regional agro-businesses. For example, the CDI phase 4 achievements to date include: programme supports small-scale business start-ups. This includes providing training on 30 economic infrastructure rehabilitation Ketevan Bochorishvili, Georgia’s Deputy business planning, markets and the concept of projects. These include the creation of irrigation Minister of Economy and Sustainable the value chain; developing understanding of channels for farmland cultivation, or for animal Development, visited the Samtskheproduct definition and tools for pricing; and giving watering points. They generally involve a Javakheti region in April, where BP and its guidance on sales and marketing. community contribution, which is often the partners have been supporting locals in provision of labour. More than 5,800 households starting small businesses. In the course CDI also supports the establishment of social have benefitted from rehabilitated infrastructure. of the visit, the deputy minister visited a enterprises which help develop business ideas dental clinic, the market in the village of promoted by community-based organizations 11 new not-for profit social enterprises have Tsnisi, and wool-processing enterprises and (CBOs). Their focus is to provide services needed provided services such as assistance in the an egg hatching incubator in the village of in their community and where the profits are purchase of a tractor and equipment for land Klde that were opened under the auspices used to implement projects that will benefit the cultivation, or providing support during the harvest. of the project. With her officials, she also community further. More than 190 demonstration farms have visited an accountancy services group set up The CDI has also been established for WREP adopted new technologies, supporting specially within by the programme to help communities, where the Georgian Organization approximately 2,100 households. Many entrepreneurs overcome the initial financial of the Scouts Movement is the implementing new technologies have been taken up and and legal obstacles they face. partner. The programme here is aiming to support replicated. The deputy minister commented on the more than 100 affected villages, as well as Grants have been provided to 81 businesses. importance of the initiative. “The role of internally-displaced persons, and young people. A total of 104 new jobs have been created. Society small business in our country’s economic Initiatives are supporting business start-ups, development is of key importance. That is the including the provision of grants. 190 agricultural subsidized loans have been only way to increase income and maintain disbursed. We are keen to ensure that the CDI programme young people in the region. The corporate continues to respond to the needs of participants Since May 2013, CDI is being applied to social responsibility taken by BP is exemplary, and can adapt to changing circumstances. Its villages that will be affected (or already are) by because within this framework it promotes scope has expanded in 2013 with the inclusion the SCP expansion project. Our intention is to the development of start-up businesses in of two new village communities (Tori in Borjomi increase awareness of the project and build a the region, which are sustainable and selfand Iraga in Tetritskaro) which are close to BP spirit of co-operation before construction work developed.” operations along BTC/SCP. This brings the total begins. To date, 14 CBOs have implemented Under the CDI programme, 32 micronumber of communities covered by CDI on these rehabilitation projects. More than 50 individual entrepreneurs have been awarded a $1,200 pipelines to 79. The programme has also been and group farmers have created a total of 16 grant in Samtskhe-Javakheti. As a result, 18 brought to 18 new communities that will be demonstration models; 20 small businesses have small businesses were started that created affected by SCP expansion. been established, and two youth groups involving 33 jobs, with plans for more to follow. 60 students have been set up, with a range of CDI has also responded to recent state legislation environmental activities conducted. supporting the development of agricultural cooperatives, which will benefit from tax incentives, Proposals for measures to support 12 further subsidized loans, and grants. The programme, villages in the east and five in the west, plus which had previously helped people work one for districts in the town of Rustavi have together in associations, has begun to pilot the been made by the programme’s implementing establishment of co-operatives, with three new partners. In line with previous initiatives, this will ones proposed. be focused on support for social projects, support for community-based organizations, repairing rural infrastructure, helping small business start-ups, and involving young people in educational and environmental projects. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 35 Our stakeholders and our reporting We engage with a wide range of stakeholders in Georgia to inform them about our business and to keep abreast of their needs. Our stakeholders are the many individuals and We work with government agencies where With our partners, we invest in initiatives that organizations who are affected in some way required to ensure our operations can continue help to build the fabric of Georgian society, by our activities, whether it is in our role as an without incident and that we follow high including a number of social programmes. These energy provider, an employer, or as a company standards. The 2013 Transparency International are described in the Society section of this report. that contributes to the local economy. Corruption Perceptions Index ranks Georgia 55th Local communities of the 177 countries and territories around the How we engage our stakeholders world. In all our interactions with government We have built constructive relationships over a Employees bodies and regulators, our dealings are governed number of years with the communities near our by BP’s code of conduct, which requires integrity, pipelines and facilities. Our social programmes We employ more than 500 people in Georgia, and have addressed local needs for infrastructure honesty and transparency in our relationships. the size of our workforce has grown over the past development, education, environmental three years. In line with our goal of being a local Georgian industry protection, youth capacity building and enterprise energy company, we have steadily increased the We work with a number of business and industry development. Our community liaison officers aim proportion of Georgian nationals working in the groups to share experience, develop collaborative to stay in regular contact with communities near business, to reach levels averaging 95% over the programmes, and promote good practice. We the pipelines and to understand their concerns. past five years. But localization is not just about are members of the EU Georgia Business numbers; we have trained and developed local Talking with local people and other stakeholders Council, the American Chamber of Commerce, people to fill management positions. We have helps our businesses to define what a positive and collaborate with a number of companies on extensive training and development opportunities or negative impact on the local community bilateral initiatives. for all our people and want their careers at BP to means. This is important for all our activities, be exciting and fulfilling. Our partners and contractors but particularly for new projects such as SCP expansion, where our presence may bring Government authorities As is typical in our industry, we rarely work in about changes in the local area, such as jobs, isolation. Safe and responsible operations rely We engage with several tiers of government in opportunities for local suppliers and support on the capability and performance of suppliers, Georgia, from local authorities on issues relevant for community development. However, other contractors and partners. We set operational to particular communities, through to national unintended impacts can also arise such as standards through legally-binding agreements government on more strategic matters. We are increased road traffic, changes to land use and and we help to improve standards through training in regular contact with officials to obtain permits landscapes, increased demand for fresh water and dialogue. We continue to take steps to build the and licences, and in their monitoring of our and varying levels of in-migration. Our goal is to capacity of local contractors in areas such as safety, performance. We also engage with specialist minimize any adverse impacts. environmental performance, employment practice, government agencies such as the Strategic and social impact awareness. Our investment in Pipelines Protection Department (SPPD) who Georgia has provided economic opportunity for many provide additional security for the BTC/SCP local companies and will continue to do so in future. pipelines. Our stakeholder relationships BP’s community liaison officer talking to a land Emloyees owner. Providing direct employment for approximately 500 people NGO and civil society Supporting Government the development of Engaging with local stronger institutions and national authorities BP Georgia Georgian industry Local communities Sharing experience and Listening and responding good practice to the views of pipeline communities Partners and contractors Working with our co-venturers and in the local supply chain 36 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Non-governmental and civil society Engaging with stakeholders about our organizations sustainability reporting We regularly work with local non-governmental For the past three years, we have given a organizations (NGOs), and have helped several selection of our stakeholders the opportunity in Georgia develop their skills and experience. to comment on our sustainability report and to We have followed a strategy of enabling national provide their input to future reporting. NGOs to become the implementing partners of some of our flagship social programmes. In 2013, we invited around 30 external Our programmes support NGOs in fields of stakeholders, including non-governmental country-wide importance such as road safety organizations and civil society groups, to give us and energy efficiency. We support the media in their views on the quality of our reporting. We developing their skills by providing guidance on also sought comment from our own employees. the energy industry to journalists. We continue We asked them about the report content, its to provide English language training to media presentation, its credibility and balance, and representatives through the British Council. about its style and format. We invited comment on any aspect of the report or our approach to We have been founder members of educational sustainability reporting in general. institutions such as the International School of Economics at Tbilisi State University and the They provided a number of suggestions for how Project Management College. These bodies, we could improve our report, which we have which we continue to support financially, considered and responded to. As in the past, we are helping to build a cadre of highly-skilled have carried out a structured materiality process individuals, ready to take their place in the to determine which issues to cover in the report, Georgian and international labour market. and to guide us on the prominence we give to each topic. The views of stakeholders are vital inputs to this assessment. What we heard What we are doing to respond Provide more detailed information We are maintaining the report at approximately the same of the issues covered in the report length but providing clearer links to other publicly available sources, such as environmental monitoring reports, guidance on land acquisition, and ESIA documentation. Provide more information on the We have included more information on how we operate, set in business and financial context in the context of BP’s activities in the region. Our reporting which BP Georgia operates Provide more information on the We have sought to provide more links and detail throughout challenges that the business has the report on the challenges highlighted at the beginning of the faced, and will face in future. document. We have also put more emphasis on future plans and challenges, such as those linked to SCP expansion, which is our largest and most important future project. Provide more detailed information Breaches of the code of conduct or instances of corruption are on issues relating to the code rare, and likely to be highly sensitive or even subject to legal of conduct, such as breaches or proceedings. As a result, our reporting remains focused on the instances of corruption. processes we follow to apply and adhere to the code, rather than on particular cases or examples which are confidential and which might be managed at a regional or group level. We do, however, provide information on issues such as conflicts of interest and gifts and entertainment, and we also indicate whether disciplinary processes, including termination, have occurred. BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 37 BP Georgia in figures Data on our performance, safety, environment and people from 2009-2013. For the year ended 31 December Performance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total hydrocarbon throughput (mmboe) 349.7 346.5 313.8 300.7 308.8 Social investment ($ million)a 8.5 8.2 3.4 2.2 3.7 Safety b BP employee fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 BP contractor fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Days away from work cases (DAFWC)c – workforced 0 0 0 0 2 Days away from work cases frequency (DAFWCF) injury onlye – workforce 0 0 0 0 0.11 Recordable occupational illness and injury – workforce f 3 0 1 1 2 Recordable injury frequency (RIF)g 0.17 0 0.07 0.06 0.11 Vehicle accidentsh 2 5 9 6 6 Total vehicle accident ratei 0.25 0.71 1.12 0.66 0.63 Hours workedj – workforce 3,507,005 3,108,395 3,066,299 3,400,626 3,725,561 Kilometres drivenk 8,120,198 7,077,498 8,055,182 9,152,233 9,482,753 Environmentl Number of hydrocarbon spillsm 2 2 0 0 0 Volume of oil spilled (litres) 5,520 25,454 0 0 0 Volume of oil unrecovered (litres) 320 3,700 0 0 0 Direct carbon dioxide (CO2) (tonnes) 285,415 255,321 277,183 266,887 251,802 Direct methane (CH4) (tonnes) 311 325 339 315 320 Equity share direct greenhouse gas (GHG) (tonnes CO2 equivalent) 88,289 79,122 85,765 93,013 78,471 Sulphur dioxide (SOx) (tonnes) 102 90 78 79 80 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) (tonnes) 2,309 2,116 2,017 1,963 1,955 Non-methane hydrocarbons (NMHC) (tonnes) 1,206 1,204 1,212 1,166 1,171 Hazardous waste disposed (m3) 691 545 643.5 480.8 537.2 Non-hazardous waste disposed (tonnes)n 423 335 316 394.6 364.9 People Total BP Georgia headcount 405 398 438 490 504 Georgian nationals as % of BP Georgia headcount 95 96 95 94 94 SCPX performance data We are monitoring and reporting safety and headcount data separately for the SCPX project.We have systems in place to record environmental parameters similar to those for routine operations, and will report performance when significant activities are under way. For the year ended 31 December Safety 2013 BP employee fatalities 0 Days away from work cases 1 Days away from work cases frequency 0.29 Recordable occupational illness and injury 2 Recordable injury frequency 0.59 Vehicle accidents 1 People Total BP Georgia SCPX headcount 32 38 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Notes to figures a  Figures show BP and partner spending. They include f  Recordable occupational illness and injury: Two sets The BP workforce vehicle was legally parked. ‘cash out’ spending and support provided under the of criteria determine recordability, based on OSHA. The journey is to or from the driver’s home and normal BTC grant and the BP pledge. For more information If a case meets any of the listed criteria in either the place of work. on this please see BP in Georgia Sustainability Report general or specific, it must be considered recordable. Minor wear and tear is the case (e.g. stone damage 2005 and BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2006. General: Death; day(s) away from work; restricted work to a windscreen, minor paintwork damage). The figure for 2012 has been corrected, from the or transfer to another job; medical treatment beyond An incident is the result of vandalism or theft. previously stated figure of $3.2 million. first aid; loss of consciousness; a significant injury or illness diagnosed by a physician or other licensed A company-provided vehicle is being driven on nonb  Safety data shows performance for BP in Georgia health professional. work related activities (e.g. private business, leisure). as a whole, encompassing our in-country activities described in this report (projects, operations of BTC, Specific: Needlestick and cuts from sharp objects i  Total vehicle accident rate: the sum of all light vehicle, SCP, WREP, Supsa terminal, and operations support). that are contaminated with another person’s blood or all heavy vehicle and all mobile plant accidents per one other potentially infectious material; medical removal million kilometres driven. c  Days away from work case (DAFWC): A work-related injury or illness which has either of the following under government standards; occupational hearing j Hours worked: The total hours worked by a reporting consequences: loss (current hearing test must show 10dBA shift from unit by members of the BP workforce. current baseline and total cumulative hearing loss must k  Kilometres driven: Total work-related kilometres The member of the BP workforce could not have be 25dBA or more above audiometric zero). travelled by BP operated or contractor vehicles. This worked on any day after the injury or illness, irrespective of whether there was scheduled work. g  Recordable injury frequency (RIF): includes all work-related kilometres driven in hire/ BP: the total number of recordable injuries to BP rental vehicles or private vehicles. The member of the BP workforce comes to work employees for every 200,000 hours worked by BP l  All environment data relates to total BP-operated even when a physician or other licensed health care employees in the same period. emissions with the exception of ‘equity share direct professional recommends that the individual stays at Contractor: the total number of recordable injuries to greenhouse gas (GHG)’ emissions which shows the home. BP contractors for every 200,000 hours worked by BP BP share of emissions from operations on an equity d The BP workforce comprises all BP employees, all BP contractors in the same period. share basis. contractors and all BP directors. h  Vehicle accident: A work-related accident involving a m Hydrocarbon spill: Any loss of primary containment e Days away from work case frequency (DAFWCf): motor vehicle that occurs on or off-road resulting in of one barrel (1 barrel = 159 litres = 42 US gallons) The number of injury DAFWCs to BP employees for injury, or loss/damage, or harm to the environment, or more of liquid hydrocarbon. A loss of primary every 200,000 hours worked by BP employees in the whether this impacts BP and/or its contractor directly, containment is an unplanned or uncontrolled release same period. or impacts a third-party. This is irrespective of whether of material from primary containment. The number of injury DAFWCs to BP contractors for the accident was preventable or non-preventable. It every 200,000 hours worked by BP contractors in the n Non-hazardous waste includes general waste such excludes all accidents where: as household garbage, food-contaminated waste and same period. other materials which cannot be recycled. BP Georgia in figures BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 39 Independent assurance statement to BP management BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 (the 1. Reviewed a selection of external media 2. Are the data and statements regarding Report) has been prepared by the management reports and selected internal documents BP Georgia’s sustainability performance of BP Georgia, who are responsible for the relating to the sustainability performance of contained within the Report supported by collection and presentation of information BP in Georgia in 2013, including the ESIA evidence or explanation? within it. Our responsibility, in accordance with report for the SCP expansion project. We are not aware of any misstatements in BP management’s instructions is to carry out 2. Reviewed the outcome of BP Georgia’s own the assertions and data presented by BP a ‘limited level’ assurance engagement on the processes for determining the key issues to management within the Report regarding BP Report. be included in the Report. Georgia’s sustainability performance. We do not accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or 3. Reviewed information or explanations about Our independence the Report’s sustainability performance organisation. Any reliance any such third party As auditors to BP p.l.c., Ernst & Young are data and statements. Whilst we reviewed may place on the Report is entirely at its own required to comply with the requirements set documentation to support the sustainability risk. out in the Auditing Practices Board’s (APB) data contained within the Report, we did not Ethical Standards for Auditors. Ernst & Young’s What we did to form our conclusions test the data processes for gathering, collating independence policies apply to the firm, partners and reporting data at country or site level. Our assurance engagement has been and professional staff. These policies prohibit planned and performed in accordance with Level of assurance any financial interests in our clients that would the International Federation of Accountants’ or might be seen to impair independence. Each Our evidence gathering procedures have been ISAE30001. year, partners and staff are required to confirm designed to obtain a ‘limited level’ of assurance their compliance with the firm’s policies. The Report has been evaluated against the (as set out in ISAE3000) on which to base our following criteria: conclusions. The extent of evidence gathering We confirm annually to BP whether there procedures performed is less than that of a have been any events including the provision Whether the Report covers the key reasonable assurance engagement (such as a of prohibited services that could impair our sustainability issues relevant to BP in Georgia financial audit) and therefore a lower level of independence or objectivity. There were no such in 2013 which were raised in the media, BP assurance is provided. events or services in 2013. Georgia’s own review of material sustainability issues, and selected internal documentation. Our conclusions Whether sustainability claims made in the Based on the scope of our review our Ernst & Young LLP Report are consistent with the explanation conclusions are outlined below. London and evidence provided by relevant BP 1. Does the Report cover the key issues? 14 April 2014 managers. We are not aware of any key sustainability Whether the sustainability data presented in issues relevant to BP Georgia which were the Report are consistent with the relevant raised in the media or the outcome of BP business unit level data records. Georgia’s own materiality process that have In order to form our conclusions we undertook been excluded from the Report. the following steps. 1 International Federation of Accountants’ International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000). 40 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 Glossary BTC EUGBC Mmboe Baku-Tbilisi-Ceyhan pipeline EU-Georgia Business Council Million barrels of oil equivalent CBO ESIA Mmscf Community Based Organization Environmental and social impact assessment Million standard cubic feet CDI GHG NGO Community Development Initiative Greenhouse gas Non-governmental organization CO2 HSE PMC Carbon dioxide Health, safety and environment Project Management College DAFWC (f) IEC PSG Days away from work case (frequency) Independent environmental consultant Pump station Georgia EDDF IFC SCP Emergency drain-down facility International Finance Corporation South Caucasus Pipeline EMS ISET SPPD Environmental management system International School of Economics at Tbilisi State Strategic pipelines protection department University EU WREP European Union Western Route Export Pipeline (also known as the Baku-Supsa pipeline) BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013 41 Further resources BP communicates its non-financial commitments and performance at group, country and site levels online, as well as providing interactive tools for its website visitors. Group reporting Feedback Our website, bp.com/sustainability, is an integral We welcome feedback on this report. You part of our group sustainability reporting, covering can write to us at the address below, marked a wide set of issues and reporting on them in for the attention of the communications and more depth. It includes detailed information external affairs team, or send an e-mail to us at: and tools to analyse our health, safety and bpgeosust@bp.com environmental performance. Data for the past BP Georgia, 24 S. Tsintsadze str, 0160, Tbilisi, decade can be viewed in a variety of chart Georgia. formats. Case study examples of how we are managing issues locally around the world are also Previous BP in Georgia Sustainability Reports are available. available at bpgeorgia.ge Summaries of BP Sustainability Review 2013 are Acknowledgements available in Arabic, English, Mandarin Chinese, Design: Besik Danelia, IB Design German, Spanish, Portuguese and Russian. Photographs: Gela Kavelashvili, Internews bp.com/srtranslations Country and site reporting We publish country reports on our operations in Angola, Australia, Azerbaijan and Georgia. We also maintain a library of site reports. bp.com/countrysustainabilityreports bp.com/sitereports 42 BP in Georgia Sustainability Report 2013
