2014 Contents Management Rationale / Top Management Message 002 Corporate Motto / Management Rationale 004 Top Management Message Management Philosophy 007 Kyocera Group Management Roots 009 Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy 011 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Management 017 Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) 038 Corporate Governance Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment 040 Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 048 Cultivation of Human Resources 053 Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Environmental Activities 060 Kyocera Group Environmental Management 067 Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion 075 Green Products: Environmentally Friendly Products 088 Green Factories: Environmental Consciousness at Plants and Offices 099 Green Communication: Transparency with Local Communities Regarding Environmental Matters Fair Business Activities 103 Risk Management and Compliance 109 Supply Chain Management Customer Concerns 113 Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Social Contribution Activities 117 Supporting Academic Advancement and Research 120 Support for Culture and the Arts 122 International Exchange and Collaboration 125 Local Community Activities 133 ISO 9001 Certification Status 134 ISO 14001 Certification Status 136 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status 137 Editorial Policy 138 GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison Tables 1 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Corporate Motto / Management Rationale Corporate Motto “Respect the Divine and Love People” Management Rationale To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind. Management Philosophy To coexist harmoniously with our society, our global community and nature. Harmonious coexistence is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we work to create a world of prosperity and harmony. Methods of Management 1. To earn fair profit through harmonious business practices that result in products that satisfy our customers — providing quality products at lower prices, realized through ongoing R&D and sincere service. 2. To manage our company as if we were a family, hearts bound together devoid of antagonism, helping each other with a mutual sense of gratitude and appreciation. 2 Coexistence In order for the human race to survive and prosper in the future, we must remember the concept of coexistence. This is the concept that all living things on Earth must coexist together. All living things on Earth, including human beings, depend on each other for survival. In the future, management must be based on collaboration for mutual success. Fostering relationships where we all share a common vision and are willing to help one another and share in the burden so we can all grow together — this is the kind of management philosophy that future prosperity will require. Based on the idea of coexistence, Kyocera will continue to strive towards corporate activities aimed at the prosperity and harmony of humankind. 3 Management Rationale / Top Management Message Top Management Message Correct Application of the Concept, “Do What is Right as a Human Being” At the heart of Kyocera Group management is the corporate philosophy known as the Kyocera Philosophy, which emphasizes the importance of fair business based on ethical, moral and social standards that people should uphold throughout life. Ultimately, it comes down to one criterion for making decisions: “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” To realize our corporate philosophy, Kyocera developed a unique management control method known as the Amoeba Management System. With this system in place, Kyocera promotes a management method in which all employees can participate. Furthermore, Kyocera believes in highly transparent corporate activity with timely disclosure of information to customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business associates, and all other stakeholders. For the Kyocera Group, CSR is tantamount to the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy — the heart of Kyocera Group management. We believe practice of the Kyocera Philosophy builds mutual trust with stakeholders, and contributes to sustainable growth for the Kyocera Group, as well as the overall development of society. We will continue to engage in corporate management through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Kyocera will contribute to the advancement and development of humankind and society through practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. 4 Contributions to Society through Business Activities We currently face a variety of issues including economic globalization, the diversification of people’s values, increased energy demand, climate change, and a growing world population. The Kyocera Group aims to further develop its business with a focus on the expanding automotive and medical markets in addition to the telecommunications and environment & energy markets. In the telecommunications market, we aim to provide comfortable operability and ease of use with compact, high-performance components for smartphones and tablets and with communication equipment and information equipment based on our proprietary technology — endeavoring to create products that satisfy a wide range of users. In the environment & energy market, our focus is on power efficiency improvement, energy conservation and effective use of resources by incorporating solar modules and battery storage units as well as energy management systems designed to control energy use more efficiently. Furthermore, we are attempting to introduce clean energy in various forms and in different ways across business activities ranging from the design, installation and maintenance of solar power generating systems to the power generation business, thereby contributing to the development of an earth-friendly society. In the automotive market, component and device businesses in the Kyocera Group are strategically linked to facilitate the development of new products in order to meet the expectations of the market, thereby helping to realize an automobile-based society that stays in harmony with the environment, while providing safety and comfort for users. In the medical market, in addition to our existing medical materials business, we will pursue synergies of existing technology and products towards the development of products in new fields such as healthcare so that we can develop innovative medical materials and surface treatment techniques that help improve patient quality of life and further enhance the medical field. Handling of Global CSR Issues In order for the Kyocera Group to succeed in global competition and maintain its high pace of growth, we consider it important to further reinforce the management foundations and develop business activities rooted in each region while always respecting the inherent diversity of local customs and cultures. The Kyocera Group is an active member of the UN Global Compact, the basic rules on human rights, labor, the environment and prevention of corruption, and conducts positive activities towards the resolution of CSR issues. 5 Currently, with full awareness that conflict minerals can be used to fund armed groups conducting human rights abuses in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries in Africa, we are striving to solve the problem while working with customers and relevant industrial associations. Furthermore, we are also taking active measures for environmental preservation to cope with environmental issues including climate change based on the Kyocera Environmental Charter, which is our basic philosophy for the environment, and our Environment Vision 2020, which will guide the company’s actions up to the year 2020. We will continue to meet the expectations of all stakeholders of the Kyocera Group, thus building relationships of mutual trust and contributing to the robust development of society. 6 Management Philosophy Kyocera Group Management Roots Company members around the time of foundation The origin of Kyocera Group management is the Kyocera Philosophy, a philosophy for work and life based on the real-life experiences and empirical rules of Kazuo Inamori, founder and chairman emeritus of Kyocera Corporation. With “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its most essential criterion, the Kyocera Philosophy expounds the significance of commitment to fair management and operation in compliance with the most fundamental human ethics, moral values and social norms. What is the Kyocera Philosophy? The Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group is: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” The “material and intellectual growth” that we aim for includes the pursuit of economic stability, and entails the pursuit of mental riches as a human being, in the shape of life with purpose and job satisfaction through self-fulfillment in the workplace. Additionally, the steady refinement of our technology allows us to provide the world with wonderful products one after another, and thereby contribute to the advancement of science and technology. At the same time, by steadily raising profits as a company we aim to contribute to the improvement of common welfare, through increased tax payments and other means. The guidelines for action in pursuing the Management Rationale are set out in the Kyocera Philosophy. As a state of mind for leading wonderful lives, we are striving day by day to practice the Kyocera Philosophy. 7 Origin of the Kyocera Philosophy In 1959, with the generous support of the people around them, company founder Kazuo Inamori and seven other colleagues established Kyoto Ceramic Co., Ltd. (now Kyocera Corporation). Starting with a meager amount of capital, the company had no imposing office building or elaborate machinery in the beginning. All it had were fellow colleagues who shared the joys and sorrows and formed a close bond as members of one big family. Inamori then decided to base the management of the company on this bond of human minds. This is because he believed that while human minds are extremely changeable, they are also most dependable once the minds are bonded by strong trust. Later, Inamori encountered many difficulties in managing Kyocera, but he overcame them each time believing in the strong bond of human minds. The Kyocera Philosophy was thus born as he debated his life and work. Basic Ideas of the Kyocera Philosophy The Kyocera Group believes that decisions should always be made through reason and based on the idea of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as the basic criteria to achieve compliance with public morals. The criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” is based on the fundamental ethical and moral values of the natural goodness of human beings: “Don’t be greedy,” “Don’t cheat people,” “Don’t lie,” and “Be honest” are teachings we all received from our parents as children and represent the most basic principles of humankind. We believe that when making decisions and taking action in daily life, we should resort to the criterion of “What is universally right as a human being” and not the criterion of “What best suits our own convenience.” Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook A copy of the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook is distributed to each employee at Kyocera. Employees use various opportunities to apply the principles in the Pocketbook, and to independently learn and practice the Kyocera Philosophy. In April 2011, we published the Kyocera Philosophy Pocketbook II, which summarizes additional important points of the Philosophy. The updated Pocketbook is being progressively translated into multiple languages to aid penetration of the Kyocera Philosophy in bases overseas. 8 Management Philosophy Management Based on the Kyocera Philosophy For the Kyocera Group to realize the Management Rationale, correct understanding and application of the Kyocera Philosophy are essential. This applies also to Amoeba Management; Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles and The Twelve Management Principles. All are based on the Kyocera Philosophy. Correct understanding and application are essential for future growth and development, to sustain the dreams of employees, and for the Kyocera Group to continue as a corporate group that contributes to the development of society. In addition, we also strive to promote understanding and diffusion of the Kyocera Philosophy among employees by distributing booklets and pocketbooks. Amoeba Management The Kyocera Group uses its own business administration method called the Amoeba Management System, which is specifically developed to realize the corporate philosophy of the Kyocera Group. Under this system, the company organization is divided into small groups called amoebas, which operate on a self-supporting basis. We believe that employees’ enhanced sense of participation in management and motivation engendered by Amoeba Management constitutes the source of the Kyocera Group’s strength. The small group system also serves to clarify the responsibilities of each member of the group, secure transparency in every detail, and enable a thorough check of efficiency. The Objectives of Amoeba Management 1. Establish a market-oriented divisional accounting system 2. Foster personnel with a sense of management 3. Realize management by all 9 Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles Accounting is integral to the management of a company as it plays the key role as the compass that leads a company to its destination. When handling accounting matters, it is important to trace them back to their essence and take appropriate measures according to our primary criterion of “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” Kyocera considers the ideal state of accounting to be one in which the facts are shown as they are, and recognizes the importance of fair and transparent management. Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles are a set of practical accounting principles designed to give a correct understanding of the realities of the company and the directions to be taken. In the Kyocera Group, each employee is encouraged to understand and become familiar with the Kyocera Management and Accounting Principles, and to act in accordance with these principles. We believe this becomes a sound foundation not only for fair accounting, but also for the long-term development of the company. Seven Basic Principles 1. The Principle of Cash-Basis Management 2. The Principle of One-to-One Correspondence 3. The Principle of Muscular Management 4. The Principle of Perfectionism 5. The Principle of Double-Checking 6. The Principle of Profitability Improvement 7. The Principle of Transparent Management 10 Management Philosophy Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Kyocera Philosophy Education: Basic Concept and Structure In the Kyocera Group, a variety of Philosophy education programs are provided to each employee to familiarize them with the Kyocera Philosophy, realize the global growth of the Group through diligent efforts, and with originality and ingenuity, help all employees feel happy working for the Group in order to foster human resources capable of supporting the growth and development of society and humankind. Group-Wide Philosophy Committee In order to further enhance Philosophy education in the Kyocera Group, a Group-Wide Philosophy Committee was established with the Chairman as its head in May 2013. The Committee is engaged in the formulation of Philosophy education policy and the examination and determination of measures to promote further understanding and implementation. Expanding Kyocera Philosophy Education The Kyocera Group is expanding Kyocera Philosophy Education on a global basis in accordance with the policy of the Group-Wide Philosophy Committee. In Japan, education is divided into programs provided individually by each department, site or Group company, based on the conditions of their specific business activities and the common programs that support the individual programs. In individual educational activities, actions to diffuse the front-line-conscious Philosophy are taken proactively by each department, site or Group company. The common programs include Leader Education, which teaches the Twelve Kyocera Management Principles, the basis of management, and the type of leadership required of managers; and the Philosophy Workshop, which teaches the basics of the Kyocera Philosophy. In addition to those Philosophy education programs, various education and diffusion activities are carried out including voluntary workshops, company journals, company Web sites, and a collection of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays. Educational activities are also carried out overseas to match local customs and business types. 11 Diagram of the Kyocera Philosophy Education System The Kyocera Group has implemented an educational system aimed at improving the understanding and practice of the Kyocera Philosophy as well as enhancing employee abilities through the acquisition of both specialized knowledge and skills necessary to execute their work. Specific educational programs provided to employees include Kyocera Philosophy Education, management education, function-based education, and technical and skills education. (see page 50) Philosophy Education by Each Department, Site or Group Company General Affairs Departments The general affairs departments of Kyocera have set up the General Affairs Supervising HQ Philosophy Committee as a special organization to promote the activities of the GroupWide Philosophy Committee inside the departments. Under the General Affairs Committee, a working group (WG) is established with members, mostly young personnel, selected from each department. The WG reviews specific activities and their action programs Philosophy Times aimed at optimizing general affairs departments and cultivating a sense of unity among general affairs members. The working group issues an in-house newsletter, Philosophy Times, and strives for the diffusion of the Kyocera Philosophy by encouraging employees to select concepts from the Kyocera Philosophy as their own targets, proclaim them in their own “My Philosophy Card” and present them at morning meetings. 12 Automotive Components Departments The automotive components departments of Kyocera conduct two types of programs, one aimed at the growth and development of leaders with department heads as the main players, and the other the improvement of members’ motivation. Specific activities include lectures given by leaders who talk about their own experiences with the Kyocera Philosophy and small group discussions. In addition, various activities are carried out to invigorate communication at job sites including the provision of opportunities to talk about the Kyocera Philosophy by Philosophy education unique to automobile components departments means of morning meetings or casual parties where employees can share their problems and worries, thereby helping departments achieve their common objectives. Holding of Leader Education The Kyocera Group (Japan) started Leader Education in October 2013 for leaders at section manager level or higher aimed at having them learn anew the significance of the Twelve Kyocera Management Principles and to enhance their desire to put the Principles into practice. This education program is composed of a curriculum organized to help trainees conduct active discussion beyond departments, such as the holding of group discussions and wrap-up parties to deepen their understanding of the Twelve Principles. Because leaders understand and implement the Twelve Principles correctly, it is helpful in the promotion of the Philosophy in their workplaces. Leader Education Curriculum First Leader Education (clarify the purpose and significance of the business) Speeches to help better understand the first principle of the Twelve Kyocera Management Principles ·Set high targets that are fair, just and legitimate. Practice of the first principle of the Twelve Management Principles Leader Education (Kyocera Headquarters) ·Judgment and action required of leaders ·Motivating employees, etc. 13 The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles The Twelve Kyocera Management Principles are fundamental management rules. In other words, they do not change, regardless of any changes occurring in the business environment or conditions. They are the starting point of universal management, and represent the tenets of our management. 1. Clearly state the purpose and mission of your business. 2. Set specific goals. 3. Keep a passionate desire in your hearts. 4. Strive harder than anyone else. 5. Maximize revenues and minimize expenses. 6. Pricing is management. 7. Success is determined by willpower. 8. Possess a fighting spirit. 9. Face every challenge with courage. 10.Always be creative in your work. 11.Be kind and sincere. 12.Always be cheerful and positive. Philosophy Workshops The Kyocera Group (Japan) holds Philosophy Workshops to help each employee, regardless of position, age, division or trade, learn the basic Philosophy necessary to do a better job and lead a happy life, and to enhance their willingness to implement the Philosophy. The workshop program introduces familiar case examples about the Philosophy including words and phrases related to the Philosophy spoken by famous people, or the stories of employees about their experience with the Philosophy. In addition, workshop trainees learn the Philosophy from various viewpoints through individual work, group discussion, and watching DVDs. The workshops also help create a sense of unity among group members. In FY2014, workshops were held under the themes of Showing Appreciation and Taking on New Challenges. Philosophy Workshop Curriculum First Philosophy Workshop (Showing Appreciation) ·Thinking about appreciation ·Noticing appreciation around us ·Showing appreciation Second Philosophy Workshop (Taking on Philosophy Workshop (Kagoshima Kokubu New Challenges) Plant) ·Learning the importance of taking on new challenges ·Bracing yourself for challenges. 14 FY2014 Results of Kyocera Philosophy Education Leader Education Philosophy Workshop Part-timer Workshop Number of course 5,663 21,113 2,861 participants Top management Training hours 9 hours x 1 and times per 2.5 hours x 2 1 hour x 1 Mid-level employees employee 4 hours x 1 · These programs cover the education provided by the department in charge of Philosophy education at Kyocera. Other education programs include those unique to each department or Group company. · The education programs planned for FY2015 include Leader Education (twice a year), Philosophy Workshops (three times a year), and Part-timer Workshops (three times a year). Philosophy Education for Employees of Newly Incorporated Kyocera Group Companies When a company joins the Kyocera Group, their employees need to learn the Kyocera Philosophy. To help them learn the Philosophy and improve their work, Philosophy Education starts quickly. In October 2013, the Group provided Kyocera Philosophy Education to all 700 employees of Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc. Education started with the history of Kyocera and the necessity of the Kyocera Philosophy, and then programs were carried out for top management, mid-level managers and general employees. These programs successfully deepened understanding of the Kyocera Education for mid-level employees (Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc.) Philosophy. 15 Provision of Kyocera Philosophy Education to Overseas Group Companies The Group holds Philosophy education activities unique to overseas Group companies. A core company is assigned to promote Philosophy education in each of the four regions: Europe, the USA, China and the Asia-Pacific region. Starting in FY2014, workshops for staff in charge of Philosophy Education are being held at Kyocera headquarters (Kyoto, Japan) to develop personnel capable of planning and operating activities to diffuse Philosophy Education that match local conditions. At the workshop held Workshops for personnel in charge of philosophy education in April, 22 employees from Group companies located in English-speaking regions participated in the workshop. Along with deepening their understanding of Philosophy diffusion activities, they shared the actual conditions of each area to enhance their sense of cooperation. Last May, a workshop was also held for 10 employees of Group companies in Chinese-speaking regions. Diffusion Activities Based on Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays Kyocera has called for submissions of Kyocera Group Philosophy Essays every year since 1990 aimed at having employees deepen their understanding of the need for implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastery of it by linking it to personal experience. In FY2014, a total of about 32,000 essays were submitted from Japan, China and the USA. Essays submitted by employees are reviewed and the authors of selected essays are awarded the Chairman Emeritus’ Prize, the Chairman’s Prize or the President’s Prize. A collection of award-winning essays and other excellent essays is issued among the entire Kyocera Group to encourage the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Presentation of Philosophy Essays in China Collection of Philosophy Essays (Japanese version on the left and Chinese version on the right) 16 Management Kyocera Group Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) CSR Activities Based on the Kyocera Philosophy Shortly after its founding, Kyocera adopted its management rationale: “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” Management is based on the Kyocera Philosophy, which uses the concept “What is the right thing to do as a human being?” as its decision-making criterion. This also forms the basis for the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities. Through implementation of the Kyocera Philosophy, we work to find solutions to corporate citizenship issues, build relationships of mutual trust with our stakeholders, and aim for the sustained development of the Kyocera Group. At the same time, we endeavor to contribute to the healthy development of society. 17 Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Kyocera Group establishes the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. Introduction Since its foundation, Kyocera has declared that it will provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind as its management rationale and has managed its business based on the Kyocera Philosophy — the core of management in the Kyocera Group. By practicing the Kyocera Philosophy on a daily basis, we will contribute to the sound development of society as well as build mutual trust with stakeholders, and continuously develop the Kyocera Group. We therefore establish the Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines, our standards of corporate conduct, and will act towards the creation of a sustainable society. These guidelines apply to Kyocera Corporation and Kyocera Group companies, as well as all executive officers and employees. 1. Basic duties We shall observe laws, regulations and corporate rules, have unshakable moral values based on the Kyocera Philosophy and perform corporate activities globally, making decisions based on the criterion of What is the right thing to do as a human being? 2. Human rights and labor We shall respect fundamental human rights. 2-1. We shall always be aware of changes in work environments and the characteristics and culture of each country to build up a personnel system that can respond appropriately. 2-2. We shall respect the human rights of employees and not treat them severely or inhumanely, including abuse or any type of harassment. 2-3. We shall promote the creation of attractive, rewarding work environments by attempting to share opinions and information with employees. 2-4. We shall respect the right of freedom of association based on the laws, regulations and labor practices of each country. 2-5. We shall eliminate forced labor and child labor. 2-6. We shall not engage in unfair and discriminatory treatment. 18 3. Health and safety We shall observe laws and regulations related to health and safety, fire control, and undertake health and safety measures more actively and continuously including through the implementation of risk assessment and emergency preparedness to provide work environments that are accident and disaster-free, where employees can work in safety and free from anxiety. 4. Environmental conservation We shall regard the Kyocera Environmental Charter as our guideline for the environmental protection activities to be achieved. We shall perform improvement activities more actively and continuously to contribute to global environmental protection by working in a comprehensive fashion on environmental measures such as environmental preservation, energy conservation, climate change prevention, resource conservation, global environmental product development and biodiversity conservation. At the same time, we shall communicate those efforts widely to society. 5. Fair trade and ethics We shall always carry out fair trade in the spirit of equity and fair play. 5-1. We shall compete fairly, transparently and freely and carry out fair trade. 5-2. We shall arrange and manage a clear import and export management system in accordance with related laws and regulations in Japan and overseas. 5-3. When procuring materials, we shall conform to laws and regulations, do business faithfully, justly and fairly without abusing any dominant bargaining position, and work to build up partnerships based on mutual trust. 5-4. We shall request business partners to understand and cooperate with our CSR activities. 5-5. We shall create, protect and utilize intellectual property rights, respect the intellectual property rights of others, and prevent any violation of their rights. 5-6. We shall neither offer nor receive inappropriate profits in relationships with stakeholders. 5-7. We shall maintain sound and normal relationships with political organizations and the authorities, and shall never offer bribes or illegal political contributions. 5-8. We shall steadfastly maintain an attitude of confrontation with antisocial forces and reject any unjust claim. 5-9. We shall carry out activities to prevent wrongdoing and also arrange systems to detect and respond to it immediately. 5-10. We shall not purchase any materials or products including conflict minerals or metals derived from them that create a source of funds for armed groups causing human rights violations. 19 6. Quality and product safety We shall regard the Kyocera Quality Policy and Kyocera Product Safety Policy as our guidelines to be achieved. 7. Information disclosure We shall always foster communication with society through appropriate information disclosure and active PR and IR activities; and aim at being a fair, highly transparent and open business enterprise. 7-1. We shall strive to disclose information to stakeholders including stockholders and investors quickly, appropriately and fairly; and promote understanding of our management and business activities. 7-2. We shall foster fair stock transactions and strive to prevent insider trading such as the buying and selling of stocks based on undisclosed internal information. 8. Information security We shall be aware that personal information and confidential information are important and strive to prevent information leakages while maintaining and promoting information security. 8-1. We shall be aware that personal information is important information that constitutes privacy, and strive to protect it thoroughly. 8-2. We shall properly manage and protect confidential information received from customers or third parties, and confidential information of the company obtained in the conduct of business, and prevent any leakage or misuse. 9. Business continuity plan (BCP) We shall formulate a BCP and aim for quick recovery and operation even if concerns over supply arise due to disaster, etc. 10. Social contribution Based on awareness that a business enterprise is a member of society, we shall do our duty at all times as a corporate citizen that supports the development of local communities and society, and carry out various social contribution activities, not just business. 10-1. We shall actively interact with local people and support sports to contribute to the development of local communities. 10-2. We shall strive to do our duty as a member of society through various activities that contribute to society such as education, research, culture, the arts, international exchange and cooperation, and environmental protection activities. 20 Participation in International Initiatives The Kyocera Group promotes CSR activities on a global basis by conducting continuous improvement based on international standards including ISO 26000 and the UN Global Compact in order to meet the expectations of stakeholders and establish mutual trust. ISO 26000 Issued by the International Organization for Standardization in November 2010, ISO 26000 is an international guidance standard concerning social responsibility. This standard is divided into seven core subjects that should be considered in implementation of CSR activities (organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement and development). UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact is a voluntary undertaking to build a global framework around 10 principles relating to protection of human rights, eradication of unfair labor practices, environmental responses, and prevention of corruption. By participating in the Compact and practicing accountable and creative leadership, individual corporations and organizations function as good members of society, and aim to achieve sustainable growth. Human Rights 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2: Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 21 Anti-Corruption 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Enhance Communication with all Stakeholders CSR Report Meetings CSR Economic, Social and Environmental Report Meetings have been held by the Kyocera Group (Japan) each year since FY2005. Their purpose is to raise the level of mutual communication with local communities — important stakeholders for the Kyocera Group. Factories invite local residents, government representatives, business associates, nearby companies and other people from the community to attend meetings where we provide participants with reports on the economic, social and environmental activities of the Kyocera Group as a whole and of the local facilities; along with exchanging views with the participants on CSR measures. In FY2014, 304 people took part at 10 bases in Japan. Main Programs of the CSR Report Meeting (1) Kyocera Group CSR activities (2) CSR activities and plant visits at ·Report on management rationale, each site Kyocera Philosophy and business ·Report on social responsibility and activities environmental activities at each site ·Report on the Kyocera Group’s social ·Plant visit (production processes, responsibility and environmental environment-related equipment, etc.) activities CSR Activities (Nagano Okaya Plant) Plant visit (Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation, Head Office) 22 (3) Meeting for exchange of views ·Exchange of views among participants and Q&A Questions from Participants Osaka Daito Office Q. “I understand that you are promoting women’s activities, but could you give us some successful case examples?” A. “We have established a Women’s Activity Promotion Committee. The Committee conducts activities according to specific themes. Specific activities intended to create working environments friendly to women include the holding of meetings to exchange views among female employees and the issuing of inhouse reports at individual workplaces featuring, for example, interviews with female managers or introductions to work-and-child-rearing support systems.” Moka Plant, Kyocera Chemical Corporation Q. “I would like the Moka Plant to cooperate with local festivals and other events.” A. “We intend to cooperate actively with local communities to enhance communication with local people.” Apart from that, we have received opinions and questions from a lot of people. 23 Goals and Results of CSR Activities FY2014 Goals FY2014 Results FY2015 Goals Management Education and Establishment of The Group-Wide Meetings of the Philosophy Diffusion of the the Committee Philosophy Group-Wide Kyocera on Kyocera Committee was Philosophy Philosophy Philosophy established to Committee are Education formulate policies to be held on Kyocera regularly to Philosophy continue Education and education and examine and diffusion of the determine Kyocera measures on the Philosophy. implementation of the Philosophy. Committee meetings are held regularly (three times in total in FY2014). Reinforcement Kyocera Improvement of of training implemented training programs for programs materials and implementation provided the of the Kyocera individually by reinforcement of Philosophy and each department, Kyocera their expansion site or Group Philosophy to each company based Education department and on the conditions programs Group company of their specific Kyocera is business activities reinforcing and common education programs that systems support the matched to each individual country and programs, namely region, including Leader Education the holding of and Philosophy workshops for Workshops. overseas personnel in Participants in charge of Kyocera Kyocera Philosophy Philosophy Education: 5,663 Education. 24 people in Leader Education, and 21,113 people in Philosophy Workshops Kyocera has determined core companies to promote Philosophy Education in each of the four regions of Europe, the USA, China and the Asia-Pacific region, and has started unique Kyocera Philosophy Education activities. Management Reinforcement Continued Kyocera held Kyocera will of holding of CSR CSR Report promote communication Report Meetings Meetings to communication with further activate with local stakeholders two-way communities towards the communication through CSR creation of with local Report mutual trust communities (at Meetings, etc. 10 sites with a total of 304 participants) Realization of Improvement of Corporate Improvement of highly corporate governance and corporate transparent governance internal control governance corporate systems and systems are systems and governance internal control maintained to internal control and internal systems. ensure the systems control soundness and systems transparency of management 25 Outside directors have been appointed to enhance advice for management and supervisory functions. Implementation Kyocera Implementation of internal implemented of internal control audits internal control control audits based on the audits and and accounting risk approach accounting audits audits based on on internal control the risk systems from the approach risk approach perspective. Transparency and workability were improved by the evaluation of effectiveness. Respect for Promotion of Continued Kyocera Continue Human Rights measures implementation implemented implementation / Optimal Work relating to of awareness educational of awareness Environment human rights enhancement activities on enhancement activities for human rights and for employees employees and labor through and legal audits legal audits that morning meeting that check legal check legal presentations on compliance. compliance human rights and labor and readings on related issues from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is distributed to all employees. Kyocera examines compliance with human rights thoroughly. 26 Human resource departments have implemented voluntary checks and audit departments have also conducted legal audits to see whether there were any legal violations or appropriate management based on laborrelated laws, inhouse regulations and labor agreements with labor unions. Promotion of Improvement of Briefing sessions Improvement of respect for measures for the on relevant measures for diversity / promotion of systems were the support of work-life diversity and held for work-life balance support of a employees balance. work-life planning to take Reinforcement balance. maternity leave of measures and meetings towards the were held for improvement of exchanges with the rate of employees employment of currently on disabled maternity leave to persons reinforce support for the balancing of child-rearing and work. Expansion of Women’s Activity Reinforcement awareness Promotion of awareness enhancement Committees set enhancement activities up at each site activities towards the took the initiative towards the promotion of in holding lecture promotion of female events and female employees meetings for employees. 27 exchanges of views with female employees from other companies and career design workshops, etc. Reinforcement Kyocera Kyocera Kyocera will of measures on implemented implemented expand English human training and measures to learning support resource support support measures to development measures to employees Group help employees acquiring English companies. learn foreign with the goal of a languages. TOEIC score of 600 Workshops were held for employees to learn business document writing or presentation methods in English or Chinese to develop engineers who can be active globally (776 participants) Reinforcement Reduction of Kyocera Continuation of of occupational implemented measures to management accidents. activities to ensure the on health and reduce industrial safety of safety and fire accidents such as mechanical and disaster the holding of equipment and prevention Safety Dojo and safety education Hands-on for employees Experience Dojo towards the events, visits to prevention of plants, and joint industrial environmental accidents safety meetings. 28 Reinforcement of Kyocera Kyocera earthquake conducted prepared a countermeasures disaster policy for prevention drills in earthquake coordination with response fire departments, measures, and simulation including the drills to rescue fixation of people trapped equipment and when elevators securement of stop due to backup power earthquakes. supplies, and is implementing such measures sequentially. Continuation of disaster prevention drills in coordination with fire departments Revision of the Revision of the Expansion to action plan on action plan to other overseas new types of match the revised Group companies influenza government guideline The action plan has been expanded to major production sites in China and anti-influenza measures matching local conditions formulated. Revision of Mental health Continuation of education and education has mental health guidance on been revised. education employee health Managers’ roles management and specific response 29 methods to affected employees have been clarified, and mental health education is being provided at each site. Reinforcement Kyocera has Reinforcement of systems for established a of measures to improvement of system to improve the 5S levels implement 5S level of Evaluation evaluation of 5S Education aimed activities at developing personnel capable of accurately evaluating the 5S of each workplace to enable the appropriate evaluation of 5S activities. Environmental Achievement of Promotion of Low-Carbon Continuation of Activities Environment activities Society activities Vision 2020 towards the Contribution towards the achievement of Factor: 1.21 achievement of a Low-Carbon a Low-Carbon Society Society Contribution Contribution Factor of 3 in Factor of 3 in 2020 2020 Promotion of Development of Kyocera is Kyocera will environmentally environmental developing continue to friendly products and environmentally develop products operation of the friendly products environmentally Green Supplier (ratio of friendly Certification environmental products. System. products: 99%) Kyocera has Kyocera has implemented a revised the Green survey based on Procurement the Kyocera Guideline, and Guideline on 30 established the Environmental Kyocera Guideline Protection on Activities and is Environmentally reinforcing the Hazardous Green Substances and Procurement the Kyocera promotion Guideline on system. Environmental Protection Activities. The guidelines were distributed to about 450 customer companies and a survey was conducted on contained chemical substances. Promotion of Kyocera has Greenhouse gas Achievement of environmental achieved unit emissions basic unit awareness at improvement unit: 3.1% improvement plants and rates of at least improvement rates of at least offices 1% compared to relative to FY2013 1% against FY2013 levels in Energy FY2014 levels in greenhouse gas consumption greenhouse gas emissions, basic unit: 10.2% emissions, energy improvement energy consumption, relative to FY2013 consumption, water Water water consumption consumption consumption, and industrial basic unit: 0.3% and industrial waste discharge improvement waste discharge at all production relative to FY2013 at all production sites. Industrial waste sites discharge basic unit: 14.1% improvement relative to FY2013 31 Environmental Reinforcement Kyocera provided Continuation of communication of environmental on-site environmental with local communication environmental communication communities through the lessons for through the support of children support of children’s (Participants: children’s environmental 13,460 children at environmental education, 218 elementary education, biodiversity schools in Japan) biodiversity preservation and Kyocera preservation participation in implemented and participation environmental forestation in environmental events activities in events various parts of Japan including Fukushima, Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, Kyoto and Kagoshima. Participation in environmental events including Earth Expo and recycling events Kagoshima Sendai Plant received the Award for the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming. Fair Business Promotion of Reinforcement Kyocera has Reinforcement Activities risk of risk established a Risk of risk management management Management management systems Division to promotion restructure risk management systems 32 Reinforcement Training for all Kyocera will of efforts production reinforce the concerning the departments and deployment of Business environment the BCP to Continuity Plan departments of overseas Group (BCP) Kyocera was held companies. (BCP training has Reinforcement been completed of customers’ for 183 BCP-related departments in efforts total) BCP activities based on disaster risks in each area have been conducted actively at various sites. The Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline was revised and Business Continuity Plan (BCP) items were newly added. Kyocera carried out a survey of the state of customers’ BCPrelated efforts. Reinforcement Management Establishment of of efforts related rules matching internal audit to electronic local conditions systems at information were formulated Group security for Group companies in companies in China and China and Southeast Asia Southeast Asia, Reinforcement and actions were of security initiated towards based on the the establishment introduction of 33 of internal audit new systems. authentication Kyocera has infrastructure implemented Kyocera is security continuing ediagnoses of learning on server systems electronic disclosed outside information of the company, security to such as Web implement sites, to enhance management security. thoroughly. Kyocera is implementing elearning on electronic information security. Thorough legal Establishment of The Security Establishment of compliance a global Trade Control a security trade comprehensive (STC) Committee control system security trade is convened for overseas control system. periodically to Group ensure thorough companies compliance with import/export laws and regulations Kyocera has established a security trade control system for overseas Group companies to enhance management. Continuing Kyocera is Provision of implementation implementing eemployee of employee learning on education on the education for personal prevention of thorough legal information insider trading compliance. protection for based on newly employed revised laws staff 34 Reinforcement In addition to Establishment of of the audit audits of the legal a new legal system on legal compliance of audit system compliance. Group companies based on the in Japan, Kyocera introduction of is checking the business legal compliance process audits systems of Group companies in Asia. Reinforcement Continued Kyocera held Continue of supply chain holding of Supplier holding Supplier management supplier Seminars, to Seminars and seminars which customers Supplier were invited to Fellowship understand the Parties management Kyocera has policy and revised and business policy of started the Kyocera operating the Group, together basic business with a Supplier contract and Fellowship Party added CSR (participants: 149 provisions. people from 110 companies). Three customer companies were presented with awards at the Supplier Fellowship Party for special contributions in terms of factors such as quality, price and delivery dates. Reinforcement Kyocera held Disclosure of of responses to briefing sessions information on conflict minerals on conflict conflict minerals minerals to and continuing request the investigations 35 cooperation of customers with investigations. Answers from customers are being examined and evaluated. Customer Efforts towards Kyocera held a Meetings of the Meetings of the Concerns the raising of meeting of the Kyocera CS Kyocera CS quality and Kyocera CS Improvement Improvement customer Improvement Committee are Committee are satisfaction Committee to held once a held regularly to levels promote month to promote continuously improvement of the improvement promote the CS index* of the CS index improvement of (24% (19% the CS index improvement improvement (49% relative to relative to improvement FY2013). FY2013) relative to FY2014). Social Promotion of Kyocera has Kyocera supports Kyocera will Contribution social implemented the Inamori continue Activities contribution activities Foundation’s activities activities including the Kyoto Prize, an including the support of award to honor support of academic and excellent academic and research achievers in three research activities, fields: Advanced activities, support of Technology, Basic support of cultural and Sciences, and cultural and artistic activities, Arts and artistic activities, and international Philosophy. and international exchange and The Kyocera exchange and cooperation Museum of Fine cooperation. Ceramics, which displays the history of Kyocera’s technology and examples of advanced technology, underwent a 36 comprehensive renewal. The 2014 Spring Special Exhibition, displaying cultural properties related to Fushimi Ward (Kyoto City), was held at the Kyocera Museum of Art Solar power generation systems were donated to seven elementary and junior high schools in Tanzania and Uganda. *Ratio of quality-related losses in and out of the company 37 Management Corporate Governance Corporate Governance and Internal Control Systems The purpose of corporate governance and internal control in the Kyocera Group is to maintain management soundness and transparency, and to achieve fair and efficient management, through which we aim to realize the Management Rationale of the Kyocera Group. To establish a sound corporate culture, the Kyocera Group implements the following measures through the practice of the Kyocera Philosophy. Corporate Governance System 1. Directors shall accommodate requests for reports by corporate auditors. 2. Internal audit departments shall provide regular reports to corporate auditors on the state of internal audits. 3. Establishment of the Kyocera Board of Corporate Auditors Reporting System to enable employees, suppliers, customers and other individuals or organizations associated with the Kyocera Group to report directly to the Board. 4. Corporate auditors have the authority to attend important meetings and to inspect important conference minutes, documents, contracts, etc. Corporate auditors may call for meetings with representative directors to exchange opinions concerning management of the Kyocera Group in general. 38 Internal Control System 1. Establishment of the Kyocera Disclosure Committee as a means for making timely and appropriate disclosure of management information outside the company. 2. Establishment of a Risk Management Division, as part of the Kyocera Group’s risk management system. 3. Establishment of an Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center as part of the Kyocera Group’s internal complaint system, where employees can report violations of laws, company regulations or other matters. 4. Introduction of an Executive Officer System to clearly delegate authority and related responsibilities; and construction of an effective and efficient business execution system. Internal Control Audits of the Kyocera Group As Kyocera is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the company is subject to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act. Section 404 requires business operators to construct and maintain internal control systems relating to fiscal reporting. Section 404 assesses the effectiveness of internal control systems through internal audits based on internal control evaluation criteria. 39 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Respect for Human Rights and Diversity Respect for Human Rights Aside from compliance with the laws of individual countries, the Kyocera Group implements measures in accordance with the United Nation’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Fundamental Human Rights Convention by the International Labor Organization (ILO) and other international conventions. In 2011, the Kyocera Group formally joined the United Nations Global Compact, a global platform setting out 10 fundamental principles relating to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. As stated in these international conventions, the Kyocera Group explicitly prohibits the use of forced labor and child labor, as well as discriminatory treatment on the basis of gender, age, beliefs, nationality, physical features, etc. The Kyocera Group is also working to prevent power harassment and sexual harassment in the workplace. In addition, the Kyocera Group endeavors to exchange views and share information with employees through organizations such as labor unions and workplace associations. The Kyocera Group promotes development of a comfortable work environment that fosters motivation. Measures Relating to Human Rights and Labor To raise employee awareness concerning human rights and labor, time at morning meetings in Kyocera is set aside for announcements on matters requiring compliance in the workplace. Reading in turn about related issues from the Kyocera Employee’s Action Guideline, which is distributed to all employees, is also an ongoing activity. In addition, human resource departments undertake independent checks for legal violations such as discrimination, appropriate payment and working hour management according to labor-related laws and regulations, in-house rules, and labor agreements with unions. Auditing departments also carry out audits regularly to ensure thorough legal compliance. One Approach Measures for Human Rights in Supply Chain Management The Kyocera Group policy is not to purchase conflict minerals or materials and products using metals made from conflict minerals, which are a source of revenue for armed groups conducting human rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries. We are carrying out proactive measures in accordance with this policy. (see page 111) 40 Respect for Diversity / Work-Life Balance Adapting to Globalization Since Kyocera’s first overseas office was established in 1968 (U.S.A.), localization has been the basic principle of recruitment. The Kyocera Group has always tried to appoint local employees to management positions. We directly employ students who graduate from Chinese universities and graduate schools from the viewpoint of the employment and development of personnel who will lead our global development in the future. We will also continue to employ foreign students studying in Japan. Promoting the Careers of Women in the Workplace Kyocera views the promotion of women’s advancement as an important management task and started efforts in 2006 with the President as the general supervisor. Kyocera actively promotes the creation of a workplace environment that helps a variety of human resources maximize their performance through the promotion of women’s advancement activities and ultimately aims to improve corporate competitiveness. Major actions include improvement of the ratio of female workers, increases in the fields of work available to women, improvement of systems to support female satisfaction of both career and childrearing, and improved awareness of workplace reform. 41 In particular, awareness improvement activities for workplace reform include the setting up of the Group-Wide p tc w re Activity Women's improvPromotion men ct Committee p ac a Women’s it s f r wor and h Promotion Activity f rm i clude t in f Committee at G p-Wide Wom n each site so that various site-specific problems ct vity romo o Comm ttee and a Women’ Ac ivi y Prom tioare identified and solved by female representatives Comm t ee at ach selected s e sofrom tha each various s t site work serving specific as committee problems a e den fiedmembers and o In 2013, a variety of opportunities were provided to expand the frame of reference and I 2013 of viewpoints ety of pportuniti v women, we e p by including slectures ov ded activeo expand e frame o to women, meetings reference exchange andviews with other companies’ female employees, and career design training as opportunitiesws viewpoi t o w men, lud ng lec ur by active omen me ng o exc ange vi forwwomen t to er c m a e f e pl y s, a ca ee si t ai ing as ppo design their own future visions. Kyocera also has in place systems to support working women t i i r ome o g u n y c e p w g n while they raise children and conducts various support activities including the holding of briefing i c l g l i g sessions to explain the work-and-childrearing balance system, exchanges of views with other working mothers, and interviews with female workers returning from maternity leave. kin i ith l i o v Furthermore, F th m r a variety v ri y ofof information f rmation for r awareness w ren ss of of w women m w rking working in offices i offi es is d istr distributed b t d proactively. pr active It isi understood derst d tthat at because eca s foft these se fo efforts, ts r m n is ris gradually e venvironment an ually be gbeing establishedtot help established help women accumulate women accum workexexperience late work erience and and thathat nu number h the be of o of women en se v ng serving in n leadership leadershi positions pos ions iss increasing. ncreasi g. Women’s Activity Promotion Committee (Shiga Yohkaichi Plant) 42 One Approach Kyocera Held Lectures to Support both Working and Childrearing Female managers, who do an excellent job at work and childrearing at home, were invited to be speak at lectures held in June 2013 at the Gamo and Yohkaichi plants in Shiga Prefecture (Japan). In these lectures, under the theme “fostering an attitude that allows you to blaze your own trail,” the lecturers talked about the working environment surrounding women, their own experiences, and the attitude and thinking necessary to maintain a balance between work and childrearing, while continuing to work positively. Opinions of participants · “Working means contributing to society. I realized that I am one of the people who will support the future of Japan, and I was able to feel proud.” · “I realized that it is important to find work that you alone can do, that you always have a goal to work towards, and to maintain a Lectures by female lecturers from outside broad perspective.” the company Employing People with Disabilities Kyocera focuses on hiring people with disabilities and continuing their employment. Employees with disabilities hired by Kyocera are assigned appropriately so that their jobs and workplaces match their aptitudes. Work environment improvements for employees with disabilities also continue, including elevators and bathroom facilities that are accessible to employees in wheelchairs and braille plates installed at various places to support visually impaired employees. In addition, we provide health care support with the help of occupational health physicians. These fine-tuned responses also help create an attractive work environment for people with disabilities. In April 2013, the legal employment quota for people with disabilities was revised to 2.0%. In response, Kyocera has developed specific action plans to improve the employment rate and is taking various actions to actively improve the work environment to make it much easier for employees with disabilities to work. 43 Measures for Child-Rearing and Nursing Care The Kyocera Group (Japan) introduced the Child-Rearing Leave System, which helps female employees to both work and fulfill their family lives, and in FY2014, a total of 405 female employees used the system. Furthermore, Kyocera has established a Family Nursing Care Leave System, which grants a maximum of one year of leave to employees who need to take care of family members; and the Shortened Workday System, which applies to pregnant employees and employees raising children up to elementary school third graders. A total of 138 employees used these systems in FY2014. In addition, for employees who use baby-sitters, expenses are covered up to 200,000 yen per child per year under Kyocera’s baby-sitter use support system. This system is used by employees who would otherwise have had to take time off to send or pick up their children to or from a nursery school or school. Kyocera Corporation Name of System Designated by Law Standard Family Nursing Care Leave 3 months 1 year System To starting date of elementary To end of elementary school Shortened Workday System school year 3 44 Approaches to Stimulating Communication Holding Company Events & After-Work Social Gatherings (“Compa”) The Kyocera Group believes it is necessary to maintain family-like relationships of trust among employees, and thus considers company events and “compa” to be very important. Kyocera Group “compa” are not simply social gatherings, they are opportunities for interaction aimed at strengthening mutual understanding on reaching specific objectives. This understanding can be attained, for example, by deepening discussion on work-related issues, and by participants declaring their goals. At company events or “compa,” employees can deepen communication with executives and managers, get to know co-workers in other departments better, and deepen mutual relationships and ties. 45 Approach to Labor-Management Relations At Kyocera, great emphasis is put on building relationships based on trust and heart-to-heart bonds among employees. Labor-management relations at Kyocera go beyond the generally accepted idea of harmony between management and labor. At Kyocera, the basis of the relationship is “coaxial labor and management,” where perspectives are shared on the same level. We carry out sports meets, summer festivals and many other kinds of events that stimulate and sustain such relations through unity. In Europe, the U.S.A., China and other countries, Kyocera continues to maintain appropriate labor relations via thorough labor-management consultation in accordance with labor laws of individual countries. Labor and management on the same axis is the key for successful Sports festival (China) labor relations. Maintaining this stance will help to resolve problems in the workplace and keep the company on the path of sustainable development. One Approach Regulations Review Project The Regulations Review Project, undertaken jointly by labor and management, was launched in 2005. Employees’ needs and lifestyles become diversified along with changes in the social climate. Labor and management are therefore working together on checking systems and standards, to ensure they are always appropriate, fair and impartial. Labor and Management Exchange Conference Meetings of labor and management representatives are held each month in Kyocera plants and offices. The purpose of the meetings is to verify working conditions for employees and the workplace environment, and to actively exchange views on matters needing improvement, among other issues. Labor and Management Exchange Conference (Headquarters) 46 Kyocera Group Sports Festival The Kyocera Group Sports Festival is co-sponsored by labor and management in the Kyocera Group to enhance cohesion and relationships of mutual trust throughout the Group via games and victory celebrations. During the 34th All-Sports meet held in 2013, 34 teams that won preliminary tournaments at Kyocera plants, offices and domestic Kyocera Group companies engaged in heated competition. A Tohoku Select Team was also formed in 2013 to carry on efforts from the previous year to support the restoration of the Tohoku region. Measures for Raising Workplace Vitality Kyocera Group (Japan) regularly conducts an awareness survey of all employees. The survey focuses on topics such as the level of satisfaction with work and the workplace environment, the management situation, the sense of trust in the company, and suggestions for improvements. Responses from each organizational unit are analyzed, enabling diagnosis of “vitality level” in each workplace. In 2012, the survey was expanded to include Group companies in Japan. Results of analyses are compiled into a reference index. The index is then used in improvement activities centered on workplace leaders to achieve higher vitality levels in each workplace. 2012 workplace vitality diagnosis results (Kyocera Group in Japan) 47 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Cultivation of Human Resources Systems for the Cultivation of Human Resources Kyocera regards human resources as human “assets” and supports activities enabling employees to raise awareness of personal development and their contribution in the workplace. In particular, as personal development can be achieved to a great extent through work, Kyocera is striving to create a workplace environment that enables each employee to work cheerfully and energetically, and draws out natural talents to the maximum extent. Kyocera helps employees grow based on the following system: Structure of the Human Resource Development System One-to-One Guidance System Kyocera has established a One-to-One Guidance System to support the growth of new employees. Under this system, a guidance manager is assigned to each new employee. Guidance managers undertake close communication with new employees, including periodic interviews, and provide fine-tuned guidance. Follow-up interviews are also provided by human resource departments. New employees therefore enjoy a system that gives them advice from various viewpoints. 48 STEP Based on the idea that employees grow steadily step by step as if they go up the stairs and move to the next level, Kyocera established the STEP system for new employees up to the fifth year of employment to support the growth of younger employees. When there are regular opportunities for communication between subordinates and supervising employees, young employees are encouraged to talk about their thoughts and ideas with their supervisors, and the supervisors listen to them and share their thoughts. This creates a feeling of oneness among all employees, which then helps support the growth of young employees. Skill Development Support System for Engineers Kyocera has an Engineer Ability Development & Support System to help engineers enhance their credentials independently. This system clarifies the level of roles expected of each engineer and allows engineers to quantitatively understand the skills necessary for their roles. This system leads to improved engineering capabilities for the organization as a whole. Challenge System Kyocera also has another system for human resource development, the Challenge System. It allows the sharing of employee work targets with supervisors and improves employee capabilities through interviews with supervisors. This helps employees understand their roles and encourages them to work proactively on their job and skill development. It also aims to create a working environment where every employee can work actively and brightly. Supervisors, by heeding subordinate feedback, endeavor to improve the ability of the organization to reach goals and succeed in business. Internal Placement Application System Kyocera’s Internal Placement Application System was established to provide employees with information on departments that need personnel immediately, from the corporate viewpoint, for example, due to the start of a new project or expansion of an existing business. Since this system provides employees with various opportunities that allow them to experience different positions at their own will, it serves as an effective means of support for employee career improvement. The optimal assignment of personnel is also another important goal for the company. 49 Human Resource Education The Kyocera Group provides human resource education aimed at improving both theoretical and practical aspects of education, understanding and practice of the Kyocera Philosophy and mastering of the specialized knowledge and skills necessary to execute work. Kyocera thus endeavors to optimize human resources who can help us achieve the Management Rationale by providing a variety of education programs based on the education system composed as follows for each objective: *Human Assessment Human Resource Education System 50 Education Results in FY2014 Management Technical Training Global Education Education No. of Course 2,115 people 3,243 people 804 people Participants Average Annual Training Hours Per 3 days 1.5 days 1 day Employee Management Education Kyocera provides training to supervisors — the leaders of the organization — to develop executives with advanced management capabilities. In addition, Kyocera aims to improve employees’ management capabilities by providing the training to employees necessary in each stage of their career development, from the time of entry into the company to mid-level and executive positions, so that they can learn the skills and knowledge required to fulfill their tasks on a step-by-step basis. Technical Training It is our goal to develop human resources with a wide range of basic knowledge and advanced expert knowledge in all departments, including engineering, R&D, manufacturing, quality assurance, sales and management. Specific training programs include Basic Technical Training for first year employees, Specialized Technical Training mainly for young engineers, and Mid-Level Engineer Training for mastery of technical management. The training curriculum covers a wide range, such as materials technology, manufacturing technology, production technology, and Technical training quality control. Kyocera employees can take the training necessary for their assignments under this training system. 51 Global Education Kyocera has an Overseas Training System and Overseas Graduate School Study System. The objective of these systems is to cultivate human resources who can function on the global stage. First established in 1984, these systems have sent many employees to various regions around the world, including Europe, China, Southeast Asia, and India as well as the USA. Kyocera is thus promoting the cultivation of employees with improved language skills, the ability to obtain up-to-date knowledge and technology that can only be acquired abroad, as well as enhanced Overseas training international awareness. As part of training to improve employees’ basic English capabilities, Kyocera has provided English learning support since FY2012 to raise the lowest levels of ability and aid the achievement of a minimum score of 600 points on the TOIEC English test. English education 52 Respect for Human Rights / Optimal Work Environment Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Occupational Health & Safety Policy The Kyocera Group aims to create an accident-free and disaster-free workplace environment where everyone can work safely and with peace of mind. Based on the policy below, the Kyocera Group is promoting occupational health and safety activities with the participation of all employees: 1. To maintain and improve the level of employee safety and health, the Kyocera Group abides by relevant laws and regulations and establishes and operates internal standards that are stricter than the relevant laws and regulations. 2. The Kyocera Group establishes organizations to effectively promote occupational health and safety activities, and clarifies the functions and responsibilities of those organizations. At the same time, all employees continue to receive necessary and sufficient education and training needed for operation of an Occupational Health & Safety Management System. 3. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 4. The Kyocera Group is building and implementing an Occupational Health & Safety Management System, and continually aims to raise the level of occupational health and safety. 5. The Kyocera Group is strengthening mental health care through activities for advancing the mental health of employees. 6. The Kyocera Group actively participates and cooperates in governmental and local activities relating to occupational health and safety. Approaches to Occupational Safety and Health / Fire and Disaster Prevention The Kyocera Group promotes various measures to ensure occupational safety and health and the prevention of fire and disaster. Specifically, Kyocera has established a safety and disaster prevention management system for Group companies wordwide based on the Occupational Safety and Health Management System. In Japan, Kyocera conducts continuous improvement activities by conducting risk assessment, realizing improvements, and conducting audits at various sites. Outside Japan, Kyocera aims to further enhance management levels and prevent occupational accidents by holding safety and disaster prevention meetings and carrying out site visits. 53 One Approach Holding of Safety Dojo and Hands-on Experience Dojo Two types of hands-on education have been conducted at the Gamo and Yohkaichi plants in Shiga prefecture (Japan) since 2012, the Safety Dojo and Hands-on Experience Dojo, intended to make all employees enhance their safety action awareness and sensitivity to danger. In the Safety Dojo, participants learn morals and manners for production sites, the effectiveness of the Point and Call practice, and how to conduct risk Point and Call Training at the Safety Dojo perception activities. In the Hands-on Experience Dojo, participants recognize the risks hidden in their daily operations while using a simulator based on past accidents to enhance their awareness of workplace safety. Approximately 2,700 employees have participated in these workshops over the past two years. Visits to Plants by Kyocera Headquarters Personnel in Charge of Safety and Disaster Prevention Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. regularly conducts plant visits in China and Vietnam, with the headquarters personnel in charge of safety and disaster prevention taking the initiative. When staff members visit a plant, they check hazardous places together with the local supervisor and respond to the hazards while exchanging notes, thereby enhancing the level of sensitivity of the local safety supervisor. When hazard-related problems are identified, a Visit to a plant in China deadline for creating solutions is determined and the state of response and improvement is regularly checked to promote work environments free of accidents. 54 Holding of Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China Departments in charge of the environment and safety/disaster prevention of major Group companies in China meet regularly at Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China. They report and discuss actions taken and efforts made to ensure environmental protection and occupational safety at their respective sites and develop future response plans. In FY2014, about 20 people from Kyocera’s major Chinese companies attended the meeting and Joint Environment and Safety Meeting in China discussed and exchanged notes on various measures relating to environment and safety. They also held workshops based on the themes of environment and safety to raise the management capability levels of the departments in charge. Kyocera Group (Japan) Safety Record In FY2014, the safety record of the Kyocera Group (Japan) was good compared with the safety records for overall manufacturing business and electrical machinery and equipment manufacturing business. Specifically, the rate of absence from work due to work-related injuries in the Kyocera Group (Japan) was 0.23% (Kyocera Corporation: 0.22%). Kyocera strives to prevent occupational accidents and create a work environment where every employee can work safely and with peace of mind. 55 Promotion of Contingency Planning The Kyocera Group has formulated a Contingency Planning Manual to minimize human and physical damage and realize early business restoration in the case of a disaster that causes damage in the Kyocera Group. The Contingency Planning Manual specifies rules on information collection and provision, and responses to earthquakes, floods, wind, and volcanic eruption damage based on the Disaster Control Basic Policy. Contingency Planning Manual index 56 Actions against Earthquakes In an attempt to minimize injury and damage from a major earthquake, the Kyocera Group (Japan) is installing a disaster warning system at all plants and offices. This uses the Earthquake Early Warning System provided by the Japan Meteorological Agency. The Kyocera Group endeavors to minimize earthquake damage through diverse means. These include drills using the Earthquake Early Warning System, disaster prevention training for employees, regular disaster drills held with local fire stations and other organizations. Considerable damage is expected from a tsunami that could be generated by an earthquake in the Nankai Trough. To counter the potential damage, evacuation areas have been prepared for bases that are likely to sustain damage, based on the expected maximum tsunami height and shortest arrival time. Steps have been taken to ensure employees are fully aware of what they need to do. One Approach Implementation of Elevator Rescue Drills It is possible that customers or employees will be trapped in an elevator following the occurrence of a major earthquake. The Kyocera Group (Japan) conducts drills to rescue people trapped in elevators to train personnel to smoothly rescue trapped people. In these drills, participants check the position where the elevator stopped and manually open each type of elevator. These drills are conducted regularly to make employees ready for action in the event of an emergency. Elevator rescue drill (Headquarters) Prevention of Secondary Damage from Major Earthquakes There is a fear that dangerous or toxic substances could leak from damaged pipes following the occurrence of a major earthquake and eventually affect people’s health and spread pollution to the surrounding environment. The shutdown of cooling equipment as a result of a power outage could cause secondary damage such as a fire or explosion. The Kyocera Group (Japan) takes the necessary measures to minimize such secondary damage by fixing Fixation of equipment mechanical equipment in place. A new action policy on the prevention of secondary damage will be newly established in FY2015 to ensure further safety improvements. 57 Actions against New Influenza Pandemics The Kyocera Group (Japan) formulated an action plan for new influenza pandemics in FY2009 in case of the spread of new types of influenza. The action plan sets the prevention of contamination to employees, prevention of the spread of influenza and the minimization of business activity shutdowns as its basic goals, and provides measures to allow the continuation of business activities on the condition that the safety of employees be given top priority. In FY2014, the action plan was revised to cope with the revision of the relevant government guideline. The action plan was also expanded to major production sites in China and antiinfluenza measures matching local conditions were promoted. Approaches to Promotion of Health The Kyocera Group is undertaking various measures to raise awareness of health among all employees and support health in body and mind. Kyocera has long engaged in diverse activities aimed at improving mental health. For example, ongoing measures include the assignment of occupational health physicians specializing in mental health at offices, the use of consultants in and out of the company, the study of mental health measures at the In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meeting, and the introduction of a rehabilitation work system. Holding of In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings Kyocera holds In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meetings twice a year, at which in-house occupational health physicians assigned to Kyocera sites gather for discussions, with the Safety and Disaster Prevention Department taking the lead. The goal of these meetings is to enhance the level of health management services at Kyocera. Participants in the meetings share measures and problems concerning health management and discuss improvement measures and solutions for the future. Representatives of human resource departments and the In-house Occupational Health Physicians’ Meeting health insurance union also attend the meeting. All of these departments and stakeholders combine forces to solve problems and actively promote the health care of employees. 58 Provision of Mental Health Education to Supervisors The Kyocera Group is providing mental health education to prevent physcological problems. In FY2014, Kyocera revised its mental health education and clarified the roles of supervisors and specific response methods for affected employees. Mental health education based on this revision is currently being provided at each site. We will aim to establish a system that allows the prevention of mental health problems and their early resolution if they do occur. Mental health education (Headquarters) Deployment of Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities The 5S system (“Seiri”: Sort / “Seiton”: Set in Order / “Seiso”: Shine / “Seiketsu”: Sanitize / “Shitsuke”: Sustain) is at the heart of work. Efforts by the Kyocera Group to implement the 5S system perfectly are called Kyocera Perfect 5S Promotion Activities. They are being introduced globally. Kyocera has built a system able to carry out 5S evaluations without variation in the Group as a whole by compiling 5S Checklist Evaluation Cases, which contain 5S checklists, 5S evaluator education photos and illustrations that clarify the judgment standard and develop 5S Evaluators who can inspect 5S at work sites properly. Kyocera will take active measures to further invigorate Perfect 5S Promotion Activities, create a safe and secure work environment, and improve quality and productivity. 59 Environmental Activities Kyocera Group Environmental Management Since foundation of the company, based on the corporate motto “Respect the Divine and Love People,” the Kyocera Group has focused all corporate activities on three pillars of coexistence (Living Together): Coexisting with Our Community, Coexisting with Global Society, and Coexisting with Nature. The entire Kyocera Group is committed to environmental management and aims for sustainable corporate development while striving to combine the goals of ecology and economy. The Kyocera Group handles many chemical substances during production processes, such as raw materials and chemical agents for fine ceramics. Regarding treatment of waste water from factories, our policy is to purify discharged water to a state cleaner than the water system into which it is to be released. It is Kyocera Group policy to render any industrial waste as harmless as possible by using the latest technology. Based on this concept, the Kyocera Group enacted the Kyocera Environmental Charter in 1991, the company’s basic philosophy regarding the environment. Kyocera established its Environment Vision 2020 in order to embody the Kyocera Environmental Charter and define the company’s stance on a long-term basis up to 2020. As a yearly goal to achieve this vision, Kyocera has formulated the “Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy.” 60 Kyocera Environmental Charter Established: October 1, 1991 Revised: June 1, 2013 I. Preface Technological progress and economic development in industrialized countries have given rise to affluent societies with high standards of living. At the same time, they have led to the mass consumption of natural resources and mass discharge of chemical substances — which, in turn now threaten to escalate environmental pollution and destroy the Earth’s ecosystem. In addition, explosive population growth and widespread poverty in developing countries have aggravated these environmental problems with large-scale deforestation. The social and economic activities of both advanced and developing countries are intertwined, and with all parties intent on greater material consumption, nature’s recuperative powers have been exceeded. As a result, the Earth’s natural regenerative mechanism has been damaged on a global scale. One of our major premises up to this time — that the Earth’s ecosystem is infinitely large — is now being rejected in favor of the idea that the Earth is a closed ecosystem. Such a change in view affects the very foundation of humankind’s existence and demands a re-evaluation of the quality and quantity of the products used by humankind. This, in turn, will lead to a fundamental change in the industrial / technological system within which such products are manufactured. In the course of history, humankind has witnessed three eras of rapid development: the Agricultural Revolution, the Industrial Revolution and the Information Revolution. It is generally felt that the current environmental movement will someday be regarded as humankind’s fourth era of rapid development: the Environmental Revolution. Our future thus requires new policy goals. These should state that development and economic growth may be pursued only when proper consideration is given to the balance between nature and society and environmental conservation. While an individual's impact may be small, the cumulative result from a rapidly expanding population could cause complete environmental destruction. Therefore it is essential to establish a basic philosophy of coexistence and co-prosperity between the developed and developing countries, between business and government, and between individuals and societies. All must be viewed as participants in the stewardship of “Mother Earth,” not as opposing forces with conflicting interests. The greatest responsibility for promoting the Environmental Revolution lies with the advanced countries. In particular, businesses in such countries play a vital role, as they possess production technologies and are directly engaged in industrial activities. 61 II. Basic Philosophy In accordance with our corporate motto — “Respect the Divine and Love People” — since its foundation, Kyocera has adhered closely to its management rationale, “To provide opportunities for the material and intellectual growth of all our employees, and through our joint efforts, contribute to the advancement of society and humankind.” We strive to conduct business in harmony with the life-giving force of our universe. Kyocera had early insight into the mindset that today's global environmental problems make demands of every business enterprise. This mindset implies that business should uphold the dignity of humankind and contribute to the sustainable development of society. Based on the management rationale stated above, the Kyocera Group adopts comprehensive measures for the creation of a low-carbon producing, sustainable society — a society which exists in harmony with nature — and will further heighten our goals towards environmental protection, development of environmentally friendly products, energy conservation & climate change prevention, resource conservation, waste reduction, proper management of chemical substances, and biodiversity protection in order to make proactive and continuous contributions to environmental preservation. III. Basic Policies In the course of business activities, the Kyocera Group will take a serious view of global environmental protection adhering closely to the Company's basic philosophy, stated above, and will emphasize the following points: 1. Adhering to internal environmental standards that make global environmental protection our first priority; (1) In order to minimize impact on the natural environment and any harmful effects on the ecosystem, Kyocera will establish and comply with internal standards which are more stringent than those specified by applicable international agreements and, national laws local regulations where the Company's facilities are located. (2) At all levels, Kyocera will scientifically study and evaluate the effects of business activities on the environment, and then take the necessary protective measures. 2. Kyocera will strive for the development of environmentally friendly products in two categories; (1) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Products for Environmental Improvement that make a positive contribution to the enhancement of the global environment, and strive to spread the use of such products. (2) Kyocera will increase its research and development of Environmentally Gentle Products that have a lighter burden on the environment at each stage of production, sales, distribution, consumption and disposal and strive to spread the use of such products. 62 3. Most efficient utilization of resources and innovation of processing technologies; (1) Kyocera will develop processing technologies and production facilities that have maximum resource and energy efficiency. At the same time, the Company will aim to reduce raw material and chemical consumption in all processes. (2) Kyocera will promote internal energy conservation activities, such as more efficient use of electricity and fossil fuels, the introduction of high efficiency equipment, and the reutilization of waste heat. At the same time, the Company will promote measures for climate change prevention. (3) Kyocera intends to purchase recyclable materials which contribute to resource conservation while maximizing resource efficiency by establishing recycling systems for wastewater and waste materials. The Company will take aggressive steps to reduce the volume of and decontaminate all waste. 4. Enhancement of environmental communication, participation in, and support for, social contribution activities. (1) Kyocera will pursue education to improve employees' environmental awareness and thus promote participation in environmental preservation. (2) Kyocera will broadly establish cooperative relationships with local communities, municipalities and business partners to promote positive environmental communication. (3) Kyocera will promote the greenification (tree-planting) of its facilities in an organized effort to create grounds which are lush and inviting. At the same time, the Company will participate in and support social contribution activities. IV. Promotion Organization 1. Kyocera will establish and operate an environmental management system based on ISO 14001 standards, and continuously expand environmental preservation activities. 2. To ensure compliance with legal and governmental environmental regulations, and internal environmental standards, an internal review group will conduct audits on both a regular and an as-needed basis. 3. The Environmental Management Division, facility manager and environmental specialists will implement an independent auditing system regarding environmental protection at each of its business locations. V. Application The Kyocera Environmental Charter will be applied to companies within the global Kyocera Group. 63 Environment Vision 2020 For the Kyocera Group, harmonious coexistence (Living Together) is the underlying foundation of all our business activities as we strive for sustainable development through environmental management. Based on a global environmental management system (Green Management), we strive for ecological and economic compatibility in three areas: Green Products, Green Factories, and Green Communication 1. Contribute to realization of a low-carbon society Targeting a Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor of 3 (Contribution Volume / Emission Volume) by maximizing the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions through energy creation, and suppressing greenhouse gas emissions in business activities. 2. Contribute to realization of a recycling-based society Contribute to realization of a society with sustainable recycling of resources by reducing the volume of new resource input and minimizing waste. 3. Contribute to realization of a society coexisting with nature (1)Advance conservation of biodiversity by minimizing negative impact on the natural environment, as well as protecting and nurturing the natural environment. (2)Contribute to cultivation of an environmentally conscious society, through environmental communication with various stakeholders and environmental awareness activities. 64 Commitment to Achieving a Low-Carbon Society In addition to targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from business activities, the Environment Vision 2020 establishes a benchmark in aiming for realization of a low carbon society. Named the Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor, this benchmark gives an overall assessment of the volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction through use of Kyocera Green Products. Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor Calculation Method *1 The volume of contribution to greenhouse gas reduction is obtained by converting the volume equivalent to the energy creation effect into the greenhouse effect gas, in which the photovoltaic systems produced and marketed are assumed to continue power generation for 20 years. In addition, the coefficient used in conversion shall be 0.360kg of CO2 per kWh (based on the Japan Photovoltaic Energy Association’s Independent Industry Rules on Labeling). *2 Greenhouse gas emissions at manufacturing sites of the Kyocera Group. The values have been corrected retrospectively as the subjects of calculation were newly limited to manufacturing sites only. Result of Low-Carbon Society Contribution Factor FY '09 '10 '11 '12 '13 Target Factor 0.60 0.73 1.04 1.05 1.21 FY2020: 3.00 * For this page only, fiscal years (FY) are counted in the style of Japan, where the fiscal year is represented by the year in which it begins (April 1). 65 Participation in the Low-Carbon Society Action Plan Kyocera participates in the electric and electronic industries’ Low-Carbon Society Action Plan to fulfill our contribution to the realization of a low-carbon society. To be specific, what we attempt to achieve by 2020 includes reductions in CO2 emissions by 1% annually on average in energy basic units and reductions in CO2 emissions in products. Our efforts are in concert with the industry’s commitment to climate change prevention. Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Group Global Environmental Policy, which sets yearly targets to be attained in the four areas of greenhouse gases, energy, water, and industrial waste. In all production sites, the greenhouse effect gas emissions, energy consumption, water consumption, and industrial waste discharge will be reduced by 1% or more from a year earlier in terms of energy consumption unit improvement rate. 66 Environmental Activities Green Management: Basis of Environmental Management Promotion Environmental Management Promotion System The Kyocera Group formulates environment-related policies and measures through reviews and discussions in the Planning and Policy Division, Environment Division and other related divisions with the President as leader. Environment-related projects are set up whenever required to take on any environment-related challenges and resolve outstanding issues. A separate organization has been established with the Environment Division playing a central role so that Kyocera can continue activities for environmental protection. Specifically, the contents of the Kyocera Group Global Environment Policy are assimilated into our environment management system based on ISO 14001 and managed through the monthly PDCA process. Environmental management promotion system Environmental Education The Kyocera Group provides systematic environmental education to help all employees understand the significance of environmental protection activities and their roles in them. Specifically, environment education is divided into general/awareness education and special education and is provided to employees systematically depending on their rank and occupation so as to improve environmental awareness. 67 Efforts to Improve Employees’ Environmental Awareness The Kyocera Group sets a specific period in which environmental protection activities such as energy conservation are conducted intensively so as to improve awareness of the environment and enhance environmental conservation activities at plants and offices. In Japan, the period of four months from June to September was designated Summer Eco Challenge 2013 as a movement to intensify efforts for energy saving during summer. Kyocera conducted various activities during this period, including a “Green Curtain” photo contest and Eco-Lessons for the children of Kyocera employees. Overseas, Kyocera also carried out active efforts including the preparation of environmental awareness posters and participation in local environment-related events. Environment-awareness poster (Thailand) Participation in environmental events (Mexico) 68 Environmental Risk Management The Kyocera Group established the Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard in 1992, which is stricter than statutory and public regulations on emissions, wastewater, soil and groundwater. Based on this Environmental Management Standard, we have more stringent voluntary management standards for each site. Thorough management for environmental conservation is thus ensured using these strict standards, including periodic environmental measurement. In addition, we have Soil and Groundwater Management Regulations to ensure the prevention of soil contamination. To comply with these regulations, we take various measures, including the use of double wall structures for underground storage tanks and leakage detection systems to promote early detection of leaks and prevention of the spread of contamination. Kyocera Group Environmental Management Standard Double-layered underground tank storage Leakage detection system (Leakages are detected by sensing changes in electric resistance as a result of damage to the insulation layer.) 69 Dealing with Emergencies Assuming the inevitability of accidents and emergencies which may affect the environment, we have taken preventative countermeasures, such as the installation of dikes. We have also prepared procedures for dealing with emergencies. To ensure that employees are familiar with these procedures, we hold emergency training drills more than once each year. Emergency training (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) Environmental Regulations Compliance Status In the Kyocera Group, no violations of environment-related legal regulations occurred in FY2014. Reports on Soil and Groundwater Contamination The Kyocera Group (Japan) conducts soil surveys based on the Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act and provides survey reports to the relevant local governments. Four sites have so far been designated by local authorities as warning areas, one location of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Asahi City, Chiba Prefecture in 2013, two sites of Kyocera Crystal Device Corporation in Ebetsu City, Hokkaido Prefecture and Hachioji City, Tokyo, in 2014, and one site of Kyocera Chemical Corporation in Kawaguchi City, Saitama Prefecture in 2014. Strict control of contaminants is now being carried out at these sites, including measures to prevent the spread of contamination. No spreading or effects on surrounding areas have so far been reported. Kyocera will continue to work with local authorities and take appropriate measures to prevent pollution. Environmental Audit The Kyocera Group conducts periodic internal audits to make sure the Environmental Management System is being run properly based on the requirements of ISO 14001. The results and corrective actions are reflected in the review and in the improvement of the Environment Management System. Environmental audit 70 Environmental Accounting The Kyocera Group established an Environmental Accounting System which has been in practice since FY2003. In its business activities, the Kyocera Group quantitatively assesses the cost laid out for environmental conservation and its conservation effects as well as economic benefits, and positively utilizes this information for environmental conservation measures. Range of data collection: 185 sites Sites collectively certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System Period covered: April 2013 through March 2014 Guideline for reference: Ministry of the Environment’s “Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005” · Overseas sites were removed from the scope of management in the summation of FY2014. (Applied retrospectively to the FY2013 summation) Environmental Accounting Analysis Results (FY2014) Environmental conservation costs (total of investment and expenditure) were ¥5,658 million in total as a result of the additional installation of solar power generation systems at the Nagano Okaya Plant, Shiga Yasu Plant, and Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, as well as investments on energy-saving activities at various plants. Economic effects resulting from environmental conservation effects were ¥9,235 million in total as a result of reductions in industrial waste and the introduction of highly efficient equipment. Concept of Environmental Accounting Double reporting of internal transactions is prevented in companies subject to data collection. For Group companies with an equity ratio not equal to 100%, data collection is performed by regarding the investment amount, expense amount, and environmental conservation effects as 100%. Concept of Environmental Conservation Costs For environmental conservation facilities, the investment amount and running costs are totaled. For environmental conservation activities, the expenses spent for such activities are totaled. Research and development costs included in costs for environmental conservation are included in fundamental research and development. Definition of Environmental Conservation Effects and Economic Benefits The economic benefits of environmental conservation efforts are computed only for cases in which there is clear, quantifiable evidence of an improvement in environmental conservation. The economic effects as a result of environmental conservation measures for research and development costs are not computed. 71 Environmental Conservation Costs (Unit: Million yen) Investment Cost Cost Classification FY2013 FY2014 FY2013 FY2014 Business area costs 513 1,112 4,601 3,638 Pollution prevention costs 308 87 2,517 2,003 Global environmental conservation costs 183 1,024 1,045 591 Resource recycling costs 22 1 1,039 1,044 Upstream / downstream costs 0 0 219 182 Management costs 3 1 673 672 R&D costs Social activity costs 0 0 38 52 Environmental remediation costs 0 0 2 1 Total 516 1,113 5,533 4,545 Economic Effects of Environmental Preservation Measures (Unit: Million yen) Item FY2013 FY2014 Income 2,295 2,043 Cost-cutting measures 5,788 7,192 Total 8,083 9,235 Cost-Effectiveness (Unit: Million yen) Item FY2013 FY2014 Cost 5,533 4,545 Economic effects resulting from 8,083 9,235 environmental preservation measures Cost-Effectiveness 2,550 4,690 72 Environmental Conservation Effects Effect Content FY2013 FY2014 Unit Reduction of electricity 73,057 106,634 MWh Reduction TonsCO2 of fuel 11,565 8,471 k (crude oil equivalent) Reduction of greenhouse gases such as PFC 9,257 9,420 Ton-CO2 Reduction of water usage 23,608 34,564 1,000m3 Reduction of chemical substances 5,447 6,161 Tons Reduction of waste 35,455 74,131 Tons 73 Overall Environmental Impact The Kyocera Group monitors and manages the relationship of business activities and environmental burdens as numerical data. The data for each stage of materials procurement, manufacturing, distribution, use, and disposal/recycling are used in the formulation of measures and the analysis and assessment of results to realize effective reductions in environmental burdens. 74 Environmental Activities Green Products: Environmentally Friendly Products Development of Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group aims for every product that it sells to contribute to the betterment of the global environment and endeavors to develop environmentally friendly products. Kyocera has clearly specified the Concept of Environmental Consciousness to guide our design of environmentally conscious products. Kyocera also identifies products designed to contribute actively to the climate change prevention, energy saving, resource saving, and reductions in hazardous substances as Green Products, and has set up evaluation criteria for each product based on the Concept of Environmental Consciousness. As a result of these efforts, 99% of our products were designated as Green Products in FY2014. We intend to continue being active in this respect to continue supplying environmentally friendly products to society. Concept of Environmental Consciousness Kyocera considers the three themes of Climate Change Prevention and Energy Conservation, Resource Recycling and Environmental Preservation and Safety as high-priority issues. For each of these, we have established clear guidelines for environmental protection at the product development stage. Concept of Contributing to Environmental Protection These products allow customers and end-users to contribute to the reduction of environmental impact through use of our products. Concept of Lowering Environmental Impact These products minimize environmental impact at all stages of the product life cycle, including manufacturing, sales, distribution, use, and disposal. 75 Concept of environmental consciousness Environmentally Conscious Designs for Printers and Multi-Functional Products (MFPs) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. is working on environmentally conscious designs for all of its products, including long service life designs that reduce parts replacement and disposal, 3R designs that consider “reduce,” “reuse,” and “recycle,” and low power-consuming designs that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the design stage, designs are developed based on the Environmentally Conscious Design Standard from the initial development stage of new products through each of the subsequent development steps. The Environmentally Conscious Design Check Sheet is then used to make sure designs are environmentally conscious during product development. 76 Environmentally Conscious Designs for Printers and Multi-Functional Products (MFPs) Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. is working on environmentally conscious designs for all of its products, including long service life designs that reduce parts replacement and disposal, 3R designs that consider “reduce,” “reuse,” and “recycle,” and low power-consuming designs that reduce greenhouse gas emissions. In the design stage, designs are developed based on the Environmentally Conscious Design Standard from the initial development stage of new products through each of the subsequent development steps. The Environmentally Conscious Design Check Sheet is then used to make sure designs are environmentally conscious during product development. Kyocera Document Solutions also conducts a life cycle assessment (LCA), which digitalizes the resources, energy, and waste used or discharged for products or services during the stages from the acquisition of resources to manufacturing, transport, use, and disposal/recycling for all products to reduce the environmental burden of our products. Life cycle assessments 77 Environmentally Friendly Products The Kyocera Group develops environmentally friendly products including fine ceramic products, energy management systems (HEMS and BEMS), solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC), LED lighting, and solar power generation systems. Fine Ceramic Products Fine ceramics are representative ecological materials. Because of their excellent mechanical, electromagnetic and thermal properties, fine ceramics are used frequently in machines and equipment for industrial use in such fields as environment, energy and automobiles. This contributes to the prevention of environmental pollution, conservation of resources and the prevention of climate change. Home-Use Solid Oxide Fuel Cell (SOFC) Cell Stack A residential-use fuel cell has two parts — a power generation unit and a water heating unit that uses exhaust heat from the power generation unit. The fuel cell has high energy efficiency, and produces only extremely small amounts of the greenhouse gases CO2, nitrous oxides, sulfur oxides or other byproducts. Use of the fuel cell as an environment-friendly system is expected to increase. Kyocera realized the world’s highest level power generation efficiency* by promoting the development of cells and cell stacks, which form the core of solid oxide fuel cells (SOFC) with high power generation efficiency, and using fine ceramics, which have excellent thermal resistance and durability, as cell materials. * Among domestic-use fuel-cell cogeneration systems (as of January 24, 2013) 78 Ceramic Filters Excellent in thermal resistance, ceramic filters are used in emission gas treatment equipment such as those at large-scale waste incineration plants which optimize efficient use of exhaust heat energy. Compared with the service temperature range (150 to 200 ) of conventional bag filters, ceramic filters are capable of collecting dust at higher temperature ranges (300 to 900 ) to realize improved energy efficiency during the use of waste heat and the reuse of filters by washing. 79 Ceramic Glow Plugs and Stacked Piezoelectric Elements Ceramic glow plugs help start up (ignite) engines and reduce the generation of toxic substances in gas emissions. Piezoelectric stacks for fuel injectors use piezoelectric ceramics and help optimize combustion by precise control of the high-pressure injection of fuels and the volume of injection as components of fuel injectors. Aluminum Foundry Components Kyocera’s silicon nitride ceramic material features outstanding high-temperature strength, heat and thermal shock resistance as well as corrosion resistance. When used in molten aluminum smelting equipment for the production of automobile engines and aluminum wheels, silicon nitride extends the product life of components and reduces the risk of impurities entering molten metal. With such benefits, silicon nitride contributes to the reduction of waste and improves product quality. Aluminum foundry components LED Packages and Single-Crystal Sapphire Substrates Since ceramic materials are capable of efficiently diffusing the heat generated by LEDs, they can maintain high longevity and reliability without compromising LED luminescence efficiency. Such features led to the realization of very bright LEDs. Single-crystal sapphires are used as the base substrates of LEDs and the backlights of mobile phones and LCD TV sets. 80 Cutting Tools Milling Cutters Milling cutters are used in a variety of metal cutting processes. Featuring both reductions in cutting resistance and excellence in loss resistance, milling cutters contribute to the improvement of productivity through stable processing and elongation of service life. Milling cutter Recycling of Used Cutting Tools and Tip Cases Kyocera collects and recycles cutting tools and tip cases after use at users’ production sites. Kyocera is actively involved in the reduction of waste and effective utilization of resources by properly recycling collected tips and tip cases for relevant applications, such as material powder and RPF (refuse plastic fuel), slag used for roadbed material, and others. Solar Power Generating Systems Kyocera started R&D of solar power cells in 1975 based on our belief that solar power technology would become essential for the creation of energy alternatives to petroleum and other fossil fuels in the wake of the Oil Shocks. For nearly 40 years since then, we have steadily focused on this business without being swayed by changes in social conditions, and have supplied solar energy products to markets worldwide. 81 At Kyocera, the cumulative power generation*1 produced by a solar power generation system after installation minus the amount of electricity used to manufacture the system*2,3 is calculated as the “energy creation effect.” The power consumed to produce a 1kW solar power generation system is about 1,550kWh. If this system operates for 20 years (service life) to generate power, it will produce 20,640kWh. The energy creation effect per 1kW system is thus 19,090kWh. The solar power generation systems manufactured and sold by Kyocera so far produce a total of 5,150MW, which produces an energy creation effect of 11,746GWh. Assuming these systems generate power continuously for 20 years after installation, the CO2 reduction effect will be 38,513,000 tons*4, which is equivalent to about 43.0%*5, 6 of annual CO2 absorption by all forests in Japan. *1 Calculated from the average of expected power at 16 sites around the country in a simulation by Kyocera Corporation *2 With energy payback of 1.1 years (annual production scale: 100MW or higher), the power consumption for production was estimated (system scale 30MW/installed on the rooftop) based on the assumption of 20 years of service life (source: NEDO Commission-based Service Result Report (Photovoltaic Power Generation Technology Research Association) “Survey and Research on Solar Power Generation Evaluation,” March 2001). We are currently revising the definition of the energy creation effect as a result of the revision of the source. 82 *3 The estimated amount of electricity used during production for solar power generation systems that were shipped from 1992 to 2010 was recorded in the year when the products began to generate electricity (Example: The amount of produced electricity in 1992 was recorded in 1993). *4 Calculated at 360g-CO2 per kWh. *5 The CO2 sink by 1ha (10,000m2) of forest is 3.57 tons-CO2 (Source: Solar Power Generation Introduction Guidebook < Main > 2000 Revised Edition NEDO). *6 Calculated assuming that the forest area in Japan is 250,800km2 (Source: Forestry Agency “Present State of Forest Resources (as of March 31, 2012)”). Multicrystalline silicon solar cell that achieves a conversion efficiency of 18.6% In 1982, Kyocera was the first company in the world to succeed in full-scale mass production of multicrystalline silicon solar cells. Since then, we have accumulated high-efficiency technology and evolved our production technology through the development of solar power systems over many years. In February 2014, Kyocera attained a conversion efficiency of 18.6% as a result of improvements in crystal quality and electrode manufacturing processes. We will take advantage of our strength in mass producing solar cells starting from the Multicrystalline silicon solar power cell cell manufacturing process and continue to provide solar cells with high efficiency and quality by improving our production technology, thereby assisting in the spread of solar power generating systems and contributing to the betterment of the global environment. Japan’s largest solar power generation plant*, Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant, starts full operation The 70 MW Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant, Japan’s largest, was completed and started operation in November 2013. The Plant is composed of approximately 290,000 Kyocera solar modules installed over an area of land about 1,270,000m2 (equivalent to about 27 baseball stadiums) which is owned by IHI. Annual power generation is about 79,000MWh, equivalent to the needs of 22,000 ordinary households a year. The plant is expected to reduce CO2 by about 25,000 tons. Kyocera intends to help revitalize local Kagoshima Nanatsujima Mega Solar Power Plant communities through the realization of environmental business by means of solar power generation and contribute to the betterment of the global environment and local and global society by promoting the diffusion of renewable energies. * As of November 4, 2013 (based on research by Kyocera) 83 Energy Management Systems Kyocera developed its own Home Energy Management System (HEMS) designed to manage energy efficiently using our strengths in solid oxide fuel cell (SOFC) “energy creation technology” and “communication technology.” By linking solar power, SOFCs, and storage batteries with the utility power grid, the system conducts optimal power control. It also “visualizes” the status of power consumption on a PC or smartphone to realize more efficient power consumption. Our services for convenience stores and other commercial facilities are known as Building Energy Management Systems (BEMS). These use various sensors to collect and analyze power consumption data and conduct efficient operational management of equipment such as solar power generating systems, battery systems, LED lighting, air-conditioning, and large refrigerators. Energy Management System 84 Printing Devices a-Si Photoreceptor Drum High-durability amorphous silicon (a-Si) photoreceptor drums are often used as a core component of laser printers and multi-functional products (MFPs) to help elongate the service life of equipment, reduce maintenance costs, and reduce waste. High-durability a-Si photoreceptor drum LED Lighting Kyocera’s LED lighting uses white LED lamps as its light source. They produce light close to that of sunlight, thereby creating gentle and comfortable environments. They are bright enough for use in offices, conference rooms, convenience stores and other commercial shops, and are easily affixed to the ceiling with a slim and simple design. Color tones that can be changed according to use, and low power consumption compared to fluorescent lamps are just a few of the benefits of Kyocera’s LED lighting. As our LED light packages use ceramic materials, they have an Convenience store using Kyocera’s LED lighting expected product life of approximately 100,000 hours. That is about 2.5 times longer than conventional LED resin packages. Connectors for LED Lamps and LED Backlights These connectors are made very low at only 1.4mm in height so they do not disturb light distribution. Because of this compact design, Kyocera connectors help realize LED installation in compact and thin devices. Schematic illustration of substrates fitted with LEDs and connectors 85 Clear Encapsulation Material for LED Devices LEDs are composed of elements made of a gallium composite or other material sealed by transparent resin. The characteristics of the sealing resin affect longevity. Kyocera Chemical Corporation supplies transparent sealing materials capable of maintaining high transparency for a long time. Clear encapsulation material for LED devices Organic Materials Halogen-Free Materials Halogenated elements, such as chlorine, bromine, and others, may produce harmful substances such as dioxin when burned. Their use is controlled according to regulations for chemical substances all over the world, with Europe as a leader. Kyocera Chemical Corp. has developed a wide variety of halogen-free* materials that conform to such legal regulations and contribute to a reduction in the environmental burden caused by the use of chemical substances. Molding compounds for semiconductor encapsulation * Based on the standard values of the Japan Electronics Packaging and Circuits Association (JPCA). Low-VOC Materials VOC (volatile organic compounds) is the generic name for organic compounds which are highly volatile and turn into vapor in the atmosphere, including toluene, styrene, and many other substances. VOC is considered to be one of the causes of suspended particle matters and photochemical oxidant, which are suspected to affect human health. In the insulation varnish field, where varnish is used for insulation of motors, Kyocera Chemical Corp. has developed and markets styrene-free varnishes that reduce VOC generation to 1/50 or less that of conventional products, as well as greatly reduce odor. Insulation varnish 86 Promotion of Green Procurement Aware of the importance of making efforts in the entire supply chain including Kyocera as well as our suppliers and business associates in order to tackle worsening global environment issues, Kyocera formulated the Kyocera Green Procurement Guideline in 1998 and has promoted green procurement since then. In FY2014, we revised this Guideline and divided it into two guidelines, the Kyocera Guideline on Environmentally Hazardous Substances, which established the standards for product specifications in promoting green procurement; and the Kyocera Guideline on Environmental Protection Activities, which describes the guiding principles of Kyocera's idea of environmental protection activities. With this revision, we have reinforced our ties with our business partners. Conforming to Environmental Product Regulations Today, the creation of products that are more friendly to the global environment is being demanded while regulations on the restriction of chemical substance management and use (RoHS Directives*1, REACH*2, etc.) are being reinforced from the perspective of preventing impacts on humans and environmental pollution. In response to these moves, Kyocera regularly holds Product Environmental Quality Meetings to develop company-wide response measures and share information on environment-related laws and regulations. In addition, each production department responds to environmental regulations by obtaining information on the chemical substances contained in each purchased item and conducting thorough management of chemical substances in every process. *1 Restrictions on the use of specified substances contained in electric and electronic equipment *2 Regulations on the registration, assessment, permission and control of chemical substances 87 Environmental Activities Green Factories: Environmental Consciousness at Plants and Offices Energy Conservation and Prevention of Climate Change Increased energy consumption has an impact on the environment, including negative effects such as climate change. We share the task of using limited energy resources more effectively, including energy use in industrial activities. The Kyocera Group works on measures for the prevention of climate change in various ways, including the setting of targets for greenhouse gases and energy reduction, and the implementation of energy-saving measures in business activities. Energy Saving and Reduction of Greenhouse Gas Emissions In FY2014, the Kyocera Group successfully achieved a 3.1% reduction in the greenhouse gas emissions basic unit and 10.2% reduction in the total energy consumption basic unit compared with FY2013 due to various efforts including the improved operation of deodorizers and effective use of waste heat despite an increase in energy consumption due to the acquisition of Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc. (KCS). 88 ·From FY2009, emission coefficients are calculated based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. ·Greenhouse gas means CO2, CH4, N2O, PFC, HFC, and SF6. ·Figures for overseas facilities are calculated using the emission coefficients of electricity for each country in IEA CO2 EMISSIONS FROM FUEL COMBUSTION Highlights (2012 Edition). ·In 2013, greenhouse gas emissions and total energy consumption went up as a result of a business acquisition (KCS). (Data for six months from October 2013 to March 2014) Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emissions Associated with Freight Transport Energy-saving actions taken by the Kyocera Group include the revision of transport routes to reduce distances and the integration of cargo transport to reduce the frequency of transport. However, the CO2 emission basic unit related to cargo transport increased by 15.2% over FY2013 due to the increased production of solar modules. 89 Growing “Green Curtains” The Kyocera Group promotes “Green Curtains” which block strong summer sunshine and suppress rises in indoor temperature by covering windows and outer walls with bitter gourd, sponge gourd, Japanese morning glory and other climbing plants. In FY2014, Green Curtains were installed at 30 plants and offices in Japan and four sites outside Japan. The total length of all Green Curtains measured 982m with a total area of 4,191m2 (equal to about 16.1 tennis Green Curtains (Fukushima Tanagura Plant) courts), which translates to a successful reduction of about 15,000 kg of CO2 annually. We plan to install Green Curtains at 34 sites in FY2015. One Approach Installation of Solar Power Generating Systems The Kyocera Group has introduced a solar power generating system at facilities at home and abroad, such as the Kyocera Head Office Building and Kyocera International Inc., Kyocera’s holding company in North America. We installed 5.6MW of solar power generating systems subject to application of the renewable energy feed-in tarriff program at a total of 9 sites in Japan, including the Gamo Plant and Yohkaichi Plant in Shiga Prefecture in FY2014. Solar power generating systems installed inside and outside of Japan at Kyocera Group sites now have an output exceeding 8.3MW. We will continue to actively introduce solar power generating systems at more Group sites to expedite reductions in CO2 emission in business activities. In Japan Hokkaido Kitami Plant (115 Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Plant (493 kW) kW) (introduced in FY2011) (230kW) (introduced in FY2011 (introduced in FY1985 and and expanded in FY2012) expanded in FY2014) 90 Nagano Okaya Plant (173 Mie Ise Plant (80 kW) Shiga Gamo Plant (491 kW) kW) (introduced in FY2011 and (introduced in FY2005) (introduced in FY2011 and expanded in FY2014) expanded in FY2014) Shiga Yokaichi Plant (1,137 Shiga Yasu Plant (590 kW) Kagoshima Sendai Plant kW) (introduced in FY2006, (introduced in FY2011 and (649kW) (introduced in FY2011 expanded in FY2011, FY2012, expanded in FY2014) and expanded in FY2014) FY2013, FY2014) Kagoshima Kokubu Plant Kagoshima Hayato Plant (40 Head Office (214 kW) (1,100 kW) (introduced in kW) (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY1999) FY2006 and expanded in FY2014) Yokohama Office (58 kW) Kyocera Document Solutions Kyocera Document Solutions (introduced in FY2012) Inc. Head Office (12 kW) Inc.’s Tamaki Plant (50 kW) (introduced in FY2008) (introduced in FY2011) 91 Kyocera Document Solutions Kyocera Connector Products Kyoto Ayabe Plant, Kyocera Inc.’s Hirakata Plant (60 kW) Corp. Head Office (130 kW) SLC Technologies Corporation (introduced in FY2006) (introduced in FY2012) (500 kW) (installed in FY2014) Koriyama Plant, Kyocera Chemical Corporation (1,500 kW) (installed in FY2014) Overseas Kyocera Document Solutions Kyocera International, Inc. Kyocera Document Solutions Espana S. A. (Spain) (36 kW) (America) (279 kW) (introduced Deutschland GmbH. (Germany) (introduced in FY2008) in FY2006) (15.6 kW) (introduced in FY2008) Shanghai Kyocera Electronics Kyocera (Tianjin) Solar Kyocera Solar Europe s.r.o. Co., Ltd. (China) (155 kW) Energy Co., Ltd. (China) (93 (Czech Republic) (8 kW) (introduced in FY2010 and kW) (introduced in FY2011) (introduced in FY2006) expanded in FY2013) 92 Kyocera Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) (100 kW) (introduced in FY2011) Energy Saving by Improved Operation of Deodorization Units Deodorization units are used in manufacturing processes at the Kagoshima Kokubu Plant, with LNG used for fuel. In FY2014, we made various improvements to the deodorization units, including a revision of the operating procedure, the consolidation of units and optimization of the set combustion temperature of catalysts to realize a reduction in CO2 emissions. Annual CO2 emission reduction : 650 tons-CO2 Deodorization unit Reduction in CO2 Emissions by use of Waste Heat Freezers and boilers operate at the Kagoshima Sendai Plant to control the temperature and humidity of clean rooms. We newly installed heat exchangers to make effective use of the waste heat from turbo freezers and reduce the operation of boilers and cooling towers, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. Annual CO2 emission reduction : 440 tons-CO2 93 Reduction in CO2 Emissions by Switching to Energy-Saving Equipment Vacuum pumps are used in manufacturing processes at the Kagoshima Sendai Plant. A large amount of electric power is consumed by those pumps. The ones that could be replaced were switched to small power-saving blowers to reduce CO2 emissions in FY2014. Annual CO2 emission reduction : 260 tons-CO2 Vacuum pump Reduction in CO2 Emission by Renewing Boiler Equipment The Shiga Yasu Plant operates boilers fueled by kerosene and LNG to supply steam, mainly for use with airconditioners. In FY2014, we switched from kerosene-fueled boilers to LNG-fueled boilers and revised the operating procedures, thereby reducing CO2 emissions. Annual CO2 emission reduction : 120 tons-CO2 Newly installed boilers Effective Use of Water Resources The Kyocera Group uses a large amount of water for cleaning and cooling production equipment and other purposes. We have set specific reduction targets and have developed activities to use limited water resources effectively and contribute to the protection of the global environment. In FY2014, water consumption increased as a result of the business takeover of Kyocera Circuit Solutions, Inc. However, the water consumption basic unit remained the same as that in FY2013 because of the positive effects of improvements in production processes and the introduction of recycling equipment. 94 One Approach Reduction in water consumption by reuse of super pure water Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. and Kyocera Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. treat water before discharging it. In FY2014, recycling equipment was installed to reuse treated wastewater as industrial water, thereby reducing water consumption. Annual water consumption reduction : 22,730m3 Wastewater recycling equipment Waste Reduction and Recycling Measures Working towards a recycling-based society, the Kyocera Group has set basic policies for waste reduction since FY1992, and expanded activities aiming to minimize industrial waste. Basic Policies for Waste Reduction 1. Eliminate use of non-recyclable materials 2. Minimize waste generated by business activities 3. Recycle waste once it is generated 4. Process non-recyclable waste into harmless materials 95 Reduction in Waste Discharge In FY2014, the Kyocera Group achieved a 14.1% reduction in the industrial waste emission basic unit compared with the previous year as a result of various actions including the revision of the treatment method for wastewater generated during manufacturing processes and the introduction of effluent treatment equipment. Promoting Zero Emissions The Kyocera Group (Japan) promotes the zero emission movement. Except for some waste whose disposal method is designated by local governments, it is our rule that the amount of waste to be disposed of at final landfill sites (including the landfill volume of waste emitted by intermediate treatment contractors) is less than 0.5% of total waste. All Kyocera Group companies in Japan have achieved zero emissions and will continue their efforts. One Approach Reduction in Industrial Waste by Changing an Effluent Treatment Method Cutting effluent generated in manufacturing processes by cutting tools at the Sendai Plant in Kagoshima contains a rare metal, tungsten. The procedure for treatment of the cutting effluent was revised in FY2014 to recover the tungsten from the effluent. This improvement now allows the plant to sell sludge and has also reduced the amount of industrial waste to be disposed of. 96 Cutting effluent treatment equipment Sludge containing tungsten Annual waste emission reduction : 660 tons Reduction in Industrial Waste by Introducing Effluent Treatment Equipment The Shiga Gamo Plant previously hired an external contractor to dispose of cutting effluent with a high content of organic substances generated from ceramic processing. In FY2014, the plant installed a new effluent treatment system capable of decomposing the cutting effluent with aerobic organisms, which allowed them to dispose of the effluent internally. The new system has reduced industrial waste. Annual waste emission reduction : 240 tons Aeration tank for treatment of cutting effluent (decomposition of organic matters with aerobic organisms) Chemical Substances Management Some chemical substances cause environmental pollution and can affect human health and the ecosystem as a result of long-term accumulation. The Kyocera Group sets a voluntary control standard and takes initiative in carrying out environmental load reduction activities. In addition, the Kyocera Group (Japan) carries out thorough control of emissions and the transferred amount of Class I Designated Chemical Substances as prescribed by PRTR Law. 97 Management and Disposal of PCB Waste The Kyocera Group (Japan) strictly controls and manages PCB (polychlorinated biphenyl) waste at specified locations with control sheets prepared in accordance with relevant laws. Kyocera has already become an early registrant for disposal of these wastes with the Japan Environmental Safety Corporation and will dispose of them accordingly. Transporting operations for outsourced disposal (Kagoshima Sendai Plant) One Approach Reduction in Environmental Burden by Introducing Effluent Treatment Plants Kyocera SLC Technologies Corporation’s Kyoto Ayabe Plant in Kyoto (Japan) and Kyocera Vietnam Company Limited newly installed effluent treatment equipment in conjunction with the construction of new plants in FY2014 as part of efforts to reduce their environmental burdens. They also analyze water quality at each point where effluent is generated in the production process, and water judged to be less dirty is reused in the production process via a recycling system attached to the production equipment. This Effluent treatment equipment newly installed at Kyocera SLC Technologies operation reduces the amount of effluent as well as the Corporation’s Kyoto Ayabe Plant amounts of chemicals required for effluent treatment. 98 Environmental Activities Green Communication: Transparency with Local Communities Regarding Environmental Matters Support of Environmental Education for Children Kyocera Group “Eco-Lessons” The Kyocera Group has conducted Eco-Lessons, a locally rooted social contribution activity, since FY2003, to help children, the next-generation of leaders, better understand environmental problems and energy, and grow with an earth-loving heart in school education. Kyocera started EcoLessons in China too in FY2010 based on knowhow accumulated in Japan. In FY2014, the Kyocera Group provided lessons to 13,460 children at 218 elementary schools in areas around 26 Children enthusiastically taking a lesson (Japan) Group sites (13 prefectures) in Japan. In China, Kyocera provided lessons to 830 children at elementary schools in two cities. The total number of children who have taken EcoLessons since FY2003 has reached 80,693. We believe it is important to steadily continue awareness activities and endeavor to encourage children to feel for the Earth. Hands-on lesson with solar cell kits (China) Supporting “Kids’ ISO 14000 Program” for Environmental Education Kyocera Document Solutions Inc.(KDC) is an active corporate participant in the Kids’ ISO 14000 Program, an international environmental education initiative for children. Since 2005, KDC’s in-house instructors have taught classes at local schools, encouraging children to assume leadership roles in their families and communities to promote energy savings and waste reduction. Last year, a total of eight classes were held in primary schools in Mie Prefecture of Japan with a total of 170 pupils. Session of the Kids’ ISO 14000 Program 99 Activities Related to the Conservation of Biodiversity Human society consists of various blessings from nature. On the other hand, forests equivalent to one fifth of Japan’s land area are lost from the world every year. It is also said that the effect of human activities over the last several hundreds of years has caused the extinction rate of species to be accelerated by 1,000 times. In these ways, circumstances surrounding biodiversity have become extremely serious. In regards to the Kyocera Group’s business activities, while we are benefitting from the ecological system in the form of raw materials, its output has no small effect on biodiversity. The Kyocera Group establishes working policies relating to the conservation of biodiversity on activities such as the reduction of destructive effects on the natural environment and on the ecological system, active promotion of greenification at Group facilities, and participation in and support of social contribution activities. Promotion of Kyocera's Forestation Activities The Kyocera Group works on the prevention of climate change and the conservation of biodiversity. The Group also conducts activities to restore rich greenery in plant compounds and local forests to improve employee awareness of environmental protection. Our employees take the initiative and participate in activities to conserve the local forest environments. In FY2014, Kyocera conducted forestation activities in Fukushima, Nagano, Kanagawa, Shiga, Kyoto and Employees taking part in village forest conservation activities (Nagano) Kagoshima prefectures (Japan), and worked with local people in thinning and bottom grass cutting. Promoting Project Firefly The Kagoshima Kokubu Plant launched Project Firefly in November 2009 in order to preserve the distinctive local biosphere around the manufacturing plant. With the cooperation of local firefly researchers, employees improved the environment around a pond in the plant premises to make it habitable. As a result, fireflies flew around the plant in May 2010, glowing brilliantly. We also endeavor to enhance the environmental awareness of employees through this project. A firefly in the plant compound 100 Conservation of a Stork Habitat Kyocera Document Solutions, Inc. has cooperated in stork protection activities in Toyooka, Hyogo since FY2011. We are proactively involved in eliminating nonnative moso bamboo — which proliferate in the vicinity of marshy areas — in order to restore forests covered with broad leaf trees and create an environment where storks can habitat. Bamboo grove cutting Environmental Protection Fun Run In June 2013, Kyocera Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. took part in “Run 2 Plant 4 GREENIN Philippines” which was held in Cebu and coincided with Environment Month. The event was organized to promote reforestation in Naga City. Representative runners from each company completed a 5kilometer course in the city and then planted trees. Kyocera employees who participated in the run Providing Employees’ Families with Environmental Education and Awareness A recent significant increase in CO2 emissions from households, which is a suspected cause of climate change, has become a major issue. The Kyocera Group (Japan) believes that it is important for each person to seriously address global environmental issues, and has proactively promoted a program to encourage use of the Eco-Account Book at employees’ homes since FY2009 in order to support environmental protection activities at home. 101 Participation in Environmental Events Events Held for Environmental Awareness Kyocera Communications, Inc. (U.S.A.) is actively involved in recycling activities to reduce its environmental burden. The company held an Earth Expo at a Group site in San Diego in April 2014. Over 50 local companies and organizations that participated in the event introduced environmentally friendly products and services to visitors. Earth Expo Community Contribution Through a Cycling Event In May 2013, Kyocera Document Solutions (U.K.) Limited took part in the “Easy Cycle Challenge,” a competition organized to encourage more people to ride bicycles, based on the idea that reduced vehicle use leads to cleaner air and safer streets. Participants competed for the greatest cycling distance during a four-week period from May to June 2013. Kyocera won first place in the category of 3 – 6 participants and finished second in the 50 – 199 category. Kyocera employees going the distance in the bicycle challenge Main Feedback on Sustainable Management Award for the Promotion of Measures to Cope with Global Warming Received for Four Years in a row from the Ministry of the Environment The Kagoshima Sendai Plant won this award for its excellent global warming prevention activities through energy saving efforts in 2013. Kyocera received the award in the “technology development and product category” for its high-output solar module in 2010. The Shiga Gamo Plant and Shiga Yohkaichi Plant received the award in the “countermeasure category” in 2011, and the Fukushima Tanagura Plant won the same award in 2012. The Kyocera Group has thus received the award for four consecutive years. Award ceremony 102 Fair Business Activities Risk Management and Compliance Reinforcement of the Risk Management System The Kyocera Group is making Group-wide efforts to reinforce its risk management system to cope with global risks that are becoming ever more complicated. There are various risks including conventional business risks such as changes in the market environment, the occurrence of natural disasters, and soaring prices of raw materials; as well as other risks that may affect the credibility or business sustainability of the Kyocera Group, such as the impact of climate change, information leaks, and inappropriate working conditions or human rights violations in the supply chain. Each management division addresses these problems and finds solutions. If a serious incident occurs or is likely to occur, the Risk Management Division swiftly gathers information to cope with the situation. The Kyocera Group thus has an appropriate system in place to take care of risk related issues. Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Efforts The Kyocera Group conducts continuous measures for disaster prevention and is reinforcing efforts to ensure business continuity so that we will be able to continue the supply of products and services to customers. In Japan, the Kyocera Group has a BCP in place for a large-scale earthquake. Important machinery and Earthquake disaster drills equipment is fixed in place, the procurement of repair (Head Office, Kyocera Display Corporation) components arranged, and means of alternative production maintained. BCP drills are conducted to help employees understand the series of actions required in the event of an earthquake, from ensuring safety to the prevention of secondary disasters and business recovery, and are taught to react smoothly. Drills have been conducted in a total of 183 divisions including all manufacturing divisions and environment divisions. Drill sessions were completed by October 2013. Drills are being conducted sequentially at Group companies in Japan. BCP activities designed to cope with assumed disaster risks that match each local situation are undertaken proactively at overseas Group companies. BCP Efforts for the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group conducts BCP activities in concert with our business partners, including the evaluation of alternative items and the promotion of multiple purchasing sources with respect to the procurement of important raw materials and components so as to prevent the stagnation of production activities during a disaster situation. Kyocera formulated the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline to help our business partners understand our ideas about CSR. We revised the Guideline in FY2014 to add a new item on the Business Continuity Plan and have started a survey on our business partners’ BCP efforts. We will continue to work with our business partners to conduct BCP activities. 103 Information Security Efforts The Kyocera Group makes effective and efficient use of information assets. We have clarified the basic requirements that employees should comply with in the handling of information assets and established an information management system. Information Security Management Policy and System The Kyocera Group regards information on management strategies, product development, knowhow, technology, organization, and personnel as important assets of the company. To ensure sufficient protection of these information assets, we have formulated the Technical Knowhow Leak Prevention Guideline, which specifies necessary rules for the management of information assets including confidential information management, intellectual property management, physical security management, visitor management, and personnel management. In addition, the Kyocera Group has established a digital information security management policy and management regulations to ensure the thorough management of digital information. The Kyocera Group has established a Digital Information Security Committee with the President as its chairman and is implementing various digital security measures including periodic employee education, restrictions on the external use of information equipment, and the reinforcement of e-mail security. The Audit Division and Information System Division also conduct audits and when any problem is found, endeavor to solve it while working together with the division that owns the information and the relevant management division. One Approach Restrictions on Camera-Equipped Mobile Phones in Workplaces The Kyocera Group revised its Rules on Mobile Phones in Workplaces in January 2014 and reinforced its measures on information security related to mobile phones as part of its measures against the leaking of technical knowhow and confidential information owned by the Kyocera Group. Camera-equipped mobile phones are restricted at Kyocera production sites, and the places where photography is banned have been clarified. Employees, customers, business partners and Labeling of places where photography is visitors who enter Kyocera plants and offices are prohibited obliged to follow these regulations. 104 Protection of Personal Information The Kyocera Group regards the personal information obtained from stakeholders through business activities as important private information and strives to protect it thoroughly as a social responsibility. Kyocera has established a basic policy on personal information, clarifies the purpose of use of personal information and contacts for relevant inquiries, and provides employees with education on the handling of personal information to ensure the thorough management of personal information. Communication system on personal information Protection of Intellectual Property Rights The basic policy of the Kyocera Group is to safeguard the yields of research and development by the Group as intellectual property rights, and to respect the intellectual property rights of others. We assign liaison officers responsible for intellectual properties to main offices and plants. Their role is to smooth the processes of obtaining intellectual property rights, maintaining control of rights and negotiating licenses for intellectual property rights. The Kyocera Group is undertaking activities relating to intellectual property in close cooperation with the relevant businesses. 105 One Approach Measures for Dealing with Counterfeit Products The Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. Group is implementing diverse measures in various countries of the world to protect customers from the harm caused by counterfeit products, and to enable product use with peace of mind. Vendors selling counterfeit products are warned and asked to pledge they will no longer handle them. They are requested to destroy stocks and reveal the names of their suppliers. By these and other means Product with hologram seal attached Kyocera Document Solutions endeavors to prevent growth in circulation of counterfeit products. The Group is also using hologram seals to distinguish between genuine and fake products, making it easy to determine whether a product is authentic. Thorough Legal Compliance The Kyocera Group ensures thorough compliance with the law by taking measures including management by each division in charge of a specific law or regulation, the establishment of an in-house communication system for notification of the enactment or revision of a law or regulation, the establishment of Employee Consultation Offices (internal reporting system), and the implementation of regular legal compliance audits. Measures for Fair and Free Competition The Kyocera Group complies with anti-monopoly laws and related legislation, and we are working to promote fair and free competition. For example, guidelines on compliance with antimonopoly legislation were prepared and are already being used in employee training in Group companies in Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe. The Kyocera Group issued the Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Compliance Manual, common to the entire Group in February 2013 and distributed it to employees worldwide. We also set up a consultation office for employees to consult on antitrust laws in each region. Kyocera Group Global Antitrust Furthermore, we provided education to employees in sales Compliance Manual divisions and materials divisions, with about 8,500 employees receiving education in FY2014. 106 Security Trade Control System The Kyocera Group complies with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Act and other regulations relating to international security. In addition, the Kyocera Group is establishing a system for heightening security trade control. The purpose is to prevent the outflow of components for weapons of mass destruction and arms, or products and technology that could be used for their production and development. Kyocera introduced a business partner audit system in FY2014 to strengthen management. The Kyocera Group (Japan) also regularly holds meetings of the Security Trade Control (STC) Committee to ensure thorough compliance with the Foreign Exchange and Foreign Trade Control Law, and laws and regulations related to export. For overseas Group companies, Kyocera has established a system that emphasizes education on and audits of security trade control systems to enhance legal compliance. Appropriate Information Disclosure The Kyocera Group complies with regulations relating to the disclosure of information. The Group endeavors to provide appropriate information without falsehoods or expressions that invite misunderstanding, in accordance with social and moral principles. Additionally, display of product labels and operating instructions, catalogs, sales promotion documents, advertisements and other materials by Kyocera is in line with the company standard as set out in our Public Document Verification Guidelines. We are building a check system for verification by the Quality Assurance, Legal, Intellectual Property and Corporate Communications divisions. Measures for Prevention of Bribery and Corruption For the Kyocera Group, the basis of dealings with business associates is to always be fair and just, and to approach all manner of transactions in the spirit of fair play with the correct attitude as a human being. The Kyocera Group CSR Guideline prohibits the excessive exchange of gifts, the provision and receipt of excessive entertainment, and other corrupt activities. The Guideline also forbids activities that depart from customary business practice. Ensuring Transparency in Political Donations The Kyocera Group may provide political donations as required from perspectives such as the realization of policy-oriented politics and contributing to the sound growth of parliamentary democracy. When we make political donations, we will comply with relevant laws and regulations including the Political Funds Control Act as well as relevant bylaws. 107 Measures for Prevention of Insider Trading The Kyocera Group has established management systems to prevent insider trading and educates employees thoroughly. Kyocera has enacted Insider Trading Prevention Regulations, which establish a management system for insider information and provide restrictions on stock trading. The company prepared an Insider Trading Prevention Handbook and distributed it to employees to enhance understanding of its importance. In FY2014, Kyocera revised this Handbook to match the revised Financial Instruments and Exchange Act going into effect in April 2014 and distributed it to all employees. In addition, we provide education on the prevention of insider trading to newly hired employees and newly promoted employees, announce stock trading prohibition periods at morning meetings, and take other measures on a regular basis. Measures for Exclusion of Antisocial Groups The Kyocera Group established a basic policy for corporate governance and internal control including the prevention of involvement in management activities by antisocial groups and the prevention of damage by such groups. The basis of the measures for exclusion of antisocial groups is that “the entire company is united in confronting antisocial groups with determination.” The Kyocera Group CSR Guideline clearly specifies how to handle antisocial groups to notify all employees of the company’s attitude. In FY2014, we revised the basic business contract concluded with business partners and added a term on the elimination of antisocial groups. We intend to reinforce our handling of antisocial groups through the efforts of the entire supply chain towards their elimination. Establishment of Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center (Internal Reporting System) Kyocera Group employees can consult the Employee Consultation Hot-Line Center on diverse issues. Employees can seek advice and consult on diverse matters of doubt, and report actions that are or may be in violation of laws and internal regulations relating to human rights, labor, safety and health, environment, fair business practices, etc. Measures for protection of individual privacy are clarified, and employees can consult the Hot-Line Center directly by telephone, email or other means. Details of the consultation are investigated and ascertained in cooperation with the relevant divisions. This is followed by corrective action and preventive measures against recurrence. At Kyocera, consultations were undertaken on 19 matters in FY2014, and steps toward resolution were taken in each case. Legal Audit System The Kyocera Group conducts legal audits to check the state of the Group’s legal compliance as part of measures to reinforce the compliance system. We checked the legal compliance systems of Group companies in Asia in addition to Group companies in Japan in FY2014. Kyocera has established a new legal audit system focused on business processes in FY2015 and plans to deploy the system to Group companies inside and outside of Japan sequentially. 108 Fair Business Activities Supply Chain Management Policy and Systems Related to Purchasing Activities The Kyocera Group thinks that the mutual prosperity of the entire supply chain will only be realized if all companies involved in the series of business processes including development, production, sales and service work together to meet the demands of society. To this end, the Kyocera Group actively communicates with business partners and focuses on the building of partnerships based on mutual trust. We also ensure thorough compliance with business-related laws such as the Subcontract Act, by regularly implementing in-house education and audits of personnel in charge of materials and business divisions. Basic Policy on Purchasing At the Kyocera Group, we are determined to contribute to value creation and business development through materials business, diligently conduct work, and coexist with business partners, thereby attempting to be better people and win society’s trust. We established the Basic Policy on Purchasing with this idea as the basis of our purchasing activities. Under this policy, we conduct various surveys on corporate overviews and CSR to evaluate and select our business partners fairly. ·Whether the fundamental thinking of the Kyocera Group is understood. ·Whether the thinking of the business operator and the management rationale of the prospective supplier are acceptable to Kyocera. ·Whether the company aims to improve management ability, technological strength and manufacturing ability; and whether business management is appropriate and stable in terms of scale and finances (e.g.: VA*1 / VE*2 proposal strength). ·Whether the company excels in such areas as quality, price, delivery time, service response, etc. (e.g.: ISO 9000 series or equivalent quality management systems; lead-time reduction activity). ·Whether the company is seriously involved in global environmental conservation activity (e.g.: ISO 14001 certification). *1Value Analysis *2Value Engineering 109 Holding of Supplier Seminars and Social Gatherings The Kyocera Group regularly holds Supplier Seminars and Supplier Social Gatherings in Japan, China and Korea. Our suppliers are invited to these gatherings to allow them to better understand the management policies and business policies of the Kyocera Group, and to request their continued cooperation. Supplier Seminars were held in Kyoto and Mie (Japan) in FY2014, with a total of 149 people participating from 110 companies. At the Supplier Award ceremony at a Supplier Social Social Gathering held in Kyoto, three suppliers were Gathering awarded for their excellent quality, pricing and delivery performance in the past year of business. CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain The Kyocera Group works on the promotion of CSR activities together with business partners in order to better undertake corporate social responsibility covering various issues including human rights, labor and environmental protection, including within our business partners. A variety of CSR issues emerged that had to be addressed across the entire supply chain, including conflict minerals and the formulation of a BCP for swift business recovery and continuation in the event of disasters. In response, Kyocera amended its Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline. We sent the Guideline to our business partners in Japan and monitored the current status of their efforts with regard to CSR activities. Specifically, we asked for their cooperation with our survey on matters such as human rights and labor, the environment, occupational safety and health, fair trading and ethics, quality and safety, business continuity plans (BCP), and information security. We asked business partners whose action with regard to certain matters was found to be insufficient to work on CSR activities more proactively. We will also deploy CSR activities for business partners and Group companies overseas. Kyocera promotes green procurement to reduce environmental impact related to products and, apart from the Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline, has also prepared the Kyocera Guideline on Environmentally Hazardous Substances and the Kyocera Guideline on Environmental Protection Activities, requesting the cooperation of business partners. (see page 87) 110 Reporting on Conflict Minerals Knowing that some revenue of minerals produced from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries in Africa — including columbite-tantalite (tantalum), cassiterite (tin), gold, wolframite (tungsten), and their derivatives — are used to fund armed groups that commit human-rights violations, the Dodd-Frank legislation of July 2010 designates these minerals as “conflict minerals” regardless of where they are produced and requires all companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange to disclose information on the use of these minerals in their products. Kyocera Group Policy and Organization Structure Kyocera’s policy is not to purchase conflict minerals or materials and products using metals made from conflict minerals, the revenue of which may serve to fund armed groups committing human-rights violations in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and neighboring countries. In the “Kyocera Supply-Chain CSR Deployment Guideline” we have added a policy regarding conflict minerals. In order to address this issue and consider appropriate measures, Kyocera established the Kyocera Conflict Minerals Committee in 2012, which is comprised of the top managers in purchasing, investor relations, corporate social responsibility, internal audit and legal affairs. The Committee’s role is to determine the basic policies and investigation methods regarding conflict minerals and to ensure that the entire Kyocera Group addresses the conflict mineral issue properly and fairly. Since this issue needs to be addressed by the entire supply chain, we are actively working with industry organizations and will continually work to improve cooperation. Kyocera has been a principle member of the Responsible Investigation Commission of Conflict Minerals, established within JEITA*1, since its inauguration. We led the instruction at meetings to explain the conflict minerals surveys held by JEITA and JAPIA*2 from May to June 2013. *1 JEITA: Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association *2 JAPIA: Japan Auto Parts Industries Association The Kyocera Group’s Measures and Survey Results In August 2012, following the announcement of detailed regulations relating to the conflict minerals provision in the U.S. financial regulatory reform bill, Kyocera internally decided on the most salient points of an industry-supported survey. As conflict minerals present industry-wide issues, we decided to carry out investigations based on the framework of the Conflict Free Smelter (CFS) Program created by the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) and the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI). Since January 2013, Kyocera has held 20 explanatory meetings in Japan (Tokyo, Kyoto, Osaka and Kagoshima) and China (Shanghai and Dongguan), where Kyocera’s suppliers are mainly concentrated, to explain policies for dealing with conflict minerals and to request cooperation with the survey. A total of 897 companies were in attendance. 111 Explanatory meetings for suppliers (left: Japan; right: China) We started the survey in February 2013 and have continually analyzed the completed surveys received from our suppliers. We conducted a survey with our suppliers on the country of origin related to minerals, for which 93.8% of the surveys were returned. For suppliers who handle minerals originating from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and its neighboring countries, it is necessary to conduct due diligence in accordance with the rules of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Therefore, we directly contacted these suppliers as “critical suppliers to survey” and confirmed the name and location of the smelters or refiners used for their minerals. The results show that the Kyocera Group has no relation with the relevant conflicts at this point. Kyocera Group’s Future Measures The Kyocera Group recognizes the importance of continuing its survey using the CFS program and in identifying and investigating smelters and refiners. Therefore, we intend to continually establish a strong supply chain relationship through various measures, including the signing of a letter of engagement with suppliers that includes a pledge to contact Kyocera immediately if a connection to a conflict mineral has been uncovered. It is important to increase the number of smelters that submit to an independent third-party audit in order to be assessed as “conflict-free.” However, since it is difficult for a single company to prompt smelters to participate in such audits, Kyocera continues to work through industry organizations such as JEITA for this purpose. One Approach Approach by Overseas Group Company As the leading supplier of tantalum capacitors, AVX Corporation (AVX), a consolidated subsidiary of Kyocera in the United States, has continued its efforts to remove from its supply chain any conflict minerals which may serve as funding sources for armed groups committing human-rights violations. AVX announced that as of December 1, 2011 all its current tantalum powder and wire suppliers were fully compliant with the independently audited CFS Program. AVX will continue to exclusively use tantalum powder and wire from conflict-free compliant smelters in accordance with the principles of the Dodd-Frank legislation and current Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) guidelines. 112 Customer Concerns Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels Efforts to Improve Product Quality Kyocera Quality Policy The Kyocera Group has established the Kyocera Quality Policy to achieve production of quality goods that fully satisfy our customers’ needs. We develop our businesses on the basis of this Quality Policy, and aim to always be an enterprise that is worthy of trust throughout the world. Moreover, to provide a high level of satisfaction to our customers, Kyocera is doing everything possible to ensure observance and correct application of the rules, starting at the planning stages. Kyocera Quality Policy 1. Kyocera places top priority on our environmental management and product safety systems. 2. Kyocera provides products and services to our customers that exceed their expectations by putting them first. 3. Kyocera aims to be a world leader in quality by doing every job right the first time. Quality Management Systems The Kyocera Group holds meetings of the Kyocera CS Improvement Committee with the President serving as its chairman every month to improve the CS index, share quality information to prevent quality problems, and prevent the recurrence of quality problems. The company has established quality management systems including ISO 9001, and each business unit sets its own quality targets, formulates plans and carries out quality improvements towards their achievement. Kyocera CS Improvement Committee 113 One Approach Quality Training Held in China The Kyocera Group holds quality training regularly to improve quality indices and reinforce quality systems. In FY2014, the company provided quality training to about 200 Chinese employees, including managers in the vehicle-mounted product-related Technical and Manufacturing Divisions of Dongguan Shilong Kyocera Co., Ltd. and Kyocera Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd. in China. Trainees improved their practical abilities to become able to respond smoothly to quality problems through practical drills with Kyocera-style system Quality training (China) diagrams and other materials. We will improve quality further by implementing ongoing training in the future. Efforts to Ensure Product Safety Kyocera Product Safety Policy Safety is the utmost priority for all products made or sold by Kyocera. Regardless of form or function, they must not endanger a person’s life or well-being, nor inflict damage on property. From this perspective, Kyocera has set a Product Safety Policy, in addition to its Quality Policy. Kyocera established Product Safety System Guidelines as a concrete code of action at all levels of corporate activity. Additionally, the Guidelines for Product Safety Labeling serve as supplementary guidelines for understanding international standards relating to safety labels. Kyocera Product Safety Policy 1. Kyocera is fully acquainted with the latest information related to product liability and product safety. 2. Kyocera maintains an industry-leading standard of product safety. 3. Kyocera systematically practices product safety in accordance with manuals. Responses to Accidents Involving Products We have established systems that allow the CS Division and Risk Management Division to gather information and implement countermeasures if a serious product accident occurs. We also notify the competent authority of such accidents and disclose information on our Web site. 114 Approaches to Raising Customer Satisfaction Levels Action by the Customer Support Center The Kyocera Group operates a Customer Support Center (Call Center) to handle matters mainly concerning products for general consumers. By responding earnestly, correctly and promptly to customer inquiries, consultations, complaints and other issues, the Kyocera Group aims to raise the level of customer satisfaction. Valuable information and inquiries received from our customers are promptly reported to top management and shared among the relevant business segments. The information received is used to improve the quality of our products and services. In FY2014, Kyocera received 54,236 inquiries, about 20,000 more than in FY2013, mainly because of an increase in the number of questions on relating to smartphone operation. Safeguarding Customer Personal Information In the Kyocera Group, the personal information of customers is as a rule obtained directly from customers, upon agreement with the customers, and only after clarification of the purpose for which it would be used is provided. Personal information stored by the Kyocera Group is handled appropriately in accordance with strict controls based on the Electronic Information Security Management Policy and associated regulations. Efforts of Universal Design Kyocera Document Solutions Inc. incorporates the concept of User Centered Design in its development process. Under this concept, users are always at the center of the life cycle of products such as printers and multi-functional products (MFPs), covering planning, design, production and sale; and products are designed based on information gathered from users and a good understanding of what they want. Wheelchair usability evaluation Particularly in the design stage, it is important to understand customers’ needs and repeat the production and evaluation of prototypes. This is how the company realizes the supply of easy-touse products and user-friendly services. Engineers and designers whose job is to develop products actually visit workplaces where people with disabilities work, as well as place themselves in wheelchairs or wear special kits in order to recreate the physical experience of elderly people so that they can better understand the needs of diverse people. What they learn is then incorporated into the verification and development of products. 115 One Approach Kyocera Received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in the CEATEC AWARD 2013 The CEATEC AWARD 2013 was announced at the opening event of CEATEC JAPAN 2013, one of Asia’s largest general exhibitions of advanced IT and electronics. Kyocera’s piezo film speaker (Smart Sonic® Sound), one of Kyocera’s new acoustic devices, received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award. The CEATEC AWARD 2013 are given to technologies, products and services on display at CEATEC JAPAN 2013 which possess particularly excellent features. The winning items were evaluated Smart Sonic® Sound highly for their future potential and marketability. Kyocera Received the iF Product Design Award 2014, a German Design Award Kyocera’s DIGNO® M smartphone received the iF Product Design Award 2014 at the iF Design Awards sponsored by iF International Forum Design GmbH. The award is presented for industrial products of excellent design not only from Germany but from all over the world. It is an internationally renowned design award and the most prestigious in Europe, the birthplace of modern industrial design. Highly evaluated Kyocera DIGNO® M smartphone for its functionality and ease of use, the DIGNO M was selected and presented with the award in the product category, which screened industrial products. 116 Social Contribution Activities Supporting Academic Advancement and Research Supporting the Inamori Foundation’s Kyoto Prize The non-profit Inamori Foundation was established in 1984, based upon the belief of Kyocera’s founder, Kazuo Inamori, that “a human being has no higher calling than to strive for the greater good of humanity and the world” and that “the future of humanity can be assured only when there is a balance between scientific development and the enrichment of the human spirit.” The Kyoto Prize, organized by the Foundation, was established in 1985 and celebrates its 30th anniversary in 2014 as an international award that honors people who have made significant contributions in the three categories of Advanced Technology, Basic Sciences, and Arts and Philosophy. Each laureate receives a diploma, Kyoto Prize medal and prize money of 50 million yen per category. Following the Kyoto Prize presentation ceremony each November 10, events are held to encourage citizen interaction with the laureates, including commemorative lectures for the general public where the laureates present their world views, academic workshops involving experts in the chosen award fields, and educational programs for students from elementary school to college. The Kyocera Group is fully aligned with the spirit of the Kyoto Prize and pleased to support this award. The Kyoto Prize Presentation The 2013 Kyoto Prize laureates Kyoto Prize Symposium held in San Ceremony Diego (U.S.A.) Inamori Frontier Research Center at Kyushu University The Inamori Frontier Research Center was established at Kyushu University (Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan) to undertake research activities contributing to the harmony of minds and technology, and to support the exchange and education of young researchers. Kyocera agrees with the goals of the Center, and has supported its operations since 2008 by donating scholarship funds. Inamori Foundation Memorial Hall housing the Inamori Frontier Research Center 117 Inamori Academy Building at Kagoshima University In 2008, the Inamori Academy building opened at Kagoshima University (Kagoshima Prefecture, Japan) to offer a course aimed at the comprehensive cultivation of human abilities. Kyocera supported the construction of the facility. In 2000, the endowed Kyocera Chair of Management Studies was established in the university’s Faculty of Engineering. In 2005, the course expanded university-wide and was reorganized into the Inamori Academy in 2008. Inamori Academy building Donation of the Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers In 1998, Kyocera donated more than 12,000 volumes of documents submitted to the British Parliament in the 19th and 20th centuries to Japan’s National Museum of Ethnology. The collection was transferred to the Center for Integrated Area Studies (CIAS), Kyoto University in 2006 and is utilized as a resource for research. Kyocera Collection of British Parliamentary Papers Alfred University In 2005, Kyocera made a donation to Alfred University (New York state, U.S.A.), an institute renowned worldwide for its education and research in ceramics and glass, which led to the official renaming of its engineering school as the Kazuo Inamori School of Engineering. In 2011, the Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum was opened to exhibit the products and technology that Kyocera has cultivated over the years. Inamori Kyocera Fine Ceramics Museum 118 Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics was inaugurated in 1998 in the global headquarters building in Kyoto, followed by a sister museum in the company’s Kagoshima Kokubu Plant which opened in 2001. Free of charge and open to the public, the museums showcase the evolution and latest technological advances around which Kyocera has grown and serve to support the future development of fine ceramics. The museum in Kyoto was fully renovated in March 2014. The Kyocera Museum of Fine Ceramics 119 Social Contribution Activities Support for Culture and the Arts Shiki Theatre Company’s Kokoro no Gekijo Kyocera supports Kokoro no Gekijo (theatre of the heart), planned and managed by the Shiki Theatre Company, which uses the stage to communicate to children such important life lessons as trust, altruism and the value of life. Children across Japan are invited to attend the free performances. The Emperor’s New Clothes, performed by Shiki Theatre Company (Photo by Akihito Abe) The Kirishima International Music Festival Since 2001, Kyocera has supported the Kirishima International Music Festival (Kirishima City, Japan) with the aim of providing students with the opportunity to be educated by outstanding musicians and experience their performances. Concerts and workshops are held every year, featuring musicians from around the world as invited performers and lecturers. Concert at the Kirishima International Music Festival © Kirishima International Music Festival Kyoto Hanatouro Project Kyocera supports the Kyoto Hanatouro project, in which lights and flowers evoking a rich Japanese atmosphere are used to decorate Kyoto’s prominent temples, shrines and other historical cultural assets and street scenes. More than two million people enjoyed fantastic night scenery during events over 20 days in Arashiyama in December 2013 and Higashiyama in March 2014. Arashiyama, Kyoto vividly illuminated (Photo provided by Kyoto Hanatouro Promotion Council) 120 The Kyocera Museum of Art The Kyocera Museum of Art, which is open to the public free of charge, was established in 1998 in the Kyocera headquarters building (Kyoto City, Japan). Many works of art are on permanent display, including Picasso’s copper plate print series 347, Western-style paintings, sculptures, and Qianlong glass from China. From March to April 2014, the Museum’s Spring Special Exhibition featured cultural assets dating from the Azuchi-Momoyama Period to the end of the Edo Period that relate to the Fushimi district of Kyoto. The Kyocera Museum of Art 121 Social Contribution Activities International Exchange and Collaboration Donating of Solar Power Generating Systems to Schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal To help improve the educational environment in areas lacking electricity, Kyocera has donated solar power generating systems and basic electrical equipment, including lighting, TVs and radios, to schools in Uganda, Tanzania and Nepal since 2009. As a pioneer in solar power, Kyocera can help improve educational standards in developing countries by giving children — our future leaders — classrooms lit by solar electricity. Donation ceremony held at a school (Uganda) Schoolchildren watch a television powered by solar energy (Uganda) School staff and a Kyocera employee (at far right) hold a Solar modules installed at a school (Nepal) donation ceremony (Tanzania) 122 Supporting “TOMODACHI in San Diego” Many survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake received assistance and were heartened by Operation Tomodachi, an emergency rescue effort conducted by U.S. Armed Forces in the wake of the disaster. Building upon the spirit of friendship, the TOMODACHI Initiative was created by the U.S. Embassy in Japan and the U.S.-Japan Council. In alliance with the Initiative’s goals, Kyocera, together with Japan Airlines, supports programs designed to give hope and courage to children in Japan’s affected regions. High school students visiting Marine Corps base to express gratitude The Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund Supports Development in China In 2001, Kyocera and its founder, Kazuo Inamori, set up the Inamori-Kyocera Western Development Scholarship Fund to assist economically disadvantaged university students in China’s western provinces who show both outstanding academic achievement and high moral character. The fund fosters individuals who will aid regional development through science and technology. Scholarship funds are granted at 12 universities each year, with a total of 3,576 student beneficiaries as of March 2014. Scholarship recipients Providing Scholarships to Japanese Language Students For more than 30 years, KYOCERA International, Inc. has provided Kyocera Japanese Scholarships and Best Student Awards to students at San Diego State University. These annual partial scholarships and awards recognize outstanding students of Japanese language and encourage cross-cultural studies. President of Kyocera International, Inc. (left) presents a student (right) with an award 123 Cultural Exchange Tours Enable Chinese Children to Visit Japan Since 1997, Kyocera has invited children from China to visit Japan, with the hope that providing firsthand experience of different cultures to children will facilitate future bonds of friendship between the two countries. A total of 394 children have taken part in the program so far. The summer of 2013 marked the 14th time this tour has been held, with 30 children visiting Japan from Shanghai to travel around Tokyo, Yamanashi, Shiga and Kyoto. Chinese children visiting a Kyocera plant Picture Books for Children in Developing Countries Kyocera Communication Systems Co., Ltd. (KCCS) supports an international cooperative that delivers picture books to children in developing countries. Since 2009, KCCS employees and their family members have voluntarily made picture books, which are delivered to children in countries including Cambodia, Laos, Afghanistan, and at refugee camps in Myanmar (Burma). Employees volunteering to make picture books 124 Social Contribution Activities Local Community Activities Japan Supporting Kyoto Sanga F.C. Professional Soccer Team Kyoto Purple Sanga (now Kyoto Sanga F.C.) was established in 1994 in response to the high expectations of Kyoto residents calling for a local professional soccer team. In the belief that it is the responsibility of a local company to help its community thrive, Kyocera provides Group-wide support to this team. Kyocera also supports the Sanga Cup, a Kyoto youth soccer tournament, as well as a project that helps develop soccer skills in players up to the age of 18. ©KYOTO.P.S. Classes in Scientific Experimentation Teach Basics of Electricity and Photocopying The Osaka City Board of Education conducts the Naniwa Kids Love Science Development Project to help children experience the joy of learning science and to ensure the future of the manufacturing sector. Kyocera employees have served as special instructors since 2008, using scientific experiments to teach a total of 2,352 elementary school students in 32 schools how science can be fun. Printer/copier science experiments Cooperation in the Display of Artificial Joints at the Osaka Science Museum Kyocera Medical Corporation has cooperated with the Osaka Science Museum in the display of artificial joints since 2008. Artificial hip joints are on display in a Familiar Chemistry corner. The purpose of the display is to let people know how biocompatible materials are used effectively in the medical field. A family looking at artificial hip joints on display 125 Cooperating in a Display at the Kyoto Manufacturing Hall of Fame The Kyoto Manufacturing Hall of Fame is an exhibition space for local businesses which was opened in 2009 at a facility in Kyoto to provide elementary school and junior high school students with opportunities to learn about society. Kyocera displays products and other items on manufacturing and holds industrial lessons using solar cells. Children visit this facility as part of their curricular activities and learn the importance of manufacturing as they get hands-on experience with technology and products. Elementary school students visiting the Kyocera exhibition corner Pink Ribbon Activities The Kyocera Group supports the Pink Ribbon Movement to promote early detection and diagnosis of breast cancer, and donates part of the profits from its pink ceramic kitchen products to this effort. In the U.S.A., Kyocera has donated part of the profits from its pink-handled ceramic knives to breast cancer research since 2004. Kyocera supports similar activities in Australia, China, France, Italy, Korea and Japan. Ceramic knife series supports the Pink Ribbon Movement Sponsoring Local Festivals / Summer Festival at Plants and Offices The Kyocera Group actively sponsors local festivals and events to invigorate the local communities where Kyocera’s plants and offices are located. Kyocera sites all over the country have been holding summer festivals every year since 1972 and value communication with local residents. Employees participating in the Kirishima Kokubu Summer Festival 126 Local Beautification Activities Kyocera aims to be an integral part of its local communities, participating in beautification efforts for parks, forests, rivers and areas around the company’s offices and plants worldwide. By carrying out regular cleanups and taking part in local initiatives, the company continually aims to beautify its communities. Employees cleaning the community in Yokohama, Japan Support for the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden The aim of the All-Japan Wheelchair Rider Ekiden is to promote social participation and sports activities by people with disabilities. Kyocera has supported the race since it was first run in 1990 Wheelchair rider 127 Christmas Illuminations Each year from the end of November through December, Kyocera festively illuminates its global headquarters building in Kyoto with LED lighting to enliven the local community. During the Christmas season, the headquarters building becomes a huge shining fir tree with the clever arrangement of lighted windows. In 2013, many visitors enjoyed strolling in the headquarters courtyard which was decorated by approximately 210,000 LED light bulbs. LED illuminations Photo taken with “pen light art” Group-Wide Fund-Raising Efforts The Kyocera Group (Japan) provides Group-wide support for year-end fund-raising activities every year. Kyocera started donations in 1963 immediately after its foundation. Contributions from employees and Kyocera are entrusted to local communities. In addition, many Kyocera Group companies inside and outside of Japan make donations in support of disaster-stricken communities around the world. Kyocera employees also hold fund-raising campaigns and carry out volunteer activities. Employees engaged in a volunteer activity at the children’s orphanage and infant care facility, Kyoto Daiwa-no-Ie, where the Group’s donations are utilized. 128 Advanced Chemical Technology Center in Kyoto In November 2013, the Advanced Scientific Technology & Management Research Institute (ASTEM) of Kyoto inaugurated the Advanced Chemical Technology Center in Kyoto as a new research and development base. Kyocera donated a 10kW solar power generating system to support the Center’s activities, aimed at promoting cutting-edge industry-academia cooperative projects. Roof of the Advanced Chemical Technology Center Outside Japan Providing Materials for International Robotics Competition Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co., Ltd. in Thailand helped support a team from King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi, which represented Thailand in the international “RoboCup 2013” (Netherlands) competition by providing components. The competition is held to promote the development of intelligent robots. Winning students in category of “Robocup Rescue” (Photo courtesy of King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi (Bangkok) ) Entrepreneurial Learning for Kids Kyocera Document Solutions Espana, S.A. supports Fundación Marazuela, an organization in Madrid working to promote the social and cultural development of the local region. Kyocera collaborated on a program in which children learned about business enterprises and established their own imaginary company to sell products. Children selling products for their imaginary company 129 Supporting the “Avnet Tech Games” College Technical Competition In 2011, the Kyocera Solar, Inc. created a “solar scrimmage” for an Arizona technical college competition in which students created solar-powered pumping systems based on engineering skills learned in school. The company supports students at the local competition every year by donating solar modules and providing event support. Students creating solar-powered pumping systems Donations to Local Elementary Schools In November 2013, Kyocera Solar Europe s.r.o. in the Czech Republic donated computers and other equipment to four elementary schools in the town of Kadan to bolster local education. In addition, solar modules were donated, some of which are used as educational tools to teach children about solar energy. Kyocera employees donating equipment Financial Cooperation for an Entrepreneur Support NPO Kyocera Document Solutions South Africa (Pty) Ltd. provides financial support for The Hope Factory, an NPO working to empower impoverished people to start their own businesses. The NPO provides knowledge on financial management and marketing to assist people starting various businesses such as selling security equipment. Employees receiving entrepreneurial support 130 Supporting Cancer Prevention Kyocera Document Solutions Australia Pty Ltd. supported the “Daffodil Day” charity fundraiser, which is held every year to support cancer patients and research. Teddy bears, pens and other goods were sold in the office and the proceeds were donated to Cancer Council Australia. Employees participating in the charity event Supporting the Education of University Science Students Kyocera America, Inc. began collaborating with Mathematics, Engineering, Science Achievement (MESA) in 1992 to support students in their studies. Providing educational support and scholarships to universities in the state of California helps highly motivated students achieve their academic goals. University students receiving scholarships (left and right) from a Kyocera employee (center) Educational Support to a Vocational School Since 2012, Kyocera Document Technology (Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. in China has helped a vocational school in Zigui County, Yichang City, Hubei Province by supporting practical training such as computer work and machine repair / assembly. To help enhance human resources development, Kyocera also grants scholarships to outstanding students. Scholarship ceremony 131 Playground Construction at a Local School Since 2007, Kyocera Crystal Device (Thailand) Co.,Ltd. in Thailand has participated in local development programs to support communities in need and underprivileged children. In August 2013, Kyocera employees helped build a playground and make other improvements at Ban Huai Hom School in Lamphun Province. More than 150 volunteers and students took part in the program, working together to improve the school’s infrastructure. Volunteers building a playground at Ban Huai Hom School Holiday Donations in Local Communities The Kyocera Group in the U.S.A. supports initiatives to make year-end holidays a special time for people in the community. In Washington, employees took part in the Adopt-a-Family Program, in which items requested by local families in need were donated as holiday gifts. The New Jersey office participated in the annual Toys for Tots campaign, run by the U.S. Marine Corps, which collects toys and delivers them to underprivileged children. Kyocera employees with holiday gifts for donation 132 ISO9001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (6 companies) (as of April 2014) 地 域 Company Date of registration KYOCERA Corporation KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Jul. 1992 Japan KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. (Registration No.: JMI-0036) KYOCERA Chemical Corp. KYOCERA Solar Corp. Individual Certification (39 companies) (as of April 2014) Region Company Date of registration Region Company Date of registration KYOCERA Connector Products Corporation ※ 1 Jul. 2008 KYOCERA America, Inc. Apr. 1994 KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Mar. 1998 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation Apr. 1995 KYOCERA Medical Corporation ※ 2 May 2005 KYOCERA TYCOM Corporation Aug. 1996 KYOCERA Communication Systems Co., Ltd. Biddeford Nov. 2004 Japan Colorado Spring Jul. 2003 North America Six divisions related to computer systems Aug. 1997 and package software Conway Jul. 2004 U.S.A. AVX Corporation Two divisions related to mobile base stations Sep. 2004 Myrtle Beach ※ 1 Jul. 2005 KYOCERA Display Corporation Aug. 2005 Olean Dec. 2003 KYOCERA Circuit Solutions,Inc Apr. 1993 Raleigh Jul. 2004 Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. Dec. 1998 AVX Filters Corporation Dec. 2003 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. Feb. 2003 American Technical Huntington Oct. 1997 KYOCERA Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. Feb. 1994 Ceramics Corp. Jacksonville Oct. 1998 KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. Apr. 2004 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Jun. 2005 South and Central America Mexico Asia KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. Jul. 2004 Avio Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ※ 1 Jan. 2004 China KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd. Sep. 2006 El Salvador AVX Industries, Pte. Ltd. ※ 1 Dec. 2003 KYOCERA Connector Products Hong Kong Ltd. Mar. 2004 Brazil AVX Components da Amazonia Ltda. Jan. 2004 KYOCERA Document Technology Co., American Technical Ceramics Europe Feb. 1994 Sweden Jan. 2003 （H.K.）Ltd. Aktiebolag AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co., Ltd. ※1 Sep. 2007 UK AVX Limited ※1 Nov. 2007 KYOCERA Connector Products Asia Pte, Ltd. Oct. 2004 France TPC S.A.S ※ 1 Dec. 2007 Singapore Europe KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte, Ltd. Mar. 2003 Germany ELCO Europe GmbH ※ 1 May 2007 KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. Apr. 1998 KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. Feb. 2006 Korea KYOCERA Precision Tools Korea Co., Ltd. Feb. 2004 Lanskroun Feb. 2006 Czech AVX Czech Republic KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Oct. 2007 ※ 3 Thailand Sep. 2003 s.r.o. Uherske ※ 1 Ltd. ※ 1 Dec. 2007 ※ 4 Malaysia TPC Malaysia Sdn.Bhd. Mar. 2004 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ※ 1 Mar. 2004 Israel AVX Israel Ltd. Dec. 2003 ※ 1 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO/TS-16949) to which automotive special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※ 2 Certification of the quality management standard (ISO 13485) to which medical-related special requirements are added based on ISO 9001. ※ 3 Related to connectors. ※ 4 Related to electronic parts and capacitors. 133 ISO14001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (182 sites) (as of April 2014) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Yaesu Office Tokyo Harajuku Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office Okegawa Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office The Inamori Library Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Store CV Kyoto Store CV Osaka Umeda Store CV Kobe Sannomiya Store KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Inc. Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center KYOCERA Document Solutions Japan Headquarters Sapporo Office Sendai Office Nagoya Office Osaka Sales Office Oct. 1996 Inc. Hiroshima Office Fukuoka Office Sales Offices: 48 locations (including local offices) (Registration Japan No. Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawasaki Plant Kohriyama Plant EC99J2032) KYOCERA Chemical Corp. Moka Plant Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant Higashi Nihon Sales Office KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. Kyushu Sales Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters Hokkaido Mikasa Plant Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Headquarters Tokyo Sales Office Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office KYOCERA Medical Corporation Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kyoto Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center (2 sites) Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center KYOCERA Communication Systems Takanawa Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Osaka Office Osaka ICT Branch Co., Ltd. Fukuoka Office Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Sendai Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tohoku Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corp. Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Kagoshima Sales Office KYOCERA Solar FC Lake Town KYOCERA Solar FC Itami Koya ※ The above 182 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (101 sites) (as of April 2014) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Japan AVX Tantalum Asia Corp. ― Sep. 2001 Guragaon Jun. 2011 Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. ― Jul. 2000 Mumbai Jun. 2011 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. ― Jun. 2006 Gujarat Sep. 2012 Kyocera Document Technology ( Dongguan) Co.,Ltd. ― Oct. 2001 Pune Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Chemical (Wuxi) Co., Ltd. ― Apr. 2001 Nagpur Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Technology Co.,（H.K.）Ltd. ― Oct. 2008 New Delhi Sep. 2012 AVX Electronics（Tianjin）Co.,Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 Lucknow Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions Hong Kong Ltd. ― Nov. 2000 KYOCERA Document Solutions India Private Chennai Sep. 2012 China Asia India Limited KYOCERA Document Solutions Asia Ltd ― Apr. 2012 Bangalore Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Document Solutions (China) Corp. ― Dec. 2012 Emakulam Sep. 2012 KYOCERA (Tianjin) Solar Energy Co., Ltd. ― Aug. 2009 Hyderabad Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Connector Products（Dongguan） Vizag Sep. 2012 ― Dec. 2003 Co., Ltd. Kolkata Sep. 2012 KYOCERA Display (Zhangjiagang) Co. Ltd. ― Mar 2003 Bhubanmeswar Sep. 2012 KYOCERA OPTEC（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 2003 Guhawati Sep. 2012 Asia KYOCERA Document Solutions Taiwan ― Jan. 2008 Ranchi Sep. 2012 Corporation KYOCERA Chemical Singapore Pte, Ltd. ― Jun. 1999 Canada KYOCERA Document Solutions Canada, Ltd. ― Jul. 2008 Singapore KYOCERA Document Solutions Singapore KYOCERA America, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 ― Feb. 2008 Pte, Ltd. Vancouver Jun. 1998 North America KYOCERA Connector Products Korea Co., Ltd. ― Spt.1999 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation Mountain Home Feb. 1999 Korea KYOCERA Document Solutions Korea Co., Ltd. ― Feb. 2010 SanDiego Sep. 1997 U.S.A. KYOCERA Crystal Device（Thailand）Co., Ltd. ― Dec. 1999 KYOCERA Communications Inc. ― Aug. 2000 KYOCERA Document Solutions（Thailand） KYOCERA Precision Tools, Inc. ― Nov. 2005 Thailand ― Aug. 2006 Corp., Ltd. Conway Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Display Thailand Co., Ltd. ― Jan. 2005 AVX Corporation Myrtle Beach Feb. 2008 Philippines KYOCERA Crystal Device Philippines, Inc. ― Jun. 2006 Israel AVX Israel Ltd. ― May 2003 TPC Malaysia Sdn Bhd ― Feb. 2008 Malaysia KYOCERA Telecom Equipment（Malaysia）Sdn.Bhd. ― May. 1998 Vietnam KYOCERA Document Technology Vietnam Co., Ltd. ― Aug. 2013 134 Individual Certification (101 sites) (as of April 2014) Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration Region Company Office / Plant Date of registration American Technical Ceramics Corp. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Austria Austria ― Apr. 2008 GmbH AVX Greenville, LLC. ― Mar. 2010 Belgium KYOCERA Document Solutions Belgium N.V. ― Apr. 2004 Fairfield Mar. 2007 Lanskroun Feb. 2000 Irvine Mar. 2007 AVX Czech Republic s.r.o. Czech Uherske Feb. 2008 Norcross Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. ― Mar. 2009 Wood Dale Mar. 2007 KYOCERA Document Solutions Danmark A/S ― Apr. 2008 North America KYOCERA Document Solutions America, Inc. New York Mar. 2007 KYOCERA UNIMERCO A/S ― Mar. 1996 Irving Mar. 2007 Denmark U.S.A. KYOCERA UNIMERCO Fastening A/S ― Mar. 1996 Miami Mar. 2007 KYOCERA UNIMERCO Tooling A/S ― Mar. 1996 Arlington Mar. 2007 Finland KYOCERA Document Solutions Finland OY ― Apr. 2008 Memphis Mar. 2007 Norway KYOCERA Document Solutions Norge NUF ― Apr. 2008 AVX Tantalum Corporation ― Feb. 2008 Sweden KYOCERA Document Solutions Nordic AB ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Development Europe ― Jun. 2008 America, Inc. TPC S.A.S. ― Feb. 2008 France KYOCERA International, Inc. ― Aug. 1997 KYOCERA Document Solutions France S.A.S ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Solar, Inc. ― Jul. 2010 ELCO Europe GmbH ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. ― Dec. 1998 KYOCERA Document Solutions Deutschland Germany ― Apr. 2008 Central and South America GmbH Avio Excelente, S. de R.L. de C.V. ― Feb. 2008 Mexico KYOCERA Display Europe GmbH ― Jul. 2004 KYOCERA Document Solutions Mexico, S.A. ― Nov. 2008 de C.V. Italy KYOCERA Document Solutions Italia S.p.A. ― Apr. 2008 El Salvador AVX Industries Pte, Ltd. ― Feb. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions Nederland B.V. ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA do Brasil Componentes Industriais Ltda. ― Apr. 2007 Netherlands Hoeksteen Mar. 2007 Brazil KYOCERA Document Solutions Europe B.V. KYOCERA Document Solutions Brazil, Ltd. ― Nov. 2009 Zurich Apr. 2008 South KYOCERA Document Solutions South Africa Portugal KYOCERA Document Solutions Portugal Lda. ― Apr. 2008 Africa Africa （Pty）Ltd. ― Apr. 2008 Spain KYOCERA Document Solutions Espana S.A. ― Apr. 2008 KYOCERA Document Solutions（U.K.）Ltd. ― Apr. 2008 U.K. AVX Limited ― Aug. 2000 New Oceania KYOCERA Document Solutions New Zealand Ltd. ― Oct. 2007 Zealand Australia KYOCERA Document Solutions Australia Pty. Ltd. ― Jun. 2006 135 OHSAS 18001 Certification Status Integrated Certification (135 sites) （as of April 2014） Region Company Date of registration Headquarters Hokkaido Kitami Plant Fukushima Tanagura Plant Chiba Sakura Office Tokyo Yaesu Office Tokyo Harajuku Office Yokohama Office Nagano Okaya Plant Mie Ise Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Fushimi Office R&D Center, Keihanna Osaka Daito Office Kagoshima Sendai Plant Kagoshima Kokubu Plant R&D Center, Kagoshima Kagoshima Hayato Plant Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Nagaoka Sales Office Takasaki Sales Office Utsunomiya Sales Office Okegawa Sales Office KYOCERA Corporation Omiya Sales Office Tachikawa Sales Office Kanto Logistics Center Atsugi Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office Hamamatsu Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Mikawa Sales Office The Inamori Library Kyocera Keiaikan Osaka Sales Office Himeji Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Okinawa Sales Office CV Ginza Store CV Kyoto Store CV Osaka Umeda Store CV Kobe Sannomiya Store KYOCERA Connector Products Headquarters Okaya Plant Osaka Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Omiya Sales Office Corporation Tachikawa Sales Office Matsumoto Sales Office KYOCERA OPTEC Co., Ltd. Headquarters Chigase Plant Tokyo Sales Office Kansai Sales Office KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Hirakata Plant Tamaki Plant Tokyo R&D Center Inc. KYOCERA Document Solutions Headquarters Japan Inc. Oct. 2005 Japan Headquarters Kansai Branch Kyushu Branch Kawasaki Plant Kohriyama Plant (Registration KYOCERA Chemical Corp. No. :C05J0006) Moka Plant Headquarters Shiga Yasu Plant Kyoto Ayabe Plant Kagoshima Sendai Plant Higashi Nihon Sales Office KYOCERA SLC Technologies Corp. Kyushu Sales Office KYOCERA Crystal Device Corporation Headquarters Hokkaido Mikasa Plant Nagano Okaya Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant Headquarters Tokyo Branch Kobe Plant Shiga Gamo Plant Shiga Yohkaichi Plant KYOCERA Medical Shiga Yasu Plant Research Center Kobe Product Control Center Sapporo Sales Office Tohoku Sales Office Corporation Omiya Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kyoto Sales Office Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tokyo 1st Data Center (2 sites) Tokyo 2nd Data Center Tokyo 3rd Data Center Takanawa Branch Shiga Office Kyoto Karasuma Office Osaka Office KYOCERA Communication Osaka ICT Branch Fukuoka Office Sendai Office Kokubu Office Sapporo Sales Office Systems Co., Ltd. Sendai Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Kanazawa Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Takamatsu Sales Office Kagoshima Sales Office Headquarters Tokyo Branch Tohoku Sales Office Nagoya Sales Office Osaka Sales Office KYOCERA Solar Corp. Okayama Sales Office Hiroshima Sales Office Kyushu Sales Office Sakura Office Shiga Yohkaichi Office Kagoshima Sales Office KYOCERA Solar FC Lake Town KYOCERA Solar FC Itami Koya ※ The above 128 offices and plants are jointly ISO 14001 certified under the Kyocera Group Integrated Environment & Safety Management System. Individual Certification (13 sites) (as of April 2014) Region Company Office/Plant Date of registration Shanghai KYOCERA Electronics Co., Ltd. － Nov. 2006 Dongguan Shilong KYOCERA Co.,Ltd. － Jan. 2009 Asia China KYOCERA Connector Products（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. － Jan. 2009 KYOCERA Document Technology（Dongguan）Co., Ltd. － Jan. 2009 KYOCERA Precision Tools（Zhuhai）Co., Ltd. － Mar. 2014 KYOCERA America, Inc. － Dec. 2013 Mountain Home Nov. 2013 KYOCERA Industrial Ceramics Corporation North U.S.A. Vancouver Jan. 2014 America KYOCERA Precision Tools, Inc. － Dec. 2013 KYOCERA Communications Inc. － Nov. 2012 Mexico KYOCERA Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. － Dec. 2013 Central and South America El Salvador AVX Industries Pte, Ltd. － Oct. 2011 Europe Czech KYOCERA Solar Europe s.r.o. － Mar. 2009 136 Editorial Policy This CSR report is published to report on the Kyocera Group’s CSR activities in keeping with the concept of ISO 26000, International Standard concerning social responsibilities. Information contained in this report is disclosed in consideration of opinions and views received from stakeholders, and the degree of importance placed on the above activities by the Kyocera Group. Reporting Period Information disclosed focuses on content from FY2014 (April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014). Scope of the Report Kyocera Corporation and consolidated subsidiaries In this report, “Kyocera” refers to Kyocera Corporation as a separate entity. The environmental data shown here are for production sites. Whenever the scope differs, it is so specified. Guideline References GRI* “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.1” * GRI: Global Reporting Initiative is an international organization established in 1997 to draft a sustainability report framework for use by organizations worldwide. Accuracy of Information To ensure the accuracy of disclosed information, the information presented here is disclosed after being cross-checked by multiple divisions, including the division providing the information, the Editorial Section, and the Corporate Communications Division. 137 GRI and ISO 26000 Comparison Tables The Kyocera Group strives to report in conformity to international standards and refers to core subjects of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 of GRI and ISO 26000: 2010. GRI Guideline Item Indicator References 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decisionmaker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or 1.1 equivalent senior position) about the Top Management Message relevance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy Description of key impacts, risks, and Top Management Message 1.2 opportunities Form 20-F 2. Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Corporate Summary 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Business Segments Operational structure of the organization, 2.3 including main divisions, operating companies, Business Development subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters Corporate Summary Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either Business Development 2.5 major operations or that are specifically Global Network relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Corporate Summary 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Form 20-F Markets served (including geographic 2.7 breakdown, sectors served, and types of Corporate Summary customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization, including: Corporate Summary Significant changes during the reporting 2.9 period regarding size, structure, or ownership Form 20-F including: Main Feedback on Sustainable Management 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Approaches to Raising Quality and Customer Satisfaction Levels 138 3. Report Parameters Report Profile Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 3.1 Editorial Policy information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) June, 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc) Annual Contact point for questions regarding the 3.4 Support / Contact report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: Editorial Policy Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint 3.6 Editorial Policy ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance State any specific limitations on the scope or 3.7 Editorial Policy boundary of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced 3.8 operations, and other entities that can Form 20-F significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Environmental Accounting 3.9 techniques underlying estimations applied to Green Factories the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., 3.10 Form 20-F mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods) Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 139 GRI Content Index Table identifying the location of the Standard 3.12 GRI Guideline Comparison Table Disclosures in the report Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, 3.13 explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest 4.1 governance body responsible for specific Corporate Governance tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 4.2 (and, if so, their function within the Corporate Governance organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement) For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of 4.3 members of the highest governance body that Corporate Governance are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees 4.4 to provide recommendations or direction to the Corporate Governance highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including 4.5 Corporate Governance departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) 140 Processes in place for the highest governance 4.6 body to ensure conflicts of interest are Corporate Governance avoided. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members 4.7 of the highest governance body and its Corporate Governance committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.8 relevant to economic, environmental, and Responsibility (CSR) social performance and the status of their Corporate Governance implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.9 and social performance, including relevant Responsibility (CSR) risks and opportunities, and adherence or Corporate Governance compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the highest Kyocera Group Corporate Social governance body's own performance, 4.10 Responsibility (CSR) particularly with respect to economic, Corporate Governance environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives Corporate Governance Explanation of whether and how the Risk Management and 4.11 precautionary approach or principle is Compliance addressed by the organization Environmental Risk Management Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, Participation in International 4.12 or other initiatives to which the organization Initiatives subscribes or endorses Keidanren (Japan Business Memberships in associations (such as Federation), JEITA (Japan industry associations) and/or 4.13 Electronics and Information national/international advocacy organizations Technology Industries Assocciation) in which the organization: etc 141 Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.14 organization Responsibility (CSR) Basis for identification and selection of Kyocera Group Corporate Social 4.15 stakeholders with whom to engage Responsibility (CSR) Respect for Human Rights / Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Optimal Work Environment 4.16 including frequency of engagement by type Fair Business Activities and by stakeholder group Customer Concerns Social Contribution Activities Key topics and concerns that have been Respect for Human Rights / raised through stakeholder engagement, and Optimal Work Environment 4.17 how the organization has responded to those Fair Business Activities key topics and concerns, including through its Customer Concerns reporting Social Contribution Activities Management Approach and Performance Indicators Item Performance Index: Core ( ) / Add ( ) References Economic Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance. Financial Results Organization-wide goals regarding performance Form 20-F relevant to the Economic Aspects. Policy Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines Financial Results the organization's overall commitment relating to the Form 20-F Economic Aspects listed above, or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Financial Results Major organizational risks and opportunities; Form 20-F Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and Key strategies for implementing policies or achieving performance. 142 Economic Performance Indicators Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations EC1 Form 20-F and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization's activities Form 20-F due to climate change Coverage of the organization's defined EC3 benefit plan obligations Significant financial assistance received from EC4 government Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage EC5 by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Promotion of Green Procurement Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Policy and Systems Related to EC6 on locally-based suppliers at significant Purchasing Activities locations of operation Reporting on Conflict Minerals Procedures for local hiring and proportion of Respect for Diversity / Work-Life senior management hired from the local EC7 Balance (Adapting to community at locations of significant Globalization) operation Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily EC8 Social Contribution Activities for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Understanding and describing significant EC9 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 143 Environmental Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Results of CSR Goals and Performance Activities Organization-wide goals regarding performance Green Products relevant to the Environment Aspects. Green Factories Green Communication Policy Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines Kyocera Group Environmental the organization's overall commitment related to the Management Environmental Aspects listed above or state where this can be found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility Environmental Management for Environmental Aspects or explain how operational Promotion System responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. Training and awareness Procedures related to training and raising awareness in Environmental Education relation to the Environmental Aspects. Monitoring and Follow-Up Environmental Audit Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and Promotion of Green Procurement preventive actions, including those related to the supply Thorough Legal Compliance chain. (Legal Audit System) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Major organizational environmental risks and Environmental Activities opportunities related to issues; Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Percentage of materials used that are EN2 Environmentally Friendly Products recycled input materials 144 Energy Environmental Accounting Direct energy consumption by primary energy EN3 Energy Conservation and source Prevention of Climate Change Environmental Accounting Indirect energy consumption by primary EN4 Energy Conservation and source Prevention of Climate Change Environmental Accounting Energy saved due to conservation and EN5 Energy Conservation and efficiency improvements Prevention of Climate Change Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Development of Environmentally renewable energy based products and Friendly Products EN6 services, and reductions in energy Energy Conservation and requirements as a result of these initiatives Prevention of Climate Change Green Factories Initiatives to reduce indirect energy EN7 Energy Conservation and consumption and reductions achieved Prevention of Climate Change Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water sources significantly affected by EN9 withdrawal of water Percentage and total volume of water EN10 Effective Use of Water Resources recycled and reused Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas Activities Related to the EN11 and areas of high biodiversity value outside Conservation of Biodiversity protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in Activities Related to the EN12 protected areas and areas of high Conservation of Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas Activities Related to the EN13 Habitats protected or restored Conservation of Biodiversity Kyocera Group Environmental Strategies, current actions, and future plans EN14 Management for managing impacts on biodiversity Green Communication 145 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with EN15 habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Energy Conservation and EN16 emissions by weight Prevention of Climate Change Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Energy Conservation and EN17 emissions by weight Prevention of Climate Change Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Energy Conservation and EN18 emissions and reductions achieved Prevention of Climate Change Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by EN19 Complete elimination weight Chemical Substances NO, SO, and other significant air emissions Management EN20 by type and weight Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Reducing Water Consumption and Improving the Water Total water discharge by quality and EN21 Recycling Rate destination Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Waste Reduction and Recycling Total weight of waste by type and disposal Measures EN22 method Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Environmental Risk Management Green Factories EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills Kyocera Group's Environmental Impact at Each Site Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the EN24 terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff 146 Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Green Products EN26 of products and services, and extent of Environmentally Friendly Products impact mitigation Percentage of products sold and their EN27 packaging materials that are reclaimed by Environmentally Friendly Products category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total Environmental Risk Management number of non-monetary sanctions for nonEN28 (Environmental Regulations compliance with environmental laws and Compliance Status) regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and Efforts to Reduce CO2 Emission EN29 materials used for the organization's Associated with Freight Transport operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall Total environmental protection expenditures EN30 Environmental Accounting and investments by type Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Results of CSR Activities Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Goals and Performance Education Organization-wide goals regarding performance Respect for Human Rights and relevant to the Labor Aspects, indicating their linkage to Diversity the internationally recognized universal standards. Cultivation of Human Resources Building a Safe & Secure Work Environment Policy Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines Respect for Human Rights and the organization's overall commitment related to the Diversity Labor Aspects, or state where this can be found in the Occupational Health & Safety public domain (e.g., web link). Also reference their Policy linkage to the international standards indicated above. 147 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Organizational responsibility Education The most senior position with operational responsibility Respect for Human Rights and for Labor Aspects or explain how operational Diversity responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Environmental Management Aspects. Promotion System Training and awareness Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in Education relation to the Labor Aspects. Include information on Respect for Human Rights and who participates in diversity, equal opportunities and Diversity gender sensitization training (e.g., highest governance Cultivation of Human Resources bodies, senior management), and the topics addressed Building a Safe & Secure Work by training and any informal awareness raising. Environment Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Thorough Legal Compliance Monitoring and Follow-Up (Legal Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and Respect for Human Rights and preventive actions, including those related to the supply Diversity chain. Environmental Audit CSR Deployment in the Supply Chain Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Major organizational risks and opportunities; Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Major changes in the reporting period to systems or Education structures to improve performance; and Respect for Human Rights and Key strategies and procedures for implementing Diversity policies or achieving goals. Cultivation of Human Resources A description of the legal and socio-economic Building a Safe & Secure Work environment that provides opportunities for, and Environment barriers to, gender equity in the workforce, including but not limited to women's workforce participation rates, their participation at highest governance level, and equal remuneration. Employment Total workforce by employment type, LA1 employment contract, and region, broken down by gender 148 Total number and rate of new employee hires LA2 and employee turnover by age group, Careers gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time LA3 employees, by significant locations of operations Return to work and retention rates after LA15 parental leave, by gender Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by LA4 collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding LA5 operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in Approaches to Stimulating formal joint managementworker health and Communication (Labor and LA6 safety committees that help monitor and Management Exchange advise on occupational health and safety Conference) programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost Approaches to Occupational days, and absenteeism, and total number of Safety and Health / Fire and LA7 work-related fatalities, by region and by Disaster Prevention (Kyocera gender Group (Japan) Safety Record) Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist Approaches to Promotion of LA8 workforce members, their families, or Health community members regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in formal Approaches to Promotion of LA9 Health agreements with trade unions Training and Education Average hours of training per year per Advancing Kyocera Philosophy LA10 employee by gender, and by employee Education category Cultivation of Human Resources 149 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued LA11 Philosophy Education System employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12 performance and career development reviews, by gender Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Respect for Diversity / Balance of LA13 category according to gender, age group, Work and Life (Adapting to minority group membership, and other Globalization) indicators of diversity Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of No discrimination with regard to male LA14 women to men by employee category, by and female compensation within the significant locations of operation same category Human Rights Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Performance Goals and Results of CSR Organization-wide goals regarding performance Activities relevant to the human rights Aspects, indicating their Respect for Human Rights and linkage to the international declarations and standards Diversity listed in the introduction. Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Policy Respect for Human Rights and Brief, organization-wide policy or policies that define Diversity the organization's overall commitment to the human Policy and Systems Related to rights Aspects. Purchasing Activities Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility Respect for Human Rights and for human rights Aspects, or an explanation of how Diversity operational responsibility is divided at senior level for Supply Chain Management these Aspects. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Procedures related to training and raising awareness in Education relation to the human rights Aspects, Respect for Human Rights and Diversity 150 Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Education Monitoring, Follow-Up AND REMEDIATION Respect for Human Rights and Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and Diversity preventive actions, including those related to the supply Thorough Legal Compliance chain. (Legal Audit System) Policy and Systems Related to Purchasing Activities Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Respect for Human Rights and Major organizational risks and opportunities; Diversity Major changes in the reporting period to systems or Supply Chain Management structures to improve performance; and Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that CSR Deployment in the Supply HR2 have undergone human rights screening, and Chain actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies Advancing Kyocera Philosophy and procedures concerning aspects of Education HR3 human rights that are relevant to operations, Respect for Human Rights and including the percentage of employees Diversity trained Non-Discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination HR4 and corrective actions taken 151 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified Respect for Human Rights and in which the right to exercise freedom of Diversity HR5 association and collective bargaining may be CSR Deployment in the Supply violated or at significant risk, and actions Chain taken to support these rights Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified Respect for Human Rights and as having significant risk for incidents of child Diversity HR6 labor, and measures taken to contribute to CSR Deployment in the Supply the effective abolition of child labor Chain Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified Respect for Human Rights and as having significant risk for incidents of Diversity HR7 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to CSR Deployment in the Supply contribute to the elimination of all forms of Chain forced or compulsory labor Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures HR8 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations HR9 involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Percentage and total number of operations HR10 that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Number of grievances related to human HR11 rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 152 Society Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Results of CSR Goals and Performance Activities Organization-wide goals regarding performance Corporate Governance relevant to the Aspects indicated above. Risk Management and Compliance Policy Kyocera Group CSR Guidelines Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that define Corporate Governance and the organization's overall commitment relating to the Internal Control Systems Society Aspects or state where this can be found in the Risk Management and public domain (e.g., web link). Compliance Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility Corporate Governance and for Society Aspects or explain how operational Internal Control Systems responsibility is divided at the senior level for these Aspects. Advancing Kyocera Philosophy Training and awareness Education Procedures related to training and raising awareness in Cultivation of Human Resources relation to the Society Aspects. Thorough Legal Compliance Monitoring and Follow-Up Thorough Legal Compliance Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and (Legal Audit System) preventive actions, including those related to the supply CSR Deployment in the Supply chain. Chain Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Corporate Governance Major organizational risks and opportunities; Risk Management and Major changes in the reporting period to systems or Compliance structures to improve performance; and Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented Green Communication SO1 local community engagement, impact Social Contribution Activities assessments, and development programs 153 Operations with significant potential or actual SO9 Environmental Risk Management negative impacts on local communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant SO10 Environmental Risk Management potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Corruption Internal Control Audits of the Percentage and total number of business Kyocera Group SO2 units analyzed for risks related to corruption Thorough Legal Compliance (Legal Audit System) Percentage of employees trained in Advancing Kyocera Philosophy SO3 organization's anti-corruption policies and Education procedures Thorough Legal Compliance Actions taken in response to incidents of SO4 corruption Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in SO5 public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind Thorough Legal Compliance SO6 contributions to political parties, politicians, (Ensuring Transparency in and related institutions by country Political Donations) Anti-Competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for antiSO7 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Disclosure on Management Approach Goals and Results of CSR Goals and Performance Activities Organization-wide goals regarding performance Approaches to Raising Quality relevant to the Product Responsibility Aspects. and Customer Satisfaction Levels 154 Policy Corporate Motto / Management Brief, organization-wide policy (or policies) that defines Rationale (Methods of the organization's overall commitment to the Product Management) Responsibility Aspects, or state where this can be Efforts to Improve Product Quality found in the public domain (e.g., web link). Efforts to Ensure Product Safety Organizational responsibility The most senior position with operational responsibility Efforts to Improve Product Quality for Product Responsibility Aspects, or explain how (Quality Management Systems) operational responsibility is divided at the senior level for Product Responsibility Aspects. Training and awareness Efforts to Improve Product Quality Procedures related to training and raising awareness in (Quality Management Systems) relation to the Product Responsibility Aspects. Promotion of Green Procurement Thorough Legal Compliance Monitoring and Follow-Up (Legal Audit System) Procedures related to monitoring and corrective and CSR Deployment in the Supply preventive actions, including those related to the supply Chain chain. Efforts to Improve Product Quality (Quality Management Systems) Additional Contextual Information Additional relevant information required to understand organizational performance, such as: Key successes and shortcomings; Approaches to Raising Quality Major organizational risks and opportunities; and Customer Satisfaction Levels Major changes in the reporting period to systems or structures to improve performance; and Key strategies and procedures for implementing policies or achieving goals. Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are PR1 assessed for improvement, and percentage Efforts to Ensure Product Safety of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 155 Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information Development of Environmentally required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 Friendly Products significant products and services subject to Promotion of Green Procurement such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, Approaches to Raising Customer PR5 including results of surveys measuring Satisfaction Levels customer satisfaction Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, Thorough Legal Compliance and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 (Appropriate Information communications, including advertising, Disclosure) promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer Privacy Total number of substantiated complaints PR8 regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations PR9 Information concerning the provision and use of products and services 156 ISO26000 ISO26000 Core Issues References Subjects Top Management Message Organizational Kyocera Group Corporate Social Governance Responsibility (CSR) Corporate Governance 1.Due diligence 2.Human rights risk situations 3.Avoidance of complicity 4.Resolving grievances Respect for Human Rights and 5.Discrimination and Diversity Human Rights vulnerable groups Risk Management and Compliance 6.Civil and political rights Supply Chain Management 7.Economic, social and cultural rights 8.Fundamental principles and rights at work 1.Employment and employment relationships Respect for Human Rights and 2.Conditions of work and Diversity social protection Labour Practices Cultivation of Human Resources 3.Social dialogue Building a Safe & Secure Work 4.Health and safety at work Environment 5.Human development and training in the workplace 1.Prevention of pollution 2.Sustainable resource use Kyocera Group Environmental 3.Climate change mitigation Management and adaptation Green Management The Environment 4.Protection of the Green Products environment, biodiversity Green Factories and restoration of natural Green Communication habitats 157 1.Anti-corruption 2.Responsible political involvement Promotion of Green Procurement Fair Operating 3.Fair competition Risk Management and Compliance Practices 4.Promoting social Supply Chain Management responsibility in the value chain 5.Respect for property rights 1.Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair contractual practices 2.Protecting consumers' health and safety 3.Sustainable consumption Promotion of Green Procurement 4.Consumer service, Risk Management and Compliance Consumer Issues support, and complaint and Supply Chain Management dispute resolution Customer Concerns 5.Consumer data protection and privacy 6.Access to essential services 7.Education and awareness 1.Community involvement 2.Education and culture 3.Employment creation and skills development Community 4.Technology development Green Communication Involvement and and access Social Contribution Activities Development 5.Wealth and income creation 6.Health 7.Social investment 158 U-Shaped Kelcima 【issued】September 2014
