Corporate Responsibility 2013 www.j-lauritzen.com 2 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 Questions regarding this report or J. Lauritzen’s corporate responsibility/CSR activites, please contact: Kathrine Geisler Madsen Manager, Corporate Communication & CSR Phone: +45 33 96 84 35 Email: kge@j-l.com about this report This report has been prepared in accordance with the Danish Financial Statements Act (Sec. 99a) and the UN Global Compact’s annual requirements for communication on progress. The scope of our reporting is determined by our commitment to the UN Global Compact and an assessment of materiality. The main aim of this report is to give our internal and external stakeholders an overview of our corporate responsibility policies, actions and performance. Printed by: KLS grafisk hus A/S, Denmarks most green graphic house J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 3 Table of contents About J. lauritzen 4 CEO statement 6 highlights 2013 8 outlook 2014 9 human and labour rights 10 environment & climate 12 ANTI-CORRUPTION 14 responsible SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT 15 Lauritzen Bulkers 18 Lauritzen Kosan 22 Lauritzen offshore 26 Lauritzen Tankers 27 4 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 About J.lauritzen J. Lauritzen A/S (JL) is a shipping company with world-wide operations headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark. We operate more than 150 vessels including short-term charters. We are wholly-owned by the Lauritzen Foundation; a commercial foundation with the objective of supporting shipping, culture, social humanitarian work and education. For additional information see opposite page. OUR BUSINESS The pillars of our strategy are spreading risk through engaging in diverse business areas, building long-term and close relations with key stakeholders, creating insight through building critical mass in selected segments, embracing complexity to benefit from our amassed competencies, selecting and investing in talent, while maintaining the highest degree of accountability. Our business portfolio includes Lauritzen Bulkers (dry bulk cargoes), Lauritzen Kosan (petrochemical and liquefied petroleum gases) and part-ownership of Axis Offshore Ltd. OUR ORGANISATION We directly employ a staff of around 1,300 employees at sea and ashore of many different nationalities. Apart from our office in Copenhagen, we have overseas offices in China, the Philippines, Singapore, Spain and USA. THE SHIPPING INDUSTRY Shipping facilitates international trade and is a key factor in economic growth and development in all regions of the world. As such, shipping is a large industry providing substantial employment at sea and ashore. About 90% of all commodities and goods are transported at sea. The reason for this is mainly the low cost associated with transportation of large quantities – in 2013 more than 9 billion tons. In spite of this shipping only accounts for 10% of transport sector emissions and only 3% of global CO2 emissions. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 5 OUR PEOPLE Our value creation is anchored in the ability of our THE LAURITZEN people to build and manage relations with our clients and through these, understand and fulfill efFOUNDATION ficiently many different types of transportation The Lauritzen Foundation is a commercial founrequirements. dation with the objective of supporting shipping, culture, social humanitarian work and education. it is our aim to be considered always The Foundation was established in 1945 in conapproachable, always junction with the 50th anniversary of “Vesterhaaccountable and vet”, the steamship company founded by Ditlev always looking to the Lauritzen in 1895. Being owned by the Lauritzen shared value creation Foundation provides us with the ability to take the long-term view in developing our business OUR VALUES which, supported by close and continuous diaWe consider ourselves a value-driven organizalogue between the Board of Directors and Execution with our core values representing the estive Management, enables rapid decision-maksence of whom and what we are: Accountability, ing. Respect, Competence, Entrepreneurship, Enthusiasm and Team spirit. In 2013, the Lauritzen Foundation supported projects associated with our business and comCOMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT munity activities. Engaging in world-wide operations, with overseas offices and different nationalities employed, we In Singapore, a joint scholarship together with JL are naturally embedded in, and have strong relawas awarded to a student at Nanyang Technotions with many parts of the world. logical University (NTU). The student is embarking on the maritime programme at NTU and was As a Danish-based shipping company, we have a given support as he had a strong academic prosolid tradition of support and engagement file but also needed financial support to continue through for example the Danish Shipowners’ Ashis studies. sociation and educational institutions in Denmark. During 2013, we saw a high level of commitment In 2013, our Singapore office joined the Maritime in the Philippines as many of our seafarers are Singapore Green Initiative, an initiative that seeks recruited there. One of the main resources for to reduce the environmental impact of shipping. highly trained maritime officers is the Philippine At Nanyang Technological University (NTU) in SinMerchant Maritime Academy (PMMA). Thus the gapore, a student from the maritime programme Lauritzen Foundation chose to provide financial was awarded a joint scholarship from JL and our assistance to a much-needed renovation of the owner, the Lauritzen Foundation. galley responsible for serving meals to more than 1,000 cadets every day. Further, a scholarship In November 2013, the Philippines was hit by the was donated through the Propeller Club of Madevastating typhoon Yolanda. As we have close nila to help a young person of limited means to relations with the Philippines through the crews enter the maritime industry. Finally, USD 7,000 on our ships, through our local office and other was donated in conjunction with the devastating business partners, we were deeply affected by the typhoon Yolanda to a local medical centre that is situation. We made an immediate donation on affiliated with Lauritzen Kosan, see p. 23. USD 40,000 to the international medical organisation Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) and their imAgain in 2013, the Lauritzen Foundation and JL portant work in the affected areas. jointly supported the World’s Best News campaign, a campaign that provides information every year about the progress made with the UN Millennium Goals. 6 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 CEO Statement J. Lauritzen’s corporate responsibility effort will Key CSR challenges facing continue, also in these challenging times and we our industry cannot be are demonstrating our dedication through our solved by companies business practices and our continued support for acting individually the UN Global Compact’s ten principles on responsible business conduct. Sharing challenges, mobilising resources and the idea of creating combined leverage to ensure susThrough many years of operations, we have a histainable progress has been the point of departure tory of close collaboration with clients, suppliers for both the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network and other stakeholders in providing efficient (MACN), in which we participate actively (see p. transport solutions in which the safety of our 14) and IMPA ACT, a programme for responsible crews, the security of our clients’ goods and the supply chain management of which we are protection of the environment have been a natural founding members (see p. 15). part. Both networks are concrete examples of the inWe employ about 1,300 people at sea and ashore dustry identifying challenges, in these cases faciliand engage in world-wide operations with around tation payments and responsible supply chain 150 vessels and we obviously have an impact on management and then engaging with the players the communities that we are part of. affected in the industry shipping companies, clients, associations, authorities and suppliers. In some instances our operations can have a significant impact on people’s lives. We have an obOur CSR effort will enable us to further develop ligation to try to understand such impacts and these relationships, create scale and document when possible address them and seek to achieve this work while trying to increase the benefit for the best balance between socio-economic and our stakeholders and the communities we are business benefits. part of. The core of our corporate CSR is not an add-on responsibility is to assess, It is part of the way we do prevent and mitigate our business and It is part of negative impacts within our license to operate our sphere of influence It is part of the value we try to bring to the global Operating globally means that we sometimes community, and it is part of the satisfaction which navigate in unfamiliar cultural contexts. This the people who work for us globally derive from brings with it challenges ranging from issues on being a member of this community, which in our human rights, protection of the environment, procase is a company called J. Lauritzen. moting safety, fighting corruption, dealing with uncertainty surrounding piracy and how to In the past decade, we have seen an increased foachieve responsible supply chain management. cus on regulation in relation to CSR issues such as protection of the environment, human rights, Facing these, you have to start in your own house transparency and demands for reporting on progwith your own fleet, but to ensure sustainable ress. In consequence, many companies have progress you need to collaborate with other gone from conducting implicit CSR to explicit CSR stakeholders. – companies are now telling their stories on CSR. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 7 Increased regulation has caused a change in the For J. Lauritzen, it needs to be a discipline growunderstanding and practice of CSR. It has gone ing, developing and changing with our businesses from nice-to-have to need-to-have. It has gone and organisation – only in this way can CSR crefrom a voluntary discipline centered on philanate real value for us and all of our relations. thropy to regulation and reporting practices and verification. It is my conviction that a sense of justice, respect for the rights of others and truthfulness as in the Today, there is no doubt that sustainable business unwillingness to mislead or create false expectastrategies are high on the agenda of many decitions are fundamental J. Lauritzen principles that sion-makers in businesses and politics. we live by. To be unsustainable, We hope you will find the reading interesting. or to ignore the sustainability discussion, Jan Kastrup-Nielsen is at best dangerous President & CEO, J. Lauritzen A/S and at worst the end of your business However increased regulation and obvious industry challenges must never drive us to reduce our CSR effort to a “box-ticking” exercise. 8 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 highlights 2013 Our corporate responsibility builds on our core With respect to procurement, due diligence provalues and internationally recognized principles, cedures were implemented in order to embrace such as the UN Global Compact’s ten principles human rights including labour rights and environfor responsible business conduct and the UN’s mental issues as well as anti-corruption principles. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. FOCUS AREAS IN 2013 The following main initiatives and actions were During 2013, we continued our corporate respontaken during the year: sibility efforts both within the Group and in different industry collaborations. • Development of a human rights’ due diligence process based on the UN Guiding GUIDING PRINCIPLES Principles on Business and Human Rights, Key work streams for our corporate responsibility see p. 10. work in 2013 were on integrating Anti-Corruption • Continued implementation of our Group Enprinciples and guidance into our compliance proergy Efficiency Project, which aims to engramme and implementing our Responsible Prohance fuel efficiency and cut emissions curement programme that is based on the UN whilst achieving savings on costs, see p. 12. Global Compact as well as the UN’s Guiding Prin• A legal review process and development of a ciples on Business and Human Rights. set of gift and hospitality guidelines as part of our compliance programme, see page 14. DUE DILIGENCE ACTIVITIES • Ongoing participation in the Maritime AntiDuring the year, we increased our CR related due Corruption Network, see page 14. diligence processes. In relation to our human • Implementation of our Group responsible rights’ impact, we initiated an internal due diliprocurement programme and training of all gence process, which started by identifying our our purchasing staff in the content of the propotential and actual impacts. In many areas we gramme, see page 15. rely on services provided by third parties that are • Active participation in the development and directly linked to the services we provide to our launch of IMPA ACT, an industry standard for clients, and during 2013 we formalized our due Responsible Supply Chain Management, see diligence procedures in relation to our anti-corpage 15. ruption measures. Materiality assessment process: 2011 2012-2015 Signatory to UN Global Compact Strategy and reporting focus UN Global Compact gap analysis conducted Corporate level Internal workshop on risk and opportunities related to corporate responsibility Human Rights Labour conditions UN’s endorsement of the UN Guiding Diversity principles on Business and Human Rights Security Climate and environment 2012 Anti-Corruption Second assessments with internal stakeResponsible procurement holders Community engagement projects JL’s corporate responsibility focus presented and approved at the Board’s strategy Business unit level seminar Health and safety Executive Committee discussed specific Security projects Environment Business conduct Increased reporting requirements (Danish Financial Statements Act, §99a) J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 9 outlook 2014 We will continue our corporate responsibility efforts and to balance our priorities and seek industry collaboration where deemed appropriate in order to increase the impact of our efforts. Key Group priorities for 2014 will be to: • Continue the implementation of our human rights’ programme with the key focus on outline and identification of our internal human rights’ impacts. • Continue the Group’s Energy Efficiency Project, which aims to enhance fuel-efficiency and cut emissions whilst achieving savings on costs. • Ensure the implementation of our Anti-Corruption compliance programme with the key focus on training senior management, shore and seagoing personnel and on increasing third party awareness. • Further support and implement the IMPA ACT programme by sharing knowledge and experience with our suppliers about the programme and its impacts. NETWORK & COMMITTEE PARTICIPATION In 2014, we shall continue with our network participation efforts that contribute and add value to our corporate responsibility work. We are for example engaged in the following CRrelated networks: • UN Global Compact Nordic network • The Danish Shipowners’ Association’s CR committee and related working groups • The Danish Shipowners’ Association’s Technical Committee and related working groups • The Danish Shipowners’ Association’s Legal Committee and related working groups • Piracy Focus Group • The Green Ship for the Future • The Maritime Anti-Corruption Network • IMPA ACT Advisory Board 10 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 human and labour rights The first principle included in our commitment to The present scope of the Group’s social responsithe UN Global Compact implies that we support bility programme ashore focuses on corporate huand respect internationally proclaimed human man resource issues such as competency develrights. opment, terms of employment, diversity and recruitment as these factors have been identified committed to respect human rights as significant for our corporate responsibility as We apply the UN Guiding Principles on Business employers. and Human Rights, unanimously endorsed by the UN in 2011, as a blueprint for our endeavours to Aboard our vessels, social responsibility is closely respect human rights as these guidelines outline linked to health, safety and security issues. Please what an organisation needs to consider when see overleaf for examples of how we manage our working with the corporate responsibility to repotential impact on the right to enjoy safe and spect human rights. healthy working conditions and the right to personal liberty and security. During the year, we initiated an internal due diligence procedure, starting by identifying our potential and actual impacts in relation to all human WHAT ARE rights included in the UN’s International Bill of Human Rights. HUMAN RIGHTS? Human rights are the rights that all human beings identifying our impacts have irrespective of their nationality, place of As a shipowner and operator with world-wide residence, gender, national or ethnic origin, colour, operations, we obviously have both potential and religion, language, or any other status. Rights are actual impacts on a range of human rights ashore outlined in the international Bill of Human Rights and they are all interrelated, interdependent and and at sea. indivisible and span from the right to life to the right to work, which in corporate language means In JL, we have different human rights-related prothat employees have the right to be trained, have a grammes and standard operating procedures in contract and a period of notice of termination. place that allow us to manage, prevent and mitigate our impacts. For JL, managing our impacts on human rights lies at the core of the work we do on social esponsibility J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 11 CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT MLC applies to all seafarers and the convention is An internal capacity development process has an essential step toward ensuring fair competition been conducted in JL to enable us to fully grasp and a level-playing field for shipowners who are the new realities of corporate responsibility with committed to provide decent working conditions respect to all human rights. Key employees have for their seafarers. been trained in human rights principles and as a part of the implementation of our Group responsiALL our business ble procurement programme, we have trained all units have aligned our purchasing staff in the content of the proexisting procedures, gramme, including the UN’s Guiding Principles on contracts etc. with the Business and Human Rights. MLC 2006 demands In December 2013, we participated in the UN’s 2nd Forum on Business and Human Rights to learn more about critical issues in this respect for MANAGING corporations, regulators and society. OUR IMPACTS DIVERSITY On board all our vessels, our seafarers’ right to At JL, we consider diversity as an important and safe and healthy working conditions is identified as a potential impact. Managing our impact on natural prerequisite for innovation and the develthis right is a vital part of our safety efforts as opment of the Group. working aboard any vessel in an environment with big, heavy equipment could naturally have a We want to remain a workplace that can attract, potential negative impact on this right. recruit and retain the best qualified employees and continuously develop them in order to make For many years, we have mitigated our seafarers’ best use of their skills and potential. exposure to potential negative impacts through the health & safety policies embedded in our Our recruitment policy business units’ operations, reflecting the realities of these as well as in our ongoing shipboard focuses on competencies safety programmes. These include identification, and diversity reporting and follow-up procedures as well as awareness, training and ongoing dialogue. We aim to create a culture where all employees consistently experience diversity at all levels, inFurther, we have identified potential negative cluding management. At JL, all employees have impacts on the right of personal liberty and equal opportunities to make a career, be this as a security on board our vessels whenever our crews manager or specialist. enter high-risk areas. During 2013, we transported our clients’ cargoes SEAFARERS through high-risk regions 85 times. We manage 2013 was an important year for all seafarers and our potential negative impact by following the shipping companies as the Maritime Labor ConGroup’s overall security guidelines that are based vention 2006 (MLC 2006) came into force. on Best Management Practice (BMP4). The guidelines state that before scheduling a voyage The MLC has established minimum working and into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must be living standards including for example minimum conducted by an independent external party. We age, contracts of employment, hours of work or take further anti-piracy counter-measures rest, payment of wages, paid annual leave, repaincluding close internal dialogue, monitoring risk patterns and when deemed necessary, employing triation at the end of contract, onboard medical private professional armed guards when transiting care, accommodation, food and catering, health high-risk areas. Employing armed guards follows and safety protection and accident prevention international standards and is based on a risk and seafarers’ complaint handling. assessment including audits made by third parties. 12 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 environment & climate With about 150 vessels at sea, we obviously have During 2013, we continued our efforts with the an impact on the environment. Our responsibility Group’s joint Energy-Efficiency Project. The overis to monitor and reduce our footprint in this rearching objective of the project is to enhance fuelgard. efficiency and cut emissions whilst achieving savings on costs. Policy commitment Each of our business units is obviously required to Ship energy efficiency manage their operations in compliance with all management plans (SEEMP) applicable national and international laws and were drawn up for all regulations and to seek to reduce their environvessels during the year mental footprint. Without a proper monitoring and analysis platOur group environmental form, it is difficult to assess the effects of fuel-savpolicy complies with the ing measures. In 2013, all our business units inprinciples of the UN vested in and tested hardware and software that global compact provide more accurate and valid data for fuel consumption and emissions. These efforts also supOur policy commitment is also for us to endeavport and prepare for compliance with the upcomour to mitigate emissions by establishing relevant ing demands from the European Union on operational procedures, to demonstrate accountmonitoring, reporting and verification. ability by reporting our environmental performance and to follow the development of environRESULTS mental improvement technologies relevant to our Since the launch of the Group’s joint Energy-Effibusiness. ciency project, our business units have achieved more solid data and individual baseline data for initiatives and actions fuel-savings due to increased and improved moniOur environmental initiatives are anchored in our toring. Executive Committee, supported by the technical departments of each business unit and further faEmission figures are disclosed in each of the busicilitated by knowledge-sharing from JL’s Techniness units’ environmental statements in this recal Committee which serves as a coordinating foport, see p. 20, 24, 26 and 27. rum. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 13 Shipping & the environment more than traditional heavy fuel oil. We support Whilst being the most energy efficient mode of strict environmental regulation but call for effectransport (see p. 4), the shipping industry takes its tive enforcement as the economic incentives for indisputable environmental impact seriously. Durnon-compliance are obvious. For instance, it will ing the last few years the business case for CO2 cost approximately USD 7,000-10,000 more evreductions via both technical and operational ery day to operate a handysize bulk carrier. This is measures has been very clear as fuel-savings why we are calling for strict enforcement of the equal bottom-line benefits. regulations. FOCUS ON EMISSIONS AND ENFORCEMENT BALLAST WATER There is no doubt that focusing on CO2 and other During the past few years, we have been working air emissions shall be issue to global regulation as to ensure timely compliance with the requireshipping is one of the most globalized industries ments of IMO’s Ballast Water Management Conin the world. vention for our vessels. These efforts have included for example screening market solutions, cross Both the UN’s International Maritime Organisaunit collaboration and testing new systems ontion (IMO) and the European Union (EU) have board selected vessels, see p. 24. After some been increasing their focus on climate regulation. necessary timeline adjustments to achieve suffiBack in 2011, the IMO adopted the Energy Efficient ratification by the world’s flag states, the ciency Design Index (EEDI), which sets energy Convention will take effect in 2015. efficiency standards for new ships, and the Ship Energy Efficiency Management Plan (SEEMP), which is an environmental management tool for installation onboard vessels. We have implemented these new tools in our fleet. We have also FACILITY committed to ambitious SEEMP targets for our MANAGEMENT gas carriers which are being implemented through Lauritzen Kosan’s energy-efficiency ReDuring 2013, the facility management at our head juice Project. office in Copenhagen achieved significant energy savings through a systematic reduction of the enNevertheless, CO2 emissions from existing vesergy used by our head office facilities. Initiatives sels remain unregulated, and the European Comincluded a review and adjustment process for all mission has therefore tabled a proposal for a lighting installations, replacement of pumps to monitoring, reporting and verification (MRV) sysmeet new EU standards coming into force in 2017, tem for CO2 emissions. The proposal entails reand adjustments and replacements of larger techporting not only fuel consumption but also the nical equipment. cargo carried, so providing an Energy Efficiency Operational indicator (EEOI) for each vessel. The We have reduced our data will be published annually. We support the power consumption by 40% proposal as it is in line with our principles of openover a 4-year period ness and transparency. In addition, since 2008 we have been reporting our fuel consumption Since 2012, JL has engaged in a climate partnerand fleet size (DWT) to the Danish Shipowners’ ship with DONG Energy. As a climate partner, we Association (DSA). The DSA carried out a pilot support renewable energy by purchasing electrictest on EEOI reporting in September 2013 in ity from wind turbines on the Danish island of Anwhich we participated with data from our vessels. holt with RECS certificates, which are issued and controlled in accordance with internationally acThe 0.1 % sulphur requirements laid down in the cepted rules for trading renewable energy. In MARPOL Annex and the EU Sulphur Directive 2013, the electricity we purchased was CO2 neuwill come into force on 1 January 2015 in Emistral. We shall continue to work on energy savings sion Control Area (ECA) zones (North and Baltic and cost reduction, whilst learning from experts Sea and the US/Canadian waters). Like other and gaining inspiration for our work on reducing companies, JL faces a significant increase in fuel the carbon footprint of our office facilities. costs as low sulphur fuel is expected to cost 50% 14 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 AntiCORRUPTION Our Anti-Corruption programme enjoys the strong service that we deliver to our clients, we have also commitment of the Board of Directors, Executive reviewed our due diligence procedures for anti-corManagement and the Executive Committee. ruption measures. This commitment is important in setting the tone at we are members of the the top and provides for proper implementation of Maritime anti-corruption the Group’s compliance programme. network (MACN) POLICY COMMITMENT During 2013, we participated in MACN working In December 2013, JL’s Board of Directors apgroups focusing on contract clauses and the develproved the Group’s amended Anti-Corruption poliopment of training modules. cy that has been effective since 2011. We continued our risk assessment procedures that Our Group Anti-Corruption policy states zero tolerinclude Transparency International’s Corruption ance towards corruption and commits us to workPerception Index (CPI) and each business unit’s ing proactively to prevent bribes and to eliminate feedback on challenges such as demands for facilifacilitation payments. tation payments in specific ports around the world. Further, the policy emphasises that all managers NEW GUIDANCE and employees are expected to report any suspectOperating globally with different cultures and ed violations promptly through the internal estabpractices where gifts, travel, lodging, meals and lished whistleblower system. entertainment may be a part of business relationships, we deem it necessary to guide all JL personCORE PROCEDURES nel about gifts and hospitality to avoid misunderDuring the year, we continued to implement our standings. compliance programme. A set of gift and hospitality guidelines has been A legal review process during 2013 resulted in updeveloped and approved as a part of our complidated employee contracts, contract clauses and ance programme and will be implemented accordselected third party contracts and agreements in ingly. our business units. As our suppliers are part of the J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 15 responsible SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT Our suppliers are important for the services that TRAINING & CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT we deliver. We therefore engage in close dialogue As part of implementation, we hosted a two-day with our first-tier suppliers including external ship training session together with Danish shipowner managers, shipyards, technical suppliers, agents DS NORDEN. The training session included all our and other business partners on harmonizing expurchasing and CSR department staff. The trainpectations on for example health and safety, enviing session was organised around the content of ronmental protection, performance and anti-corthe programme, including basic knowledge of reruption measures. sponsible supply chain management practices, the UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding PrinFOCUS ON PROCUREMENT ciples on Business and Human Rights. We also arIn 2013, we continued the implementation of our ranged two sessions with suppliers, shipowners responsible supply chain management proand business partners together with Danish shipgramme, called the IMPA ACT, focusing on our inowner DS NORDEN. The first session included house technical procurement and facility mansuppliers and shipowners and was hosted at the agement. As a part of implementation, we have premises of the Danish Shipowners’ Association. aligned our procurement system accordingly, The second session was held by invitation from trained all our purchasing staff in the content of the Danish Maritime Export Association as they the programme and related tools, updated our wanted their members to learn about the progeneral terms and contracts, and finally started to gramme. Both sessions provided beneficial diaengage with selected suppliers. logue and discussions on the content of the programme, how it works in reality, the challenges ASSESSMENT & COLLABORATION and benefits. As our programme builds on the new requirements set out in the UN Guiding Principles on Business AUDITS and Human Rights, we have seen that our supplier All our purchasing staff have audit certificates self-assessment process has been a fruitful source from Lloyd’s Register and since 2009, JL has conof mutual capacity development as the format producted audits on key suppliers. vides for a shared approach to potential and actual impacts. our supplier code of A JOINT APPROACH conduct is a valuable tool THE IMPA ACT for collaboration and dialogue with suppliers In September 2013, the IMPA ACT was launched at the annual IMPA (International Marine Purchasing Association) conference in London as In 2013, we engaged with 10% of our largest supa joint approach for the maritime industry. pliers. Our goal is to engage with 70% of our selected suppliers by 2016. The IMPA ACT is an international standard for responsible supply chain management practice We expect all our suppliers to be willing to work that brings together buyers and suppliers in their with the requirements set forth in our Supplier efforts to achieve responsible supply chains. The Code of Conduct. However, we acknowledge that programme creates mutual benefits as a shared establishing relevant processes requires both approach enables cost-efficiencies and joint time and resources, especially in the initial phaslearning. Further, a joint approach provides leverage, ensuring that actual improvements are es, as we are also implementing and updating our indeed made within the scope of the programme. internal processes. We further acknowledge that As the programme is based on the UN Global applying the expectations stated in our Supplier Compact and the UN Guiding Principles on Code of Conduct will naturally represent a dynamBusiness and Human Rights, it is designed to ic rather than static process, and we encourage meet new requirements from the UN, EU and suppliers to continually improve their processes OECD on Business and Human Rights. related to minimising adverse impacts on international principles as well as sharing their knowlJL is a founding member of IMPA ACT and serves edge and experience of their efforts. on the programme’s Advisory Board. 16 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 17 18 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 Lauritzen Bulkers Lauritzen Bulkers is a global industrial service proIn handysize and supramax, we believe that we vider of dry bulk transportation. can maintain and build sufficient scale, whereas we have ceased activities in the panamax segThe dry bulk markets are fragmented with no ment and with the expiry of time-charter commitdominant players and are very liquid in terms of ments, we will act strictly as shipowners under tonnage for charter for shorter or longer periods, long-term charters for our remaining capesize acproviding ample possibilities to seek both shorttivities. term and long-term cover in addition to the forward freight agreement (FFA) market. The FFA At year-end 2013, the fleet was made up of 45 market liquidity is, however, more prevalent in the long-term time-chartered vessels, with purchase supramax and panamax segments than in the options for 18 of these. The owned fleet comhandysize segment. The overall market liquidity is, prised 25 vessels at the end of 2013 (26 in 2012) however, a unique feature of the dry cargo marwith part ownership of a further 13 vessels (20 in kets and as such it is critical to have sufficient 2012). scale in any segment in which we operate in order to manage the risks associated with contracts of at year-end 2013, the affreightment and volatility in geographical subaverage age of the owned markets. fleet was 3.3 years We will continue to develop our presence in the Fleet management handysize segment where we have historically Technical management, including crewing for had a very strong position and where we have a owned bulk carriers, is performed by New Centularge and important group of clients. Further, we ry Overseas Management Inc., Manila and Synerwill expand our presence in the “neighbouring” gy Maritime Pte., Singapore. supramax segment as this comprises some of the same clients and because of its higher liquidity, it Our technical department works closely with our will allow us more opportunity to act as operators external providers on all aspects of achieving safe, and conduct arbitrage business in the market. cost-effective and reliable vessel operations. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 19 Health & Safety When scheduling a voyage, specific route and With ship management outsourced to external port/area assessments should be obtained from service providers, our in-house technical departan independent external party in order to support ment specifies requirements, aligns expectations the master of the vessel. and monitors performance on achieving safe, efficient operations. During the voyage, third party vessel surveillance during the critical part of the route is obtained in During 2013, we decided to reduce the number of order to support the master of the vessel and to external managers providing technical manageprotect the crew and cargo. ment for our dry cargo operations. The decision was made in order to reduce complexity in interaction with these service providers and thus we In 2013, Lauritzen Bulkers went from three to two suppliers. Going forward, had 19 transits in highthis will help in ensuring a higher degree of leverrisk areas. JL’s guidelines age with our remaining two suppliers. were followed and there were no incidents Our close collaboration relating to these transits with ship managers is the key to providing safe, reliable and costeffective shipping OUR RIGHTSHIP To ensure a level of safety and performance in acrisk profile cordance with above-mentioned regulations, requirements and guidelines, Lauritzen Bulkers conWe monitor overall fleet safety performance and stantly benchmarks external ship managers’ energy-efficiency in order to meet the requiresafety performance by way of KPIs, regular vessel ments of current as well as future national and invisits and office audits. ternational legislation as well as increasing client requirements. In 2013, our in-house technical department conducted 23 vessel visits and three office audits, and Due to our constant endeavours to maintain lowattended two crew seminars. These efforts enable risk and energy-efficient operations, we utilise the us to have a constructive dialogue with our ship ship vetting specialists RightShip’s database managers and crews. Vessel visits included close called the Ship Vetting Information System (SVIS) follow-up on the implementation of Maritime Lato rate our owned vessels. The SVIS contains difbour Convention (MLC 2006) related items, not ferent data and the risk factors evaluated include only as these are mandatory but as crew welfare for example flag and class performance, yard prois of significant value for our operations. file, the vessels casualty history, terminal reports and age. In the event of incidents or accidents, comprehensive emergency procedures enable us and our The average risk rating of the owned fleet was 4.9 managers to cope effectively and provide assuron the RightShip vetting scale (with 5.0 as the best ance that lessons learned are managed in order to rating) in mid-December 2013. prevent any recurrences. We are satisfied with our risk profile ratings and Security will continue our efforts as we see these as a valWhen entering high-risk areas, we follow the ue-adding element in our endeavours to remain a Group’s overall security guidelines. preferred carrier. The guidelines state that before scheduling a voyage into a high-risk area, a risk assessment must have been conducted by an independent external party. 20 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 PARTNERING ON Environment Following fleet expansion and renewal over the ENERGY EFFICIENCY past few years, Lauritzen Bulkers owns and operates a young, energy-efficient fleet comprising In mid December 2013, Lauritzen Bulkers enmore than 100 vessels with an age profile considtered a new partnership to increase fuel-efficient erably below the industry average. operations in all kinds of weather. The partner is WNI Weathernews International, a JapaneseA continued focus on fuel-savings, energy-effibased weather routing service provider that ciency and reduction of our carbon footprint were monitors and collects data in real-time, produces the key issues for our dry cargo operation during live forecasts and provides information on the the year, cf. Table 1. world’s ever-changing atmosphere to ensure efficient marine operations. Performance monitoring and follow-up mechanisms on daily operations were further strengthAs part of Lauritzen Bulkers’ ongoing efforts to ened and interdepartmental projects enable us to ensure safe, smooth and efficient operations, share improved efficiencies based on valid data. weather routing has been part of our operational This is important as without a proper monitoring tools for decades. However, enhancing the efand analysis platform, it is difficult to assess the fects of the data collected and verification has effects of our savings measures which are key to long been a clear wish from the operational, operating more than 100 vessels. chartering and technical departments in the dry cargo unit. As a part of our efforts, we have established a WNI was thus chosen as a partner for the develdedicated team to focus opment and adjustment of a new fleet manageon energy-efficiency ment platform for daily monitoring of our fuel consumption and for collection of data to know Further, the implementation of the Vessel Energy more about actual fuel consumption under differRenovation Plans (VERP) continued in 2013. The ent ocean and weather conditions. The new partplans consist of an extensive fleet performance nership includes Optimum Ship Routing services catalogue that covers optimisation of auxiliary that deliver valuable information to our operaconsumption, including pumps, fans and air contions team and the entire dry cargo fleet based ditioning, plus further initiatives for technical and on a live, real-time review of the weather condioperational optimisation. tions and on the individual vessels’ updated performance logs. This enables us to have informaWith respect to tonnage and acquisitions, the tontion with up-to-date sailing and arrival times, nage and technical departments pay close attenprojected fuel consumption and routing recomtion to identifying newbuildings and charter vesmendations as well as to perform day-to-day persels with the most energy and cost-efficient formance analysis and follow-up. performance. Further, weather routing can ensure safe navigaKey initiatives in 2013: tion since Optimum Ship Routing delivers more • Implementation of Vessel Energy Renovation than traditional routing services and enables the Plans (VERP) on three vessels. most effective planning based on past vessel • Mewis Duct, variable frequency drive (VFD) performance and future weather forecasts which regulation of pumps following our partnercovers both safety and business planning needs. ship with Grundfos, and fans all devices for efficiency improvements have been installed All Lauritzen Bulkers’ vessels are to utilise the on three owned vessels. new platform and the new partnership is expect• Trim optimisation. ed to provide significant cost-savings in terms of • Participation in the steering committee of the reduced fuel consumption and less time spent “Effective Operations of Ships” project inition each voyage. ated by Force Technology, Denmark. • Partnership with WNI (see sidebar). J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 21 Outlook 2014 In 2014, we will continue the implementation of our energy-efficiency programme. We will maintain our performance monitoring of each vessel which will ensure valid, comparable data and provide more precise documentation on each vessel helping us to cut emissions for the benefit of our clients and protection of the environment. Further, our focus will be on developing our WNI partnership to include integration of trim optimisation, hull and propeller analysis as well as optimisation of seakeeping that includes ship behavior in all kinds of seas. table 1: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emission 2013 2012 Total fleet CO2 7,82 8,03 SOx 0,14 0,14 NOx 0,20 0,21 Capesize CO2 5,26 5,53 SOx 0,09 0,10 NOx 0,14 0,14 Handymax CO2 6,51 8,59 SOx 0,12 0,15 NOx 0,17 0,22 Handysize CO2 12,32 12,54 SOx 0,21 0,22 NOx 0,32 0,32 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 22 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 Lauritzen Kosan Lauritzen Kosan controls a fleet of 43 semi-refrigknow-how, our fleet management continues to erated/ethylene and fully pressurized gas carriers build on this solid foundation, combining technolin the 3-10,000 m3 segment with an average age ogy and new methods using our sense of entreof 8.7 years. The fleet comprises owned, partpreneurship and creativity in turning challenges owned, chartered vessels and vessels committed into opportunities. by partners. Active fleet portfolio management via cargo and period cover and the sale and purchase Health & Safety of vessels constitute key elements in our business Health and safety is about protecting people and model. our focus on improving the safety culture for all employees is essential. We comply with strict health, safety and environmental standards and stringent client requireWe are committed to providing a safe, healthy ments through close in-house collaboration beworking environment and our ambition is that notween the technical and commercial departments. body should suffer from our operations. ConsiderContinuous improvements through education ing our activities, some of our daily routine work and training, innovation and careful implementaoperations are potentially dangerous and regrettion of procedures enhance operational flexibility tably we experienced a few accidents in our busiand higher fleet utilization. ness in 2013. As one of the leading tonnage suppliers to the Our focus on improving the safety culture for all petrochemical and oil majors, we continuously employees is essential to us and we are deterenters into affreightment contracts, seeking to mined to provide the facilities, training and prooptimize effective fleet cover. tective equipment necessary to ensure the best possible conditions for all our employees. We FLEET MANAGEMENT shall continue to focus on strengthening our culOur in-house Fleet Management department foture of embracing safety until we reach our goal of cuses on high performance and safe operations incident-free operations. that give top priority to the health and safety of our seafarers, and to protection of the environIn 2009, our ambitious ‘one culture’ programme ment as well as our clients’ cargoes. was launched. The programme sets out to ‘win the hearts and minds’ of our employees with the With increasingly demanding regulatory presclear ambition of being a better, safer business sure, our compliance efforts are vital for successpartner. The first tier was to conduct of a series of ful operations. With extensive experience and three-day safety and culture awareness courses J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 23 which were attended by all crew. On the basis of the awareness courses, a second tier was Retention rates for launched with a leadership and management officers are satisfactory course for all senior officers which empowered and were above 97% in 2013 our leaders on board with our management culture and tools. Recognition of the need to further Again in 2013 we conducted the annual HEAT strengthen our culture is based on the strongest (Human Element Assessment Tool) survey across possible commitment from all parts of the organthe fleet as a ‘health check’ on our seafarers’ view isation ashore and at sea. These endeavours will and an assessment of the human element of the continue in 2014. company’s performance. The result for 2013 showed a constantly very high rating for fleet our seafarers management, with an average score of 4.2 points Our skilled seagoing personnel are recruited from (out of a total 5.0) which can be translated into the Philippines, Spain and Cuba. Respect and tol“good to best practice” performance. erance for individuals and understanding national and cultural differences are some of the key issues which enable us to understand each other and work efficiently together. Biannual crew seminars are used to communicate HELPING VICTIMS OF specific topics and provide dialogue and discussions. TYPHOON YOLANDA In November 2013, the Philippines was hit by the Our cadets are our future and highly valued assets devastating typhoon Yolanda and thousands of and we strive to build a strong culture and good people were killed, many more injured and hunwork practices for our future managers. Strengthdreds of thousands of people became homeless ening and educating our experienced managers is overnight. Luckily, none of our seafarers or their also a significant pillar in our strategy for developfamilies were reported missing. ing our crew and general performance. Our specially designed leadership and management proAs JL has close relations to the Philippines through gramme will continue throughout 2014. the crews on our ships, through our local office and other business partners, we were deeply afRecognising that a sound, well-balanced environfected by the situation. JL made an immediate doment is essential to be able to carry out duties on nation on USD 40,000 to the international medical board, we continue to aim at creating a good recorganisation Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF) and reational environment for our seafarers. An imtheir important work in the areas affected. portant part of welfare and well-being for our seafarers is the ability to keep in contact with family The Lauritzen Foundation donated USD 7,000 to a and friends. Besides providing phone cards, most local Medical Centre which is affiliated to Lauritof our vessels have internet connections which zen Kosan. The money donated to the local medican be used freely by all crew. cal centre, represented by Dr. Tay who assists us in making the medical examinations of our seafarThe Maritime Labour Convention (MLC 2006) ers, was used to support a medical support ship came into force in August 2013. The implementarun by the Philippine Medical Association. tion of the convention has further improved working conditions for seafarers and throughout 2013, Our seafarers also quickly decided to raise funds the MLC certification process ran smoothly across to help their affected colleagues. our gas fleet with no deficiencies raised by the authorities. In Lauritzen Kosan, we have embraced The Lauritzen Foundation will follow the situation the enforcement of the MLC 2006 as it is seen as closely in 2014. an opportunity to accelerate and take our crew management up to the next level. 24 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 SECURITY Environment A significant part of the liquefied and petrochemiLauritzen Kosan is strongly committed to minimiscal gases carried on our ships is transported ing the environmental footprint of our global opthrough some of the high-risk regions of the erations. Our fleet utilisation and operational proworld. The risk to our crews and clients’ cargo due files are continuously scrutinised for optimised to piracy or violent crime-related activity in certain potential, cf. Figure 1. New and revised technoloparts of the world has our strictest attention. To gies and procedures are being assessed. As pomitigate exposure to these risks, our anti-piracy tential improvements are identified, we initiate counter-measures include close internal dialogue, detailed planning and scheduling to help reduce monitoring risk patterns, using external experts’ adverse environmental impacts. risk assessments and the employment of professional armed guards when transiting high-risk arduring 2013 we eas. implemented several initiatives focused on fuel Further, we continue to participate in internal and and emission reduction external piracy focus groups to share strategies, countermeasures and experience. In the process On board our vessels, systems were installed to of adapting to the ongoing changes of the threat optimise trim and ballast. Controllers were also inpattern, our contingency plans are continuously stalled to minimize power consumption. In order reviewed and external companies are employed to reduce our emissions as quickly as possible, we to assess our ability to respond to an attack or an have initially focused on updating the vessels in actual hijacking. Drills are also conducted and the the large segments covering approximately 80% links between external technical managers, manof our bunker consumption. ning agencies and next-of-kin are tested. Equipment was installed on board to continuously In 2013, Lauritzen Kosan had 26 transits in high monitor and track energy consumption and effirisk areas and there were no incidents relating to ciency. An automatic reporting system provides these transits. an accurate, current picture of the performance of our fleet. At the office, an optimised strategy for voyage planning and general fleet utilisation was PARTNERING ON implemented in 2013. All in all, these initiatives BALLAST WATER contribute to reduced fuel consumption and emissions, cf. Table 2. SYSTEMS We have intensified our preparations for the upFIGURE 1: EXAMPLE OF EMISSION SAVINGS FROM IMPROVED coming requirements for ballast water treatment. CONTROL OF SEA WATER PUMPS One of the active initiatives has been to participate in testing an innovative system developed by Denmark-based Bawat. 1,4% The system is a so-called in-tank system, based on 98,5% deoxification and pasteurisation of ballast water. The advantages of this technology are that the 0,1% process happens as the ship is sailing and it works 1,5% for all types of water; salt, brack and fresh water. In 2013, the BAWAT system was installed on board our 8,044 m3 gas carrier, Henrietta Kosan. The first two tests of the system have delivered promising results. Total SW pumps Saved Remaining J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 25 Business conduct During the year, we continued the implementation of our responsible supply chain management programme, called IMPA ACT. As a part of implementation, we have modified our procurement system accordingly, trained all our purchasing staff in the content of the programme and related tools, updated our general terms and contracts, and finally started on engagement with selected suppliers, see p. 15 for further information on the programme. Outlook 2014 In 2014, Lauritzen Kosan Fleet Management will continue to build on our already solid foundation of experience. By demonstrating respect and tolerance for individuals and understanding of national and cultural differences, we will be dedicated in working with the human element in striving towards incident free operations. We recognise that innovation and constant development is the key to our future. table 2: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emission 2013 2012 Total fleet CO2 99,64 106,28 SOx 1,58 1,65 NOx 2,55 2,72 Ethylene CO2 96,57 100,12 SOx 1,66 1,73 NOx 2,48 2,57 F/P CO2 112,87 134,90 SOx 1,69 1,86 NOx 2,89 3,44 S/R CO2 92,91 88,63 SOx 1,39 1,32 NOx 2,38 2,27 emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. 26 J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 Lauritzen offshore Lauritzen Offshore focuses on advanced, dynamiIn the second half of 2013 and as a part of our selfcally positioned vessels to support the rapidly assessment mindset, we initiated a comprehengrowing offshore oil exploration and production sive revision process of our safety management sector with shuttle tankers. systems. Additional personnel have been allocated to review every single procedure and checklist in close conjunction with the end-users onboard in Early January 2014, the vessels. We also took a further step towards a Lauritzen Offshore’s fully paperless system. fleet of three shuttle tankers was sold to During 2013, newly developed engine perforKnutsen NYK Offshore mance software was installed on the vessels. The Tankers, Norway (KNOT) software is a vital tool in our day-to-day endeavours to maintain and ensure a high level of technical performance and reliability for the vessels. The shuttle tanker fleet is expected to be delivered This also enables their environmental footprint in to buyers between 1 April 2014 and 15 May 2014. the form of fuel consumption and emissions to be As a consequence of the sales transaction, the monitored and controlled. shuttle tanker activity has been defined as “discontinued operation” and assets and liabilities reclassified as “held for sale” as of 31 December 2013. Fleet Management High quality fleet management is vital in the offshore industry and all issues relating to crewing, health, safety and the environment are managed by in-house experts, providing assurance of compliance with the requirements laid down in applicable national and international rules and regulations. We regard our crew as a vital resource for our operation of the vessels and thus all officers and crews for our offshore vessels are selected caretable 4: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles fully HSSEQ Segment Emission 2013 2012* During the year, strict focus on health, safety, seShuttle curity, environmental protection and quality CO2 30.93 6.68 (HSSEQ) was maintained as Lauritzen Offshore is SOx 0.53 0.11 committed to providing safe working conditions in a markedly diverse multicultural and multilinNOx 0.79 0.17 gual working environment. *The emission data from 2012 are not directly comparable to emission data from 2013 due to We have management systems certified to interrevised collection of data. national standards, ensuring the well-being of staff, third party contractors and others who may emissions note be affected by our activities, in an effort to miniEmission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and mise any impacts. engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. J. Lauritzen A/S · corporate responsibility Report 2013 27 Lauritzen tankers Lauritzen Tankers controlled fleet comprised owned, part-owned, and time-chartered vessels as well as vessels committed by partners in the product tanker segment. In August 2013, JL announced a strategic decision to trim the balance sheet by a gradual exit of the product tanker segment As the fleet of wholly-owned products tankers was sold in October 2013 with scheduled delivery to the new owners prior to the end of February 2014, the product tanker business has been classified as a “discontinued operation” and assets and liabilities reclassified as “held for sale” as of 31 December 2013. FLEET MANAGEMENT Technical management of owned ships was provided by Wallem Shipmanagement in Hong Kong and Bergen and MMS in Singapore. Lauritzen Tanker’s technical department worked closely with both suppliers on all aspects of achieving safe, cost-effective and responsible vessel operations. table 4: emissions pr segment G/ton-miles Segment Emission 2013 2012* MR CO2 19.00 10.73 SOx 0.32 0.19 NOx 0.49 0.28 *The emission data from 2012 are not directly comparable to emission data from 2013 due to revised collection of data. emissions note Emission figures are reported per segment and based on actual consumption, oil quality and engine emission factors and are calculated in accordance with IMO’s guidelines, MEPC.1/ Circ. 684. The Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHGP) is used as the overall Greenhouse Gas accounting system. We have applied the financial control approach as defined in the GHGP, because we seek to create a direct link between our economic bottom-line and our emissions. The reported emissions are scope 1 emissions and include owned vessels. Financial year: Auditors 1 January – 31 December KPMG Osvald Helmuths Vej 4 PO Box 250 DK-2000 Frederiksberg Head office Owner J. Lauritzen A/S Lauritzen Fonden 28, Sankt Annae Plads 28, Sankt Annae Plads PO Box 2147 DK1291 Copenhagen K DK-1291 Copenhagen K Phone: +45 3396 8425 Phone: +45 3396 8000 Fax: +45 3396 8434 Fax: +45 3396 8001 Email: lf@lauritzenfonden.com Website: www.j-lauritzen.com Website: www.lauritzenfonden.com CVR: 55 70 01 17 China Spain J. Lauritzen Shanghai Co. Ltd. Gasnaval S.A. Unit 2306, Chong Hing Finance Center PAE Ibarrabarri No. 288 Nanjing Road West Edificio A-1 Huangpu District, Shanghai C/Iturriondo 18 China 200003 E-48940 Leioa, Vizcaya Phone: +86 21 6358 0066 Spain Fax: +86 21 6358 0077 Phone: +34 94 479 5600 Fax: +34 94 416 7316 Philippines USA Lauritzen Kosan Representative Office Manila J. Lauritzen (USA) Inc. 6th floor, Glass Tower 4 Landmark Square, Suite 150 No. 115 Don Carlos Palanca Jr. Street Stamford, CT 06901 Legaspi Village, Makati City 1229 USA PHILIPPINES Phone: +1 203 961 8661 Phone: +63 2856 7929 Fax: +1 203 964 0350 Fax: +63 2813 1129 Singapore J. Lauritzen Singapore Pte. Ltd. 1 Harbour Front Avenue #13-01/02 Keppel Bay Tower Singapore 098632 Phone: +65 6275 8000 Fax: +65 6275 7208
