UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT Five years ago, Baxx Promotion launched its first Code of Conduct as a part of our attempt to build a sustainable and responsible company. As a natural next step, we decided to commit ourselves in a more formal manner, when we decided to join United Nations Global Compact in 2013. In this, our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are pleased to reaffirm Baxx Promotion’s continued support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. Yours sincerely, Michael Eriksen CEO, Baxx Promotion 2 VISION AND FOCUS AREAS The CSR strategy of Baxx Promotion is founded on the 10 principles of the UN’s Global Compact, relating to human rights, labour rights, respect for the environment and anti corruption. We are very aware about having a balanced and realistic approach in the area of CSR. Our primary goal is to ensure that our business and how we conduct it, has the least possible adverse impact on our environment. First of all, we are a relatively small company with limited influence on our supplier network. Secondly, it is important that our efforts are balanced between environmental impacts but at the same time economically viable. The CSR strategy of Baxx Promotion is divided into 3 focus areas, which serves as a guideline for focusing and prioritizing our resources; responsible sourcing/production at our sub-suppliers, minimization of our CO2 emissions relating to transportation and finally bringing as many environmentally friendly products as possible to the market. We are committed to continuously develop and improve our performance in all areas of our CSR strategy. In this report we present the work we have done the past year within our respective focus areas. FUTURE ROAD MAP Our focus for the coming year is to develop and anchor our CSR strategy further, and to ensure that we continue to make progress. We will especially focus on Social Audits becoming an integral part of our SCM. Our goal is that 70% of our turnover comes from suppliers that are audited/ suppliers which account for more than 2% of our purchase volume is audited on a regular basis. 3 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 1. Business should support and respect the Baxx Promotions goal is to actively influence and facilitate Baxx Promotion has formulated a CSR strategy which set protection of internationally proclaimed that both our employees and business partners adhere out that all suppliers will be audited and evaluated against a human rights to the Universal Declaration of Human rights. Our overall set of defined policies and parameters. All violations will be vision is only to do business with partners that respect recorded, and corrective action plans initiated. Continued 2. Business should make sure that they are the international conventions on human rights, and share non-compliance will result in termination of the relationship. not complicit in human rights abuses the values of Baxx Promotion. Based on an internal risk The past year all suppliers have received the revised Baxx assessment, we have established that our focus within Promotion Code of Conduct. All suppliers are expected to human rights should lie primarily on our supplier network sign both Code of Conduct and Baxx Promotions supplier in Asia. manual, confirming their full support to the principles set out. IMPLEMENTATION The second step in the process has been to asses current performance level. In this process we have established Based on our commitment we have modified our existing an overview and action plan for internal audits. Also we Code of Conduct to be aligned with the international have collected and assessed existing Social Audits of our conventions on human rights. All suppliers are informed suppliers carried out by independent inspection agencies. about our Code of Conduct and are obliged to sign this More than 20 reports from our main suppliers have been before entering into a business relationship with Baxx analyzed the past year. We have systemized our internal Promotion. As a part of our CSR strategy we have also audit process, and revised the audit format. We will continue developed and adapted our internal systems for recording mapping our supplier network in the coming year, and in and evaluating Code of Conduct compliance, and this addition to our own internal audits, we will start carrying out will be rolled out in the coming year. In order to enhance external audits of our main suppliers the coming year. transparency and inform our stakeholders our updated Code of Conduct is also published at our website. 4 LABOUR Social Audits. The coming year our focus will be to structure PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS our approach, and to roll out our strategy to increase presence at supplier factories, both through internal and external audits. 3. Business should uphold the freedom of Baxx Promotion believe that everyone has a basic right to be association and the effective recognition of free from discrimination and harassment, the right to collective MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES the right to collective bargaining bargaining, the right to choose to work freely and not at least that every child should have the right to education. We In our efforts to roll out our new Code of Conduct and Supplier 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and have formulated this in our CSR strategy and our suppliers manual, and following up with audits, we have met some compulsory labor are held to these standards through our Code of Conduct, resistance to cooperate by a few suppliers. As a result we have which complies with the ILO conventions. Our internal risk chosen to terminate the cooperation with 7 suppliers. The 5. The effective abolition of child labor assessment has identified that the highest risk of nongeneral picture however, is that the suppliers are very positive conformity, lies within our supplier network in Asia, why we towards the initiatives, and are already working with this in a 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect have chosen to focus our efforts in this area, and created a professional manner. of employment and occupation separate strategy. Internally at Baxx Promotion, we are very aware about creating IMPLEMENTATION a healthy and attractive work environment for our employees. As an example we offer our employees the opportunity to Internally we have included a section on labour rights in our receive massage and physiotherapist treatments during company handbook. The written policy covers employee working hours. Baxx Promotion is very aware of any rights, compensation and responsibilities. We have a discrimination, and aim at creating a work place with room committee with representation from both management and for all individuals, representing our surrounding society. The employees that assesses labour related risks. All employees following is a table of Baxx Promotions employees by age and receive medical insurance, and are reimbursed for medical gender: treatments. Also, we record and evaluate all work related injuries in order to create a healthy and attractive work Headcount Male Female Total environment for our employees. Age <18 0 0 0,0% Age 18-25 2 1 8,8% Externally, we hold our suppliers to our high standards through Age 26-35 2 4 17,6% our Code of Conduct. The Baxx Promotion Code of Conduct Age 36-45 4 9 38,2% has been made an integral part of our Supplier contracts, Age 46+ 4 8 35,3% and we also encourage our suppliers to ask that their subsuppliers are in compliance. As described in the section on our Total 12 22 34 implementation of the human rights principles, our main focus % 35% 65% 100,0% area lies within our supplier network in Asia. In accordance with our initiatives within human rights, our implementation The following is a table of Baxx Promotions evolves around mainly to commit all our suppliers to our Code Management team by gender: of Conduct, and consecutively to implement our procedure for Male: 5 62,5% Female: 3 37,5% 5 ENVIRONMENT In the coming year we will work towards making our PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS environmental impact and initiatives measurable and setting up KPI’s on above areas. 7. Businesses should support a precautionBaxx Promotion operates in the business of promotional and ary approach to environmental challenges give away-articles. The nature of this market is characterized MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES by relatively cheap products with a short Product Life Cycle. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater We pride ourselves in doing everything we can to design The past year we have focused on educating our staff and environmental responsibility products that are worth keeping, maximizing our customers suppliers on REACH, in order to ensure that our products marketing budgets and visibility, and minimizing the negative comply with EU legislation. We have performed laboratory 9. Encourage the development and diffusion impact on the environment. tests, in order to verify that the products are produced of environmentally friendly technologies in accordance with REACH. We have installed automatic Externally we have communicated our demands to our sensors on our lighting, in order to save electricity. Also, we supplier network through our Code of Conduct. This includes have consolidated our two warehouses into one, which we adhering to all applicable environmental laws. Also we also expect will help save substantial resources. have included a special appendix on the use of chemical substances (REACH) as an integral part of our purchase contracts. IMPLEMENTATION A key element of our environmental strategy is to make the responsible choice easier for our customers, and therefore CASE: Web sites emit carbon due to we have this year launched a collection of “sustainable” electricity consumption. Baxx Promotion products. Also we have started an initiative where we will has chosen actively to make an effort in present our customers with a “sustainable” or “green” neutralizing the CO2 emissions, which takes alternative when developing customized products. place every time someone visits our webpage. Therefore we – like 2.500 other companies Internally, we have chosen to focus our efforts on the participate in the initiative “CO2neutralwebsite. following initiatives in order to minimize our environmental com”. The programme invests in renewable impact: energy projects as well as climate projects aiming at reducing CO2 emissions and helping Choose sea transportation over air transportation people in poor countries to a better life. when possible Minimize our consumption of electricity Recycling of packaging materials 6 ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS 10. Business should work against corruption Baxx Promotion follows a strict policy of zero tolerance of in all its forms, including extortion and all forms of corruption, including bribery, facility payments, bribery. kickbacks, theft, blackmail, fraud and favoritism. We expect all our suppliers and employees to adhere to this principle. IMPLEMENTATION All employees and suppliers of Baxx Promotion have been made aware of our policy on anti-corruption through our Code of Conduct. Also the area is covered in individual employment contracts, stating our company policy regarding gifts, hospitality and entertainment. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Baxx Promotion has never been involved in any legal cases or any other accusations regarding corruption or bribery. We keep a strict record of all stock and samples, to ensure that they are not misused in any quid-pro-quo exchange. 7
