UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Environmental & Sustainability Committee Written By: Affy Aligiannis Hang Bedwell Lynden Philpott UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Statement of Continued Support Julian McGrath – Managing Director, Law In Order “Since founding Law In Order in 1999, I have borne witness to the unrelenting growth of not only the Australian Legal Sector, but the Australian business sector as a whole. Inevitably, as all facets of the legal sector increase, as does Law In Order’s product output, electricity usage and subsequently our environmental footprint; as Managing Director, I refuse to ignore this reality and instead choose to act. In the words of Jane Goodall; “You cannot get through a single day without having an impact on the world around you. What you do makes a difference, and you have to decide what kind of difference you want to make.” As such, it gives me great pleasure to confirm that Law in Order reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The following Communication of Progress (COP) details how Law In Order continues to abide and implement the Global Compact’s Ten Principles into not only our business strategy and daily operations, but also into our culture and our people. Lastly, I would like to thank Affy Aligiannis, Hang Bedwell and Lynden Philpott, members of our Environmental and Sustainability Committee who have gone to so much effort to prepare this report. Julian McGrath Managing Director Law In Order Pty Ltd 2 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Section 1 Human Rights Assessment, Policy and Goals At Law In Order (LIO), we have implemented a staff policy to show we are committed to ensuring that all staff are treated fairly and with respect. We are serious about human rights and firmly believe we have a responsibility and an obligation to ensure that employees are always courteous, professional and respectful towards others. We encourage all our employees to strive towards a healthy work-life balance and our Human Resources (HR) department has ensured that our working environment is free from intimidation, harassment and practices or policies that are inconsistent with the notions of fairness and integrity. Principle 1 Our HR department is responsible for the internal protections of Human Businesses should support and respect the protection of Rights; employees are made aware and regularly reminded of the internationally proclaimed channels through which Human Rights violations should be reported. human rights. Implementation Principle 2  As an initiative from our Environmental and Sustainability (E&S) Business should ensure that Committee, we recently reviewed our uniforms, teas, coffees and they are not complicit in human rights abuse. sugars to ensure they are all fairly traded and environmentally friendly products. Following that review, we have now changed our polo shirts and also liaised with our supplier – Paper Scissors Rock (PSR) – to ensure that they source their products responsibly. PSR is part of the New Wave Group, who aim to introduce more sustainable and eco-friendly products through the use of materials including organic cotton and recycled fabrics. The New Wave Group, and consequently PSR, is a part of the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). BSCI is an initiative for social citizenship led by the Foreign Trade 3 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Association (FTA), whose aim is to work with local suppliers to follow the set code of conduct that is based on the UN conventions on human rights and children’s rights as well as the ILO conventions. The code statutes requirements on suppliers in risk countries regarding: o Prohibition against child labour, forced labour and discrimination; o Health and safety; o Freedom of association and collective bargaining; o Wages, compensation and benefits; and o Fundamental environmental and management systems.  We launched our Code of Conduct earlier this year as part of our policy and procedure review. This instills not only our core values of Integrity, Excellence, Teamwork and Leadership, but also to further promote mutual respect and understanding within our multicultural Principle 1 and diverse workforce.  LIO has chosen Lifeline as our national focus charity as part of our Businesses should support and respect the protection of commitment to look after employee wellbeing. Lifeline is a national internationally proclaimed charity that provides all Australians experiencing a personal crisis human rights. with access to 24 hour crisis support and suicide prevention services. Principle 2 o One of the charities that Lifeline supports is R U OK? Day, Business should ensure that which we are proud to say that we have been supporting they are not complicit in human rights abuse. since it first started in 2008. R U OK? Day is a not-for-profit organisation that aims to inspire Australians to have meaningful conversations throughout the year to help anyone who might be struggling with life. For this event, we organised afternoon tea in each of our offices and asked for donations from our staff. We used this as an opportunity to spread the message of RUOK? Day by letting staff know how a little “are you okay?” can change someone’s life. o We are also supporting Liptember, a charity whose objective is to raise funds and awareness for women's mental health issues during the month of September to support the development of national research, programs and prevention strategies. Liptember encourages women to openly communicate and familiarise themselves with gender specific mental health issues, specifically any form of anxiety, depression, post natal depression, menopausal 4 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 changes, dementia and self image. All funds raised are donated to Liptember's mental health beneficiaries, the Centre for Women’s Mental Health and Lifeline. o In addition to the different fundraising events throughout the year, one of the main ways that we are supporting Lifeline is through the launch of our Workplace Giving Program where our employees can elect to make direct donations out of their fortnightly pay directly to Lifeline.  LIO is proud that we are supporting the following charity events this year: o Opportunity International Australia is a not-for-profit organisation that seeks to combat poverty through the provision of microloans and community development programs. What sets them apart from other charities is their focus on giving people the tools and support to acquire the things they need for themselves resulting in sustainable Principle 1 change, or as they put it “giving a hand up rather than a Businesses should support hand out”. LIO are proud to have donated $1,000 to this and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed worthy cause. human rights. o LIO is very proud to say that we’ve raised over $31,000 for the Sunsuper Ride to Conquer Cancer in 2013 with the help Principle 2 of our employees. The Ride to Conquer Cancer is a 200km Business should ensure that cycling event over two days that raises funds for cancer they are not complicit in research and treatment. Each of our nine riders needed to human rights abuse. raise a minimum of $2500 in order to participate in the ride. All proceeds from the event go towards the construction of the Chris O'Brien Lifehouse at the Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, which is now a world-class cancer treatment and research facility providing integrated care to patients and carers. We are in training (and raising funds!) for this year’s Ride to Conquer Cancer, which raises funds for the QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute. o We are also in training for the Weekend to End Women's Cancers™, which is a 2-day, 60-kilometre walk that raises funds to benefit the QIMR Berghofer Medical Research Institute and Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital in their efforts to end women's cancers. o This year Activ celebrates 40 years of the City to Surf 5 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 raising funds for people living with a disability in Western Australia. The first City to Surf was held on the 23rd February 1975 and attracted 500 runners. Since then, it has transformed into an iconic annual event, growing to a record 48,121 participants in 2013. Last year also saw the event held in Karratha, Geraldton, Albany and Busselton for the first time to complement the historic Perth event. LIO are proud to report staff members located at our Perth office will this year be taking part in Perth event and actively raising money for this worthy cause.  In addition, LIO employees did not hesitate to open their wallets to support the Typhoon Haiyan Appeal. Some of our employees were also able to join in with the relief effort. Measurement of Outcomes Principle 1  Through the Environmental and Sustainability Committee, LIO has Businesses should support and respect the protection of planned and seen a majority of these projects through. We made internationally proclaimed sure that our projects have deadlines and we adhere to those human rights. deadlines.  From our experiences over the last year, we recognized that even Principle 2 though we successfully raised funds for many charitable events, Business should ensure that some were very last minute projects and events were held very they are not complicit in human rights abuse. close together. This year, we planned the major events that we would like to support and gave ourselves sufficient time to carry out these projects.  LIO has made progress in staff awareness and development of policies and channels in which we deal with human rights.  LIO has a very culturally diverse staff and as such, policies are reviewed regularly to ensure that each policy is up to date and relevant for all employees irrespective of culture, gender, sexual orientation, age or race. 6 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Section 2 Labour Assessment, Policy and Goals As a company, we pride ourselves on being a multicultural and diverse workforce, and we total over 300 years of experience and speak 47 languages. Our team comprises of lawyers, paralegals, system operators, programmers, consultants and project managers. As part of our commitment to maintain and foster an inclusive workforce, we have comprehensive policies and procedures in place and continually Principle 3 broaden awareness. Through employee guidelines, workshops, internal Business should uphold the training and a detailed on-boarding process, we encourage all staff to freedom of association and maintain the high standards we have set when it comes to equal the effective recognition of the right to collective opportunities. bargaining Implementation Principle 4 At Law In Order (LIO), we believe in employing the best person for the Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of job and do not base our employment decisions on gender, race, age or forced and compulsory labour sexual orientation. We have policies and procedures in place to support a Principle 5 non-discriminatory workforce and these are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that they reflect any regulatory changes. Our employees can Business should uphold the effective abolition of child freely access these policies through the company’s Intranet as well as in labour. their Employee Handbook. Principle 6 We provide training and workshops for all staff on all existing policies and Business should uphold the procedures and also update our staff on any new laws that arise. For elimination of discrimination st in respect of employment and instance, from the 1 January 2014, changes to the Bullying and occupation Harassment regulation meant that training for all staff are required to ensure not only that they are aware of the changes but also to reiterate the fact that LIO has a zero tolerance policy on any form of bullying and/or harassment. We also use the opportunity to remind our employees that any type of discrimination is not tolerated in the workplace. To foster an Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) workplace, our performance monitoring and evaluation processes are purely merit7 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 based. We ensure that all staff are rewarded, not only with financial means, for their hard work and recognised for their achievements. This year, as an organisation with over 100 employees, we are required to participate in the Workplace Gender Equality Reporting, which helps the Australian Government to analyse whether any pay gaps exist between men and women salary in each and every industry. This reporting will also help our government to determine the benchmark of the pay gap within each industry and take steps to close those gaps. Measurement of Outcomes It is our goal to ensure that all our staff are well aware of all of our internal Principle 3 policies and procedures, especially those that focus on antiBusiness should uphold the discrimination and equal employment opportunities. We ensure that our freedom of association and the effective recognition of policies and procedures are easily accessible and our employees know the right to collective where these documents are located. bargaining Principle 4 We are confident that our staff are fully aware of any regulatory changes and how their role in these changes. We are also confident that our staff Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of know the appropriate channels in which to raise concerns and encourage forced and compulsory labour staff to do so. We will actively find a solution if one is not readily Principle 5 available. Business should uphold the We continually monitor and evaluate our performance appraisal process effective abolition of child labour. to ensure our employees are being assessed and paid fairly. Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 8 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Section 3 Environmental Assessment, Policy and Goals Law In Order is the leading supplier of document processing services to the Australian legal industry, providing specialised copying, printing and technology solutions to over 1,300 law firms, corporations and government agencies nationally. The nature of our business requires substantial paper and electricity output, some of which heightens our requirement for environmentally conscious practices to reside at the forefront of all business decisions. Principle 7 We are proud to report that our in-house Environmental and Businesses should support a Sustainability Committee is approaching its’ two year anniversary, and precautionary approach to continues to stimulate discussion, lead projects and implement best environmental challenges; practice procedures throughout our offices nationally. Principle 8 Implementation Undertake initiatives to promote greater We not only continue to uphold existing environmental initiatives, but environmental responsibility; actively seek to implement new and exciting policies and procedures that and will enable us to monitor our carbon footprint and ultimately, reduce it; Principle 9 We continue to commit to the following actions and practices: Encourage the development  Maintain appropriate systems to ensure all operations are and diffusion of environmentally friendly managed in accordance with federal and state legislative technologies. requirements, local by-laws and formal Government policies.  Environmental considerations will be taken into account in respect of purchasing of all goods and the services provided.  All staff and contractors will be made aware of our Environmental Policy and an appropriate level of training will be provided; the policy is made available on our public website, advertised widely within all offices and made a priority in induction processes.  LIO commits to maintaining an Environmental & Sustainability Committee that will review internal and external issues and identify, evaluate, manage and report on risks or new initiatives that the company should consider and/or undertake. 9 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Measurement of outcomes  LIO is the recent recipient of Sustainable Green Print (SGP) Level 2 certification. SGP is the Australian printing industry's own recognisable certification program designed to help printing companies meet their environmental responsibilities and go above and beyond compliance. Based on an ISO14001 framework, SGP is tailored to meet business requirements, the demands of our customers and the changing trends in dealing with managing environmental responsibility. The SGP Level 2 steps up the environmental performance of our Principle 7 business as it introduces additional levels of management and Businesses should support a control, including the tracking of waste streams and brings in a precautionary approach to focus on our energy consumption and carbon footprint. SGP Level 2 environmental challenges; provides key performance indicators for printing businesses Principle 8 covering waste, recycling, energy, water, incident management, storage and handling of printing chemicals, energy and air Undertake initiatives to promote greater emissions. environmental responsibility; and Achieving and maintaining this accreditation is an indication of LIO’s Principle 9 ongoing commitment to ensuring that we operate in a safe and Encourage the development sustainable manner that keeps a firm eye on our business longevity and diffusion of as well as the welfare of our planet. environmentally friendly  LIO continues to use Certified Carbon Neutral Paper for copying technologies. and printing requirements and adopts a double-sided printing default for all internal printing. We promote double-sided printing to our clients wherever possible. Scrap paper is recycled in the form of notebooks for internal use.  Recycling awareness material for both general waste and business produced waste continues to be distributed and displayed through offices nationally. Recycling receptacles for waste toners, PVC dividers, and ink cartridges among other recyclable products is implemented and available throughout offices nationally.  Energy-saving awareness material continues to be distributed and displayed through offices nationally.  All staff are required to turn off electronic devices such as PCs, monitors, scanners and printers when not in use. We have also removed all desktop printers due to high levels of consumable 10 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 waste.  All pay slips/invoices are now predominantly provided to our staff and clients via email as opposed to post.  A ban on plastic water bottles has been upheld, with all staff instead being provided with a Law In Order water bottle for office use.  LIO staff continue to attend conferences/webinars on environmental sustainability hosted by the Australian Legal Sector Alliance (AusLSA).  LIO continues to be an active participant in Earth Hour and we encourage our clients/staff to follow suit. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 11 UNGC Communication on Progress 2014 Section 4 Anti-Corruption Assessment, Policy and Goals LIO continues to uphold our zero tolerance approach towards corruption and bribery, and we encourage all our staff to live and breathe our core value of Integrity. We are careful to ensure that our suppliers are aware that we will not tolerate any form of corruption and will not associate with or give custom to any supplier that we deem as engaging in dishonest conduct. Implementation  LIO has implemented an anti-corruption policy that is published on our website and made available to suppliers and staff.  LIO requires all employees, directors, agents, representatives and third parties to conduct all business with integrity and in an ethical manner. Principle 10  LIO employees practice a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and Businesses should work acts of corruption. against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and  Directors/GMs encourage transparency with all issues within the bribery. business. Measurement of outcomes  In order to ensure compliance with the Anti-corruption policy, LIO has introduced internal controls and a monitoring system where there is a possibility of a corrupt act taking place.  We rely on open communication and review of our systems including those relating to risk assessment. 12
