UNGC 2014 2014 Communication on Progress In 2011, Arrow Electronics, Inc. was honored to join the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative. Arrow’s corporate mission is to guide innovators forward to a better tomorrow. With its emphasis on This 2014 sustainability and responsible business practices, the United Communication on Nations Global Compact is embedded within our company values. Progress provides an overview of Our Values  Ethical Arrow’s activities in  Open and courageous support of United  High-performance, accountable teams working effectively with no boundaries Nations Global  Innovate and execute Compact Objectives  Passion for service excellence during the past year. The success of Arrow has been built on the application of our core values on a daily basis. Ethics are embedded in our conduct of the company’s business, honesty and courage in our business dealings with customers and suppliers around the world, personal accountability for our own actions, and a relentless pursuit of service excellence. UNGC 2014 Statement of Support Arrow Electronics, Inc. supports the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anticorruption. Arrow’s intent is to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) report that describes our company’s efforts to promote the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and, therefore, are submitting our COP for 2014 activities and accomplishments. Michael J. Long Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer UNGC 2014 Human Rights Arrow is committed to uphold the dignity of all people and oppose human rights abuses around the world. We respect all international human rights standards throughout our global operations at our 460 locations in 60 nations. Human rights practices are embedded within the company’s We agree to uphold the various policies, including the Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”). Our 17,000 employees are required to review and certify their understanding and compliance on UNGC’s human rights an annual basis. The Code covers all regions and business units. It is also posted on the principles, including: company’s external company website, http://investor.arrow.com Principle 1: Specifically within the global electronics supply chain, we are committed to investigating and reporting on the conflict minerals content of inventory used in assembly and integration as a way Businesses should support to improve conditions and reduce the distress of people working in mines in the Democratic and respect the protection Republic of Congo. of internationally proclaimed human rights Goals Principle 2: 2014 goal: Make sure that they are not Arrow pledged to continue to review practices and procedures to fully embed Arrow’s commitment against all human rights abuses. We also pledged to file a Conflict Minerals report complicit in human rights with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. abuses 2014 Action: Arrow completed its first conflict minerals report and filed with the US SEC by the May 25 deadline, in accordance with the 2010 Dodd-Frank Act. While our overall ranking was “undetermined” according to the Act’s reporting standards, our initial evaluation was able to quantify that 44% of anything we assemble or integrate is conflict-free That is among the highest scores among major electronics companies in the first year of reporting. Arrow’s subsidiary, Silicon Expert, is the world’s most complete electronics components database and its inclusion of conflict minerals information for every listed component (where available) was an instrumental source for customers in their own Dodd-Frank compliance reports. 2015 goal: Arrow will continue to review practices and procedures to fully embed Arrow’s commitment against all human rights abuses. We will maintain our commitment to Conflict Minerals identification and reporting. Arrow Spotlight Arrow Electronics believes that human rights Africa. By the end of 2014, Arrow had In November, 2014, Arrow created a are not limited to operating a fair and open facilitated the refurbishment of 440,000 second layer of its commitment to Africa workplace. That’s what we take specific electronic devices with Close the Gap for use with Close the Gap by helping to launch measures in the developing world to both by more than 1.5 million people. a project called Digitruck. The Digitruck widen access to technology and limit the prototype is a solar-powered mobile With Close the Gap, we clean the hard disks, exploitation of impoverished and indigenous classroom or clinic made from a used reconfigure the hardware and prepare the cargo shipping container. Arrow is peoples due to the illegal disposition of used equipment for distribution. Close the Gap also electronics. Digitruck’s first corporate sponsor. In provides a support and maintenance program addition to its sponsorship, Arrow also For more than a decade, Arrow’s reverse to sustain the equipment’s use. consults on the Digitruck’s technical logistics business unit has partnered with the Close the Gap’s representatives facilitate the design and the sourcing of its Brussels-based non-profit organization Close distribution of the refurbished equipment to components, as well as equipping each the Gap. Together we help bridge the digital schools, teaching hospitals, research centers unit with refurbished computers, mobile divide by providing high quality used IT and vocational training centers that educate devices and other electronics. In 2015, equipment to social, medical and educational millions of students and emerging young Arrow’s Digitruck will be assembled and projects in developing countries, especially in professionals from Ethiopia to Kenya to deployed with Close the Gap in South Africa. Tanzania. UNGC 2014 Labor Section Arrow Electronics is against all forms of compulsory labor. All employees are able to terminate their employment. Additionally, Arrow does not support child labor in any matter or form. Arrow Electronics also recognizes the rights of employees to seek Principle 3: union representation or to represent themselves. Arrow has forged productive relationships with unions and work councils throughout the world, and values their Businesses should uphold the partnership. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right Goals: to collective bargaining 2014 Goal: Principle 4: Arrow will commence the creation of a global on-boarding program that reinforces The elimination of all forms of UNGC principles 3-6. forced and compulsory labour 2014 Action: Arrow successfully launched its global on-boarding pilot. Arrow also deployed Principle 5: Microsoft's Yammer, the companywide, internal social-media platform, which enables Arrow employees around the world to interact online and share business information The effective abolition of and best practices. Arrow hosted a series of Yam Jam sessions, in which Arrow child labour executives interact directly with workers at all levels, fielding questions and soliciting comments and ideas from employees. These are some of the reasons why Arrow was Principle 6: selected as one of the most admired for HR companies by Human Resource Executive The elimination of discrimination Magazine. in respect of employment and 2015 Goal: occupation Arrow will continue the development of its global on-boarding program and “Yam Jam” sessions. Community Service As active and engaged citizens, Arrow employees across the globe are making a difference in their communities — both through volunteer service and through their charitable donations. That spirit of caring can be found in their charitable giving to organizations that address needs in their community and around the world. For example, Arrow supports employees’ volunteer efforts via the company’s volunteer grant program. In 2014, Arrow expanded its community service program so that significant Arrow business events in North American cities would include a donation to a local charity derived from event registration fees and donations. In certain cases where the need is great, the company has matched employees’ donations, dollar for dollar, such as for relief efforts. In 2014, in response to the growing number of natural disasters around the world, the company limited its disaster relief to locations where Arrow employees and operations were located. UNGC 2014 Environment Section Mission Arrow Electronics guides innovators to a better tomorrow. Our Sustainability Program upholds principles of human rights, environmental stewardship and responsible economic growth to ensure a desirable planet. We are accountable to employees, customers, shareholders and to the communities in which we operate, from the Principle 7: sourcing of the materials in our products to the end of life of the products we help Businesses should support a create. Our success is built on the sustained application of our core values in our daily precautionary approach to operations and within our sphere of influence. environmental challenges; Vision Arrow’s global approach to Sustainability focuses on the operation of our business. Principle 8: We strive for efficiency and maximizing waste utilization in our offices, facilities and Undertake initiatives to distribution centers. We distinguish ourselves by providing specialized services and promote greater expertise across the product lifecycle.. We seek to provide our suppliers and customers with solutions designed to help them produce products that are inherently environmental responsibility; more sustainable. Principle 9: Sustainability Savings Encourage the development Arrow recycles more than 75 tons of paper each year. Beginning in 2015, companyand diffusion of wide recycling standards are being introduced. Small changes in 2014 had immediate environmentally friendly impact: technologies.  Saved 1,521 trees and 626,000 gallons of water  Prevented 5,000 pounds of air pollution  Avoided 268 cubic yards of landfill  Saved 366,766 kilowatt hours of electricity and 41,000 gallons of oil In November 2014, Arrow installed its first electric vehicle charging station in front of its headquarters building in Englewood, Colorado. The ChargePoint VT4000 Series features to charging ports in order for multiple electric vehicles to “top off” their batteries. An hour’s worth of charging adds about 25 miles to a vehicle’s range, enough to get employees and visitors home or across most of the Denver area. Going global with e-waste standards The use of personal electronic devices is rapidly increasing around the world, and the need for safe and sustainable recycling facilities to meet the growing recycling challenge has never been greater. That’s why Arrow decided in 2014 to set new industry benchmarks for refurbishment certifications and global compliance programs in both established and emerging markets. Globally, Arrow’s Value and the Basel Action Network (BAN) established a three-year agreement to certify all of Arrow’s electronics recycling and IT asset recovery operations worldwide to the e-Stewards® standard. e-Stewards is a globally accredited, third-party audited certification program developed by BAN with industry leaders. This first-of-its-kind agreement covers nine processing facilities in the United States, six in Europe and one in Brazil. The facilities provide secure and environmentally responsible asset recovery, data sanitization, testing and screening, recycling, remarketing, service parts management, and product returns management services for a wide range of electronic equipment. UNGC 2014 And in Brazil, Arrow went further to established South America’s most stringently monitored facility for electronics asset disposition. In April, our new São Paulo, facility became that continent’s first location to be certified for several quality and environmental industry standards, including the R2 Responsible Recycling standard, the Recycling Industry Operating Standard, Occupational Health and Safety Advisory Services 18001 and International Organization for Standardization, standards 9001 and 14001. Combined, the certifications also exceed new Brazilian requirements. Arrow also released its own pledge to minimize the environmental impacts of its “Arrow’s newly facilities and continually measure and improve their performance in order to provide “the highest standards of responsible recycling,” said Scott Venhaus, director of Global certified facility in Logistics Services. São Paulo is a Goals tremendous 2014 Goal: development for Arrow’s “Green Team” will make measurable progress in the areas of recycling and emissions. We are working towards our overall carbon footprint baseline, with initial the people of emphasis on North America in 2014 and consideration for expanding on a global basis. In 2014, an executive team will develop company-wide sustainability goals. South America and 2014 Action: the environment.” Arrow met its environmental goals in 2014 and upheld principles 7-9. We also John Lingelbach, launched a program to retrofit primary facilities with energy saving technologies. Executive Director Specifically: R2 Solutions.  We have created the carbon footprint baseline that includes global travel, global contracted fleet, transportation/distribution, gas & electric utilities in North America. Arrow’s executive steering committee created a Mission and Vision to drive our company forward.  We installed a charging station for electronic and plug-in hybrid vehicles at our primary office as a pilot for future expansion.  We are opening a new headquarters complex in Denver with energy-saving technologies.  We incorporated LED lighting and other energy efficient fixtures within the new Global HQ and continue to roll this out in other facilities around the globe  We increased the use of low-barrier work spaces to increase day lighting and reduce artificial lighting.  We continued to focus on environmental certifications, adding five more ISO 14000 certifications, two more OHSAS 18000 certifications, two more R2compliant locations, and one more RIOS®-compliant location. 2015 Goals: Continue implementing company-wide energy-saving upgrades, including new energy star appliances, window tinting, conversion of kitchen facilities to natural gas from electricity, touch-less bathroom fixtures to save water, and new workspaces with low barriers to increase natural lighting. We will begin facility infrastructure upgrades for more energy efficient HVAC and other base built systems to reduce energy consumption overall. UNGC 2014 Anti-Corruption Arrow’s Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (the “Code”) applies to all employees of Arrow and its subsidiaries, including officers and directors. Every Arrow employee is bound not to violate its terms. Principle 10: Goals Businesses should work 2014 Goal: against corruption in all its Arrow plans to participate in an industry due diligence platform that will enable the forms, including extortion shared collection and processing of information from third parties (potential Business and bribery. Partners), by platform participants. This will be a streamlined due diligence process. This will also provide us with the opportunity to raise awareness with our business partners on anti-corruption. In addition, we plan to continue training around the world, especially with newly acquired companies. We plan to refresh vignettes on anti-bribery training to keep our employees engaged and updated on current trends and new areas of concerns 2014 Action: Arrow introduced specific Gifts and Entertainment policies in its Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Ethics. The policies are intended to provide increased guidance to our employees and ensure that gifts and entertainment are never used as a means to gain an unfair advantage with our business partners. Arrow partnered with several members of the Global Technology Distribution Council to design an anti-bribery and anti-corruption (“ABAC”) due diligence platform that combines processes and best practices developed by participating GTDC members with Hiperos’ award-winning third-party management software as a service (SaaS) solution and Thomson Reuters’ highly regarded screening, risk assessment and due diligence services. Arrow is piloting the ABAC platform in North America with select customers. Arrow revamped its compliance training program for employees and conducted targeted training for employees of newly acquired companies and higher risk geographic locations. 2015 Goals:  Extend the ABAC platform to Arrow businesses and geographical locations.  Continue to ensure all employees understand Arrow’s anti-bribery and anticorruption policies.  Highlight real-world corruption cases in a new employee compliance newsletter  Continue implementation of Due Diligence platform.  Implement an Arrow-wide intranet site to provide recent examples of other companies involved in FCPA/corruption cases.
