Ceridian (Mauritius) Ltd Level 9, Wing B, Cyber Tower 1 Ebene Mauritius Tel: (230) 454 4036 Fax: (230) 4664151 Email: Ceridian.Mauritius@ceridian.com Communication on Progress Year: 2014 Statement of continued support by the Senior Vice President and Managing Director Dear Stakeholders Ceridian Mauritius has been supporting the ten principles of the Global Compact since 2010. As a member of the Global Compact, our business policies revolve around the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the programme forward on human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In our report we summarised the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. We are today happy to confirm our continued support for the Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. Sincerely yours, Vidia Mooneegan Senior Vice President and Managing Director Ceridian Mauritius Ltd Contact: Poonam Ramkhelawon Email: poonam.ramkhelawon@ceridian.com Phone: 00230 4019789 Fax: 00230 4019789 P 1/6 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer. In 2012 we have worked on new values and as respect the protection of such Ceridian’s culture is shaped by our values. Our behavior drives our actions and, ultimately, our internationally proclaimed human results. rights; Our core values are: Integrity Demonstrate integrity in everything we do. Lead by example instilling trust and transparency in all our relationships. Customer Driven Proactively seek to understand our customers’ needs and consistently create value for them. Our investment and resource decisions are customer backed. High Performing People Create a performance driven environment where people are passionate about their job, where all are respected and can reach their full potential. Accountability Be accountable for and deliver on all commitments. Constantly strive to be repeatable and reliable in all that we do. Establish goals and standards and measure our success against them. Teamwork Create a collaborative culture where everyone works together to serve our customers, our company and one another. Our people reflect the diversity of the communities in which we live and work. In all of our policies we reflect these points. Our values are the pillar of our success. P 2/6 2: and make sure that they are not Ceridian values all its employees and sees to it that there is no human rights’ abuse. The company has complicit in human rights abuses. different policies which cater for this aspect such as: 1. Ceridian Code of Conduct 2. Dignity in the workplace policy 3. Leave policy 4. Premises access control policy 5. Recruitment & Selection policy 6. Business travel policy 7. Safe and secured travelling policy 8. Finger print policy 9. Ceridian telephony acceptable use policy 10. Cellular phone usage policy 11. Ceridian Code of Conduct 12. First aid procedures 13. Ceridian environmental policy 14. Grievance policy 15. On call policy 16. Fraternization policy 17. Affirmative Action and Equal Employment Policy 18. Discrimination and Harassment Policy In March 2014, we worked with the Ministry of Gender Equality, Child Development and Family Welfare to organise sensitisation campaigns on Gender based violence. The aim is to have employees who are happy to come to work, are respected and also enjoy working in an environment where their rights are not violated. 3: Businesses should uphold the Ceridian fully uphold the right of each individual in the organisation to form associations and also to freedom of association and the collective bargaining. This is in line with the Employment Relations Act and is also in accordance to the effective recognition of the right to constitution of Mauritius as well as the International Labour Organisation (ILO) standards. Yet, Ceridian collective bargaining; employees have not felt the need to be unionised so far as our salary and benefits level are always kept above the market median (we participate every year in the Mauritius Capfor Salary Survey exercise, to ensure that we understand the market and following benchmarks) In 2014, we also participated in the HAY Group survey. We also, continuously strive to provide a conducive working environment to all of our P 3/6 employees and we employ a full time dedicated Health and Safety officer to ensure that we have the best work environment for our people. Ceridian is also considered to be an employer of choice in the ITO/BPO sector in Mauritius. At Ceridian we have a welfare committee (members are employees of Ceridian), we also have regular team meetings (all managers meet with their department), all hands meeting with employees every month. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced Being a fair employer, Ceridian condemns all forms of forced labour. All employees have a clear contract and compulsory labour; of employment and job description. All our policies and procedures are in accordance with ERA and other laws in Mauritius. We are also an active member at the MEF (Mauritius Employer Federation). 5: the effective abolition of child Ceridian is against child labour and does not employ children. Only individuals having attained the age of labour; 18 years old are eligible for employment in the company. Ceridian PayBack Foundation is Ceridian’s registered charity for giving something back to children in the communities in which we live and work. The charity focuses on raising money and giving grants to children or institutions for children that live or attend school within a ten mile radius of one of our offices throughout the UK, Republic of Ireland and Mauritius. Ceridian PayBack Foundation exists to financially assist deserving and disadvantaged youngsters and we support individual children, as part of an ongoing and long-term relationship to help them develop and improve their lives. Ceridian also supports institutions that work for the benefit of children. As per our government of Mauritius (Finance Bill), every company shall, in every year, set up a CSR Fund equivalent to 2 per cent of its book profit derived during the preceding year to finance an approved NGO. As such, Ceridian has funded 2 NGO institutions in 2012 and all of them cater for the children development and education of deprived children. 6: and the elimination of discrimination Ceridian prides itself to be an equal opportunity employer and is against any forms of discrimination. in respect of employment and occupation. As a company, Ceridian is dedicated to ensure that our recruitment and selection policy is: • fair and consistent • non-discriminatory on the grounds of gender, race, age, religion, marital status, sexual orientation or disability • conform to statutory regulations and agreed best practice. P 4/6 We also have a Dignity in the Workplace: Bullying and Harassment Policy and Procedure. As a company, Ceridian is committed to providing a productive working environment, where all employees are treated with dignity and respect. All employees are required not to behave in such a way as to cause offence to others whether employees or customers in respect of their colour, race, religion, beliefs, ethnic origin, gender, marital status, sexual orientation, disability or nationality. 7: Businesses should support a Ceridian being a multinational business is conscious about the degradation of the global environment. In precautionary approach to line with this, a team was setup in 2007 at Ceridian headquarters in the US named “Green Team” to environmental challenges; primarily work on ways to be more environmental friendly. 8: undertake initiatives to promote One of the initiatives included changing the use of Styrofoam throughout the US building to recyclable or greater environmental responsibility; biodegradable to go ware and to build awareness about recycling and the environment. The approach to environmental issues is guided by a simple principle: We will conduct our business in ways that protect, preserve and enhance the environment. All good environmental practices within Ceridian are communicated internally through the “Hey U” magazine on a monthly basis. 9: and encourage the development and Ceridian Mauritius has established and implemented an Environmental Policy to demonstrate the diffusion of environmentally friendly commitment to go green in its business operations: technologies. • Energy savings Ceridian Mauritius has implemented several measures which help in reducing the energy consumption within the company as follows: o Each member of the staff has the responsibility to ensure that all lightings are switched off when there is no one working in a particular. Recently, Ceridian took over a second floor at the Cyber Tower to run all its night shift operations. The lighting and air conditioning will run on each floor to match the duration of the shift thus leading to energy efficiency. o The company has also gradually substituting the Cathode Ray Tube (CRT) computers which use more power to LCD ones which consume less energy. The plan is to replace all CRTs within 18 months. Furthermore, more and more laptops are being used which consume less energy. o Solid waste Management: Paperless operations P 5/6 In line with the solid waste management requirements, Ceridian Mauritius has established several guidelines to go paperless. As far as possible, the Company has digitized most processes thus reducing the need to print and thus use les paper. The organization has also implemented duplex printing and provides dual screens for viewing thus reducing paper usage. The Ceridian Mauritius also encourages reuse of printed copies as draft paper. Refilling of toners Purchase of refilled printer toners ensure that we minimize the disposal of cartridges. E-waste disposal Ceridian is engaging with other stakeholders regarding setting up the facilities for ewaste disposal which has become a hazard for our environment. 10: Businesses should work against all Ceridian has in place an effective ethics policy which is provide clear guidelines against corruption, fraud forms of corruption, including extortion as well as extortion and bribery. There is also an online ethics training and bribery. (http://www.ceridianhr.int/Content/Businesses/Ethics.asp) which all Ceridian employees need to go through which pertain to areas such as fraud, corruption. Any employee found guilty to be part of any form of corruption is subject to disciplinary actions and exit from the organisation. P 6/6
