COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2014 www.parco.com.pk Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) PAKARAB REFINERY LTD (PARCO) is a Joint Venture between the Government of Pakistan and the Emirate of Abu Dhabi, incorporated as a public limited company in 1974. As an integrated energy company, PARCO is the leading player in Pakistan`s petroleum industry with major operations in refining, transportation, storage, marketing, oil supply and logistics. With the largest refinery in Pakistan having a capacity of 100,000 BPD representing 35% of the country`s refining capacity, strategic storage of over one million tons, over 2000 kms of cross country pipeline network including its JV subsidiary Pak-Arab Pipeline Company Limited (PAPCO), a rapidly expanding retail outlets network owned by TOTAL PARCO a joint venture between PARCO and TOTAL of France, distribution of imported OMV lubricants from Austria PARCO has emerged as the strategic fuel supplier to the country. PARCO`s Core Functions Refining Pipelines Storage Marketing PARCO Pearl Gas (Pvt) Ltd (PPG), formerly known as the SHV Energy Pakistan (Pvt) Ltd is a 100% subsidiary of PARCO, having largest LPG marketing and distribution network. PPG manages storage, processing, filling and distribution of LPG. The performance of the company can be judged by the fact that it has maintained its AAA and A1+ long and short term credit rating by Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) for fifteen consecutive years. The company set another first in Pakistan when it obtained three simultaneous international certifications: ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). PARCO has also received Environment Excellence Awards for the last eight consecutive years and is rated among the top 10 organizations in Pakistan for outstanding achievement in Environment Management. As a good corporate citizen, the company focuses on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a professional and strategic manner. PARCO not only invests in its employees, makes efforts for customer satisfaction and operates ethically, but also undertakes a wide range of projects to benefit society in areas of education, health, environment, sports, culture, community development, road safety, and natural calamities. Processing and handling hydrocarbons is our business and it comes with its share of hazards. PARCO proactively identifies, minimizes and mitigates situations that have the potential to cause harm to the health and safety of its employees, customers, service providers, communities, public and the environment. The focus and diversity of technical, social and environmental projects of PARCO speak for themselves. Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor to many remote and underprivileged communities. PARCO Schools & Clinics Support Program is aimed at providing basic education and health facilities. The program is an ongoing initiative in which new schools and clinics are identified and existing ones are improved by providing basic infrastructure and other necessities that are beneficial for the surrounding communities. Communities are happy that PARCO is there for help when they need it most. PARCO has always responded passionately to the nation’s distress calls during natural calamities, such as the earthquake or floods. PARCO also supports culture and heritage by patronizing indigenous music, poetry and the arts. As a member of WWF, PARCO helps in conservation of nature, with several initiatives to its credit. In keeping with the Values of the company and our traditions, PARCO makes philanthropic contributions to institutions that are making significant efforts to help the underprivileged. From producing environment friendly products to efficient, world class engineering facilities and infrastructure, building a competent team, and major social initiatives, PARCO is doing its utmost in Providing Energy with Responsibility. CORPORATE RECOGNITION DURING 2013 PACRA Maintains “AAA” Entity Ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited Consecutively For 16 Years The Pakistan Credit Rating Agency (PACRA) has maintained long term and short term entity ratings of Pak-Arab Refinery Limited at AAA (Triple A) and A1+ (A One Plus) respectively for the past 16 years. The ratings denote the lowest expectation of credit risk emanating from an exceptionally strong capacity for timely payment of financial commitments. PARCO Wins Trio of Awards from Employers' Federation of Pakistan PARCO achieved another first and continued its run of recognitions when it claimed a hat-trick of awards at the first ever “Employer of the Year Award 2012” introduced by the Employers’ Federation of Pakistan (EFP). EFP promotes employers’ interests by guiding companies in creating Industrial peace and harmony and assisting members in Human Resource Development through training programs. The EFP is a constituent of ILO and is a member of the Organization of Employers – Geneva and the Confederation of Asia Pacific Employers. Triumphing over many Pakistani and multinational companies, including those from the Oil & Gas industry, PARCO bagged the following awards in the category of large organizations: Best CEO Award First Prize in Human Resource Third Prize in Workplace Safety The awards acknowledge PARCO’s leadership which has taken PARCO to new heights of success and recognizes its Human Resource strategy and practices which are continuously enhancing the human capital of the Company. The awards were conferred in a prestigious ceremony held on September 26, 2013 at Pearl Continental Hotel, Karachi. DMD (Operations), Mr. Shuja Uddin Ahmed who was representing the Managing Director PARCO received the Best CEO Award. The awards in Human Resource and Workplace Safety were received by Ms. Sharon Dias, Manager HR and Mr. Syed Zakir Hussain, GM Pipeline, respectively. First Prize for PARCO’s Corporate Garden PARCO has been winning prizes for its Corporate Garden for the last several years. The Company was ranked first for 7 consecutive years in the Corporate Garden Category in the competition held by the Horticultural Society of Pakistan. PARCO once again secured first position for its Corporate Garden in 2013 competition held by the Horticulture society of Pakistan. PARCO Conferred Gold Medal in CSR Category by FPCCI in the 37TH FPCCI Export Awards Pak-Arab Refinery Limited (PARCO) contributed immensely in the realm of Corporate Social Responsibility during FY 2012-13 by supporting activities in the areas of education, vocational training, health, sports, road safety and community development. PARCO’s schools and clinics support program is helping 68 institutions nearby PARCO facilities in various rural and urban areas. During the floods and torrential rains, PARCO stood by the nation and helped the IDPs in rebuilding their lives. In recognition to the overall CSR contribution, a gold medal has been awarded to PARCO by the Federation of Pakistan Chambers of Commerce and Industry (FPCCI) during the 37th FPCCI Export Awards Ceremony. This is the second in line award that PARCO has received from FPCCI in recognition of its CSR program that is not only strategic in nature but is creating shared value amongst its CSR stakeholders. Mr Shah M. Saad Husain, General Manager Corporate Affairs-PARCO, received the Gold Medal from the Honorable Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr Nawaz Sharif, in an auspicious ceremony held at the Pearl Continental Hotel, Lahore, on 8th February 2014. The criteria for evaluating the organizations nominated for this award related to their contributions in nine areas: Charity & Donation, Consumer Rights, Education and Training, Environment, Health Care, Hospitals and Clinics, Human Development & Poverty Alleviation, Human Rights, Research and Development, Sports and Culture. Since PARCO is contributing in all these areas, FPCCI recognized our contributions and presented the award to PARCO. As a good Corporate Citizen, PARCO does it utmost on meeting the expectations of its internal and external stakeholders in a caring, professional and strategic manner and adopts best CSR practices applicable to its business and community. Being a member of the UN Global Compact, the areas highlighted in the Post 2015 Business Development Architecture are now part of our Corporate and CSR Strategy. CSR Leadership Excellence Award 2014 PARCO was awarded the CSR Leadership Business Excellence Award 2014 at the Sixth International CSR Summit and Award Ceremony. PARCO was ranked amongst the Top Ten organizations in Best CSR Practices. The event was organized by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). The Awards recognizes and promotes organizations that make outstanding contributions for a sustainable future through CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) initiatives. The expert jury comprising of international CSR experts and prominent personalities from the corporate and social sector selected companies that stood in their contributions. PARCO Mr. Shah M. Saad Husain, General Manager-Corporate received the award for its contributions and the positive impact in Affairs, PARCO receiving the award the lives of the communities. PARCO had earlier won the award in the similar category. PARCO Wins Fire and Safety Award 2013 As the leading energy provider in the country, PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its customers, employees, the community and the environment it operates in. Due to the nature of our business protecting our employees and installations from fire and safety hazards is inevitable. In this lieu the role of HSE is crucial towards developing procedures and process for eliminating these hazards, along with training the staff for unforeseen events. Recognizing the efforts of our HSE department, its procedures, Mr. Amjad Hafeez, Deputy General Manager-Pipeline safety measures and business processes throughout our Maintenance, PARCO receiving the award installations, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2013.The Award is a testament of PARCO`s efforts to provide a safer working environment to all its employees, along with the commitment of our HSE department and the high standards of operational safety, control and audit which made this achievement possible. 10th Environment Excellence Award 2013 PARCO has been awarded the 8th consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Award by the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH). It is a matter of immense pride for every PARCONIAN that PARCO for the 4th consecutive time has been placed amongst the 10 best organizations of Pakistan in Environment Management. A Special Recognition Certificate for outstanding achievement in Environment Management was also awarded to PARCO by NFEH. The Annual Environment Excellence Awards are designed to recognize Mr. Zakir Hussain, General Manager-Pipeline, PARCO and promote organizations which adopt and follow stringent receiving the award environment-friendly policies, and make outstanding contribution for keeping the environment clean and healthy. These awards reflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. NFEH is a non-government, non-profit organization which works in collaboration with United Nations Environmental Program (UNEP) and is supported by the Ministry of Environment, Government of Pakistan. This Special Recognition comes as a result of the six consecutive Annual Environment Excellence Awards received by PARCO. These awards reflect our good management practices, the efforts of our team and our concern for the environment. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Basic Health Facilities Work Safety Road Safety Stakeholder Involvement & for Employees Community Investment Results  PARCO provides its  PARCO continues to provide a  PARCO has been continuously  PARCO provides 100% free medical cover to its  The PARCO management expects from all  PARCO again partnered with Stakeholder Involvement and Community Development is one of employees absence from healthy and green working endeavoring to enrich its employees, their spouses, dependents (up to 21 employees to strictly follow safety and the National Highway and the key areas where PARCO management and its employees take work for rest and relaxation, environment to its employees. human capital by adopting new years) and reimbursement of 60% medical costs housekeeping instructions. As better Motorway Police (NH&MP) keen interest. Our involvement is seen in the initiatives we have sickness, recuperation after During 2013, the Company was techniques and methods for of employees’ parents. housekeeping, being part of safety not only and printed 20,000 Road undertaken to uplift these communities in terms of basic sickness and for attending ranked 1ST in the Best Corporate developing its people. PARCO results in better living conditions but also Safety Booklets. These necessities and self reliance. Following initiatives were undertaken Garden Category in a  All permanent/contract/trainee female protects employees from unexpected booklets were distributed on in the year 2013. personal affairs. helps and guides it employees, competition held by the employees are eligible for maternity leave of 12 accidents. national highways to through appropriate training, to Access to Education/Basic Health  An employee proceeding on Horticultural Society of Pakistan. make the best of their talents. weeks. motorists. Since 2009, PARCO  Our cross country pipeline network makes us next-door neighbor  To this end, PARCO has instituted an annual Annual Leave may request for PARCO has been winning prizes  Ibn-e-Sina Hospital at Mid-Country Refinery has printed 30,000 such  Training Needs Analysis, ‘Safety and Housekeeping Award’ which is to many remote and underprivileged communities. Since 2007, advance salary payment for for its Corporate Garden for the (MCR) ensures timely medical assistance to the booklets for motorists to Personal Development Plan and awarded to the one station which has PARCO conducts an extensive Schools & Clinics Support Program approved leave period. In last several years. employees and their families posted at the comply Road Safety Rules, Career Planning are formalized maintained immaculate housekeeping and the which aims at improving the education and health infrastructure addition, employees are also Refinery in Qasba Gujrat which is in a remote Pakistan Traffic Code, etc.  PARCO is an OHSAS 18001:2007 processes for all employees. best safety standards during this year. in adjoining communities by supporting Rural Health Clinics, entitled to ‘Leave Fare area. (Occupational Health and Safety  All PARCO drivers are Primary, Middle and Secondary Schools, being run by Assistance’.  To encourage employees to  PARCO ensures that Personal Protective Management System) certified  Medical policies are revised from time to time to provided training to comply Government of Pakistan. Up till 2013-14, PARCO has provided enhance their professional Equipment (PPE) is provided to all employees.  The Company looks upon its Company since the year 2005. suit employees’ requirements and provide with Road Safety Rules, assistance to 68 institutions along its pipeline and refinery across competence, PARCO provides Service Providers are also required to provide Pakistan Traffic Code, etc. Pakistan. employees to socially appropriate health care system.  The Company has been receiving membership of reputable PPE`s to their staff. acquaint themselves with National Environment  PARCO ensures that all its  More than 12,000 children are receiving education in PARCO professional bodies and  PARCO helps its employees and their families professional colleagues from Excellence Awards for the last  During 2013, PARCO`s Pipeline Division has employees and staff of Service supported schools. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has organizations which impart with economic protection against loss of earnings other organizations and other eight years in a row. successfully completed 4.9 million man-hours Providers practice Road Safety raised communities` interest to enroll their children in these technical, professional and in the event of employee’s death or disability walks of life. To facilitate this without lost time accident (LTA). regulations and precautions as refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from managerial knowledge to the occurring as a result of illness, accident or inter-relation, the Company responsible citizens. Our HSE child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. sees that the employees have employees through the otherwise under the ‘Death & Disability Benefit  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery successfully ‘Organizational Membership’ department conducts monthly the facility and use of a Plan’. commissioned Asphalt Air Blowing Unit  During 2013, PARCO has supported different schools for mentally policy. Road Safety Trainings. reputable club in the city (AABU). Workplace safety remained top challenged and deaf children. These institutes are managed by  Employees at the age of 45-50 years and above where they are posted. This is  We have an extensive priority throughout the design, construction  Proper road markings and professional NGOs and rely mostly on philanthropic are required to undergo medical check-up after and commissioning phases. called the ‘Club Membership’ Management Development road safety signs are installed contributions. They help these children in developing skills to two years and employees above 50 years are policy. within all PARCO facilities and manage their lives in less challenging manner. PARCO’s Program (MDP) for our required to undergo medical examination  A standard operating procedure, communication employees. All trainings are locations for strict contribution has helped these institutes sustain their operations. annually to determine the quality and level of and command levels is established to report  During 2013, PARCO planned and coordinated in a compliance. their health. security incidents, accidents, natural calamities sponsored 5 Nonsystematic manner by the and other risk situations. Management Staff and 2 Company in terms of the needs  The Company also covers medical/traveling Management Staff to and the talents required. The expenses of employees and their dependent if perform “Hajj” (Holy  This year, PARCO distributed 500 school bags along with stationary items to the children training efforts are not confined to a few formal classroom courses but he/she is suffering from such a disease which Pilgrimage). This is done on at PARCO supported government schools in Karachi. The Company also procured and extend in all directions to remove employees’ weaknesses and making requires a vital organ transplantation that cannot annual basis. distributed story books at government schools in Karachi and near Mid-Country Refinery in the most of their strengths. Last three years of Training Man-hours data be done in Pakistan. partnership with a renowned publisher to help these children learn basic concepts faster. is given below.  To provide full medical cover to its employees The books also educate children in developing imaginations pertaining to basic curriculum and dependents, PARCO has 40 hospitals, 34 as well as teach personal hygiene and keeping surrounding environment cleaner. consultants, 5 laboratories, 14 pharmacies across the country.  During 2012-13, PARCO organized Teachers Training for School Teachers of government schools which are supported by PARCO near Corporate Headquarter, Mid-Country Refinery and various Stations and Terminals. The training’s key objective was to improve the teaching capability of the teachers by sharing the learning methodologies that children can adopt within and outside the classroom. The training was attended by 150 teachers. The above mentioned training made a remarkable impact on the learning process in the PARCO supported schools which is very rare to find. The teachers then demanded PARCO to continue support and launch the next phase of trainings for them.  In 2013-14, PARCO organized a second phase of trainings for these teachers on “Effective Teaching Skills”. PARCO also procured learning materials for Kindergarten children, training for which is being given during the current year’s training module. The material includes learning cards, books, etc for developing children’s imagination needed within their age group. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 2 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 Contd. BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Our Commitment At PARCO, we deliver “Energy with Responsibility”. PARCO respects all human beings and considers employees as its greatest asset, striving to support employees, their families, nearby communities and other stakeholders in accordance with Human Rights. Management Systems HR Management, Administration HR Management, HSE, Security Communities Actions Work-Life Balance Healthy Environment Education Facilities Work Safety Stakeholder Involvement & Community Investment for Employees Results  In the event of an employee or  PARCO’s annual Inter-Station  The School at PARCO`s Mid Under the umbrella of schools and clinics support program, PARCO has supported several Basic and Rural Health Centers based spouse’s death, the Company Competition for the Best Country Refinery (MCR) Housing in small villages nearby PARCO cross-country pipeline and Stations and Terminals. The clinics are providing basic healthcare to provides transportation of Housekeeping at PARCO Stations Complex provides subsidized the local communities within their villages. As a result, community members are no longer required to travel for long hours to deceased and ‘Funeral and Terminals continued this year education to the the cities for basic treatment. Assistance’ to the family. employees` children till prewhere all the Stations and  PARCO’s Mid-Country Refinery at Qasba Gujrat is surrounded by many underprivileged communities, who are deprived of the  PARCO provides membership of Terminals were scrutinized. university level. The School also basic education and health facilities. PARCO operates a Community Welfare Clinic in order to provide basic health facilities to professional bodies and During 2013, Pumping Station-3 has a board which includes PARCO the domestic workers working at the Mid-Country Refinery, their families and other people from nearby areas. The clinic is fraternities to its employees. at Shikarpur was awarded as the management and parents of the being run at a cost of Rs 1.5 million a year and treats approx 3,000 patients annually. In order to ensure sustainability of its best station in housekeeping. children.  Employees posted at outstations operations, the clinic is supervised by the Company doctor and provision for its operation is kept in yearly CSR budget. work on ROTA System, where  HSE Audits are conducted  PARCO provides its employees  In Pakistan, there are various hospitals that serve the underprivileged who cannot afford medication, hospitalization etc. they work for 20 days and then regularly to ensure compliance with developmental Hospitals that are selected are run by NGOs and it is ensured that their operations are supervised by a proper Board of enjoy 8 days paid leaves with with best practices. opportunities to acquire Directors and transparent operations. PARCO has helped several such hospitals through philanthropic contributions during the their families. knowledge and build up skills past two fiscal years in capacity building. The Company has spent more than Rs 18 million on such upgradations.  PARCO provides international through training and self PARCO has a cafeteria for level facilities for Sports like development, to the mutual employees where nutritious meals Cricket (Flood Lit Stadium), Support during Natural Calamities advantage of the employees and  PARCO conducts in-house Occupational Health Safety and Environment are served at more than 70% Hockey, Football, Volleyball,  During the 2010, 2011 and 2012 floods, PARCO has spent more than Rs 35.8 million in terms of medical camps, distribution of the Company. The ‘Educational (OHSE) training programs and achieved 2 man days per employee of subsidy. PARCO employs 2 cooks at Swimming, Tennis, etc. Indoor dry ration, cooked food, quilts and tented accommodation, reconstruction of houses, schools and clinics in the flood affected Refund Plan’ is one such initiative training during 2013. Contractor trainings are also conducted once a each Station and Terminal for sports are also provided in a Club areas of Punjab and Sindh. intended to provide financial week. A vital part of every contract requires contractors to comply with cooking meals for staff. Complex e.g. Bowling Alley, assistance to eligible employees PARCO’s HSE standards. Increasing Self-Reliance through Vocational Training Gymnasium, Badminton, Table  PARCO provides financial who wish to undertake studies or Tennis, Snooker, Squash, etc. at  Before mobilization, Service Providers` staff undertakes Orientation &  Last year, PARCO went a step further in its community development initiative by supporting 19 deserving vocational training assistance to support nontraining not directly covered by its Mid-Country Refinery, Stations Training covering Occupational, Health, Safety & Environment institutes at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Adu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh, DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, management staff’s daughter Company initiated programs or and Terminals. procedures and practices. Bubak and Karachi. Due to deteriorating conditions of these institutions, the infrastructure was completely revamped to marriages and education plans. create a better learning environment for students. PARCO also provided assistance in setting up state-of-the-art facilities assistance for their children, in  Noise Monitoring is being done on quarterly basis. High noise areas are  PARCO has also been supporting the educational endeavors of its being identified and sign posting for the compliance has been done. according to the needs and requirements of institutions. Some institutes were provided with fully functional computer labs for times of need. conducting various professional computer courses; while other vocational centers, which offer training in sewing and employees and their children. ‘Scholarship for Children of Employees’ is  Personal noise monitoring is carried out to check the 8 hours noise embroidery, were provided with electrical embroidery sewing machines and other relevant equipment.  In March 2013, PARCO organized intended to support the employees by providing financial assistance to dosage of employees exposed to high noise areas and their audiometery the Annual Family Day “Jashn-ehelp defray their children’s professional education on the basis of a formal Baharan” at its Mid-Country is done.  During 2013, PARCO continued its inexorable commitment of community development by providing the much needed support procedure that recognizes academic merit. During 2013, ten children of to the institutes which have always been facilitated. The Company also hired two computer trainers for Vocational Training Refinery for all MCR employees PARCO employees were provided financial educational assistance.  Personal dust dose is also checked for employees potentially exposed to and their families where they Institute at Mahmood Kot, who manage the latest high-tech computer lab setup by PARCO as well as provide trainings in latest any kind of dust. enjoyed fun rides, puppet show,  Educational Awards which includes a certificate and cash rewards are technological developments. Being a corporate citizen the basic ideology of PARCO behind supporting these vocational  Toxic Gas areas are marked with toxic gas signs and no one is allowed to training institutes is to play its role in economic development of country by tackling social issues like lack of skilled workers, magic show, games, food, etc. given to school going children of the employees, based on good enter the area without proper gas masks. rise in unemployment and most importantly women empowerment. These centers help in developing skills set of youth, More than 2,200 PARCONIANS performance in their Secondary Education. This recognition helps motivate and their family members visited  The drinking water is checked on a monthly basis to eliminate any providing them with adequate employment opportunities and improving the overall standard of living. These vocational children to further enhance their educational performance. the Annual Family Day where bacterial contamination. trainings have also left a positive mark in empowerment of rural women by providing them embroidery and sewing skills,  PARCO has always encouraged young minds to blossom with bright ideas. which helped them achieve self-sustenance. they all spent quality time  Monthly audits including Safety and Housekeeping, Personal Protective together. The event helps The Company holds an Article Competition to encourage employees’ Equipment, Gas Mask and Work Permits are conducted diligently to Supporting Internal Stakeholders employees to unwind from their children in developing creative writing skills. The winners are rewarded ensure active monitoring and compliance. For more information, please  PARCO provides education assistance to employees children by providing scholarships to deserving students, seeking busy schedules and enjoy the with certificate and monetary prizes. The competition is conducted twice a see Principle 8. professional education. whole day with their families year. During 2013, 8 children have won in two competitions, and were and socialize with their fellow rewarded with certificates and cash prize.  PARCO cares for its internal and external stakeholders. The Company supports its non-management and service provider’s PARCONIANS. staff in all manners that it can help. PARCO provides funeral assistance, assistance for daughter marriages, medical support on case to case basis, educational awards for non-management and service provider staff children in recognition of their performance in Secondary Education and for further education as well.  The Company also supports the staff in many ways on case to case basis, whenever they need financial, medical or other support. All in all, PARCO acts as a Socially Responsible Corporate Citizen in all possible ways to help its internal and external stakeholders. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 3 of 17) HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESSES SHOULD MAKE SURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Our Commitment PARCO makes all possible efforts to avoid complicity in Human Rights Abuses and abides by the laws of the country. Management Systems HR Management, Operations, Contract Management, Communities, etc. Actions Ethical Standards and fair dealings with shareholders, staff, customers, Equal Opportunity Employer Women Empowerment suppliers, service providers and other external partners Results  During recruitment, every employee of PARCO signs a declaration agreeing to PARCO`s Guiding Principles  All appointments in PARCO are based on merit for filling approved vacant  Being an equal opportunity employer, PARCO makes efforts in taking initiatives to empower women amongst its which include a complete set of guidelines on fair and ethical dealings with customers, internal and external positions. Our recruitment process ensures fair and competitive matching of internal and external stakeholders. Some of these initiatives are given below. stakeholders and communities. Violations of these principles are viewed seriously, have resulted in disciplinary candidates with job specifications. Non-job factors e.g. gender, origin, religion,  The Government of Pakistan promulgated Protection Against Harassment of Women at the Workplace Act, 2010 with action, and in some cases have led to the termination of service. Following are some highlights of PARCO`s and external influence are not considered. Under–age employment is strictly an objective to create a safe working environment for women which is free of harassment, abuse and intimidation so Guiding Principles: forbidden. that they can work with dignity. PARCO enforces this Act throughout the company and has placed it on its intranet portal to educate women at workplace about their rights. PARCO has a committee to deal with harassment complaints  We practice a merit-based equal-opportunity policy for recruitment and reject any influence of gender,  PARCO Job Advertisements clearly state that use of any extraneous influence will takes suggestions and gives recommendations to Management. Employees, including head of departments, are color, caste, faith, ethnic origin or recommendations by influential persons. disqualify the candidate. advised to report any acts of harassment by any gender as such harassment is considered misconduct liable of disciplinary action. Since the last 40 years of existence of PARCO, no case of harassment against women have been  PARCO believes in tempering its policies with human values that can raise the human capital of the  PARCO provides equal career growth opportunity to both male and female registered. Company and the Nation. employees, some of whom are also heading key departments and sections in the Company. The company has females working in Engineering, Finance, Projects, IT,  PARCO has supported three schools with The Citizens Foundation – a reputable NGO working in the area of imparting  PARCO believes that valid profits are made by good businesses through efficient services, productivity of quality education – at Karachi and Qasba Gujrat, near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery. These schools employ all female operations, value addition, innovative financing and strategic management of PARCO assets, talent and Telecom, Marketing, HR, and Medical functions. Our target is zero discrimination staff belonging to the nearby communities. The existences of these campuses have generated employment for these skills, while contributing to the well being of the Society. in a male dominated society and industry. local women to earn a decent living.  As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided equal  Management and Engineering Trainees, upon successful completion of their  PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program supports 68 institutions compared to 62 last year, with 51 schools and 17 opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels. training, are considered on merit against vacant positions, as permanent clinics. Out of these 51 schools, approximately 80 percent are situated in the rural areas, with maximum female staff. employees without discrimination, in case if there is vacant position.  PARCO believes in the value of transparency, openness and self-examination, and consider them as  The Community Welfare Clinic at the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery caters to approximately 3,000 patients a year of safeguards against potential faults.  During 2013, 5 Trainee Engineers, 3 Trainee Technologists and 20 Management which majority patients treated are women and children. Trainees were inducted.  As a professionally managed organization, we at PARCO ensure that all the stakeholders are provided equal  At the PARCO Mid-Country Refinery, the female spouses of the Company employees have formed a Ladies Club which opportunities. Be it customers, employees, communities etc. we ensure equal treatment at all levels.  Benefits, facilities and allowances, as specified in the Company`s policies are is financially supported by PARCO. The club undertakes several social and fun events totally organized by the women provided to all employees and their dependants without discrimination. residing at the Refinery Housing Complex.  We consider our Suppliers and Service Providers as our business partners and deal with them with the same fairness that we reserve for our employees and customers.  At PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Housing Complex, the Company has separate housing for women. There are separate sections and timing for facilities and club sports for women.  As a Company we are acknowledged as a responsible corporate citizen in the community of business and  During 2012-13, PARCO supported many well-known institutions working in the area of providing vocational trainings. industry of Pakistan and have received multiple awards from various external stakeholder bodies as  The basic aim of the project was to facilitate these institutions in building capacity for incorporating latest techniques in mentioned in the COP. building competencies amongst Pakistani youth. PARCO supported Vocational Training Institutes in areas, nearby PARCO facilities and assisted 19 centers at Machike, Faisalabad, Kot Adu, Mahmood Kot, Qasba Gujrat, Muzaffargarh,  We strive for minimal impact on the environment and contribute significantly to reducing the damage done to nature by man. DG Khan, Multan, Fazilpur, Shikarpur, Bubak and Karachi.  The institutes were provided help through setting up state of the art computer labs for conducting various professional  We do not tolerate unsafe and hazardous-to-health work practices in transit or at the work place. courses and vocational trainings pertaining to sewing and embroidery by providing electrical embroidery sewing machines and furniture. The physical facilities of these institutions were uplifted through much needed civil works to create a better learning environment for students.  In addition to setting up the computer lab, the Company also arranged well trained instructors to conduct well focused trainings at these centers. The initiative has helped the women in these communities to take care of their own economics after receiving trainings from these well-equipped Vocational Training Institutes. “My name is Hassan Saeed, and I am a Senior Medical Officer at “I have been heading the Government Vocational Training the Basic Health Unit, Jadewala. Most of the patients that visit us Institute (for women) at DG Khan since very long. We offer for medical treatment are women and children. Mostly we receive courses on stitching, embroidery, basic and advanced gynae patients. This year, our Basic Health Unit has performed computer skills, etc. Lately, we have been facing acute highest number of deliveries in the area and thanks to Pak-Arab shortage of basic material and resources required to conduct Refinery Limited (PARCO) that due to their support by building and advanced courses, which is need of the hour. The institute setting up state-of-the-art operation theatre, we are able to has produced some great women entrepreneurs who conduct procedures that saves lives of mothers and their new born belonged to low social strata. They are now helping their children. It is because of PARCO’s continued support that we have families in maintaining a sustainable living. Thanks to recently been awarded Outstanding Performance in providing PARCO’s help, we are now able to offer advanced courses in Equipment by PARCO at the Basic Health Unit, Basic EmONC Services by Chief Minister’s Health Initiative for stitching and embroidery which are very much needed to Jadewala near PARCO Mid-Country Refinery Sewing Classes in progress at the Govt. Vocational Attainment & Realization of MDGs.” keep the students at par to the current market trends.” Training Institute (for women) at DG Khan www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 4 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; PRINCIPLE 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and PRINCIPLE 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESSES SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Our Commitment PARCO believes in addressing Employee issues practically and providing the right of collective bargaining to all its workers by complete compliance to all Industrial Relations Ordinances and Laws. Management Systems HR Management, Industrial Relations, Operations, CSR Actions Freedom of Association Collective Bargaining Negotiations and Proactive focus and redressal of Employee Grievances to maintain a good Organizational Climate Union Charter Signing partners Results  PARCO workers are free to form or join a trade union of their choice without fear of intimidation or  PARCO has a history of good management – employee relations.  In an effort to encourage employees to voice their suggestions for improving the Company’s performance and efficiency, an ‘Employee Suggestion reprisal. There has never been a labor strike since PARCO`s inception, and Program’ has been introduced. The objective of this initiative is to provide employees an opportunity to come up with innovative and creative ideas all CBA agreements have been negotiated in a friendly for process improvement, cost savings, operations effectiveness, safety and efficiency. Under this program, employee suggestions towards  The Company complies with Industrial Relations Ordinance 2012. PARCO has one registered trade atmosphere. improving organizational efficiency are recognized and rewarded. Suggestions made by the employees are reviewed by the Managing Director and union comprising of all non-management employees represented by 7 Collective Bargaining Agents the Executive Committee Members which includes Company’s top management. Approximately 164 suggestions were received during 2012. (CBA).  Free and fair elections of CBA were held during May 2013.  In order to obtain feedback from exiting employees on the problem areas in the Company and on the employee’s concerns, complaints and  Management and CBA work together on many Employee Development and Welfare Programs. suggestions, an exit interview of all exiting employees are also conducted and remedial actions are taken accordingly.  For answering queries/suggestion/complaints of employees, the PARCO HR Department has a dedicated Help Desk.  Our Managing Director holds sessions with each category/level of staff separately on regular basis for example, Trainees/Section Heads/Engineers/Managers. During 2013, such sessions were held at Corporate Headquarters and PARCO Mid-Country Refinery.  The Human Resource Department at PARCO regularly conducts visits of PARCO installations at remote locations, to gather employee feedback, complaints and suggestions. The HR department also conducts Focus Group sessions amongst the employees where employees are randomly selected from each department at all locations irrespective of their grade or level. The objective of these discussions is to gather information pertaining to issues faced by the employees at all areas. A total number of 6 sessions have been conducted during 2013, attended by 103 participants from different departments belonging to various levels. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 6 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO completely disallows any form of forced or compulsory labour in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Business Partners, Operations Actions The terms of employment at PARCO provide maximum freedom to Maintaining industry-competitive Compensation and Compliance by checking of Vendors/Suppliers/Service Providers employees to voluntarily enter or leave the organization on free will. Benefits Results  PARCO`s employment contracts do not violate human rights or labor laws. PARCO does not have a  PARCO’s policy is to pay employees atpartners all levels with responsibility, salaries and wages  Vendors/Suppliers/Contractors are checked by PARCO that no forced labor is utilized for PARCO`s jobs. During practice of service bonds. which are competitive when compared with prevailing salary scales for similar work in prequalification, PARCO employees visit suppliers and vendors to visually observe and report if any children are comparable organizations. For this purpose, salary surveys are regularly conducted and employed or if forced labor is practiced.  Separation All employment contracts process, paymentcanofbeoutstanding terminated dues, postnotice by giving of 30 days retirement by either benefits, etc. party. are done salary adjustments, benefits and revisions are accordingly granted targeting 75th percentile of the industry are provided.  PARCO conducts open competitive bidding for services and materials procurement to provide equal opportunity to all expeditiously. qualified vendors/suppliers.  PARCO benefits its employees with economic protection against loss of earnings in the  Upon induction, all employees are provided an employee handbook which includes all the Human event of separation from service through ‘Gratuity Fund’. Besides this, PARCO also benefits Resource policies and procedures pertaining to hiring, training and development, compensation, its retired employees with ‘Pension Funds’. The window/children of a deceased employee benefits, leaves, medical benefits and much more. Furthermore, an electronic version of the book is are also entitled to receive pension. also placed on PARCO’s Intranet Portal for instant access to the employees. The electronic version is updated as soon as amendments are made in the policies.  PARCO also has a ‘Transfer of Ownership of Company Assets’ policy aimed at increasing employee satisfaction and retention. Under this scheme, employees are allowed to purchase Company vehicles and household appliances at a nominal cost.  To assist employees in solving their transportation, housing problems and in acquiring hard furnishings for their homes, PARCO grants Car, Housing and Furniture Loans to its employees.  Employees who are availing the residence facility at the Mid-Country Refinery site benefit from the following: o Allotment of Company–owned residential housing o Hard and soft furnishings o Household appliances o World class sports, club facilities o Schooling, mosque, shopping centers, etc.  PARCO places utmost importance to the continuous services of its employees as being a factor to be recognized in terms of granting reward and recognition. The Company recognizes long and dedicated services rendered by employees and in recognition thereof has instituted suitable awards commensurate with the length of service. Following are the number of awards which have been given to employees in January 2014 on completing different periods of service: Year of Service No. of Employees 7 28 10 22 15 27 20 18 25 17 30 7 35 5 www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 7 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Our Commitment PARCO forbids engagement of any form of child labour in its operations or by any of its business partners. Management Systems Human Resource Management, Operations Business Partners Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Documented procedures prohibit employment Third party audit of Labour conditions Inclusion of Labour Laws (that disallows child PARCO assists in enhancing primary and secondary schooling to reduce Child of Child Labour labor) in contracts with Business Partners Labour in its adjoining communities Results  No child labor has ever been employed by PARCO. Despite the fact  Regular third party audits are conducted by the Labor  By asking Suppliers and Service Providers to adhere to the laws  Under PARCO’s Schools and Clinics Support Program, the Company supports schools and clinics of rural that under the labor laws of Pakistan the minimum age of hiring is 14 Directorate’s labor department and health and hygiene of the country, they are required to comply with all labor laws, communities located near PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery and its Stations & Terminals in the Sindh and Punjab years, PARCO`s minimum age limit for induction is 18 years, which is department, Employees Old Age Benefit Institution meet security and human rights requirements as well as provinces of Pakistan. thoroughly checked by birth certificates, educational transcripts, (EOBI), Social Services Department, Workers Children eliminate employment of under-age workers.  Up till 2013, 68 Government schools and clinics have been provided assistance for developing infrastructure, national identity card by NADRA (National Database and Registration Education, Sindh Employers Social Security Institution procurement of equipment, etc., to help them sustain their operations for providing basic facilities to the Authority) and other age verification documents, thus ensuring that and other authorities who ensure elimination of Child Labor and compliance of other requirements of Labor communities. Out of these 68 institutions, 51 are schools where more than 11,000 children are receiving there is no child labor across the company. Laws. During 2013, five visits were made by various education. PARCO`s assistance to these institutions has raised the communities` interest to enroll their children in government agencies at different PARCO facilities. these refurbished and well-maintained schools diverting them from child labor to primary education, raising the literacy rate. PARCO and TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – A Partnership Making Differences PARCO in partnership with the TCF (The Citizens Foundation) – a reputed NGO in Pakistan has developed three campuses i.e. two primary and one secondary school at Qasba Gujrat and Karachi. These campuses are built in under-privileged communities and impart quality education to around 833 children. These schools are making a great difference in the lives of the underprivileged in many ways. Please see the following backgrounds on the PARCO-TCF schools. PARCO-TCF Primary School I, Yosuf Goth, Karachi PARCO supported Schools and Clinics since 2007 till date PARCO-TCF Primary SchooI is located in Steel Town, Karachi. Morning shift is running at full capacity and an afternoon shift has been operating since 2003 which indicates students’ zeal for acquiring quality education to improve their socio“These four young and enthusiastic students are enrolled economic conditions. Moreover, females from the community have been participating in the Agahi Adult Literacy at Government Secondary School, Moza Haji Shah, which program in this school and now can read and write.This campus has become a beacon of hope as students not only is located at approximately 5 kms from PARCO Midpossess better language proficiency and hygiene habits but are also motivated to become future leaders of Pakistan. Country Refinery. These children were seen enthusiastic about their upcoming endeavors. They saved their pocket money to purchase saplings for planting at their school to PARCO-TCF Primary School II, Qasba Gujrat create a greener environment. They were all thankful to PARCO-TCF Primary School II is located in Qasba Gujrat, Punjab. The campus is situated near PARCO Mid-Country PARCO for creating a great learning environment by Refinery. This campus has received a tremendous response and after excessive demand for admissions from the building classrooms and adding furniture and fixtures community, an extension was made operational in 2012. It is worth mentioning here that there has been an encouraging which has made their school livelier. As a result, their school’s attendance has increased. They aspire to become increase in student strength from 286 students in 2012 to 348 students in the current academic session. The positive doctors and serve the Army in future.” impact on students’ academics, confidence and hygiene has made them role models in their communities, inspiring more children to attend school. “My name is Zara Rabia and I am studying in grade VII at PARCO-TCF Primary PARCO-TCF Secondary School III, Muzaffargarh School II in Qasba Gujrat. I have always dreamed of going to school and getting The current academic session for PARCO-TCF Secondary School III commenced from April 2013 and admissions were education but my parents could never afford it. My mother works as a maid from door to door and stitches clothes and my father works as a carpenter and makes accepted for entry level classes of Grade VI and VII. This campus has become a beacon of hope for the students enrolled ladders and stools. When PARCO built school in my area I was ecstatic as now I as skills and education acquired from completing education will help these students to become economically empowered can pursue education without burdening my parents. Thank you PARCO for giving and capable of supporting their own families. This campus has also assisted in alleviating poverty in the surrounding area me an opportunity to become a teacher and make my parents proud”. by creating employment opportunities for members from the local community. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 8 of 17) LABOUR PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESSES SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION Our Commitment PARCO provides equal employment opportunity and supports diversity of human capital in all its functions. Management Systems Human Resource Management Corporate Social Responsibility Actions Ensuring Equal Employment Enforcing Code of Workforce Diversity Merit-driven Appointments Expand PARCO`s interaction Organizing Plant Visits for Technology Transfer Opportunities for all Ethics and Promotions with Educational Institutions University Students Results  PARCO offers equal opportunities to all  PARCO ensures that employees  PARCO employs 1,346 direct  PARCO discourages nepotism and  PARCO undertakes regular summer and winter  Universities show keen interest in  PARCO possesses competent specialists in many qualified applicants, men and women, abide with the Company`s employees, including 21 people every form of favoritism. The way up internships for students belonging to business and visiting PARCO’s facilities and the areas and in order to utilize their expertise, these belonging to all faiths and religion, Code of Ethics. Every employee from minorities. These employees the PARCO ladder is open to engineering disciplines where the selection of company organizes plant visits for internal training resources develop and deliver come from all over the country, everybody. The policy of the Company internees is done on merit. During 2013, PARCO petroleum, chemical, civil, electrical, training programs. origin, ethnicity, color, caste or creed. has to sign, at the time of induction, a declaration irrespective of domicile/origin, is to develop and promote employees inducted 43 interns and provided on the job electronics, telecommunication, and  PARCO offers Trainee Program in the fields of  PARCO ensures that no discrimination is agreeing to PARCO`s Principles ethnicity, religion, gender, or any from within the organization through training with challenging projects. other engineering and business management and engineering. The training made amongst employees and till date, which include a complete other non-job dimension. Thus career and succession planning. As an students belonging to different ranges from 1 to 2 years and provides the all male and female employees guideline on avoiding there are workers of all ages, from example, our Managing Director universities. candidate learning and exposure to different belonging to different religion are discrimination, ensuring fair all provinces i.e. from the joined the Company 38 years ago as a aspects of a real life working environment. Upon employed at all levels including senior and ethical dealings with all northern most cities to the Trainee, immediately after graduating demonstrating satisfactory performance at the management positions. internal and external southernmost area of Karachi. as an engineer. end of the training, the Trainee is inducted as an stakeholders including  Hiring and promotions are done on employee if a suitable vacancy exists.  Employees are given holidays in communities, customers,  PARCO is a national employer, merit, performance and ultimate accordance with their religious suppliers and vendors. employing people without  Since 1975, PARCO has trained 1090 Engineering and Management trainees. Since January 2013 potential of each employee through customs. discrimination and strictly on alone, 30 trainees have been inducted in PARCO. This number is increasing and shows that merit, from all parts of the professional and transparent HR PARCO has not stopped inducting fresh talent even at a time when the Country is facing an processes. If any employee exerts  PARCO gives special employment Country: economic downturn. external pressure of any sort s/he is preference to handicapped applicants No. of automatically disqualified and faces  To address the issue of scarcity of trained manpower in the country, an ‘Apprenticeship and has till date employed 5 such Province Employees disciplinary action.  PARCO also participates actively in Career Fairs at people. Azad Kashmir 14 Program’ has also been introduced. The objective of this six-month program is to provide the leading Engineering and Management technical training to fresh graduates and upgrade their skills. Balouchistan 8 educational institutions where counseling and job  See Women Empowerment in Principle 2. FATA 2 Khyber Pakhtoonkuwa 75 opportunities at PARCO, etc. are discussed with  PARCO has a huge reservoir of highly skilled and experienced human capital. Please refer to the Punjab 720 students. In 2013, more than 1,000 students were below graph showing our Talent Inventory in different areas. Sindh 527 provided career counseling. Over 900 applications ______ were received by PARCO through Career Fairs. Total 1,346  PARCO also supports research, conferences, trade  Despite being a petroleum fairs, workshops and other events of educational engineering organization, PARCO institutions. We also provide technical equipment encourages women for for labs of engineering institutions. PARCO has employment at the Mid-Country donated 4 Gas Turbines to the Mechanical Refinery, which is located in a Engineering Departments of four engineering remote area, by providing separate universities of Pakistan i.e. NED Universityaccommodation for single women. Karachi, University of Engineering and Technology-Lahore, Mehran University-Jamshoro,  As a multinational Joint Venture, Bahauddin Zakariya University-Multan. These PARCO also employs dual national turbines are now being utilized by the universities staff which further adds to our to provide hands-on training to the engineering diversity and talent pool. students.  Many of our experts are teaching at different universities transferring knowledge and skills to the younger generation. Joint research projects are also undertaken with educational institutions. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 9 of 17) ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environment challenges; PRINCIPLE 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Environment Friendly Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Environment Friendly Solid Waste Management Supply-Chain Awards Products Results  Crude Oil is the basic raw material in any  Effluent monitoring is carried out at all Stations and Terminals and the  PARCO is a fully IMS CERTIFIED ENERGY Company and amongst the first  PARCO proactively works to  Solid waste generated at the Mid-Country Refinery is disposed in a oil refining firm. Environmental Mid-Country Refinery (MCR). Reports are sent to EPA against SMART in Pakistan to simultaneously achieve three international certifications, ensure that its products and fuels manner that protects human health and the environment. It takes an Program. that is, ISO 9001:2008 (Quality Management System), ISO 14001:2004 are environment friendly. Lead inclusive approach that endeavors to protect surface and ground-water, stewardship is a prime motivation as we (Environmental Management System) and OHSAS 18001:2007 air, flora and fauna. manage transportation of crude from  Impact on the environment from the refining process is controlled by free Gasoline complies with the (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). Keamari Port in Karachi to our refinery in treating and managing emissions. Low NOx (Nitrous Oxide) burners and standard having sulfur content  PARCO’s Mid Country Refinery and Stations and Terminals have Mahmood-Kot, MCR through 864 km Sulfur removal from fuel gases are examples.  During September 2013, PARCO Pipeline Division had its first surveillance less than 150 ppm. With the designated procedures and areas for effective system of waste collection pipeline which is approx 400 ft above sea investment of 132 million USD on and segregation. Drums marked in yellow and green are placed in each  Effluents are treated in a state of the art effluent treatment plant having audit conducted by a third party certification body. a Diesel Hydro Desulfurization area e.g. plant, maintenance, truck loading, laboratory, office area, etc. level. The pipeline ensures that each capacity of 340m3/hr involving extensive chemical and biological drop of crude oil is transported to MCR treatment. The waste water from all over the refinery is collected and  In July 2013, a re-certification audit was conducted by a certified body at unit, Diesel produced by PARCO is Hazardous, non hazardous waste and recyclable materials are segregated Corporate Headquarter (CHQ) after which PARCO CHQ has been reat the source. without effecting the environment. through skimming, neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, on Euro II specifications i.e. less clarification, filtration and drying operations the effluent water is brought certified for another three years from September 2013. than 500 ppm. This positions  The Solid Waste Management yard is the storage point for waste at MCR.  We have leak detection system, with in NEQS limits before being discharged. The treated water is reused It is a well organized area catering for everything from spent catalyst and for plants after compliance with NEQS (National Environmental Quality  IMS Certificates for PARCO Mid-Country Refinery were re-certified by a PARCO at the top in Pakistan emergency shutdown system, intelligent where the running standard is chemical drums to used batteries. An internationally operating third Standards) is ensured. All effluents are checked and verified regularly third party certification body in 2012. During 2013, first surveillance audit pigging, corrosion protection, and party has been contracted for disposing the waste. All types of solid before discharging by third party EPA (Environment Protection Agency) was conducted successfully. 5,000 ppm of sulfur in diesel. The microwave towers for communication, wastes are collected in the waste yard and separated according to their approved Labs to comply with NEQS. extracted sulfur is solidified and SCADA (supervisory control and data  During 2013, 4 risk assessments were carried out and 9 in 2012 for various sold as a byproduct. nature. There are five separate yards according to the nature of waste. acquisition) system to avoid leakages,  All contractors’ equipment is checked for compliance to NEQS. activities at PARCO Corporate Headquarters. The purpose of risk  Scrap Yard is situated near the south side boundary wall of the refinery assessment is to define mechanism and responsibilities to identify thefts and intermediate storage tanks at in front of Solid Waste Management Yard. All the waste generated at the  Various chemicals in use are stored in a well ventilated warehouse and it Organizational Health and Safety hazards and assess their risks in respect Mid-Country Refinery is stored in the Solid Waste Management & Scrap 5 different pumping stations. is ensured that a minimum level of inventory is kept to minimize the of normal and ascertained activities performed in the premises of PARCO. yard. Environment section keeps the record of Solid Waste Management hazard. The chemical warehouse is equipped with deluge valve system to It also aims to provide mechanism and responsibilities to identify EMS  During the year 2013, approx 4.4 Million Yard. Hazardous waste yard gate is kept locked and the keys are suppress any kind of contamination. Plastic trays and HDPE sheets have aspects and assess its impacts. Metric Tons of crude oil was transported available with Environmental Engineer. The non hazardous waste is been placed under the chemical drums to meet the required level of from Karachi to PARCO`s Mid-Country  As the leading energy provider in the country, PARCO has always been mindful of its responsibilities towards its stored in green drums and shifted to the non-hazardous waste yard. protection. Administration Department keeps the record of all the municipal waste Refinery (MCR) at Mahmood Kot through customers, employees, the community and the environment it operates in. Due to the nature of our business protecting our employees and installations from fire and safety hazards is very essential. In this lieu the role of HSE and submits the record to the Environment Engineer on monthly basis an 870 km pipeline network, ensuring  In compliance of Integrated Management System (IMS) at Corporate (Health Safety and Environment) is crucial towards developing procedures and process for eliminating these for proper monitoring, treatment and/or disposal. safe and secure transportation. This Headquarters, environmental sampling and testing of liquid effluent hazards, along with training the staff for unforeseen events. efficient supply chain eliminates the (sewerage and car wash area) and gaseous emissions (generators of  Around 110 tons of hazardous waste was disposed off in 2012-13 by a movement of oil tankers significantly CHQ and Commercial buildings) are carried out against NEQS on yearly  Recognizing the efforts of our HSE department, its procedures, safety measures and business processes throughout certified and EPA approved third party. During hazardous waste basis through an EPA certified laboratory. Liquid effluent parameters our installations, the National Forum for Environment and Health (NFEH) and Fire Protection Association of Pakistan management, around 2000 Empty metal and plastic drums were sold contributing in reduction of air pollution. include temperature, pH, chemical oxygen demand, biological oxygen (FPAP) bestowed upon PARCO the Fire and Safety Award 2013. with safe recycling/ disposal guarantees. The payback of recycled drums  In 2013, the 362 km Mahmood Kot demand, total dissolved solids, total suspended solids, oil & grease, contributed significantly in disposal of hazardous waste. Used phenolic compounds and chlorides while gaseous emissions are tested  The Award is a testament of PARCO`s efforts to provide a safer working environment to all its employees, along with lubricants/waste oil was recycled through government approved Faisalabad Machike (MFM) pipeline the commitment of our HSE department and the high standards of operational safety, control and audit which made for Co, Nox, Sox, H2S, smoke and noise. Five years’ (2008 2012) results reclamation plants. During the hazardous waste management, around transported approx 2.4 Million Metric remained within permissible limits specified in NEQS. Samples for 2013 this achievement possible. 10,000 empty metal and plastic drums were sold with safe Tons of refined fuel from PARCO Midwere extracted for testing and results remained within permissible recycling/disposal guarantees. The sale of the empty drums recovered Country Refinery at Mahmood-Kot to limits. two thirds of the waste disposal cost. Machike via Faisalabad where gantry facility is available for product off-take.  EMS (Environment Management System) Impact Assessment registers are available at every Station, and EMS impact is assessed on regular This has also reduced quite a number of basis to ensure IMS conformance with ISO and EMS requirements. tank lorries off the road.  Similarly, during 2013, the 817 km WOP (White Oil Pipeline) transported approx 3.5 Million Metric Tons of HSD (High Speed Diesel) from Karachi to MahmoodKot. Mr. Amjad Hafeez, Deputy General Manager, Pipeline receiving the Fire and Safety Award Efficient Pipeline System Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery 2013 www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 (Contd.) BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 11 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO is committed to comply with the National Environment Quality Standards (NEQS) and ensures minimal impact on the environment. Management Systems HSE, Operations and Administration Actions Efficient Effluent Management Environmental Auditing, Certification and Awards Air Emissions Monitoring Results  Regular third party monitoring is done diligently, and the results are well below  Audits of housekeeping, gas masks, noise, work permits, closed sampling box etc, Yearly  Air emissions monitoring is being carried out on monthly basis through PARCO’s laboratory and bi-annually through EPA approved permissible NEQS limits. Results of some key parameters are shown below. third party vehicle emissions monitoring, bi-annually third party stack emissions and third party for Carbon Monoxide, NOx, SOx, and Particulate Matter etc. The result of all environmental parameters remains within liquid effluent monitoring, bi-annually third party ground water monitoring within the NEQS limits throughout the year. Results of some key parameters are shown below. refinery and neighboring areas. Bi-annually third party ambient air monitoring around the PARCO installation within 2 kms of radius, are all ongoing and routine environmental projects.  Regular HSE Audits of operational areas and office buildings are carried out to ensure safe environment in the office areas. Any discrepancies found during the audit are analyzed for their risks on safety and appropriate recommendations are provided as key performance indicator. 12 HSEQ Internal Audits have been carried out at CHQ since the year 2007. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 12 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, IMS, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship Increasing Health and Safety Environment Certificates Reduction in Pollution Ground Water Sampling Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Awareness and Performance and Excellence Awards Responsibility Results  PARCO takes into account all it can to  Environmental training is conducted twice a  The National Forum for Environment and  PARCO`s Mid-Country Refinery (MCR) has  The surrounding area of Mid Country  In designing and aligning its oil pipelines routes, environmental matters reduce emissions far below NEQS limits month in which PARCO employees and Health (NFEH) has awarded PARCO with developed a comprehensive ground and Refinery (MCR) has many fuel service were addressed and the requirements of Pakistan Environmental Protection and develop products on Euro II standards Service Provider`s staff participate. All the Annual Environmental Excellence soil monitoring plan to ensure that there stations and auto workshops which are Agency (EPA) fully complied with NEQS. No property on the World Heritage but also to preserve natural habitat by contractors are responsible for complying Award for the eighth consecutive year in is no contamination in soil and water and potential contaminants for ground List is impacted. diverting its oil pipeline. with our Environmental Policy and legal 2013. The NFEH is a non-government, nonhas developed base line data for water. Realizing this environmental requirements as part of their contractual  The 2,000 km of oil pipelines traversing the obligations. EMS training is also conducted at profit organization which works in continuous monitoring. We perform 3rd aspect, MCR has developed a  Specific measures were also taken to avoid disturbance to wildlife and country, save thousands of gallons of fuel all stations in which PARCO`s and Service collaboration with the United Nations party (EPA certified) ground water comprehensive ground and soil vegetation. Even in choosing our main pipeline pumps, care was exercised and reduce pollution that would otherwise Provider`s staff attend the training sessions. Environmental Program (UNEP) and is monitoring of the surrounding areas of monitoring plan, whereby 8 soil samples to ensure that pump specifications conformed to the noise level of +/85db have been caused by tank lorries traffic. supported by the Ministry of Environment, PARCO Refinery and Corporate are collected twice a year to ensure that to remain within environmentally safe limits.  Fire, rescue and emergency drills are Government of Pakistan. Headquarters twice a year, to ensure that there is no contamination in soil and  The refining complex at PARCO’s Midconducted regularly at all PARCO locations the community nearby is using safe water.  PARCO conducts Emergency Evacuation Drill twice a year. The purpose is to Country Refinery is equipped with a stateto ensure preparedness for emergencies.  PARCO for the 4th consecutive time has underground water. There are 16 different assess the preparedness of the employees and available system for of-the-art effluent treatment plant, low Four batches of Emergency Response Team  The ground water monitoring of the NOx (Nitrous Oxide) and SOx (Sulphur been placed amongst the 10 Best parameters that are tested: pH, Color, emergency situations that may result due to activities, processes, are being trained every year to ensure surroundings of Mid-Country Refinery and Oxide) burners and a Sulfur Recovery Unit. Organizations of Pakistan in Environment TDS, Taste and Odor, Total Hardness, equipments or locations of the Corporate Headquarters. availability of trained manpower at all Approximately, 16% of the refinery’s cost Management. Corporate Headquarters is performed times. First Aid staff is trained by Faecal Coliform, Coliform Organisms, has been utilized in this project. professional Fire and Rescue personnel, against 16 parameters through a third  Contractor’s HSE performance is monitored and feedback is shared. Arsenic, Chloride, Sulphate, Iron, Cyanide, refresher courses are ensured periodically. party (EPA certified) consultant, twice a  Ambient air monitoring at 1 and 2 Km Lead, Selenium and Manganese.  PARCO ensures every contractor has first aid and medical facilities for its year, to ensure that the community distance around our refinery is done twice a  To create a general awareness amongst the workers. Medical fitness certificates are necessary for highly hazardous nearby is using safe underground water. year by EPA certified third party. The  To avoid noise pollution, a comprehensive work. employees regarding the importance of parameters being monitored are NOx, SOx, maintaining a good health; health and noise survey is also carried out regularly at CO and particulate matter. safety brochures were launched on subjects the boundary walls of the MCR in order to  Oil is removed from the oily water at the Effluent Treatment Plant and like Naegleria Fowleri, seat belts saves lives, make sure that the community surrounded recycled with crude in the process. This process minimizes the spoilage of motorcycle helmets compulsory, etc. by Mid-Country Refinery is not affected by crude as well as its exposure to the environment. the noise generated due to its operations.  Regular lectures on various health topics  The Company conducts HSEQ Internal Audits twice a year, to ensure that (e.g., hypertension, obesity, etc) are  Ambient air monitoring at 1 and 2 Km defined mechanism and responsibilities for planning, conducting and conducted by Company Doctors. Similarly Mr. Syed Zakir Hussain Shah, GM Pipelines, PARCO distance around PARCO’s Mid-Country reporting internal health, safety, environment and quality management Medical Bulletins are also issued on the Company’s intranet portal as well as emailed receiving the Environment Excellence Award Refinery is also done twice a year by EPA systems are being followed. to all employees to increase health certified third party monitoring NOx, SOx,  In offices we have a culture of using the other side of paper in printers. This awareness on various topics among the CO and particulate matter. employees. recycle paper not only saves cost but also reduces the consumption of paper  Tank lorries that are received for filling are “Top loading” and of a variety of sizes and and ultimately trees that are to be cut to prepare pulp. Since 2009, there  To enhance health and safety awareness dimensions. This leads to Hydrocarbon vapor emissions that create a very hazardous has been a considerable reduction in paper usage, for which year wise data among employees, trainings like Road Safety, environment in the truck loading area, in the explosive limit range. Apart from constant is given below: Fire Fighting, Emergency Response Planning, danger of fire incident due to high volatile vapors, the situation is also very serious for the 2009 2% reduction Anti-Terrorist Attack, Risk Assessment and Procedures of Waste Management, environment as these vapors contribute to Global Warming. According to Environmental 2010 2.15% reduction Occupational Health & Industrial Hygiene Impact Assessment Report, 85% of the annual hydrocarbon emissions from the refinery take 2011 1.3% reduction Management, First Aid, etc. are organized place during the filling of the Truck Lorries. In order to control this hazard, a fire proof cloak 2012 19.50% reduction from time to time. was fabricated for covering the truck lorry manhole. The fugitive emissions are then collected 2013 19.34% reduction in an overhead tank.  It is evident from the above results that the paper usage has been reduced to 19.34% during the last 5 years. Health Awareness session being conducted by the Company Doctor at PARCO Premises www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 13 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 8 (Contd.) COMPANIES SHOULD TAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 13 of 17) Our Commitment PARCO and its employees show responsibility in operations and in adjoining communities. Management Systems HSE, Operations, CSR Actions Environmental Stewardship HSE Training Programs Initiatives Promoting Greater Environmental Responsibility Results  Comprehensive noise surveys are conducted within all operational areas, Stations & Terminals and the Mid-Country  At PARCO, we have an in-house Health Safety and Environment (HSE) training programs. PARCO is EMS 14001 certified  PARCO has a comprehensive system of contractor management that Refinery. Equipment and locations are identified where a detrimental noise level may be present. Ear muffs and ear plugs company and all relevant employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully aware of Environmental ensures compliance with PARCO procedures for Health, Safety & are made mandatory accordingly. Generator/ turbine housings, fired heaters, compressors and similar potentially high Management Systems (EMS) and National Environmental Quality Standards (NEQS). This is ensured by our routine EMS Environment. Training and awareness including emergency response noise equipment are monitored periodically. Even at the boundaries, a noise survey is carried out in order to make sure and HSE in house trainings pertaining to Air Emissions Management, Effluent Discharge Management and Solid Waste is given to all contractor workforces weekly and before the that communities surrounding our facilities are not affected by any noise generated due to operations. Management supported by Standard Operating Procedures. During last one year a total of 157 HSE training sessions were commencement of work. PARCO ensures every contractor has first conducted which was attended by 2,273 participants. Approximately 1,788 participants received training on Environment aid and medical facilities for its workers. Medical fitness certificates  PARCO works proactively to prevent occupational health illnesses at all its sites. Noise, eudiometry, dust monitoring and Management since 2009. Seven IMS training sessions on EMS14001:2004 were conducted during last one year. are necessary for highly hazardous work. illumination surveys are carried out on a regular basis.  PARCO achieved a target of 2 man-days i.e. 16 hours per employee of HSE training in 2012-13 and is currently en-route  Contractor staff is given emergency response trainings and on the  Noise exposure is measured through a personal noise monitoring program. Noise surveys are conducted three times a year to its target of 2.25 man-days per employee of HSE training in 2013-14. use of emergency equipment. PARCO HSE personal supervision is and noise levels are compared. PPEs are prescribed, areas are signposted for mandatory PPE use and Engineering controls  ensured full time throughout the contract. Safety talks are are utilized to reduce noise levels. considered KPIs and followed diligently, frequency of which is given below: White Oil Pipeline Optimal Utilization Study  PAPCO – a subsidiary of PARCO – owns 817 km long White Oil Pipeline (WOP), which runs from Port Qasim (near Karachi) in the South to Mahmood Kot in the North, where it ties into PARCO owned 364 km long Mahmood Kot-FaisalabadMachike (MFM) Pipeline.  The White Oil Pipeline was designed for transportation of Crude Oil and HSD. Presently, it is only being used for the transportation of HSD and it is operating below its nameplate design capacity. PAPCO has initiated this study to optimize the use of the WOP by using spare capacity for the batched transportation of MOGAS and Jet Fuel in addition to HSD, from South to North.  After incorporating modification in pipeline system as per recommendations of study, the Company will be able to enhance the utilization of the pipeline system to its maximum capacity. In addition, heavy traffic load on the roads will be alleviated as hydrocarbons will be transported safely through pipeline system which is the most efficient and safe system for transportation of flammable liquids. Air Dispersion Modeling  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery uses an Environmental Monitoring software for Atmospheric Dispersion Modeling. The software helps identify the theoretical concentration of certain environmental pollutants like Sulfur Oxides and Nitrogen Oxides released from the heater stacks in the refinery. MCR has developed an integrated solution using the MAESTRO System developed by ATM-PRO in order to perform realistic impact assessment of industrial pollution. The solution consists of software called “MAESTRO W/D/P” that generates local meteorology taking into account the topography and land use in the surroundings of the industry and a sample set of pre-calculated data basis, providing one year of meteorological (3D) data fields and dispersion calculation of the sources within the company.  All employees including Top, Middle and Lower Management are fully aware of Environmental Management Systems and National Drag Reducing Agent (DRA) Treatment Environmental Quality Standards. This is ensured by our routine EMS and  Drag Reducing Agents (DRA) are indigenous solutions for enhancing the pumping capacity of hydrocarbon pipelines with HSE in-house trainings including air emissions management; effluent lesser input energy. PARCO is utilizing DRA for this purpose and has successfully achieved the desired throughput of Crude discharge management and solid waste management are conducted. Oil to meet the Mid-Country Refinery demand positively. These are also supported by our Standard Operating Procedures.  DRA is a slurry type product which has chronically higher rejection rates and ends up in wastage. In order to address this issue, in-house Research and Development was carried out to recycle the hardened/unusable product. This value addition job has resulted in massive saving for the company and also addressed the environmental issues regarding disposal of wastage and rejection/wastage has been reduced to zero. In addition, foreign currency required to import the product is also considerably decreased. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 14 of 17) ENVIRONMENT Principle 9 COMPANIES SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Our Commitment PARCO makes all efforts to minimize the impact of its operations on environment by utilizing technologies that are environment friendly. Management Systems HSE, Operations Actions Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Plant (DHDS) Effluent Treatment Plant Automated Incident Reporting System Energy Conservation Program producing Euro II Spec. High Speed Diesel Results  With commissioning of the DHDS plant at the Mid-Country Refinery,  PARCO`s Effluent Treatment Plant has a capacity of 340m3/hr. Waste  An electronic Incident Reporting System has since been functioning in  Heaters and Boilers are the major sources of energy utilization and refinery PARCO has the capability of producing High Speed Diesel conforming water from the refinery is collected and through skimming, PARCO. The system went company-wide improvements in 2012-13. The plant. PARCO has taken following steps for Energy Conservation and Energy EURO II standards and is the only refinery in Pakistan to have achieved neutralization, dissolved air floatation, aeration, clarification, filtration objective of the upgrade is to encourage incident reporting and provide a Efficiency: this capability. This product is helping EURO II compliant automobiles to and drying operations, the effluent water is brought within NEQs limits more transparent and user friendly system, where all employees can  Heaters perform better by being fuel efficient and giving low emissions. All before discharge into local drainage or reuse for plants. benefit from the lessons learned. Employees are now able to track incident 1. Efficient heaters are being operated at above 85% efficiency impacts on the community, flora and fauna identified in the reported and investigation down to meticulous detail and this has become 2. Regular heater efficiency monitoring program Environmental Impact Assessment study for the DHDS project had  During the year 2013, effluent water treated was 1,554,000 m3 at 180 a valuable learning experience. 3. Access air monitoring on daily basis mitigation strategies which were implemented with meticulous care. m3/hr. 4. Heater efficiency monitoring on monthly basis 5. To save energy and environment we have dual fire system heater  During 2013, the DHDS plant at PARCO has processed more than 1.76 operated on furnace oil and fuel gas million metric tons of High Speed Diesel on EURO II specifications.  Boilers 1. Boilers are operated at highest efficiency above 90% 2. Boilers are annually inspected and certified by government agencies  Heat Exchangers 1. All heat exchangers are monitored for their efficiency and energy consumption on daily basis and corrective actions are taken to maintain the highest level of efficiency 2. Proper schedule for equipment inspection and maintenance 3. Dismantling and overhauling of all equipment in turnaround to maintain efficiency  PARCO Mid Country Refinery has presented its systems for international benchmarking by a consultant from USA in March 2013 for key performance indicators: 1. Manpower utilization Effluent Treatment Plant at PARCO Mid-Country Refinery 2. Energy Index 3. Operation efficiency The Automated Incident Reporting System (IRS)  Standard specification power driven motors are used to achieve highest level of efficiency and low energy losses.  Updated reports of IRS showing outstanding/unclosed incidents are reported to the Managing Director and Senior Management so that there is  Carbon dioxide emission monitoring is carried out on monthly basis and data is increased focus to close out such incidents and for taking suitable recorded. countermeasures to avoid recurrence.  PARCO has successfully commissioned Incinerator Plant for Asphalt Air Blowing Unit (ABBU) for complete combustion of flue gases. The off-gas arising during the  During 2013, 154 Incidents Reports were raised as compared to 163 last year process is collected in the vapor space at the top of the reactor. Then the off-gas of which 124 i.e. 80.5% have been closed-out successfully with will be led to the incinerator to burn the residual hydrocarbons at temperature of recommendations for improvements, while investigation for 30 IRS raised 850⁰C. The incinerator shall completely burn the off-gas stream coming from the have been completed and are currently being scrutinized. reactor. All the emissions were monitored by EPA approved third party to ensure Diesel Hydro-Desulphurization Pant at PARCO Mid-Country legal compliance of National Environmental Quality Standards. Refinery for producing EURO II Spec. Diesel.  PARCO Mid-Country Refinery has successfully commissioned environment friendly solar energy weather station. This new facility has provided metrological information. The environmental information is being helpful in managing emergency situation in case of toxic gas release and quick emergency response. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 15 of 17) ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Our Commitment PARCO does not allow any form of corruption and monitors its business transactions with internal and external stakeholders to eliminate this malpractice. Management Systems All Corporate Functions Actions Corporate Governance Transactions with Suppliers, Contractors, Service Providers Elimination of Discrimination Results  Compliance with Statement of Ethics and Business Practices is pursued at all levels and locations.  In PARCO`s 40 years of operations there has been no instance of extortion or bribery.  Elimination of discrimination during selection of Vendors/Contactors/Service Providers by check and balances against introduction of discriminatory conditions.  All funds, assets, receipts and disbursements are properly recorded in the Books of the Company.  Suppliers/Service providers are required to sign integrity pact with PARCO where the amount of contract is Rs 10 million or above, to declare that the supplier/service provider has not used any  Pre-qualified Vendors/Contractors list is periodically updated through advertisements placed in  Compliance with regulations of the Security & Exchange Commission of Pakistan. external or internal influence, commission or fee in getting the contract from PARCO. newspapers and evaluations based on predetermined criteria.  Purchase orders exceeding Rs 10 million issued include a clause which states that the supplier with the  Compliance with the Company’s Financial Authority Manual specifying fiscal limits for transactions  Contracts/Supplies in excess of Rs 50 million are approved by a Bid Evaluation Committee of Board of acceptance of purchase order shall submit a statement, duly signed by an authorized executive of the supplier at various levels and positions. Directors while Contracts in excess of Rs 100 million are approved by the Board of Directors. on Rs 100 stamp paper that the supplier has not given or agreed to any individual, company or official of PARCO or Government of Pakistan within or outside Pakistan, directly or indirectly any commission,  Company Procurement Policy is approved by Board of Directors.  No discrimination is made on basis of gender, religion, caste, origin, etc., while hiring an employee. gratification, bribe, finder’s fee, or kick back with the objective of obtaining the contract/purchase order or any HR policies are transparent and merit based where there are no influences or pressures as mentioned other benefit from PARCO.  Any form of extortion and bribery, given or taken, is a very serious misconduct according to the HR in Principle 6. Policy of the company and the concerned employee is liable to be terminated for such  PARCO employees, if found involved in corruption in any form or contravening with any Company Policy on misconduct. Ethics, Finance, Procurement, HR, Operations or any other function, face disciplinary action. Such deviations can lead to termination of service and are reflected in the employee`s performance appraisal.  PARCO has an Internal Audit Department which conducts periodical audits for procedural  PARCO has IMS, HSE, Environment, CSR, Financial, HR and other audits done to ensure compliance with best compliance and reports directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. practices and ethical standards.  Constitution of separate committees for transparent and merit-based prequalification, quotations  PARCO has NEVER been involved in any court case related to corporate malpractices or corruption or bribery, opening, tender opening, etc. etc.  Development of Annual Procurement Plan and plans for contractual work and services by external  We adhere strictly to the internationally accepted Accounting Principles, SECP (Securities and Exchange Service Providers which are pre-approved by the Company and subsequently monitored in Commission of Pakistan); the Country’s Financial/Tax/Labor/Environment and other national and provincial monthly and quarterly management review meetings. legislations.  All contracts, business activities, operations, procurement, etc., are subject to Internal and  PARCO developed and implemented a comprehensive Business Continuity Management Plan (BCP). The scope External Audit. of the document is to have risk assessment of core business areas, identification of contingencies that can lead to loss of business reputation, credibility, a companywide or a national crisis and resources that need to be  To ensure transparency, sealed bids are invited against request for quotations, except for mobilized for business continuity while establishing the structure, responsibilities and communication proprietary items. necessary for crisis management. Business Continuity Management is a holistic process that a framework for building organizational resilience with the capability for an effective response. It safeguards the interests of key  Purchase Orders are issued to technically compliant commercially lowest bidders for procurement. stakeholders, reputation, brand and value-creating activities. An Internal Evaluation Committee (IEC) has been formed to evaluate proposals for orders of Rs 1 million and above.  BCP is a documented collection of procedures and information that is developed, compiled and maintained in readiness for use in an incident and enables PARCO to continue to deliver its critical products and services.  Centralized Procurement with due diligence.  At PARCO, transparency in all our operations and management systems is considered top priority and ensured  PARCO is not allowed to commit any terms and conditions with any Supplier/Service Provider at all levels. against any law of Pakistan.  Payment to any Supplier/Service Provider/Contractor is made after proper inspection by the concerned Department and confirmation of acceptance.  The IMS department at PARCO takes periodical feedbacks from different vendors on PARCO’s performance and their treatment. Vendor’s grievances are heard and dealt with due care. www.parco.com.pk PARCO UNGC-COP 2014(Page 17 of 17) Corporate Headquarters Korangi Creek Road, P.O. Box 12243, Karachi-75190, Pakistan UAN: (021) 111-392-567 Tel: 021-35090100-25 Fax: 021-35090625 Email: msaadhusain@parco.com.pk Designed and Developed by PARCO Corporate Communications Team Web: www.parco.com.pk For further information/queries, please email at salmanzakir@parco.com.pk
