AVINOR’S COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction by Avinor CEO Dag Falk-Petersen page 5 About Avinor page 6 Priorities page 7 Avinor’s role in society page 9 Ensure good aviation services for all of Norway Analysis of how aviation benefits society Northern area strategy Safety Reliability Accessibility Ambulance flights and patient trips Investing to increase capacity Avinor shall be a driving force in the work on climate change and environmental challenges in aviation page 11 Greenhouse gas emissions Aircraft and helicopter noise Effluents to water and soil Energy Landscapes and biodiversity Consumption of products and materials Waste Air quality Cultural monuments and cultural environments Avinor shall be a professional and good employer page 19 Cooperation Training and education Recruiting for greater diversity Decline in violations of working hour’s rules Preventive HSE and sick leave work Avinor as sponsor page 22 Avinor will ensure responsible business conduct page 23 Ethics and anti-corruption Procurement Key figures page 25 This Communication on Progress has been prepared in accordance to the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines (G4/Core). 2 READ MORE ABOUT AVINOR: ANNUAL AND QUARTERLY REPORTS AVINOR’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE NATIONAL Avinor’s annual report consists of the directors’ report, TRANSPORT PLAN 2014-2023 financial statements with notes, information on The Government issues a report to the Storting corporate governance, declarations from the board every four years, covering details regarding Norway’s and CEO, including the external auditor’s report. transport sector. Aviation infrastructure is also addressed in the report, www.ntp.dep.no. Financial reports are also prepared and published on a quarterly basis, showing the key figures and AVINORPULS accounts, including a brief statement on finances. Avinorpuls is Avinor’s in-house magazine, covering Avinor’s annual and quarterly reports are available on topics ranging from Avinor’s own activities to general www.avinor.no. aviation issues. Subscriptions are open to everyone. ARTICLE 10 PLAN VISJON: Avinor creates valuable relationships Article 10 of Avinor’s statutes state that the board shall prepare a report each year on the company’s MISSION: Avinor shall develop and operate a safe, overall activities, including plans for the future. efficient and sustainable aviation system This document is called the Article 10 Plan, and it is throughout Norway. submitted to Avinor’s owner, the Ministry of Transport and Communications. At least every fourth year, VALUES: Open – Responsible – Dynamic – Avinor’s Article 10 Plan forms the basis for a report Customer-orientedt to Norway’s parliament, the Storting, on Avinors activities. 4 INTRODUCTION I am pleased to confirm that the Avinor group reaffirms has been successful in significantly reducing the amount its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations of CO2 per passenger, but the strong growth in both Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, business and recreational travel has, nevertheless, led Environment and Anti-Corruption. to increased emissions overall. Avinor, along with the rest of the industry, is determined to reduce overall In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe emissions. The airlines’ commitments to new and our actions to continually improve the integration of modern aircraft that use considerably less fuel, along the Global Compact and its principles into our business with the development of climate-friendly bio-fuel, are key strategy, culture and daily operations. Avinor became measures in this work. member of Global Compact late in 2013 and 2014 will be the first full year as a member. Inside the company we Adaptation to climate change is also high on Avinor’s discussed our role as participant as well as how we can agenda. We have implemented significant improvements become a leading example for our stakeholders as well at a number of airports to prepare the enterprise for a as our employees. We commit to share this information wilder, warmer and wetter climate. with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Biodiversity at all of Avinor’s airports was mapped in a comprehensive project carried out from 2008-2013. Avinor was established to ensure access to good aviation This survey provides thorough documentation of these services throughout Norway. The services we provide natural assets. It forms the basis for avoiding activity for Norwegian society are carried out with respect in valuable areas, as well as for minimising negative for people, the environment and the community. In effects in areas where we cannot avoid intervention. The 2013, Avinor’s board adopted a strategy for corporate survey also provides advice on how rare biotopes and social responsibility CSR. The OECD’s guidelines for threatened species can be preserved and, in some cases, responsible business conduct underlie this strategy even achieve better conditions, in and around and Avinor has joined the UN Global Compact. This the airports. report provides a broad account of how Avinor benefits and serves the greater community, as well as how the Systematic work is being done to further develop corporation handles its responsibility issues. The report the working environment and individual expertise has been prepared in accordance with the principles of in Avinor. Avinor recruits the desired expertise, but the Global Reporting Initiative (G4). Avinor´s employees remain a relatively homogeneous demographic group. For this reason, Avinor is working In aviation, safety work is a continuous process on a diversity strategy, scheduled for completion in 2014. where new challenges are met with new measures. This strategy will examine which concrete measures Avinor maintains a high level of safety, founded on can be initiated to promote diversity. There is good and comprehensive national and international regulations. constructive cooperation between management and Aviation safety is key in Avinor’s investment policy. employee representatives in Avinor. Systematic work is constantly under way to improve the Major construction projects are a constant feature of airports’ environmental results. One of the important Avinor’s daily operations, and such projects pose the goals in Avinor’s business strategy for 2014 – 2020 is that risk of social dumping, undeclared labour and outright the company will be a driving force in the climate change criminal behaviour. Avinor is working systematically and environmental work in Norwegian aviation. to minimise this risk. A good example from 2013 is the exposure of social dumping at a construction site at Oslo One of our central tasks is to minimise emissions of Airport. Good routines and cooperation with the trade greenhouse gases and chemicals, as well as to minimise unions led to the disclosure of the conditions, so that the noise impact from aviation. The aviation industry necessary steps could be initiated. Dag Falk-Petersen, CEO Avinor AS 5 ABOUT AVINOR Avinor is a wholly-owned state limited company under Avinor is self-financed. Airport operations are managed the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Avinor as a single unit, in which financially profitable airports is responsible for the 46 state-owned airports and for finance the financially unprofitable airports. The primary air navigation services for civil and military aviation. sources of income are fees collected from the airlines and Avinor had 3,156 permanent employees in 2013. The passengers, as well as commercial revenue from rental of headquarters is in Oslo. Avinor operates 12 airports in space to tax-free shops, cafes and restaurants and other cooperation with the Norwegian Armed forces. Contact services for passengers. Avinor also receives income from with the Ministry is formalised in owner meetings, airport hotels and parking facilities1. and each year Avinor submits a plan for the company’s activities to the Ministry (Article 10 plan). Oslo Airport is the hub for Norwegian air traffic. Nearly half of all flights take place to or from Oslo Airport, and In addition to the airports, Avinor operates control this airport alone accounts for nearly 50 per cent of the towers, control centres and other technical infrastructure Group’s income. for safe air navigation. As from 1 June 2014, the air navigation services are organised in a subsidiary which is wholly-owned by Avinor. 2013 2012 2011 Number of passengers 48 330 000 46 357 000 44 278 000 Number of aircraft movements 831 000 814 000 794 000 Freight to/from Norway 74 508 70 773 63 803 1 Read more about Avinor and financial results in the Annual Report for 2013 6 PRIORITIES Avinor is an enterprise that affects the entire country further develop the cooperation model between emand its population. Broad, good contact with those who ployee representatives and management to ensure good depend on our services, or are affected by our operations, working conditions, stable operations and cost-effecis essential if we are to carry out our assignment well, tiveness throughout the Group. Avinor’s employees are and choose the right priorities. Avinor therefore conducts represented on Avinor’s board of representatives, holding regular meetings with stakeholders, and the Group’s plan four of ten seats. Representatives are also elected by and for dialogue with key stakeholders is renewed annually. among the employees to the boards of the various Avinor subsidiaries. The airlines are our most key stakeholders, along with politicians and the business community at the central, Using Avinor’s strategy and stakeholder dialogue as a regional and local levels, the Armed Forces, as well as regpoint of departure, four topic areas have been identified ulatory authorities within aviation and the environment. as key for Avinor’s corporate social responsibility prioriImportant topics for these stakeholders include finances, ties: capacity, reliability and handling of environmental and climate change issues. • Ensure good aviation services for all of Norway • Be a driving force in the work on climate change and Avinor also has regular, but informal contact with various environmental challenges for the aviation industry special interest organisations (NGOs). The topics raised • Be a good, professional employer include environmental and climate issues, universal • Ensure responsible business conduct design and accessibility at the airports. Customer surveys are also conducted on a regular basis. Important issues for travellers include reliability, capacity and airport Avinor does not have a dedicated staff to handle corposervices. rate social responsibility issues. The strategy director is The employee representatives are important partners in responsible for this report, and the work on the respecthe effort to realise the Group’s objectives. In 2013, Avinor tive topics takes place in the line. The environment and enjoyed good cooperation with the employee representaclimate area is organised in a separate environment tives, both as regards daily operations and comprehensection. sive change processes. Nevertheless, our objective is to 7 AVINOR’S ROLE IN SOCIETY ENSURE GOOD AVIATION SERVICES FOR ALL OF with the authorities, businesses and education NORWAY institutions. Avinor expects to invest between NOK 8-13 According to Avinor´s statutes, the company’s role in billion in Northern Norway up to 2040. society is – “to own, operate and develop a national network of airports for the civilian sector and joint air Scenarios for the Northern Areas moving towards 2040: navigation services for the civilian and military sectors. • Oil and gas, tourism, aquaculture and mineral The company’s operations shall be carried out in a safe, production are all growth sectors efficient and environmentally-friendly manner and • The population in Northern Norway will grow by ensure good availability for all groups of travellers.” 10 per cent • Air traffic will double, from 6 to 12 million passengers Norway is a country with challenging topography and vast distances, and Norwegian businesses are oriented SAFETY to international markets. These businesses are entirely Avinor maintains very high safety. The basis for this reliant on aviation. Aviation is also crucial for settlement, safety work is a comprehensive set of national and travel, the public health service, education, sports and international regulations. Safety work is a continuous culture. process where new challenges must be met with new measures. Aviation safety is a key element in Avinor’s Analysis of how aviation benefits society investment policy, and priority is assigned to the Avinor needs additional facts about what aviation means measures that yield the best safety benefit compared for Norway in order to ensure that the corporation with use of resources. Avinor has an active safety culture develops in the direction needed by society. Publication based on transfer of experience, audits, surveys and of a report designed to quantify the ripple effects of analyses. Avinor’s airports on local communities and regions is slated for September 2014. The Institute of Transport A project was initiated in 2011 – the SMART project – Economics, Møreforskning and the University of with the objective of improving management from the Nordland are contributing to this study. strategic to the operative level. Among other things, the individual employee’s roles, responsibilities and work So far, interim studies have been made to map what the tasks will become clearer. Work has proceeded full force airport means for the business community in Bergen, on this project in 2013 and it will be concluded during Stavanger and Trondheim: the first half of 2015. A new process and new tools for handling nonconformities will be implemented in early Bergen Stavanger Trondheim 2015 to bolster Avinor’s ability to carry out proactive and “Flight availability safety-focused management. is crucial for business” 86 % 86 % 75 % New requirements for security checks are introduced at the airports at pace with new threats and incidents. “Travel needs will Some of the measures are controversial, and have increase for our been met with fundamental questions as to individual business” 68 % 70 % 60 % personal integrity. A number of aviation players have therefore taken the initiative for the “Better security” project, a brainstorming effort to develop a new security Northern area strategy check regime. Avinor is participating in this work. • Long distances and major challenges for land-based transport make aviation more important in Northern Results 2013: Norway than in any other region. Twenty-eight of There were no aviation accidents involving personal Avinor’s airports are located in the country’s three injury in Norwegian aviation in 2013 where Avinor was northernmost counties. In order to achieve greater an active participant. insight into Northern Norway’s unique challenges and opportunities, and to ensure that Avinor’s services help There was one serious aviation incident where Avinor address the region’s transport needs in the best way contributed to the cause. possible, Avinor has developed a Northern Area Strategy2. This strategy has been developed in close cooperation 2 Available on www.avinor.no 9 RELIABILITY of Avinor’s smaller airports. Testing of new lifting and Ensuring that air traffic goes according to plan is hoisting gear is therefore ongoing. important for everyone. Avinor’s on-time target3 is 88 per cent, and the regularity4 target is 98 per cent. Regularity The assistance service helps passengers with reduced was in line with the objective in 2013, which has been the mobility. Avinor conducts approx. 150,000 assistance case in recent years. assignments per year, from arrival at the airport until the passenger is on board the aircraft. Punctuality fell to 85.7 per cent in 2013, compared with 87 per cent in 2012. The share of delays attributable to the AMBULANCE FLIGHTS AND PATIENT TRIPS WITH airline and handling companies rose from 66 per cent in SCHEDULED FLIGHT 2012 to 72 per cent in 2013. To ensure emergency medical transport, Avinor’s has a duty to maintain the airports in a state of readiness Winter poses challenges for air traffic in Norway and for ambulance planes and helicopters, also outside of Avinor’s goal is to be the world leader in winter operation normal opening hours. Airports in Northern Norway of airports. Every year, all of Avinor’s airports submit comprise about two-thirds of all ambulance traffic a winter maintenance plan, developed in cooperation in Norway. The ambulance traffic has nearly doubled with the airlines. The plans are evaluated following each during the course of the last 10 years. In 2013, more than winter season, with a focus on improvement items. 22,000 movements of ambulance aircraft took place at the airports in Northern Norway. In addition, there were ACCESSIBILITY 323,000 patient trips with scheduled flights at Norwegian Air transport must be accessible for everyone who airports in 2013. needs it. In 2013, the Ministry of Transport and Communications introduced a new set of regulations INVESTING TO INCREASE CAPACITY5 for universal accessibility at Norwegian airports. Avinor The importance of air traffic for society is consistently cooperates with several organisations for the physically rising. That is why Avinor prioritises investments in challenged to obtain input on measures that can improve measures to boost capacity at a number of airports. Some accessibility. examples are the terminal expansion at Oslo Airport, new terminal at Bergen Airport, new terminal at Trondheim New construction and modifications at the airports are airport, as well as measures to augment capacity at both based on universal accessibility. The new terminal at Oslo the Stavanger and Kristiansand airports. Airport will safeguard universal accessibility throughout all aspects of the buildings and installations. In connection with the Ministry of Transport and Communication’s work on the new National Transport Avinor’s airports will, however, continue to vary in terms Plan (2018 – 2027), Avinor has been asked to examine the of standard. For example, jetways between the terminal need for a third runway at Oslo Airport and the future and the aircraft will not be an option for the vast majority airport structure in Norway. • 323,000 patient trips with scheduled flights • In addition to Avinor’s 3,156 employees, 60,000 – 65,000 people are employed in airport-related • 22,000 aircraft movements with air ambulances positions in other enterprises • Two of three Norwegians have access to an airport within a one-hour radius • 300 direct connections to international destinations from Avinor’s airports, via charter and scheduled • 99.5% of the population can travel by plane to Oslo, flights round-trip same day • More than 35% of all tourists come to Norway by plane 3 Punctuality – Departures with delays less than 15 minutes 4 Regularity – Planned departures that are actually executed 5 Read more about Avinor’s investments in the Annual Report for 2013 and the Article 10 plan 10 AVINOR SHALL BE A DRIVING FORCE IN THE WORK ON CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES IN AVIATION År International Domestic Bunkers 2008 1 119 000 1 048 245 2 167 245 2009 1 101 000 1 081 782 2 182 782 2010 1 269 000 1 099 624 2 368 624 2011 1 181 000 1 212 676 2 393 676 2012 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 1 246 000 1 240 334 2 486 334 The airlines are continuing work on energy efficiency Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions goal for the 2012-2015 and fleet renewal. period is to reduce total greenhouse gas emissions which SAS and Norwegian now have almost exclusively the the corporation controls, regardless of traffic growth, latest generation aircraft in their fleets. For example, the as well as to be a driver in the work to reduce overall new Boeing 737 planes consume around 30 per cent less Klimagassutslipp sivil utenriks og innenriks greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian aviation. fuel per seat than the previous generation of aircraft. luAfart 2008-­‐2012 Starting from 2016, the A320 NEO and Boeing 737-Max aircraft will be phased in in. This will yield a further 1,400,000 CO2 equivalents (tonnes) 1,200,000 reduction of around 15 per cent. 1,000,000 800,000 More efficient airspace along with optimisation of 600,000 400,000 arrival and departure routes are important measures 200,000 where Avinor has a considerable opportunity to make an 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 impact. Improved navigational capability can yield more Interna2onal 1,119,000 1,101,000 1,269,000 1,181,000 1,246,000 precise and tailored approach and departure procedures. Domes2c 1,048,245 1,081,782 1,099,624 1,212,676 1,240,334 Test flights are being conducted at Oslo Airport in 2013 Figure: Greenhouse gas emissions civil domestic and confirming the possibility of reduced noise loads, shorter international aviation approach routes and reduced greenhouse gas emissions. A new airspace structure s will be implemented in Southern Norway in November 20148. This change will According to Statistics Norway (SSB), greenhouse encompass new approach and departure routes at 15 gas emissions from all civil domestic aviation in 2012 airports. The objective is to improve safety, ensure future amounted to 2.3 per cent6 of overall domestic emissions capacity, reduce environmental impact and standardize (1.24 of 51.7 million tonnes). These emissions are covered and streamline delivery of air navigation services. under the Kyoto Protocol. Greenhouse gas emissions from international traffic, i.e. from Norwegian airports to Avinor has allocated up to NOK 100 million over the first destination abroad, totalled 1.25 million tonnes a ten-year period for initiatives and projects that of CO2 equivalents. Total greenhouse gas emissions can contribute to the realisation Norwegian biofuel from all jet fuel for civil applications sold at Norwegian production. airports in 2012 thus amounts to around 2.5 million Along with the airlines and NHO Luftfart, Avinor tonnes of CO2 equivalents, which represent an increase, has explored opportunities to establish large-scale compared with 2011. production of biofuels for aviation, based on biomass from Norwegian forests. The conclusion is that this can The growth in air traffic will entail increased greenhouse be realised from 2020-2025. The initiative will be able gas emissions if measures are not initiated. Therefore, to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian Avinor has cooperated with the airlines and the aircraft and helicopter traffic by between 10 and 45 per Federation of Norwegian Aviation Industries (NHO cent, depending on how much biomass from the forest Luftfart) since 2007 to facilitate reduced greenhouse industry is used for the purpose. A partnership has been gas emissions. Two reports7 outline emission-reducing formed with Viken Skog in view of a possible plant at measures and compare the effect of these measures with Follum, and Avinor has close ties with other industry the expected development in traffic. According to the players. projections, greenhouse gas emissions from domestic air traffic could be less in 2025 than in 2007, despite Allowances and carbon taxes significant growth in traffic. Emissions will probably rise As one of the few countries in the world, Norway in international traffic. has introduced a carbon tax on domestic flights. Furthermore, aviation is encompassed by the European The most important emission-reducing measures are Emissions Trading System (EU ETS), under which airlines linked to fleet renewal, efficient airspace and bio-fuel: also have to buy emission allowances for emissions from flights within the EU/EEA. 6 2013 figures will be released in February 2015 7 See www.avinor.no/avinor/miljo 8 Southern Norway Airspace Project SNAP 11 AVINOR’S ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Avinor shall be a driving force in environmental work • Avinor seeks solutions to environmental challenges in aviation and actively contribute to the improvement through collaboration with research and development of the industry’s overall environmental performance. institutions, authorities and other organisations. Environmental considerations are crucial for the sustainable development of Avinor’s activities. Avinor is committed to: • Identifying GHG emissions from airport operations and Principles for environmental work: working to reduce GHG emissions both in the air and • Avinor complies with laws, regulations and regulatory on the ground. requirements and will in some areas seek opportunities • Seeking to reduce the noise impact of civil aircraft and to exceed requirements. helicopter traffic as well as conducting regular noise • Avinor’s management system is adapted to ISO14001, mapping at all airports and recording the flight paths ensuring coordination, control and monitoring of used at the major airports. environmental activities. • Having a risk-based approach, where Avinor minimises • Avinor ensures a high level of environmental the use of and prevents release of chemicals to ensure awareness and expertise. Roles and responsibilities that water and soil are not contaminated. for strategic and operational environmental work • Choosing products and materials with a view to are clearly defined centrally, in air navigation services minimising their environmental impact from a lifecycle and at the airports. Together we will create continuous perspective. improvement, minimise pollution and avoid negative impact on the environment. • Increasing energy efficiency in operations and seeking a transition to renewable energy solutions. • Avinor emphasises and integrates environmental considerations early in planning, projects and • Minimising waste and optimising the percentage of procurement. Development projects are implemented source-separated waste. with a strong environmental focus. • Avinor engages in open, constructive and proactive dialogue with partners, local communities, authorities, aviation organisations and other stakeholders. AVINOR’S ENVIRONMENTAL TARGETS • Emission of greenhouse gases • Consumption of products and materials Avinor shall reduce total GHG emissions under its own Avinor shall choose products and materials with control in the period 2012-2015, regardless of traffic the least possible impact on the environment from a growth, and be a driving force in reducing overall GHG lifecycle perspective. emissions from Norwegian aviation. • Waste • Aircraft noise Avinor shall achieve a source separation rate of 60 per In this period, there shall be no increase in the number cent. of residents exposed to outdoor noise levels from • Energy consumption aircraft and helicopters exceeding Lden 60 dB and Avinor’s total energy consumption in buildings shall Lnight 55 dB. be cut by 25 per cent in 2015 compared with energy • Effluents to water and soil consumption in 2010. Avinor shall not violate discharge permits. 12 Transport to and from the airport Greenhouse gas emissions from Avinor’s airport In cooperation with transport operators and authorities, operations are highly dependent on the weather. Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger airports aim Precipitation and temperature affect emissions from to increase their public transport shares in the ground heating of buildings, de-icing and snow removal. transport link in the period up to 2020. Energy efficiency, choice of energy sources in buildings, collection of aircraft de-icing fluid and renewal of Avinor’s large fleet of vehicles are the main carbon Public transport share reduction measures. The introduction of sustainable bioenergy will become a very important reduction Airport OSL Bergen Trondheim Stavanger measure in the future. Status 2009 64% 27% 42% 14% Status 2013 67% 36% 45% 18% Adapting to climate change Goal 2020 70% 40% 60% 30% Due to large greenhouse gas emissions in the past, the global mean temperature will continue to rise even with massive cuts in future emissions. This will lead Greenhouse gas emissions from own operations to climate change on the entire planet. Norway can Avinor prepares annual greenhouse gas inventories expect a warmer, wilder and wetter climate, albeit with in accordance with the methodology in the GHG considerable regional and local variations. Climate model Protocol. Emissions from its own operations are offset projections indicating that our climate may change by purchases of UN-approved emission allowances. Oslo significantly from about year 2040 have ramifications for Airport, Trondheim Airport, Værnes, and Kristiansand current investments in infrastructure. Since 2001, Avinor Airport, Kjevik, are also certified by Airport Carbon and the other national transport administrations (the Accreditation (ACA), a voluntary carbon management Norwegian Public Roads Administration, the Norwegian programme for airports that entails preparation of a Coastal Administration and the Norwegian National Rail detailed carbon audit, action plans and binding targets Administration) have taken this into account in their for emission reductions. More Avinor airports will work on the National Transport Plan (NTP). In addition, participate in the ACA scheme over the next few years. Avinor has conducted its own risk and vulnerability Bergen Airport, Flesland joined spring 2014. analyses. The basis for Avinor’s greenhouse gas inventories are A number of measures to reduce climate vulnerability activities within the Group’s organisation and activities have been implemented, including the establishment that the Group manages, even if they are carried out of new design criteria for critical infrastructure. Avinor by other enterprises (e.g. outsourcing of airside winter will continue this work. The airspace and runways are maintenance at OSL and renting of fire training sites). continuously monitored from control centres, the tower No greenhouse gases other than CO2 have been surveyed at the airport and by friction measurements. The airports so far, but there is ongoing mapping of cooling systems may be closed for shorter or longer periods if weather in buildings, with a view to including other greenhouse and road conditions make it necessary. The likelihood gases. Avinor does not have reliable figures for non-fossil of harm to human life and health as a result of changing CO2 emissions from bio-based district heating. Such climatic conditions is believed to be very limited. information will, however, be obtained from reporting suppliers starting in 2014. AIRCRAFT AND HELICOPTER NOISE FAircraft and helicopter noise is perceived as more troublesome than other traffic noise with the same level. Aircraft noise events are single occurrences, often plotted Avinor-owned vehicles against a calm background level. Due to the noise source Electricity Employee commuting originating high above the ground, these events can Business travel be relatively lengthy. One cannot shield outdoor areas Aircraft de-icing chemicals against aircraft noise, and buildings do not have a “quiet Runway de-icing chemicals side”. Aircraft noise is also more unpredictable than other Thermal energy Waste transportation traffic. As runway use and flight paths are controlled Fire training site by wind direction, aircraft noise may be absent one day and significant on the next. The regulations for noise mapping are therefore stricter for air travel than for other traffic. Figure: Avinor’s greenhouse gas emissions (tonnes CO2) 13 The authorities’ goal is to reduce the overall national their land use planning. The overall aircraft noise around noise impact by 10 per cent by 2020 compared with 1999. an airport depends on aircraft types, traffic volume, Aviation’s contribution to the overall national noise runway use, choice of flight path and distribution of disturbance index is about seven per cent, and less than traffic throughout the day. In addition to mapping noise, two per cent of the population lives in an area where Avinor’s main tools are traffic control and adjustment outdoor aircraft noise on average is higher than 50 dBA. of approach and departure procedures. Oslo Airport has People who are subjected to higher levels than this are tested new satellite-based navigation technology, and characterised as aircraft noise-exposed. Since 1999, the calculations have confirmed the significantly reduced number of aircraft noise-exposed remained relatively noise. The ability to limit noise levels during approaches constant despite the strong growth in traffic, mainly due and departures is a factor in planning the new airspace to reduced noise from newer aircraft engines. organisation for large parts of Southern Norway. Aircraft and helicopter noise is one of Avinor’s main The introduction of Sikorsky S92 helicopters for offshore external environment action areas because it is an transport has caused a significant increase in aircraft important issue in the local communities. Under the noise impact at some airports and may impede the Group’s environmental policy, Avinor is committed to Group’s achievement of its goals. The change has “Seeking to reduce the noise impact of civil aircraft and triggered noise mitigation measures for several homes helicopter traffic as well as conducting regular noise near the Stavanger and Bergen airports, and five homes mapping at all airports and recording the flight paths in Bergen were noise-isolated in 2013. Avinor took the used at the major airports.” The goal is that “the number initiative to establish a national helicopter noise range in of residents exposed to outdoor noise levels from aircraft 2012, and worked actively on the issue in 2013. and helicopters exceeding Lden 60 dB and Lnight 55 dB9 should not increase in the period 2012-2015.” In 2013, Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger and Trondheim airports worked on local noise abatement action plans based on The most important tool for preventing increased aircraft noise surveys conducted in 2012. noise exposure in residential areas is good noise zone maps. Municipalities are obliged to use these maps in 9 Lden = an A-weighted equivalent noise level for day-evening-night with a 5dB/10 dB penalty for evening-night. The Lden level is calculated as the average noise level over one year. Lnight = an A-weighted equivalent level for an 8-hour night period from 2300 to 0700. EFFLUENTS TO WATER AND SOIL the Group’s old and new (active) fire training sites. It was The risk of water and soil contamination at airports is revealed that the ground was contaminated with PFOS, primarily related to aircraft de-icing, runway de-icing, fire a fluorine-containing compound that has previously drills and risk of fuel leaks. been used as an additive in fire-fighting foam. PFOS does not degrade in nature, and can be spread from Avinor has prepared a vulnerability classification of its soil to water and/or living organisms, thus becoming airports, which reveals which airports have the most concentrated through the food chain. Avinor phased out fragile natural environment in their vicinities. Those the use of PFOS-containing fire-fighting foams in 2001, with the most vulnerable natural areas have the most before the substances were banned in Norway in 2007. In stringent protection measures. 2013, Avinor continued mapping and monitoring PFOS contamination in soil, water and living organisms. The The results of environmental monitoring are reviewed risk to human health and ecosystems due to pollution annually and monitoring programmes are revised on an in fire training areas is being assessed based on the ongoing basis. Continuous environmental monitoring results of these surveys. This work is expected to be also shows the effect of the implemented measures. completed in 2014. Avinor wants to take responsibility and implement appropriate measures should the risk Discharge permits assessments show that action is necessary. Except All of Avinor’s airports have valid discharge permits that for laboratory and pilot scale experiments, there is regulate and stipulate requirements for the maximum little experience with full-scale treatment of PFOSuse of chemicals for fire training, and aircraft and contaminated areas. Avinor is in dialogue with the runway de-icing. The permits also require emergency Norwegian Environment Agency in connection with the preparedness in case of acute spills and environmental matter. risk assessments to identify potential sources of pollution accidents and possible damage to the external At Oslo Airport, a treatment plant was established at environment. The discharge permits apply to the entire a hangar in 2013 to process PFOS contamination in area within the airport boundaries with the exception groundwater and further examinations and studies of of military property. Under Norway’s Internal Control water and soil contamination-related measures were Regulations, Avinor is responsible for ensuring that carried out at the fire training area. all parties operating at the airports fulfil the general terms of the current environmental regulations. The Other sub-projects have dealt with tank farms, oil risk analyses carried out by Avinor identified a need for separators, water and sewer systems, aircraft derisk-reducing measures in connection with the activities icing, recipient analysis and monitoring, as well as of these parties as well. environmental emergency preparedness. In 2013, Oslo Airport had seven violations of the De-icing of aircraft and runway systems discharge permit for groundwater and one violation for For safety reasons, snow and ice are removed from waterways. During the 2012-2013 season, consumption of the aircraft before take-off and runways and taxiways de-icing chemicals was exceeded at five of Avinor’s other must be cleaned and have satisfactory friction. If airports. There were no exceedances of the permitted needed, aircraft are de-iced before take-off and runways amounts of de-icing chemicals. and taxiways are cleared, swept and de-iced with chemicals. Aircraft de-icing chemicals contain very The environmental project low concentrations of an additive that is toxic, but The “Environmental Project” was established in 2010 biodegradable. after risk analyses were completed of the external environment at Avinor’s airports in 2008 and 2009. The Toxic additives are not used to de-ice runways and goal of the project is to study and take action at Avinor’s the chemicals have the lowest environmental impact airports to ensure that they are operated in compliance of available runway de-icing chemicals. Runoff with the discharge permits and Pollution Control Act. and diffusion of chemicals from airport grounds The Environmental Project is scheduled for completion can negatively impact the natural environment if in 2015. By that time, technical facilities at the airports consumption exceeds the natural environment’s will have been upgraded, procedures will be updated and degradation capacity. ordinary operation of the facilities will be carried out by operations personnel. One sub-project deals with contaminated soil. Extensive examinations were conducted in 2011 and 2012 at all of 15 Tonnes Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) In December 2013, Trondheim Airport opened Norway’s first airport terminal built according to the strict standards of the international BREEAM10 environmental certification system. The extended domestic terminal features a number of efficient and environmentally friendly choices relating to energy, water systems, ventilation, lighting and materials. Aircraft de-icing Runway de-icing Trondheim Airport has also established an energy efficiency programme with significant Figure: Consumption of de-icing chemicals by Avinor over results. Measures include replacing oil heating the past five winter seasons (tonnes COF). with heat pumps, replacing lighting with LED technology, and upgraded control of lighting, Systems have been established for collecting glycol from ventilation and heating. aircraft de-icing at the larger airports. In 2013, several eco-friendly measures were implemented, including Similarly, Oslo Airport is also extending its a new de-icing platform at Haugesund Airport, and terminal according to the BREEAM Excellent collection systems at Førde and Sogndal airports. With standard, which includes innovative solutions these measures, most of the chemicals will be contained. such as utilising both snow deposits and wastewater as energy sources. Other discharges to water and soil Avinor and other players at airports perform activities Kristiansand Airport’s new energy plant uses a that generate oily wastewater. Sources include fire seawater heat exchanger as a renewable energy training, tank farms, workshops and washing halls. This source. water is routed through oil separators to municipal systems or the recipient. The risk of accidental spills is reviewed at each airport, and training and materials are adapted to the risk scenario. Exercises in handling Since 2010, Avinor has conducted a comprehensive incidents must be carried out at least once a year. energy conservation project with NOK 13 million in funding from Enova. Ten airports have now implemented Maintenance, testing and reporting of environmental efficiency measures, which in 2013 alone amounted conditions for oil separators are regularly monitored. to a total saving of 11 GWh. All these airports have established an energy monitoring system (EMS11). A large ENERGY number of smaller steps have been carried out at other An airport consumes a vast amount of energy, and also airports. affects greenhouse gas emissions. Avinor is committed to energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy A sufficiently extensive network of electricity meters in solutions. Avinor’s objective for the period 2010-2015 is to terminals and rental spaces has not been established reduce energy consumption in buildings by 25 per cent. to date at all airports. Avinor cannot quantify exactly how much energy is consumed by other enterprises, or distinguish between energy for heating and cooling. Total energy consumption varies with seasonal temperatures. Joint Group procedures for evaluating programmes and measuring results will be a key part of Avinor’s climate action plan, which will be adopted in 2014. With the exception of Stavanger Airport, which has its own wood chip heating plant, district heating is supplied by third parties. Energy carriers for these facilities vary from biomass to coal (Svalbard). Mapping of these sources is under way in 2014. 10 BREEAM is the world’s leading design and assessment method for sustainable buildings. A building’s environmental performance is judged on the basis of a number of different criteria and characterised as: PASS, GOOD, VERY GOOD, EXCELLENT or OUTSTANDING. 11 Tool for systematic recording of detailed energy data and monitoring of energy consumption in buildings 16 ENERGY (TJ) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electric power (renewable) 708 757 734 774 799 District heating (partly fossil) 87 101 75 85 93 Groundwater (renewable) 49 48 53 53 58 Oil heating ( fossil) 11 20 15 12 7 Auxiliary power ( fossil diesel) 7 5 6 7 5 Vehicles ( fossil diesel) 89 99 94 93 94 Vehicles ( fossil petrol) 5 4 5 4 3 TOTAL 956 1034 982 1026 1059 LANDSCAPES AND BIODIVERSITY by airport operations. Biological diversity was mapped Many of Avinor’s airports are located by river deltas, river at all airports in a project that ran from 2008 to 2013. banks, shorelines, marshes or similar flat areas which, by Reports for the areas, including maps and management nature, are often biologically rich areas. advice, were continuously posted on Avinor.no and the data will also be entered in the Natur2000 and Naturbase Avinor owns cultural landscapes covers a total area of databases. approximately 1,116 decares. The largest areas include hayfields along the runway at Ålesund and Kjevik Following an approved planning process with the airports and the coastal heath at Haugesund Airport. authorities, interventions were undertaken at the The older airports in particular have important natural airports in Lofoten, Bergen and Ålesund in 2013. The values associated with unfertilised adjacent land. Here, interventions at Leknes, Bergen and Ålesund were indigenous masses of soil seed banks have facilitated required to comply with aviation safety legislation. species-rich flower-covered meadows maintained by Efforts were made to carry out the interventions with the airport. Flower fields were once a common sight in as little impact on the localities as possible, and a the country, but overgrowth and fertilisation have vastly number of compensating and restorative measures were reduced such areas in recent decades. The airports are undertaken. therefore important replacement biotopes for such habitats. Both endangered and rare vascular plants, CONSUMPTION OF PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS fungi, butterflies, beetles and wasps, as well as several Avinor is major purchaser of products and services – bird species, are associated with these areas. procurement totalled about NOK 4 billion in 2013 and can influence the supply industry in many sectors. Habitats in the main group of freshwater lakes and Avinor is also executing major construction projects in wetlands, dominated by calcareous lakes, sea meadows connection with terminal extensions, runway extensions and salt tidal marshes and naturally fish-free lakes, also and other measures carried out by contractors. In 2013, occur relatively frequently (about 500 decares). Dune environmental standards were stipulated in 70 per cent areas, especially at Stavanger Airport, are also important of all procurement processes. Avinor’s goal for 2014 is 90 natural areas, as is calcareous areas in the mountains in per cent. the north. To execute construction projects, Avinor will prepare an Five of Avinor’s airports share borders with protected environmental implementation plan that will safeguard areas, particularly protected wetlands. Ten have very the environment in the planning and construction phase, important or important wildlife areas on their properties, as well as ensure environmental considerations in its and 18 have important wildlife areas (nesting, resting, choice of solutions. This tool has been incorporated into breeding and feeding areas for birds) in their area of the framework of development projects. influence. Six are located by major salmon rivers and salmon fjords. Twenty airports have registered red-listed WASTE (near-threatened and endangered) species on their Airport-related waste is generated in public areas properties. (terminals), by office activities (administration, tenants) and by workshops and garages at the airports. Avinor Avinor seeks to have a good overview of the natural also handles, to varying degrees, waste from other activresources on its land and the areas that may be affected ities at airports (shops, cafes, handling companies, etc.). 17 Avinor wants to minimise waste and optimise the share AIR QUALITY of sorted waste, and aims to achieve a source separation Air quality monitoring is only applicable at Oslo Airport, rate of 60 per cent in 2015. and the measurement results indicate, as in previous years, that the air quality was well within regulatory Avinor has a nationwide waste disposal agreement that requirements. The same is true for all other Norwegian covers the collection, transport and delivery of waste airports, all of which have significantly less traffic than to approved waste facilities and leasing of collection Oslo Airport. equipment. The goal is to provide solutions that are environmentally friendly, economical and practical. Many of the measures that reduce emissions of In 2013, all Avinor airports, with few exceptions, were greenhouse gases also contribute to the improvement of covered by this agreement. Some have also delivered local air quality at airports. waste to other approved waste companies, typically waste from minor construction activity and some On the basis of measurements undertaken at Kastrup, hazardous waste. Contractors are responsible for questions have been raised about whether the outdoor waste management in large construction projects. Oslo air at jetways and aprons at Oslo Airport also contain Airport has its own waste disposal agreement covering particularly high concentrations of ultrafine particles, all operations at the airport. However, waste from the particles with diameters less than 0.1 μm (microns). T2 (Terminal 2) project’s building and construction There are currently no statutory threshold values for activities is reported separately. concentrations of ultrafine particles in outdoor air. Until recently, measurements were difficult to perform, and The Group’s total waste in 2013 amounted to 13,311 knowledge about possible harmful effects is limited. tonnes, an increase of just under 3 per cent compared Avinor has chosen to identify concentrations of ultrafine with 2012. particles at the aprons at Oslo Airport as part of the Group’s follow-up of HSE. Avinor is participating in a 14,000 project under the auspices of the National Institute of 12,000 Occupational Health (STAMI) with financial support 10,000 from the Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise (NHO)’s Waste tonnes 8,000 working environment fund. Measurements conducted 6,000 in 2012 and 2013 showed low concentrations of ultrafine 4,000 particles at Oslo Airport. 2,000 CULTURAL MONUMENTS AND CULTURAL 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 ENVIRONMENTS Oslo Airport Other airports Avinor is one of the major players in Norwegian transport, and a key part of Norway’s aviation culture, Figure: Waste quantities 2009-2013. Tonnes. which dates back to the early 1900s. Avinor has mapped cultural monuments at the airports and prepared a Sorted waste amounted to 7,451 tonnes, while residual land protection plan. The project was supervised by waste totalled 5,887 tonnes. This yields a source experts from the Directorate for Cultural Heritage, separation rate of 56 per cent, a slight decline compared State Historical Properties project and Norwegian with 2012. Steps must be taken to achieve the Group’s Defence Estates Agency. The land protection plan is a goal of 60 per cent separation rate in 2015, measures management plan for cultural heritage properties where must be taken. the primary purpose is to ensure the protection of a representative selection of buildings that document the 70 history of the aviation sector with regard to technical 60 solutions, function, architecture and the like. 50 Waste tonnes 40 However, to ensure that Avinor’s airports meet the terms 30 of the technical and operational approvals, it has been 20 necessary to change the design of the safety areas on the 10 sides and at the end of the runway at several airports in 0 recent years. All such matters are decided in consultation 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 with the relevant authority, and environmental Oslo Airport Other airports Avinor total requirements are stipulated for construction contractors. Figur: Sorteringsgrad Figure: Source separation rate % 18 AVINOR SHALL BE A PROFESSIONAL AND GOOD EMPLOYER The employee survey for 2013 produced better results updating of employee competencies. All employees are than the previous survey from 2011. Three of four therefore offered training in their fields. The training employees have a high or very high commitment to their is systematic, so that performance appraisal, action job. In the employees’ opinion: plans and training requirements are coordinated. • Avinor has a good working environment Avinor offers courses in aviation subjects, financial and • Job satisfaction is high management systems, ethics and law, environment, HSE, • There is a high degree of pride, loyalty and communication, project management and leadership commitment development. Avinor has its own air traffic management education system, and annually trains about 25 air traffic Cooperation controllers and 15 Aerodrome Flight Information Service The percentage of trade union members is high in (AFIS officers who serve pilots at small airports where Avinor and collective agreement coverage is 100 per there are no air traffic controllers.) cent in Avinor AS and Oslo Lufthavn AS (subsidiary of Avinor), each of which has a collective agreement. Recruiting for greater diversity Union representatives therefore play an important Avinor believes that the composition of the Group’s part in realising the Group’s objectives. In 2013, Avinor employees should reflect the composition of the enjoyed a good relationship with the unions, both in Norwegian population. Avinor is therefore working on terms of daily operations and comprehensive change a diversity strategy, which will be completed in 2014. processes. Avinor remains committed to the goal of Among other things, the strategy will address the specific continuing to develop the cooperation model between measures that can be taken to increase the share of union representatives and management, in order to women in male-dominated groups. ensure good working conditions, stable operation and cost efficiency throughout the Group. Avinor’s employees Decline in violation of working hours rules are represented on Avinor’s board of representatives, There were significant decreases in violations of working holding four of ten seats. Representatives are also elected hours rules in 2013, both overall (-41 per cent) and for by and among the employees to the boards of the various violations following the agreement on extended working subsidiaries. hours (-35 per cent). Special courses have been held for managers of units with numerous violations. Training and education Employees with the right skills are crucial to Avinor’s success, and regulatory changes require continuous 19 Lnight = et A-veiet ekvivalentnivå for en 8-timers nattperiode fra kl 2300 til kl 0700. Preventive HSE and sick leave work Each of the 42 regional airports has a designated Avinor is divided into several safety areas, with one health motivator, an employee who is responsible for responsible safety delegate per area. All airports have spreading knowledge and encouraging a commitment to at least one safety delegate, and many have more. Units exercise and healthy living. Avinor deals systematically not located at an airport have their own safety delegates. with the prevention of harmful effects of alcohol and Working environment committees are established at drugs through internal regulations, skills building and the central, division and local levels. The committees awareness rising. The Group’s goal is a sick leave rate are composed of safety delegates and employee and below 4.5 per cent. The result in 2013 was 4.5 per cent. management representatives. The company health It is important that incidents are reported. The reporting service, chemical committee and the Workplace Advisory rate in the group is high and stable, with an increase in Centre for issues related to alcohol, drugs and addictive 2013. gambling in the workplace (AKAN) are also part of the safety service in Avinor. Forty-seven work accidents resulting in injuries to employees were reported in 2013. There were nine Avinor’s systematic sick leave efforts are aimed injuries resulting in absence, yielding an LTI rate13 of 1.8 specifically at employees who work shifts in operational in 2013, which is somewhat better than the Group’s target positions where there are physical and medical of 3. No serious accidents have been reported so far at requirements. Avinor is participating in a multi-year the T2 project at Oslo Airport. In 2013, the project had research project researching the effects of various an LTI rate of 2.0 (the industry average for construction measures12. projects is 7.3). Key figures on employees in Avinor 2013 2012 Permanent employees 3123 3109 Temporary FTEs (temps) 150 140 Women employees, total 23,7 % 23,4 % Women in management 21,2 % n/a Women in group management 30 % 30 % Average age of permanent employees 44,4 år 45 år Turnover 3,4 % 4,7 % Sick leave 4,5 % 4,7 % LTI rate 1,8 3,6 12 The FARVE project is a collaboration between the Norwegian Labour and Welfare Administration (NAV), the University of Stavanger and Synergy Health AS. 13 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked. 20 21 AVINOR AS SPONSOR In June 2013, the Group’s executive management present also went to the Church City Mission to the team adopted a sponsorship strategy for Avinor. The campaign “Gled en som gruer seg til jul (Make someone sponsorship strategy encompasses the whole of Avinor happy who is dreading Christmas)”. The Norwegian Red – the airports, the air navigation service and Avinor’s Cross and Save the Children Norway received financial central operations. support in connection with aid for the victims of flooding in the Philippines. The strategy states that Avinor’s sponsorships predominately shall be directed towards local measures An agreement has also been signed with the and activities for children and youth. Implementation environmental organisation Zero, whereby Avinor of the sponsorship strategy will have full effect from the provides financial support to Zero. Zero provides 2014 budget year. specialist support to Avinor in connection with the work on developing biofuel for aviation in Norway. Many airports provided support to local sports teams and associations in 2013. Avinor has partnered with Global Dignity Norway, which works to involve young people through Global Dignity Avinor also supports the Church City Mission in Oslo Day, an international event to promote dignity and through the “Nabosamarbeid i Bjørvika (The neighbour respect. partnership in Bjørvika)” project. Avinor’s Christmas 22 AVINOR WILL ENSURE RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS CONDUCT Avinor is a significant purchaser. Avinor’s development An eight-point action plan has been prepared: projects are often very large and span several years. 1. Establish governing documents Avinor is therefore subject to significant risks both in 2. Compliance with the Code of Conduct for external terms of default and corruption, and poor working suppliers and partners conditions and human rights violations by suppliers and 3. Compliance with the Code of conduct for employees of subcontractors. Avinor 4. Risk analyses as a basis for spot checks and controls ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 5. Annual communications plan and training plan Avinor’s Code of Conduct14 applies to the board and to promote knowledge about ethics and social all employees. In 2013, 93 per cent of all employees responsibility completed a course in the Code of Conduct. In 2009, 6. Cooperation with organisations Avinor appointed a committee to deal with notifications 7. Mapping the maturity in the organisation of Code of Conduct violations and other improprieties. 8. Control of supply chains Avinor has established a group-wide compliance function in the legal department to follow up Avinor’s compliance with external and internal regulations relating to corruption, fraud and ethics, as well as the internal audit function, which is part of Avinor’s overall internal control system. Social dumping in construction sites Companies did not have procedures to ensure compliance with the provisions on wages and Oslo Airport is expanding its capacity to handle working conditions 28 million passengers a year. The expansion is scheduled to be completed in 2017, has a budget Safety delegates were not properly trained of NOK 13.5 billion, and is one of Norway’s Two persons lacked HSE ID cards largest construction projects. Several people had not completed the client’s safety course. To ensure decent working conditions and a good climate of cooperation between the On the basis of the investigation report findings, followparties in the giant construction project, Avinor up work was initiated to correct nonconformities and hired a Norwegian Confederation of Trade ensure workers the wages they were entitled to. Together Unions (LO) coordinator. This coordinator with the main contractor, Oslo Airport established a received a tip that one of the subcontractors group to review staffing agency procedures. working on the construction site may be engaged in social dumping and relayed the For Avinor, the matter involved two principles: workers information to the Development organisation on our construction sites shall be treated responsibly, in early March 2013. Avinor then proceeded and our responsibility to contribute to fair competition: to initiate an investigation, which revealed six Crime, underpayment and unacceptable living and nonconformities: working conditions among contract foreign labourers must not outcompete Norwegian companies and Wage payments were not in accordance with workers. the provisions relating to general application of wage agreements An additional LO coordinator for the project was hired Working hours deviated from the Working after this incident. Environment Act without the approval of the Norwegian Labour Inspection Authority 14 The Code of Conduct is available on Avinor’s website 23 PROCUREMENT Group shall request and purchase goods and services Each year, Avinor procures goods and services worth that are both economically, environmentally and socially hundreds of millions of kroner and over the years the responsible company is in contact with thousands of suppliers. · The Code of Conduct describes the rules for how To ensure that the Group stipulates appropriate Avinor’s employees are to behave requirements and follows up suppliers in a sound manner, a working group has been appointed to improve · Avinor’s standard conditions in contracts used to Avinor’s system and procedures. Avinor aims to be even procure goods and services obligate the supplier to take clearer in its requirements, have a better overview of environmental protection into consideration (product, risks, and follow up requirements in a systematic way. packaging and waste reduction requirements) and to ensure that deliverables are produced in accordance with 70 per cent of the 271 contracts signed in 2013 contained the laws of the country of manufacture requirements for the supplier’s management of CSR · A declaration from the supplier shall ensure that (environmental, working conditions, human rights). The deliverables are not produced under conditions that target for 2014 is 90 per cent. are contrary to the prohibition of child labour, forced labour, slavery, prohibition of discrimination, the right Governing principles for procurement: to freedom of association and collective bargaining, according to the conventions adopted by the UN and · Avinor complies with the Public Procurement Act and ILO15. regulations relating to procurement in the supply sectors · Group Policy for Procurement communicates that the 15 UN Declaration of Human Rights, Article 32 of the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ILO Convention Nos. 29, 87, 98, 100, 105, 111, 138 and 182. 24 KEY FIGURES ENERGY (GWh) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electric energy 197 210 204 215 222 District heating 24 28 21 23 29 Groundwater 14 13 15 15 16 Oil heating 3 6 4 3 2 Auxiliary power 2 1 2 2 1 TOTAL 239 259 245 258 267 FUEL FOR VEHICLES (M3) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Incl. OSL Diesel vehicles 2 463 2 727 2 606 2 567 2 593 Petrol vehicles 140 116 145 123 80 DE-ICING CHEMICALS (TONNES) 2008-09 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Aircraft de-icing chemicals Formate 2 344 2 477 2 585 1 953 2 502 OSL’s share 1 470 1 481 1 398 988 1 526 Chemical oxygen demand 3 938 4 161 4 343 3 281 4 202 Runway de-icing chemicals Formiat 3 576 2 504 3 104 3 598 3 586 OSL’s share 1 598 681 696 1 072 1 205 Acetate 2 1 0 0 0 Urea 9 0 0 0 0 Chemical oxygen demand 399 267 335 376 375 FIRE FIGHTING CHEMICALS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fuel: Jetfuel A1 (tonnes) 33 46 54 53 51 Fuel: Paraffin (tonnes) 36 25 29 29 17 Fuel: Others (diesel, petrol, propane) (tonnes) 9 15 7 8 7 Extinguishing agents: Foam (m3) 30 30 33 36 27 Extinguishing agents: Powder (tonnes) 27 24 26 19 21 ENERGY (TJ) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electric energy (renewable) 708 757 734 774 799 District heating (part fossil) 87 101 75 85 93 Groundwater (renewable) 49 48 53 53 58 Oil heating ( fossil) 11 20 15 12 7 Auxiliary power ( fossil diesel) 7 5 6 7 5 Seawater heating, Alta, Kjevik, etc. (renewable) n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Vehicles ( fossil diesel) 89 99 94 93 94 Vehicles ( fossil petrol) 5 4 5 4 3 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION 956 1034 982 1026 1059 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CONTROLLED BY AVINOR (TONNES) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Avinor AS 13 230 17 024 16 769 16 212 15 970 OSL’s share 4 214 4 759 4 923 4 855 4 468 other 45 airports’ share 9 016 12 265 11 846 11 357 11 502 25 WASTE (TONNES) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 11 960 10 538 11 773 12 930 9 977 OSL’s share 8 836 7 940 8 589 9 625 6 048 SOURCE SEPARATION RATE 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total 54 54 56 57 56 OSL’s share 55 57 59 62 61 other 45 airports’ share 49 43 46 43 45 26 AVINOR AS Org.nr. 985 198 292 Corporate Staff Accounting and Finance Dronning Eufemias gate 6 0191 Oslo NORWAY post@avinor.no P.O. Box 150 2061 Gardermoen NORWAY www.avinor.no
