clas ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Expansion with sustainability high on our agenda This is Clas Ohlson New markets, new opportunities Clas Ohlson's vision is to develop a highly profitable, leading international retail chain, thereby, adding value for all our stakeholders. We help and inspire people to enhance everyday life by offering a broad range of smart products at attractive prices, a proactive, knowledgeable and available customer service, and an inspirational shopping experience through all sales channels. Our operations must Clas Ohlson is an international retail company that is expanding through new be sustainable and respect people and the environment. offerings, new stores and by establishing operations in new markets. In April 2014, the first store was opened outside of Europe, in Dubai in the fast growing Gulf region and, in the autumn, we will be launching Clas Office, which is our competitive offering for corporate customers. Number of stores New Total1 Sweden 5 78 Norway 2 65 Germany – new market in 2015 Content Finland UK 3 0 30 12 Clas Ohlson is preparing for entry into Gulf region 1 1 the German market with retail stores and This is Clas Ohlson 3 online shopping. Initially, 1-2 stores will 11 186 1as of June 2014 CEO statement 4 be established in the north of Germany Evolving governance structure 6 About this report in 2015. Germany is Europe’s largest retail market with annual growth of 2 per Partnering on shared aims 7 cent over the past five years. Clas Ohlson Deepening our engagement in sustainability is increasingly important to our business strategy. offers a unique concept with a broad Integrating sustainability This report summarises our 2013/14 sustainaproduct range that makes everyday life The sustainability factor 9 bility performance and charts the challenges easier as well as centrally located stores. that we are working to address. It marks the The strategic agenda 10 first time Clas Ohlson has published a separate Focusing on our key impacts 13 sustainability report. Resultat efter skatt Progress along the value chain By identifying key issues relevant to our business and sustainability work and reporting on Through collaboration, greater impact 15 Hardware 4,700 indicators as defined by the Global Reporting Our value chain 16 Initiative, this report has been informed by the Electrical A sustainable offering 18 GRI. The data has been collected during the Multimedia service-minded financial year May 2013 to April 2014. Smarter transport 19 Home • Leisure employees Our supply chain 20 As our Communication on Progress, this report Greatest asset is our people 22 also highlights how Clas Ohlson’s approach reflects our commitment to the ten principles Reducing environmental impact 24 of the UN Global Compact. Our last report, Reaching out to consumers 26 included in the Annual Report, was published in Focus on Net sales 186 stores in Extending product life 28 August, 2013. sustainability Hållbarhet i fokus 6,808 MSEK Mest ansedda varumärket 5 countries Community involvement Please visit us at about.clasohlson.com or och ett av de starkaste The communities around us 30 contact Åsa Portnoff Sundström, Head of varumärkena inom Sustainability. Objectives and progress This Sustainability Report has been prepared in Swedish 15,000 73 million detaljhandel visitors i Norden. 9,500 products spare parts Objectives and progress GRI index 32 33 and translated into English. In the event of any discrepancies between the Swedish and the English version, the former 36 million customers shall have precedence. 2 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 3 CEO statement CEO statement Expansion with sustainability high on our agenda C las Ohlson has a clear vision to be an international modern hardware retailer. Sustainability is synonymous with achieving that goal in the right way. Our roots are in the small village of Insjön where our company was founded 96 years ago. A strong corporate From the eyes of a child Viewing our impacts from the eyes of a child gives us the long-term thinking that we need. For many years we have had a cooperation with Save the Children to promote better conditions for children in all aspects of our operations, culture and values are important starting points for runnot least along our supply chain where our impacts are ning our business in a socially, economically and envithe greatest. Clas Ohlson supports the Children’s Rights ronmentally responsible way. Work with sustainability is and Business Principles developed by UNICEF, the UN important and challenging, affecting our operations every Global Compact and Save the Children. These principles day and stretching across our value chain. guide us on how we can support and respect the rights of Clas Ohlson is expanding both in existing markets and children in the workplace, marketplace and community. by establishing operations in new markets. In Dubai via We also strongly support the ten principles of the UN franchising, we have opened our first store outside of Global Compact. Europe in 2014 and we are set to open our first store in Germany in 2015. Sustainability integrated into our operations Responsible sourcing is a key issue for us at Clas Ohlson. The largest share of our suppliers is located in Asia, and on a regular basis, we conduct audits of labour practices Sustainability is synoand how human rights are protected among our supplinymous with achieving ers located there. We also work directly with our suppliers to improve conditions in their factories. Together that goal in the right way with other international purchasers on location in China we are helping to improve the lives of migrant workers and their families. As we expand and introduce new business models, with Sustainable transportation is another important issue different ways of thinking and working, it is especially for Clas Ohlson. To deliver our products to our stores, important to keep our values intact. With sustainability products are transported from suppliers via our distribuWe have a lot left to learn and do, but I am firmly integrated into our business strategy, we can better tion hub in Insjön, Sweden. Since transport is our greaconvinced that we are on the right track handle the opportunities and challenges that come our way. test source of direct CO2 emissions, it is important for us to continuously work towards greater efficiency. Sustainability core to our approach Importantly, we are always on the lookout for how Clas Ohlson has worked with sustainability for several we can further develop our product offering to give years. We know that addressing these i december issues is not only our customers better choices and access to solutions to an increase in sales of energy-saving products and we’re good for society; it is also good for business. They are also enable more sustainable lifestyles. We are already seeing encouraging our customers to find ways to conserve challenging issues that demand greater transparency and resources. clarity on our part. In order to deliver results on our sustainability work A moving target we need to continue to develop our approach, as well as At Clas Ohlson, we say that our sustainability work is implement tools and processes to identify and manage a moving target. We have a lot left to learn and do, but risks. We are setting clear priorities and targets and are I am convinced that we are on the right track. While Klas Balkow continuously measuring our progress. There is no doubt we are making progress, the issues are becoming all the President and CEO Clas Ohlson that our work with sustainability will better position Clas more challenging. But what is most important is that Insjön in june 2014 Ohlson for long-term profitability. all of us at Clas Ohlson are engaged together with our customers and suppliers. 4 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 5 Governance Governance Evolving governPartnering on ance structure shared aims As our company changes, our governance structure for managing sustainability, Engaging in strategic partnership and dialogue enables us to have a greater impact including policies and practices to guide our way of working, are evolving. At the on issues of mutual concern for us and our stakeholders. The strong relationships we same time, we’re retaining the values and culture that define the spirit of the company. have with employees, labour unions, suppliers and NGOs, are critical to our approach to sustainability. Building a structure for managing sustainability issues ing seminars are conducted with all staff involved in proClas Ohlson engages in dialogue and partnerships foreign countries as regards environmental and social throughout the organization is part of our holistic curement and with agents. Case studies and case law are to access new competence and innovation as well as issues. A 2012 Swedwatch report assessed Clas Ohlson approach to sustainability. We’ve been working hard provided to gain an in-depth understanding of the Code improve understanding of expectations. Listening to and other retailers’ supply chain policies and programmes to build a strong values-based corporate culture, and of Conduct and relevant legislation. As we grow our busistakeholders is also about being accountable for our in Asia. The recommendations have been taken on board establishing policies, tools and procedures are our focus ness through franchising, a new challenge is to ensure actions and open about our decisions and impacts. and informed our thinking on how to further improve moving forward. that new partners reflect consistently high standards and our practices. customer focus. We are further developing our approach Finding common ground Sustainability organization to risk assessment to meet these challenges. We have a strategic partnership with Save the Children Strength in numbers Clas Ohlson’s sustainability work is coordinated through (see sidebar) aligned with our approach to view our Through Save the Children partnership, we also team a forum that is convened by the head of Sustainability, Training prioritised impacts from the perspective of future generations. We up with multinational companies that source products in includes relevant corporate functions and is led by the Sustainability is included in induction programmes for have also gained insight from ECPAT, a global network China on building up a local network of service providers CEO. The forum makes decisions on objectives, stratenew employees and in e-learning programme through dedicated to protecting children from commercial sexual to address the issue of child labor and to support miggies and activities for the company’s sustainability efforts our Learning Academy. As of 2014/15, a new sustainabiexploitation. During the autumn ECPAT will support us rant workers (see CAPS p. 21). This enables a far greater and ensures that we work effectively toward achieving set lity training program will be launched for all employees. in developing our IT and travel policies. impact than any one company could accomplish working objectives. The overall aim is to make sustainability an Engaged store staff have requested such training, which We have an ongoing dialogue with the NGO Swedon these complex issues alone. integral part of our strategy, and each function is responis designed to improve knowledge of sustainability and watch, which focuses on Swedish business relations in sible for its implementation in the organisation. raise awareness of our goals in this area. B The core values are the foundation s for how we work and for our corpoAtt itu de e Wa r av iou r rate culture. Through drive, we make Strengthened Code of Conduct eh Driv th m things happen. Through warmth, Salesmanship on we radiate kindness, consideration and the desire to give good service. Clas Ohlson’s Code of Conduct, adopted in 2005, conPutting children first tains standards for our employees, our suppliers and our We are customer focused Co and like to do good m m business ov a ti Through innovation, we always look it m ent In n for new opportunities and simple business partners regarding working conditions, workClas Ohlson has a strategic partnership with Save the ChildIt is important that companies think solutions and through commitment, place health and safety, business ethics and the environren to improve the situation for children in society and uphold strategically about children’s rights. we undertake personal responsibility. ment. The Code refers to international conventions and their human rights, as expressed in the Children’s Rights and The starting point should be the UN national laws and regulations, including the UN DeclaraBusiness Principles. Through this long-term cooperation, Global Compact’s ten principles, tion on Human Rights and Rights of the Child, the ILO we are able to leverage each other’s strengths towards that which provide the guidance for comLed by values core conventions, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational shared aim. panies to achieve long-term sustainaThe core values are the foundation for how we work and Enterprises and the UN Global Compact. In 2014, we entered a new three-year agreement with bility in their organizations. our corporate culture, supported by our Code of Conduct In 2014, we undertook a major update of the Code Save the Children, which focused on community support The Children’s Rights and Business (see sidebar) and Code of Business Ethics. The Code of Conduct, given evolving expectations and new and for migrant families in China; supply chain capacity building; Principles complement the UN Global Elisabeth Dahlin of Conduct will be supported by introduction of a new updated international standards. These include the UN local projects in Sweden, Norway, Finland and the UK, and Compact principles as a means to Director General, Workplace Standard, which defines code requirements. Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights, the contributions to an emergency fund. analyse how companies can promote Save the Children High ethical standards in business practices are outlined Children’s Rights and Business Principles and the OECD Elisabeth Dahlin, Secretary General of Save the Children, children’s rights in the areas most in the Code of Business Ethics but are also included in the Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains shared her views on what her organization hopes to achieve relevant for the company. In our partnership with Clas OhlCode of Conduct. Clas Ohlson applies a zero tolerance to of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. from the partnership: son, a primary area of focus has been improving children’s corruption and bribery. An email address is available for Among the changes is that our Board of Directors must Our mission at Save the Children is to change conditions rights in their supply chain, particularly the conditions for employees and suppliers to report suspected violations. adopt the Code, which they did in 2014. The updated in society that will improve the welfare of children. With Clas migrant workers and their families. Code will be communicated widely to employees and Ohlson, we have shared values and a common agenda But I think equally important is the role Clas Ohlson can Managing risks partners, with updated training material and translation to anchored with the company’s top management, which gives play in communicating their commitment to children’s rights In recognition that our greatest risks for corruption exist relevant languages. the long-term thinking needed to achieve our goals. to their consumers and engage them in the issues. upstream, through the purchasing process, regular train6 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 7 Integrating sustainability The sustainability factor Sustainability is increasingly important to every aspect of our business Our aim is to provide and our long-term success as a growing international company. more products that help our customers live a sustainable lifestyle A global market brings complexities, including greater competition, more legislation, and heightened expecis integrated into each of the six strategic focus areas rather than working through a stand-alone strategy. This tations on the private sector’s role in tackling environapproach gives ownership to sustainability issues to every mental and social issues. Yet this land-scape also offers part of the organization. opportunities in terms of product innovation, expanded All functions within the company are engaged in the markets, and new forms of engagement and partnership process of defining our most relevant social and environwith consumers and others. mental aspects, how we should address them as well as Sustainability presents a differentiating factor that defining goals and indicators to measure progress. enables Clas Ohlson to capture opportunities and betIn realizing our overall business goals, sustainability ter handle the challenges. That is why sustainability will continue to play a decisive role. To help and inspire people T  o develop Clas Ohlson into a Our to improve their everyday Our leading international modern mission life by offering smart, vision hardware retailer, with high simple, practical solutions profitability that adds value for at attractive prices. all stakeholders. Our • Annual sales growth in comparable stores of at least 2 per cent financial • Establishment of 10–15 new stores during the 2014/15 finacial year objectives • An operating margin of at least 10 per cent Sustainability is integrated into each of the six strategic focus areas, rather than working through a stand-alone strategy 8 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 9 Integrating sustainability Integrating sustainability The strategic Customer interaction We will increase customer loyalty and attract new customers by strengthening our excellent customer service and developing our agenda sales channels to become even more accessible and inspiring. We will also strengthen our brand in new markets and communicate our sustainability agenda more clearly. Today’s global market offers more opportunities for consumers than ever before, thanks to the digital age. This not only intensifies competition but changes the customer experience, with signs of growing Sustainability is embedded in each of the six strategic focus areas that will awareness about how purchasing decisions impact lifestyles and socieguide Clas Ohlson’s direction over the next several years. We set our compass tal challenges. It presents an opportunity to engage with consumers in a direction intended to help us reach our goals. on sustainability. Our compass is set to ensure our store personnel have the required training to be sustainability ambassadors, to develop our service Our customer offer and spare parts offering in support of a “no waste” mindset, and to communicate our way of thinking and our product We will be the natural choice for practical problem solutions by offering, aligned with ethical business practices. continuously optimising our product range based on the needs of our customers and reviewing and optimising our category and product mix. We will also develop our service concept and our spare-parts operation and strengthen our range of products for a Our expansion sustainable lifestyle. We will continue to expand in existing markets by optimising store locations and formats, and establish Clas Ohlson in more Products, from design and manufacture to end of life, will increacountries, where Germany is next in line. We will also develop singly be part of the solution, rather than part of the problem. our franchise model and grow in the Gulf region, and strengthen Where possible, products should positively address environmental our offering to companies. and health concerns—such as products for a sustainable lifestyle, saving energy and securing those products are free from potentially As we look to grow our business, develop both existing and new marhazardous substances. kets and reach ever more customers worldwide, our aim is to build a bigger presence in line with our sustainability objectives—that is, Our compass is set to decoupling growth from CO2 emissions, minimizing other environestablish sustainability criteria in each of our product categories, gain greater insight into materials use, better mental impacts and seizing opportunities to reduce costs while track environmental product performance and ensure we have the organizational competency to meet these goals. conserving resources. Our compass is set to ensure robust risk assessments of new markets and take actions that reduces negative environmental impacts, such as electricity consumption in stores, which also lead to costs saved. Our supply network We need to ensure our store personnel have the required We will optimise our supply chain by working more integrated training to be sustainability ambassadors to communicate with our prioritised suppliers and developing new purchasing markets. We will also develop our distribution network, improve our way of thinking and our product offering lead times and service levels and reduce CO2 in our transports. Ensuring that suppliers meet high environmental and social standards is our overriding objective. Sourcing the majority of our products in Asia and increased focus on transport efficiency and costs bring both Our strategic focus areas clas ohlson 2013/14 Annual Report opportunities and challenges. The Clas Ohlson Annual Report details each of the strategic focus areas included in our strategy. See p. 12 of the Annual Report. 6.8 billion SEK 5 Our compass is set to retain social and environmental impacts as key qualifiers for existing and new suppliers and form strategic partnerships countries Successful offering and strengthened market position to reach our goal of reduced CO2 emissions and improved conditions among supplier workers and their families and improve data quality on transportation. 10 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 11 Integrating sustainability Integrating sustainability Focusing on our key impacts Our ways of working We will enhance efficiency and simplify our ways of working by reviewing and developing our processes and optimising our organizational structure. We will also implement our new business system, strengthen our culture and our values, and ensure compliance with our Code of Conduct and Ethics Code. We are in the process of analysing our impacts and gathering insights from Cost and operational efficiency and speed to market are challenstakeholders. This helps us define our sustainability agenda and guides our ged in a global, resource-constrained market that puts pressure on actions in the areas of greatest impact to our business. supplier access. In our commitment to protect, respect and remedy human rights along the supply chain and to be perceived as a leading sustainable brand, integration of sustainability across the During 2014 Clas Ohlson introduced a new process A universe of issues organization is key. to assess our material impacts. Our aim is to better During 2014, Clas Ohlson began a process of identifyunderstand drivers that can potentially impact our busiing the issues and societal drivers that have the greatest Our compass is set to ness and identify the most relevant issues we need to act impact on our operations, customers and markets. As align our governance system with an expanding organization, build on best practice, set relevant sustainability goals, on to address them. This process supports our business a next step, these issues will be weighted by internal and improve data collection and reporting, as well as engage employees in the sustainability agenda. strategy by gaining insight into stakeholders’ future experts with knowledge of stakeholder priorities and we expectations. will conduct in-depth interviews with external stakeholders that can provide valuable input into the process. Defining materiality Our approach to materiality even includes an analysis of For Clas Ohlson, material sustainability issues are those relevant issues in the context of the value chain (see p. 15). issues that have the potential to influence our ability to During 2014/15 we will continue to develop this analysis create long-term value. They include topics relating to and establish it as a recurring process. This will enable us society, labor and human rights, environment and macroto map how these issues evolve from year to year. economic impacts. Our people We will ensure a high performance and customer-oriented organisation by strengthening leadership and competency development and involving our employees. We will review our reward systems and actively focus on diversity issues and promoting the health and wellbeing of our employees. At a time of company growth and change, developing a high-performing organization primed to meet those challenges puts emphasis on sustainable leadership, well managed talent, the right capabilities linked to meaningful reward, and a healthy, effective and engaged workplace for the modern family. Our compass is set to create a strong employee brand to draw high-potential employees, shape a future-ready organization, and involve our The game changers people in the sustainability agenda through training and information sharing. In 2014, we identified a number of global trends that have the potential to prompt a significant shift in direction for all sectors of society, not least for business. These include Circular Economy, Chemicals, Food and Water Shortages, Energy Crises and Urbanization. Aligned with Clas Ohlson’s sharp focus on the customer, and the most important global trends identified, we are in the process of identifying our most relevant sustainability issues. These issues are further described in our value chain. Circular economy: In future, we expect that consumers will move away from a high degree of consumerism towards “re-use” and less consumption. Product design for recyclability, reducing waste and material use and elimination of hazardous substances will all take greater precedence in such a shift. 12 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 13 Progress along the value chain Through collaboration, I like working for a greater impact company that fits Working with others is key to address challenges and improve how we my own values positively influence sustainability along our value chain. A company cannot operate in a vacuum and remain As a small player when it comes to purchasing both competitive, successful and have a meaningful impact products and transport, we face a challenge in executing on society. The relationships between product develoour ambitions to deliver positive change along the value pers, manufacturers, suppliers, retailers, distributors, and chain. That is why strategic partnerships, in which we customers are all closely interconnected. Customer loywork with others, are important for our sustainability alty is an example. Trust in our offer can only be earned work and part of our business model. by meeting their expectations for high standards in our supply chain. Examples of how we work in partnership along the value Today, A holistic view of the value chain encapsulates chain are: a systems approach to how we bring products to market • Develop innovative products together with our as well as their use and disposal. This enables us to betstrategic manufacturing partners ter understand the processes and responsibilities for each • Engaging in industry initiatives to support more part of the value chain, and thereby reduce negative fuel-efficient transport alternatives impacts, identify opportunities for improvement and • Working with the national authorities on phasing create more value. out potentially hazardous chemicals • Participating in product take-back and recycling Direct and indirect impacts systems in each of our markets. Within our value chain we have both direct and indirect impacts. Although we have direct impact over operations, Creating resilience our impact over product development and manufacturing Through a value chain approach we are better able to is a combination of both direct and indirect. Importantly, manage risk, engage consumers, develop a more compeThe greatest impact is beyond our direct sphere of influtitive long-term supplier base and build accountability, ence, such as manufacturing, transportation, consumer credibility and trust. It makes us more resilient, efficient use of our products and at end-of-life. In the case of and agile in taking on future challenges. indirect impacts, we can influence, but not control, the The infographic on the following page illustrates key design, production and use of products. issues, challenges and how our actions are creating value for us as well as for the people affected by our business. Total number of employees CO2 emissions from Number of Code of Conduct audits men/women Clas Ohlson operations 2 717 617 2 482 Electricity use in 2 298 Transport of goods, 82 % 2 274 2 024 operations, 15 % 1 967 1 798 444 1 664 1 646 426 409 Travel, 3 % 1 406 371 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 Men Women 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 15 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain Our value chain Taking a value chain approach provides an understanding of where impacts occur and how the greatest value can be created for us and our stakeholders. This holistic view makes it easier to identify opportunities, minimize negative impacts and understand responsibilities. Transportation Manufacturing • Monitor and reduce environmental impacts • Realize the 2020 goal (see p. 17). Setting ambitious targets Product Development • Create lasting change as a small customer • Refine methodology for calculating our CO2 impact • Develop sharp criteria for product categories • Ensure ethical business practices • Increase the share of rail and low-impact shipping. • Build strategic partnerships • Scope and address risks in new and existing • Meet innovative and increasing product legislation markets End of Life • Product design for recyclability • Engage consumers in product recycling Operations • Meet increased producer responsibility legislation • Retain values, corporate culture and ethical • Manage take back of discarded products business practices in expanding markets Consumer use Sales • Decouple CO2 impact from growth strategy • Raise awareness on product use impacts • Raise sales staff sustainability awareness • Achieve work/life balance • Eliminate use of potentially hazardous chemicals • Reinforce positioning as a sustainable brand • Scope and address risks in new and existing • Measuring impacts • Increase demand for products for sustainable lifestyles markets and business models • Help make sustainable choices affordable Product Development Manufacturing Transportation Operations Sales Consumer use End of Life Innovate products for private brands 600 suppliers and 700 manufacturA large amount of of products were 4,700 employees in five Sales via 186 stores, web For many electrical products, Participate in product takeArea developed with strategic partners ers, with 65% of products sourced transported during the financial year countries shop, catalogue and telegreatest impact occurs during back and recycling systems in Asia 2013/14 phone sales channels use phase • Energy consumption • Code of Conduct and quality • Reducing CO2 and energy • Ethical business practices. • Sales of efficient products • Extending product life cycle • Reducing waste and • Material and chemicals use requirements consumption • Health and well-being and energysaving devices • Environmental impact over material use • Products for sustainable lifestyles • Human rights due diligence of new • Improving transport efficiency • Competence development • Reduce environmental life cycle • Eliminating potentially Issues and existing markets • Young people in our workfootprint of stores • Eliminating hazardous hazardous substances • Community engagement force substances • Ethical business practices • Diversity • Product safety • Develop sustainable service and spare parts offering • Reduced product impacts at use • Contributing to raising standards • In curbing CO2 emissions from • A high performing organi• Differentiated product • Customer loyalty • Contributing to the circular sation offering, tailored to future • Reduced waste and resource economy Value creation and end-of-life for suppliers, their workers and transport, address a key challenge • Brand differentiation families and local communities for Clas Ohlson and society • Attract the right people customer needs efficiency • Less waste and increased • Increased trust among consumers • Achieved costand environment• Greater flexibility and • Increased sales • Reduced energy material recycling for the Clas Ohlson’s brand ally efficient transportation employee engagement • Reduced energy costs consumption • Engaged employees and customer loyalty • Improved transparency on environmental footprint 16 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 17 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain A sustainable Smarter offering transport We must work closely with our suppliers to achieve our goal of providing a We have a long-term strategic aim to transport more of our goods by rail broad product range that creates value us, our customers and society. rather than road, and by sea rather than air, to reduce CO2 emissions. Our overall environmental objective is to reduce the and there by by rail to six hubs for final truck distriburelative carbon dioxide emissions for freight and business tion to local stores. This solution has the potential to travel by 30 per cent by 2020, compared with 2007. reduce carbon emissions from land transportation by 30 In 2013/14, there was a slight relative increase in carbon per cent in Norway which corresponds to 6 per cent of emissions essentially due to realignment of baseline data the total CO2 emissions generated by transportation of provided by our transport suppliers. Today 3 billion goods. PostNord Logistics in Norway awarded Clas Ohltonne km of goods are transported by Clas Ohlson, 2.9 son the annual environmental prize for the rail initiative. billion tonne km by sea freight. Sea transport accounts for 79 per cent of the total CO2 emissions from our Tackling challenges goods transportation. Using a large portion of sea transAs a result of the business expansion it has become more port, compared to airfreight and road, keeps the total difficult to find transport companies offering rail at a amount of CO2 emissions at a minimum. The goods competitive price. In 2013/14 we had to switch from rail transported by sea from Asia for transport to the terminal to truck transport between Insjön and Gothenburg for in Insjön was previously transported by road but is today products distributed to the UK market, resulting in an sent by rail. As of 2014, goods from seven European increase in CO2 transport emissions. Together with other countries were consolidated in Malmö for transportation businesses, we aim to work to influence more energy by railway to Eskilstuna, and by truck to Insjön. efficient alternatives in the shipping industry. We are also In 2014 a new transport agreement was signed to use improving data collection to enable a more in-depth picmore rail transport in Norway. Goods will be transported ture of environmental impacts in the supply network. by truck from the distribution center in Insjön to Oslo Total transport CO2 emissions by type Transport and travel for Clas Ohlson operations (Tonnes CO2) [EN29] Our goal is to put the right product offering on our shelves differentiate Clas Ohlson in the market and help us make in a way that maximizes our financial and brand goals and a positive difference. Air freight, 5 % Train, 0 % reflects our sustainability commitment. We meet rising Currently, for instance energy-saving products like Truck, 16 % customer demands by focusing on both cost efficiency and LED lamps and solar cell products, electric bikes as well 2013 2012 2011 2010 environmental impacts. We measure the impact of our as FSC-labelled paper and wood products are available in Transport 18,560 17,234 15,349 16,289 purchasing and distribution decisions from a sustainability stores. In each of our sub categories, we are identifying Travel 623 683 794 51 perspective as well. In order to achieve these objectives, others in order to expand this range. The criteria for the Sea freight, 79 % Clas Ohlson partners with strategic suppliers. sustainable offering will be decided based on where the impact occurs and our potential to address. Building a sustainable offering We aim to reduce our relative CO2 emissions by 30 per cent Over and above data alignment, in 2013/14 we switched from rail to truck transport Consumers today expect unlimited choice, with their Working closely with suppliers by 2020, compared with 2007. In 2013/14, there was a slight between Insjön and Gothenburg for products distributed in the UK, which also relative increase essentially due to realignment of baseline data resulted in an increase in our overall CO2 transport emissions. ability to access the global market via a range of sales In addition, we will continue to build long-term relationprovided by our transport suppliers. channels. This is promising for innovation, but also ships within our supply chain to continuously improve makes for a more competitive landscape and puts greater social and environmental conditions (see p. 20). If a emphasis on the customer getting value for money. Prosupplier does not meet our requirements from a Code of ducts that reduce environmental impact or help achieve Conduct perspective, we don’t place orders until they can a more sustainable lifestyle are increasingly important to demonstrate that they are willing to improve. modern consumers. For us, sustainable innovation can 18 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 19 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain Our supply 400 audits annually. During the financial year, we performed 104 initial audits and 267 follow up audits. The Clas Ohlson team in China conducted 336 audits while and critical suppliers further down the supply chain. A good understanding of local market conditions, including social and environmental risks in the supply chain, is critichain external firms audited another 35 suppliers in countries cal to successfully enter a new market. such as Vietnam and Taiwan. The suppliers considered to pose the highest risk from a social and environmental perspective are prioritized for audits. We work with suppliers to make improvements, supported by strategic partCreating momentum nerships (see sidebar). Co-operations with suppliers are for change terminated only as a last resort. Last year, six contracts We require our suppliers to uphold high environmental and social standards. In China, were terminated. Long-term supply chain improvements in China where our supply chain is primarily based, we take a community-based approach to In 2013/14, we sharpened our focus on measuring require greater local capacity to assist factory manimprove conditions for workers and their families. impact, to better understand how the audit process leads agement. Clas Ohlson has therefore joined Disney, to concrete, positive changes. Follow-ups identified meaH&M, HP and ICA in a stakeholder engagement model sureable improvements in areas such as health and safety to support the training of local service providers in We put intense focus on securing high environmental and environment. Guangdong province. The aim is to respond to the and social standards in our supply chain, which consists of about 600 manufacturers and 700 suppliers in some Towards excellence Towards positive change needs of migrant workers and to minimize potential risks to factory operations. 30 countries. Together with other companies we have Clas Ohlson has piloted the “Excellent project” with 11 Our goal is to work with suppliers to address issues such The CAPS (Capacity Building of Service Providers developed a platform for influencing and supporting suppliers in China to help improve their CSR performance as excessive overtime, manipulated time sheets, unsafe and Supply Chain in Guangdong) project was launchsuppliers to improve working conditions and respect from “medium” to “excellent.” Each supplier had underworking conditions, inadequate personal protective ed in 2014, supported by the organisation CCR CSR human rights. gone Clas Ohlson audits and were positive to making equipment, or lack of labor representation. Such issues in China. Over two years, at least ten service providers About 65 per cent of our products are manufactured in long-term improvements in performance. Suppliers are are frequently encountered by many companies doing will be trained to directly assist factories in young Asia, mainly in China, where the risk of breaches of our supported by Clas Ohlson in action plans addressing business in Asia. When we find such problems, we seek worker engagement, management training, parental Code of Conduct is higher. The Clas Ohlson audit team management and to contribute to meaningful improvements. guidance and child labor remediation. in China consists of eight people responsible for verifyorganization, health Each company selects ten of their supply chain ing, assessing and monitoring compliance with the Code and safety, and enviHandling of child labor cases factories to take part in year-long on-site training. For of Conduct, as well as training and providing informaronment. One of the Cases of child labor are rarely found in our audits, but Clas Ohlson, these are suppliers that have a strong tion to our partners in Asia. suppliers achieved when incidents are found we work together with the commitment and are willing to make long-term improOur Purchasing and audit teams review suppliers the “excellent” stafactory, the young person, parents and with CCR CSR vements. The project will involve 230 days of direct before contracts are signed to ensure that requirements tus, seven showed (Centre for Children’s Rights and Corporate Social training services for the factories and reach an estimaAuthorized minors are met, and if not, that suppliers are prepared to address Laws and regulations improvements and Responsibility) to find the best solution in the interest of ted 11,500 workers and managers. Audit accessareas denied of non-compliance. one is no longer a the child. Also in 2014, together with CCR CSR, Clas Ohlson Forced labor Freedom of association supplier. With the focus on long-term thinking, the project In 2013/14, our audit team identified three cases of initiated a three-year project to support two commuMeasuring impact Discrimination is helping to build a continuous dialogue with suppliers to child labor, all 15 years old. In these cases, we received nity centres in two Industrial zones in China. Working Our active manufacturers undergo recurring audits (both Environment Social insurance better understand the challenges they face. Following an advice and support from external experts to define and closely with factories and local schools, it is expected Under agedannounced labor and window audits), which are revised at least evaluation of the project, it will be modified and transferfollow up on action plans. Some of the remediation plans that at least 300 migrant children and 1,000 migrant every Working hours Compensation second year. The objective is to conduct at least red into a larger supplier program. included lost-income compensation and support for workers will be reached with education, recreation, 2013 Health and Safety 2012 living costs, travel home, and obtaining an ID card. Clas health and social integration services. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Ohlson also follows up on working conditions under the Number of audit findings individual’s new employment once he/she is eligible for Code of Conduct audit findings Supplier status improvement work at age 16. In one case Clas Ohlson decided to terminate the business as the supplier was unwilling to meet our Authorized minors 350 Laws and regulations requirements. 300 Audit access denied 250 Forced labor Training of purchasers, suppliers and agents No of suppliers Freedom of association 200 Discrimination Our Purchasing Department receives regular corporate 150 Environment Social insurance and supply chain responsibility training. Eleven manu100 Under aged labor facturers were trained by our audit team in Code of 50 Audit result Working hours Compensation Conduct requirements during 2013/14. Training courses 2013 0 After follow-up Health and Safety 2012 are also arranged for agents in China; they participate in Red Orange Yellow Supplier status Green 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% audits to raise their knowledge and become involved in Number of audit findings the way we work. The percentage of audits with recorded non-compliances per Follow-ups identified measureable improvements in areas such as Sharper focus on risk assessment category. During 2013/14, 371 audits were conducted. A total health and safety and environment. In total, 28 suppliers became of 409 audits were conducted the year previous. inactive or were terminated To better assess high-risk suppliers, risk assessment tools 350 will be refined to include the supply base outside Asia 300 250 No of suppliers 200 150 20 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 100 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 21 50 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain Greatest asset is our people A high-performing organization is a precondition to succeed in our growth strategy. That means strengthening our approach to leadership, talent man-agement, health and well-being and securing the right competencies. A high-performing organisation that attracts, retains and things that matter. We aim to cultivate an organisation develops the people we need is crucial to meet our strategic that listens, learns and is ready to take on new challenges. and grow the company internationally. That’s why we need to develop new capabilities and further Diversity at center strengthen our performance. At the same time, we all must Diversity is incorporated into our leadership approach, stay true to our core values and company decisions must be as this fosters innovation and better prepares us to meet anchored in the corporate culture and “Clas Ohlson spirit” the needs of our expanding markets. One of our goals is that define who we are as a company. that neither gender will account for less than 40 per cent An important part of this journey is securing susof each professional category, combined with the prioritainable leadership—a capable, customer oriented and tisation of gender equality when recruiting. In 2013, we lean organisation that also recognises the importance of attained 38 per cent women among top management. work-life balance and the humanity in leadership. This reflects our ambition to be the workplace for the modern Listening to employees family. And in every aspect of this vision for people We are further developing our employee brand as we Securing our skills base We therefore aim to further reduce longand short-term management, sustainability and trusted relationships play look to gain the competencies we need for the future, To meet our future challenges and translate our business sickness absence through preventive actions as well as a critical role. and to position ourselves as a preferred employer. This strategies into an efficient organisation, we are developing improvement of our rehabilitation process. We have a In 2014 we introduced our leadership cornerstones to work will tap into our corporate values and sustainability internal competencies and providing opportunities to grow goal in place to reduce sickness absence to 4 per cent by complement our values. Core to the thinking around commitment. We are convinced that a growing number within the company. One example of this comes from 2016. We are currently at 5 per cent (see table on p. 32). these concepts is sustainability. Namely, that our leaders of people, especially younger generations, are attracted to Finland, where about 40 per cent of our store staff received don’t compromise between satisfying customer needs, companies whose values align with their own. In order to vocational training in retail operations, to enhance their The right incentives delivering value for other stakeholders and doing good better understand how well we are meeting our people’s work skills and understanding of our industry. Reward systems supporting the overall business strabusiness. For us, leadership is also about building capaexpectations, our employee engagement survey is being tegy, values and leadership cornerstones will contribute bilities for the future and being open and honest about revised in 2014/15 to measure employee engagement. A healthy workplace in realisation of the business strategy. We are currently A healthy workplace is critical to long-term performance reviewing our shortand long-term incentives to support and hence our ability to build a sustainable organization. this goal. Age distribution Total number of employees 4 684 4 280 50 years and older, 10 % Below 30 years old, 47 % 3 962 3 920 3 430 For us, leadership is about building capabilities for the future and being open and honest about things that matter. We aim to cultivate an organisation that listens, learns and Between 30 and 49 years old, 43 % is ready to take on new challenges. 09/10 10/11 11/12 12/13 13/14 Typical to the retail industry, Clas Ohlson is a young organisation, Clas Ohlson’s number of employees has increased 37 per cent with almost half of its employees under the age of 30. over five years. 22 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 23 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain Reducing environmental impact All products must meet applicable chemical legislation as well as Clas Ohlson requirements. We’re addressing the most relevant environmental issues, such as transportation, chemicals, energy, waste and packaging, both in our operations and throughout our value chain with the aim of continuous improvement. In our environmental approach, we consider a number of Candidate List. For textiles and leather products Clas external factors and drivers including addressing climate Ohlson sets requirements beyond legislation to minimize change through reduced energy consumption and energy the presence of other hazardous substances. During Energy consumption for Clas Ohlson operations (GWh) efficiency, a more demanding regulatory environment, 2013, comprehensive demands on chemicals in toys took and rising concern over chemicals use. effect. Clas Ohlson actively participates in the Swedish 2013 2012 2011 2010 chemical authority’s industry dialogue on toys, in which Direct energy [EN3] 3.21 3.37 3.35 3.51 Energy a top concern companies and authorities work together to phase out Indirect energy [EN4] 43,67 42,25 40,12 37,64 We look for opportunities to reduce energy consumpchemicals based on the precautionary principle. tion in our operations. In offices and warehouses we are Compliance with the latest revisions of the Restriction of saving energy by turning off lights and lowering tempeHazardous Substances (RoHS) legislation is a fundamental rature. In some stores we have established more energyrequirement for electrical and electronic equipment. The CO2 emissions from energy use in Clas Ohlson operations (Tonnes CO2) [EN16] efficient lighting (see sidebar). RoHS Directive restricts six hazardous substances in con2013 2012 2011 2010 sumer products: lead, mercury, cadmium, hexavalent chroEnergy generation 11 15 11 186 Focus on chemicals mium, PBB flame retardants, and PBDE flame retardants. Electricity 3 562 3 648 3 453 2 760 All products must meet applicable chemical legislation In addition, Clas Ohlson applies more stringent requireas well as Clas Ohlson requirements. We are phasing out ments than the legally permitted levels for materials that substances on the REACH (Regulation on Registration, come into contact with skin, in products used by children In line with our store expansion, we have had a marginal Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) or that come in contact with food. increase in indirect energy use and CO2 emissions over the last four years. Indirect energy includes electricity and direct energy includes district heating. The Clas Ohlson franchise store in Dubai has LED lighting installed in the full store area Brighter, smarter lighting During the year our chemical management processes increase from 63 per cent from the previous year. We are using bio-based adhesives and have phased out most PVC We have lowered electricity consumption at our stores due have been improved. This includes clarification of requifrom packaging, allowing for improved recycling. to a greater internal focus on light management, effective rements as well as specification of test methods. We have We also address plastic waste through sales of re-usable cooperation with suppliers and a higher proportion of energyalso further developed and provided more information on carrier bags. efficient light sources and fittings. compliance requirements for suppliers on our website. Electricity and energy use varies widely in stores. Electricity Producer responsibility consumption in our Nordic stores has decreased by 5 per cent Reducing waste and packaging Both the EU Battery Directive (calling for collection to 129 kWh /m2 in 2013, compared to previous year. Stores in The distribution center in Insjön, the hub that distributes and recycling of batteries as well as bans on marketing of the UK are not included as electricity consumption also inclularge amounts of products every year, has long had in some batteries containing hazardous substances) and the des cooling and heating, a barrier for making comparisons. place efficient systems for waste separation and recycEU WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Clas Ohlson has begun a program to shift to more energy ling. Within the area of packaging, our objectives are to Directive apply in all countries where we operated in efficient LED lighting in stores. In 2013, an energy-saving reduce the amount of packaging material as well as use 2013/14. Clas Ohlson complies with national legislation project was carried out in seven Swedish stores. The overall materials with less environmental impact. and fulfills its producer responsibility obligations through energy consumption was reduced by 27 per cent. Packaging sent to mail order and Internet customers memberships of national collection and recycling systems contains about 70 per cent recovered fiber. This is an in each country, (see Extending product life, p. 28). 24 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 25 Progress along the value chain Progress along the value chain Reaching out to consumers LED lighting Illuminating the future of lighting, LED For many products, the greatest environmental impact occurs during use. lamps save up to 80 per cent on elecTo reach our sustainability objectives, influencing consumers’ purchasing tricity use. LED lighting is more efficient, versatile and longer lasting than other decisions and how they use their products are essential. light sources. In our products, they are used for every-thing from garden lights, floodlights with motion sensors, table lamps, flash lights, bicycle lights and even Clas Ohlson has a powerful platform on which to engage on a pair of trainers to enhance safety. with consumers on sustainability issues. With today’s digital technology, consumers are more connected than ever before—expanding the platform for consumer engagement. Consumers are showing increased interest in sustainable products and services. They are also demanding more transparency about the conditions under which products are manufactured and transported, among other Solar panels impacts. These consumers are growing in number and we Radiating possibilities by capturing the reneWarm compost see a positive trend, particularly in sales of cleaning and wable energy of the sun, solar panels can be Transform your garden and kitchen energy-saving products. But price is often still the most used in many ways. Solar panels and power waste to valuable soil with the decisive factor at point of sale. With growing recognition banks charge batteries in cars, boats, and warm compost Mully. A stable, inthat value and sustainability go hand in hand, we expect caravans—perfect for summer activities on sulated construction with a bottom that to change. Spotlight on sustainable offering land or water as they are resistant to splashplate, it can be mounted without ing and water jets. A non-mains dependent In the coming year Clas Ohlson will launch a sustainatools and one side removed to solar wall floodlight with a motion detector is Our approach to consumer engagement on bility communications plan aimed at customers through empty the compost. great for the shed or garage. sustainability is: various sales and communication channels. We have been 1 Develop our product range with new, smart successful in marketing campaigns and in store commusolutions that help our customers minimise their nication promoting phase-out of conventional light bulbs environmental impact. and conversion to LED lighting. The battery hunt 2 Expand our aftermarket service offering repairs Strengthening our approach Children—the sustainable consumers of the future—were and spare parts to extend product life and reduce In our ambition to be a leading sustainable brand within behind the success of the Battery Hunt competition, in which environmental impacts. our sector, engaging with our customers in their choice of 30,000 fourth-grade students from around Sweden collected 3 Build trust for the Clas Ohlson brand through products and how they use them plays a key role. Embed268 tons of batteries. In 2013, a similar battery campaign was transparency on how our products are manuded in this approach is our commitment to the Children’s held in Norway among schoolchildren. factured. Rights and Business Principles. We take into account The competition was sponsored by the organization Håll the ways in which our products impact children—from Sverige Rent (Keep Sweden Clean), VARTA Consumer BatteEmployees on front line design to manufacturing to sales and marketing to use ries and Clas Ohlson during the spring. With only 65 per cent Our in-store employees are on the front line of this effort. and disposal. We recognise that this is important both to of batteries collected for recycling today in Sweden, this was Their role is to inform and guide customers on quality consumers, and vital to our sustainability commitment. an opportunity to make an environmental impact while engaaccording to need, spare parts, repairs, tips for more We are developing a marketing policy to ensure high ging children in an important environmental issue. sustainable consumption and other issues. In the coming standards of ethical practices in marketing among our The aim of the competition was not only to collect batteries year, we will strengthen employee training on engaging stores and products. Over the long term, we expect that for recycling but also to provide the students with new knowconsumers on sustainable purchasing decisions, tailored these efforts will strengthen our ability to influence susledge about recycling, to inspire their future actions. EU legisto local markets for increased impact. tainability decision-making among consumers. lation requires producers and retailers of batteries to collect used batteries for recycling. Campaign results made clear that there is a big opportunity to engage customers, local communities, and children in a goal that benefits all of us. 26 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 27 trotjänare blir som ny igen. Här hittar du drivremmarna, vevstakarna Progress along the value chain och kaffekannorna du letat efter. Sök och hitta Progress själv på alongclasohlson.se. the value chain Eller ring oss på 0247-445 00 så hjälper vi dig att få tag på rätt delar. Extending product life Clas Ohlson’s growing workshop and spare parts business contributes to the waste nothing approach of the circular economy. With the growing number of consumers worldwide, a use and waste is replaced by a circular one. One way in point where resources become finite is becoming a busiwhich Clas Ohlson supports this approach is through ness reality. Product lifecycles are also getting shorter, our aftermarket service which extends product life and with product innovation on the rise, and new models demonstrates our “wear but not waste” concept. replacing old ones. Consumers want to keep up with While it addresses only part of a complex and chalhome improvements and a growing number want to do lenging issue, repairing a product rather than throwing this more sustainably. it away supports more sustainable consumption. It is an Increased consumption and constrained resources are example of an approach that is good for our business and global trends that will only grow in importance. This has boosts for innovation and sustainability. an impact on our business, and we have a role to play in addressing the challenge. At the same time, acting on the Less waste, more wear agenda will create more value for customers and society. Extending the life of a product means that less resourIn a circular economy, the focus is on “waste nothing” ces are used and less waste is generated. Clas Ohlson’s thinking and reuse. A linear approach of manufacturing, product range includes 9,500 spare parts. After making 4 our spare part inventory available with photos and text tribute to smarter and more sustainable purchasing description online, sales of spare parts increased by over decisions. A simpler, low-cost product can function well 50 per cent in one year. for many years when used less often and for simpler Customers can also search for spare parts for products tasks. However, a professional who uses a product for no longer included in the product range – a feature demanding tasks every day may require a more advanced appreciated by consumers, especially with more expensive product that can withstand sustained use. This has been machinery and tools. Clas Ohlson also sells some parts to Clas Ohlson’s philosophy since the company was products not purchased at Clas Ohlson stores. founded in 1918. Our customer service employees possess in-depth knowledge of products, and can provide advices about Raising customer awareness spare parts. Service technicians in workshops carry out Clas Ohlson is working to further promote its spare parts the repairs at at reasonable prices. and workshop services so more customers take advantage of them and extend the use of the products they have Buy the quality you need purchased. Another benefit is that our store personnel can help customers match quality to their specific needs to con28 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 29 Community involvement Community involvement The communities Advancing the rights of children We believe that promoting the rights of children is one of the An internal workshop on implementation of the Children’s around us most important contributions we can make to society. We are Rights was held in 2013 with Clas Ohlson’s senior manageuniquely placed to influence this agenda, not only within our ment team and more activities involving all employees will supply chain but also in our engagement with consumers. follow. The Principles are also reflected in our new business We support the UN Children’s Rights and Business Prinstrategy. ciples, developed jointly by the UN Global Compact, Save In regards to our strategic focus areas “Our ways of worthe Children and UNICEF. These set out business actions king” emphasize the importance of respecting the rights of to respect and support children’s rights in terms of the the child. “Our people” reflects our ambition to create working Clas Ohlson has a long tradition of giving back to the community, which extends beybusiness’s own activities and to its relationships, linked to environments attractive to young workers, parents and careond our roots in a village in Sweden to having a voice in broader societal needs. An its operations, products or services in the workplace, the givers; in “Our supply network” we focus on activities directed important commitment centres on advancing the rights of children. marketplace and the community. to helping eliminate child labor in the supply chain. In “Our For many years, Clas Ohlson has worked proactively on customer offer”, we work to ensure that our products and issues surrounding child labour, product safety and responservices are safe for children. “Customer interaction” has the Our corporate roots are important to us. We support a In September 2013, Clas Ohlson won the Nordic Brand sible marketing and other issues related to activities that have focus on ensuring communication and marketing respects series of initiatives in Dalarna, including sporting activiAcademy’s award for Sweden’s most respected company, an impact on children. The Children’s Rights Principles prochildren’s rights. We also support Save the Children through ties and cultural events. moving up from fifth place the previous year. The award vide a valuable tool to work more systematically and broadly in-store collection campaigns and seek opportunities to Our community involvement stretches from Insjön to measures public perceptions of 50 Swedish companies, on these issues throughout our operations. engage in local activities and national initiatives aimed at proengaging in local communities alongside our suppliers including level of trust and respect. The recognition tecting and respecting the rights of the child. and other partners to contribute to better conditions affirms that our customers support the direction in which for migrant workers’ and families (see p. 20) and to we are headed and that strengthens our continued efforts. strengthen children’s rights. The small village of Insjön in Dalarna County, Sweden, population 2,150, is the heart of Clas Ohlson—not surprisingly, since it is where in 1918 founder Clas Ohlson started a mail-order business at age 22 and where the first Clas Ohlson store opened. Today that store in Insjön, flanked by the tiny original store and a museum, is visited by over 600,000 people every year, making it one of the biggest tourist attractions in Dalarna. 30 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 31 Objectives and progress Objectives and progress Objectives GRI index and progress The GRI index is available on about.clasohlson.com Number of employees Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Stores 1 443 1 335 388 285 0 3 452 Warehouses 426 0 0 0 0 426 White collar 525 122 71 35 55 807 Total 2 394 1 457 458 320 55 4 684 woman % 42 38 47 50 66 42 permanent % 83 85 92 96 4 84 full time % 58 43 41 27 99 50 Staff turn over, % Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Age < 30 5,1 19,1 16,3 20,9 0,0 12,1 Age 30-50 3,5 4,6 4,6 3,0 0,0 3,9 Age > 50 0,7 1,0 0,5 1,3 0,0 0,8 Woman 9,7 26,2 18,2 23,3 0,0 17,0 Men 8,9 23,6 25,5 27,9 0,0 16,9 Sick leave, % Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Woman 6,3 9,5 5,0 2,0 3,5 6,5 Men 4,0 4,7 3,0 1,5 0,0 3,7 Total 4,9 6,5 3,9 1,7 2,3 5,0 Internal training Hours per employee Sweden Norway Finland UK China Total Store employees, excl managers 4,9 7,2 8,5 3,2 0,0 6,0 Store managers 16,3 22,4 36,1 16,8 0,0 21,8 Warehouse employees, excl managers 1,6 N.A. N.A. N.A. N.A. 1,6 Managers, others 11,1 7,6 16,7 0,0 0,0 10,3 Woman 5,4 8,9 10,7 3,2 3,3 6,7 Men 4,7 7,5 11,3 3,7 9,7 6,2 Sweden Finland China Clas Ohlson AB Clas Ohlson Oy Clas Ohlson (Shanghai) Co, Ltd SE-793 85 Insjön Magistratsporten 4 A Room 1102-1103, No. 666 Gubei Road, FIN-00240 Helsinki Kirin Plaza, Changning District, Shanghai Tel: +46 247 444 00 Tel: +358 201 112 222 Tel: +86 213 387 00 55 www.clasohlson.se www.clasohlson.fi Norway UK For more information about Clas Ohlson, Clas Ohlson AS Clas Ohlson Ltd refer to about.clasohlson.com Torggata 2–6 10-13 Market Place N-0105 Oslo Kingston upon Thames Surrey KT1 1JP Tel: +47 232 140 05 Tel: +44 845 671 82 15 www.clasohlson.no www.clasohlson.co.uk 32 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 33 Clas Ohlson Sustainability Report 2013/14 www.clasohlson.com
