2013 Responsible Business Report Message from the President & CEO................................................... 1 About Rezidor...............................................................................................2 Highlights 2013............................................................................................. 3 Contents Materiality & Stakeholders...................................................................... 4 Organisation and Governance..............................................................8 Pillar 1 – Think Planet Minimising our Environmental Footprint............................................9 Pillar 2 – Think People Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees......................20 Pillar 3 – Think Together Business Ethics and Community Action..........................................27 Summary of Progress............................................................................ 33 Scope and Boundaries Appendices: of this Report – 232 Eco-labelled hotels................................................................... 35 – GRI Standard Disclosures Table.....................................................37 The Rezidor 2013 Responsible Business – Global Compace Compliance........................................................ 39 Report describes the most relevant sustainability aspects of our operations, not the full – Responsible Business Timeline..................................................... 40 range of our actions and data. The information in this report refers to the year 2013 unless otherwise stated. Unless otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned in this report cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by the Think Planet: ­Rezidor Hotel Group. This includes 337 prop25% erties which were in operation on 31 December 2013. For new hotels that were opened in 2013 or hotels that discontinued operations during the year, data is only reported for the months they were in operation. Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries 5 years energy savings in to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and information quality. Downstream impacts are generally excluded as we do not currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. Financial data presented in our Responsible Business Report is derived from audited annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have been converted to euros (EUR). Our finanThink People: 65% cial reporting accounting principles and currency conversion rates are stated in Rezidor’s 2013 Annual Report. The Responsible Business Report has not been independently reviewed by auditors or any other third party. employees trained in new Responsible ­Business course Think Together: 10 anniversary th Responsible Business Action Month II Message from the President & CEO Raising Responsible Business to the next level Thank you for your interest in Rezidor and our ­R­esponsible Business Programme! R esponsible Business has a Our growth success story would also long tradition at Rezidor and not be complete without Responsible is an essential part of our Business. We concentrate on emerging vision: We want to be permarkets like Russia/CIS and Africa where ceived as the most responsiwe take responsibility through sustainable ble organisation – caring for our planet development and construction processes and acting in a sustainable way. Responsias well as through the creation of thouble Business is also fully embedded in our sands of jobs and through training for our 4D Strategy that was launched in 2013 and local newcomers. To further drive people focuses on Develop Talent, Delight Guests, development initiatives in emerging marDrive the Business, and Deliver Results. kets Rezidor became a lead partner of the The core areas of our Responsible Business Youth Career Initiative, a recognized proProgramme perfectly align with 4D: Think gramme that offers traineeships and trainPlanet – minimising our environmental ings to underprivileged youngsters. footprint; Think People – taking care of the Whether they are newcomers or longhealth and safety of guests and employtime Rezidorians: All our 35,000+ employees; and Think Together – respecting ees get involved when we celebrate our social and ethical issues in the company Responsible Business Action Month and the communities in which we operate. (RBAM) – a dedicated period where hotels Responsible Business is likewise a contribute to their local communities and strong supporter of our turnaround profundraise for our corporate charity organigramme Route 2015 that targets an sation World Childhood Foundation. EBITDA margin uplift of 6–8 percentage ­September 2013 was the 10th anniversary points by the year 2015. The programme of RBAM, a big success with close to includes a set of revenue generation 700 different hotel activities! Thanks to this activities, fee-based growth, cost savings, month’s efforts and further Responsible cap utilization and asset management. In Business activities throughout the year we 2013, Route 2015 gained further momenwere able to raise EUR 690,000 for At Rezidor we tum and made good progress – the programme yielded 2.6 percentage points ­Childhood and a huge number of local charity causes. want to be the most improvement in EBITDA margin. Among Route 2015’s successful cost saving initiaWe are proud that the US think tank Ethisphere has yet again named us a one ­innovative and tives is Think Planet, a group-wide ambiof the “World’s Most Ethical Companies” – responsible hotel tious and engaging Responsible Business a prestigious award that we received each project targeting 25% of energy savings year since 2010. Such achievements company. across all hotels in 5 years. Think Planet underline and strengthen our commitment helps us to reduce utility costs (heat, light, to Responsible Business. power), and was in 2013 motivation to furEnjoy reading more about our 2013 ther extend our efforts and to reduce Responsible Business results and our water consumption across all our properplans for 2014 and beyond. ties in Europe, the Middle East and Africa. On the revenue generation side, Best regards, Responsible Business innovations like Meetings Minus Carbon – free carbon offsetting for meetings and events – demonstrate that Rezidor takes sustainability seriously, responds to customer needs and develops meaningful and attractive Wolfgang M. Neumann solutions that help building brand loyalty. President & CEO 1 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group About Rezidor About Rezidor The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the fastest growing hotel operators in the world with a presence in 69 countries. 429 94,800 Rooms 69 Hotels 35,000 Employees Countries R ezidor operates the two core Franchise Agreements with Carlson, present in 69 countries and the strategy brands Radisson Blu and Park a ­privately held hospitality and travel is to focus its expansion in the emerging Inn by Radisson. In February ­company. In parallel, Rezidor terminated markets of Eastern Europe, the Middle 2014 Rezidor added two more the partnerships with Regent Hotels & East and Africa. Our Responsible Business brands to its portfolio, Radisson Red in the Resorts and Missoni. By the end of 2013 programme is implemented in all manupscale segment and the Quorvus the group operated 337 hotels with ca aged and l­eased hotels and corporate ­Collection targeting the luxury segment. 75,300 rooms in 56 countries. offices and strongly encouraged in franAll four brands are developed and Rezidor’s strategy is to expand with chised properties. licensed by Rezidor in Europe, the Middle management and franchise contracts and East and Africa (“EMEA”) under Master only exceptionally with leases. ­Rezidor is 2 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Highlights 2013 Highlights 2013 2013 was an outstanding year in Rezidor’s Responsible Business journey. There were successes in all three pillars of our Responsible Business programme: Pillar 1 Think Planet – Minimising our Environmental Footprint • Think Planet energy savings initiative reaches 4.2% energy savings per occupied room. • Proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the Group reaches 69% (232 hotels). • Meetings Minus Carbon offsets 10,000 tonnes of carbon in Carlson Rezidor ­ hotels worldwide. Pillar 2 Think People – Health and Safety of Guests and Employees • 85% of General Managers trained in Pro-active Leadership. • New Responsible Business training launched and 65% of all staff re-trained. • Employee satisfaction remains high at 87%. • Rezidor becomes lead partner of the Youth Career Initiative. Pillar 3 Think Together – Social and Ethical Issues in the Company and the Community • For the fourth year in a row, Rezidor is named as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. • 80% of Rezidor hotels participate in the Responsible Business Action Month for the community in September. EUR 690,000 is raised for local and international charities. • 250 Hotels participate in Earth Hour to generate awareness about the importance of energy savings. The following table provides an overview of our key Responsible Business performance indicators: Indicator 2013 2012 2011 Energy/m2 (kWh) Rezidor 281 284 289 Energy/occupied room (kWh) Rezidor 91 92 95 Water/Guest-night (litres) Rezidor 340 343 396 Waste/Guest-night (kg) Rezidor 1.96 1.84 1.94 Medallia Guest Satisfaction Environmental 8.35 8.29 8.1 Conscientiousness (max. 10) Climate Analysis Employee Satisfaction score 87 86.5 86.7 Safety Security Self-Assessment 87* 96.1 92.7 * Rezidor Leased & Managed hotels. 3 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Materiality & Stakeholders Operating in a global context: Materiality & Stakeholders Rezidor has been a ­signatory to the UN Global ­Compact since 2009. Our Responsible Business ­Policies, strategy and a ­ ctivities are in line with the ten ­principles of the Global ­Compact. Striving to be a successful, ­sustainable business requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment in which we operate. Our most significant impacts are important both for our longterm ­success as a company and also for our stakeholders. Significant impact of tourism In 2012, the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC) estimated that the global travel industry generated over 260 million jobs (1 in 11 jobs worldwide) and contributed 9% of the global gross domestic product. In the same year the number of global travelMaking investments in green technolohas recognised the urgent need to lers surpassed one billion. gies and the green economy will help to ­continuously reduce water consumption An industry of this size has a considerreduce the impact of tourism. in our operations. We integrate the latest able impact on social, economic and enviThe tourism sector also faces risks from water-saving technologies in our newronmental conditions around the world. the consequences of climate change. The build hotels and during major renovations. We have identified three critical global risks are mainly linked to hotel locations, Roughly one third of the food produced impacts and trends that affect our busian increase in severe weather patterns, in the world for human consumption every ness and value chain: climate change, and to increasing legislative pressures year — approximately 1.3 billion tonnes — resource use, and employment. and taxation on carbon emissions. is lost or wasted. In Europe, 180 kg of food At Rezidor we recognise that we must is wasted per person per year. Global Climate Change play our part by reducing the carbon population growth projections estimate The United Nations Environmental footprint of our hotels and taking the there will be an additional 2 to 3 billion ­Programme (UNEP) has forecast that if the sustainable tourism route. people to feed in the world over the next tourism industry continues to operate in 40 years. This will result in a 70% increase the way it does today, energy use and Resource Use – Water and Food in demand for food by 2050. emissions will double by 2050. Water use Hotels are very resource-intensive, particWater and energy are critical to food will increase to 2.5 times current levels. ularly in terms of energy and water use. production, although the intensity of use Buildings are already responsible for They also impact the natural e ­ nvironment varies for different products. As food 30% of global energy consumption, yet through food use and waste generation. & drink represents over 30% of our most are very inefficient. Energy savings The UN has estimated that by 2050, the Group’s revenue, Rezidor recognises the of between 20 and 30% could be world’s need for drinkable water will importance of reducing waste and the achieved if commercial buildings were ­double and the need for fresh water for resource intensity of the food & drink designed to be more energy efficient. agriculture will increase by 80%. Rezidor ­supply chain. 4 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Materiality & Stakeholders A Global Employer in Local Communities Workforces are increasingly global. The hospitality industry in general, and ­Rezidor in particular, employs people from very diverse ethnic and cultural backgrounds. With hotels in 69 countries across EMEA, Rezidor’s staff represents more than 143 different nationalities. We employ most of our staff locally. Local employment, on-the-job training and people development are important aspects of the way we do business. Extending local training and employment opportunities to disadvantaged groups in society is part of our Responsible Business programme. The wide array of countries in which we operate and the diverse backgrounds of our employees means that we must diligently check that we comply with local laws. We must inform our employees of their rights, ensure non-discrimination, and make sure our staff operate to the highest ethical principles wherever they are located. At Rezidor we believe diversity is an asset. We can learn from each other as a company and as individuals, develop talent worldwide, and progress further as a global workforce. Creating opportunities through em­ployment in emerging markets 5 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Materiality & Stakeholders Stakeholders and Responsible Through our daily operations and dediSince we created our Responsible ­Business Policy cated exchanges with each stakeholder B ­ usiness programme in 2001, Rezidor has Rezidor has identified eight Responsible group, we continuously listen to their focused its activities on three p ­ illars: Business stakeholder groups. We mainexpectations for today and the future. tain clear commitments to each group. 1. Think Planet: Minimising our impact on (See our Responsible Business policy on Responsible Business Approach the environment. www.rezidor.com for more details.) At Rezidor, Responsible Business means 2. Think People: Taking care of the health The basis for identifying and selecting considering both our shortand long-term and safety of guests and employees. our key Responsible Business stakeholdinterests, and integrating economic, envi3. Think Together: Respecting social and ers relates primarily to the extent we influronmental and social considerations into ethical issues in the company and the ence or impact them: economically, our decision making. communities in which we operate. socially, or environmentally. Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy Employees We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of e ­ nvironmental, ­ethical and social issues in their work and private lives. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business activities at our hotels. Property Owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, ­e­nvironmental and social objectives. Shareholders We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on ­Responsible Business performance, related risks and opportunities. Suppliers We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the environment. Community We take an active role in the international responsible business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Environment We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy and water use, ­chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimise our carbon footprint. 6 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Materiality & Stakeholders Memberships Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group is a member of the ­following organisations: Awards In 2013 our hotels were awarded with numerous local awards International Tourism Partnerfor their Responsible Business Initiatives. Below we list the ship (ITP). ITP brings together key international awards for Rezidor’s Responsible Business the world’s leading international programme. hotel companies to provide a voice for environmental and social responsibility in the industry. R ­ ezidor was •T  ravel Industry Club Germany one of the founding members of ITP in 2003. Carlson Best Practice Award 2013 for Think Planet Rezidor continues to play a leading role in the hospitalThe Best Practice Award h ­ onours a company of the Tourism ity industry forum on responsible business. & Travel Industry which stands out from the competition with successful new products or processes. W  orld Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC). An international organisa•E  thisphere lists Rezidor tion of travel industry executives for the 4th consecutive which promotes global travel and year as one of the ­ tourism. World’s Most Ethical ­Companies Signatory to the Code of Conduct for The World’s Most Ethical the Protection of Children from Sexual (WME) ­Companies designaExploitation in Travel and Tourism. The tion recognizes companies that truly go beyond making Code started as a project of ECPAT (End statements about doing business ethically and translate Child Prostitution, Child Pornography and those words into action. WME honourees not only promote Trafficking of Children for S ­ exual Purposes) and is supethical business ­standards and practices internally, they ported by the UNWTO and UNICEF. In 2004 Carlson exceed legal compliance m ­ inimums and shape future induswas the first major North American h ­ ospitality comtry standards by introducing best practices today. pany to sign the Code. Together, we adhere to the Code’s p ­ rinciples in all of our hotels. •W  orld Travel Market Global Award for The Box Appeal The Box Appeal has been organised by Radisson Blu and Global Compact signatory since 2009. Park Inn Hotels in the Middle East for the past six years. The principles and requirements of the Hotels appeal to the community to fill boxes with everyday Global Compact inform our Responsible items. The boxes are collected and distributed by hotel Business targets and actions. The employees to those most in need. ­Compact is the world’s largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative, with over 10,000 business and other stakeholders from 140 countries. Since 2000, the Global Compact has been a strategic policy initiative for businesses which are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with its Ten Principles which cover the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-­corruption. 7 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Organisation and Governance Organisation and Governance Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organisation. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group as a whole. Head Office CEO and Executive Responsible Business reports to the Chief Operating Officer of Rezidor. Committee The Executive Committee is frequently updated on strategies, plans and progress. Responsible Business Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up, and ensures ­Department cross-departmental cooperation. The team works very closely with the Area Head Office teams. Regions Regional Responsible There are a total of 23 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators who Business ­Coordinators set regional targets in line with Group strategy. They also follow-up on progress. Area Vice Presidents are closely involved. Hotels Responsible Business Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible ­Coordinators ­Business team. The Responsible Business Coordinator and the team jointly define the Responsible Business action plans in line with both regional and Group priorities. Radisson Blu Hotel, Maputo, Mozambique 8 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group 25% 5 years energy savings in Equivalent to 245,000 cars off the road 4.2% less energy used With top performers Best hotel saves 35% per occupied room for the group our Let’s use energy save to energy 9 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Minimising our Environmental Footprint Rezidor focuses on minimising our environmental footprint in all stages of a hotel’s lifecycle: from build or renovation, to operation. Think Planet Energy Energy use in kWh/m2* 300 285 289 284 281 217 200 A green pioneer, Rezidor launched the 3. Think Planet investments: Testing hotel industry’s first Environmental Policy in innovative energy saving technologies 100 1989. That was followed in 2001 with the such as wireless guest-room controls. first comprehensive Responsible Business 4. LED lighting retrofit: A group-wide 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2016 Programme. Both clearly pledged to minidecision to fit Philips LEDs and take Target mise the Rezidor Group’s environmental advantage of the supplier’s technical Based on 247 managed and leased hotels. footprint. In 2012, Rezidor reconnected guidance. Energy use in kWh/OR* with our eco-friendly roots by launching 120 114 Think Planet, our ambitious energy saving 2013 Results 95 92 91 initiative. Think Planet is designed to help In 2013, Rezidor Group reduced energy us reduce energy consumption by 25% use per square metre by 2.8% compared 80 71 over the next five years. to the 2011 baseline. Energy per occupied Many of our hotels have already introroom was reduced by 4.2%. For leased 40 duced progressive, environmentally hotels the savings were 2.6% and 7% friendly measures. In the period from respectively. 0 2007 to 2011, Rezidor hotels reduced their Excellent results have been achieved in 2010 2011 2012 2013 2016 Target energy consumption (kWh/m2) by 7.8%. some geographical areas such as Central Based on 247 managed and leased hotels. Think Planet will help us spread these Europe (5.4% reduction in energy/m2 and ­initiatives into all of our hotels. It also 15.7% reduction in energy/occupied room). Hotel (energy use per source)* enables us to prioritise the implementaThese results are counterbalanced by Electricity, 55% tion of energy saving investments which areas such as Russia, Middle East and District Heating, 12% will have the biggest impact. Sub-Saharan Africa where positive results District Cooling, 5% At the same time, we are faced with sighave been slower to materialise. Weaker Natural Gas, 22% nificant increases in energy costs in many Think Planet Energy performance in these Heating Oil, 3% countries and government carbon taxaareas (where Rezidor operates managed LPG, 4% tion. Think Planet is good for both our hotels) is largely due to lower overall business and our planet. Thanks to Think ­environmental awareness. This in turn * Based on 247 managed and leased hotels. Planet, Rezidor was able to reduce utility leads to lower and slower mobilisation costs (heat, light, power) by EUR 570,000. of investments. In total, 36 hotels have already reached Think Planet’s four pillars are: or exceeded their five-year Think Planet 1. Think Planet Habits: Employee awaretargets, some spectacularly! The best perness: in operations through back-offormers have achieved savings above house posters, training videos and the 30% on both Think Planet key per­ special promotions such as a quiz. formance indicators (energy/m2 and 2. Think Planet tools: Easy to implement energy/occupied room). energy saving tools which provide a quick return on investment. 10 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Proven Successes in 2013 The biggest energy consumers in our LEDs, boiler-firing optimisation technology, monitor and measure the energy savings hotels are the systems for heating, ventilaand a new all-electric kitchen including delivered by its HVAC GEM Intelligent tion and air-conditioning (HVAC), lighting, induction cooking and variable kitchen Room Control solution. The data shows sanitary hot water and kitchens. The bigventilation. Thanks to this winning combithat in a 24-hour occupancy, hotels can gest savings can be made by optimising nation the hotel reduced energy use/m2 expect to reduce the energy use of HVAC the technical installations in these areas. by 33% and energy/occupied room by systems by 30 to 45%. Calculations show However, these improvements require 35.5% in 2013. that the new system will deliver a return investment. In 2013, ­Rezidor invested on investment (ROI) within 14 months, and over EUR 3 million in 13 integrated hotel Controlling guestrooms’ heating should save close to EUR 42,000 this year. projects which were led by energy service and cooling at the Radisson Blu companies (ESCOs). An ESCO is a busiHotel C ­ ardiff Intelligent pump power: ness that develops, installs, and arranges HVAC represents the biggest energy cost Rezidor hotels in Germany install financing for projects designed to improve in any commercial building, especially in new high-efficiency pumps the energy efficiency and maintenance the 24/7 operations of hotels. Radisson After conducting an audit of the pumps 7 costs of facilities. Blu Hotel Cardiff wanted to find the best German Rezidor Hotels renewed most of Our hotels are already benefiting from HVAC management solution which had no their pump installations. The energy savings the Think Planet improvements. Some adverse impact on guest satisfaction. amount to over 250,000 kWh per year. In notable achievements include: SaveMoneyCutCarbon has run 24/7 2014 this best practice will be extended to ­trials over recent months at the hotel to other hotels and geo­graphical areas. Radisson Blu Hotel Leeds leads in energy savings In one year the Radisson Blu Hotel Leeds moved from a bad performer to a switched­on leader in Think Planet energy savings. By the end of 2012, electricity and gas In 2013 Rezidor invested EUR 3 million to consumption at the hotel had increased for no apparent reason. improve energy Change came when the property’s engineer fully embraced the Think Planet ethos. An energy scan was undertaken and a number of investments in LEDs and other energy saving technologies were efficiency made. Investments included almost 600 the Radisson The technical team of Res ort Spl it dem ons trating a Blu r Thi nk Pla net min dset. clea 11 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet 1 Radisson Blu Hotel Media City 2 Park Inn by Radisson Northampton 3  ark Inn by Radisson Hotel Pulkovskaya P Chief engineer and General Manager Leading with LED’s the hotel. “The LED light installation and engineering team started the task in 1. An energy saving winner 95% various other Think Planet initiatives have August and finished end of November. equipped with LED lights enabled the hotel to reduce its carbon The LEDs were installed in all public Radisson Blu Hotel Media City, Dubai footprint by over 1,000 tonnes of carbon areas notably in the lobby of both hotel In 2013, The Radisson Blu Hotel Media dioxide equivalents.” buildings, one of the restaurants and 21 City completed the biggest conversion to meeting rooms. The hotel is already seeLEDs with Philips Lighting Middle East at a 2. LED wave sweeps through ing good savings and confirms the return hotel at one time. Rezidor’s UK hotels on investment of 19 months will be met. In just 45 days the engineering team In 2013, 32 hotels in the UK installed LED The hotel General Manager, Atakan installed 5,200 LED lights in all guest lighting in guestroom corridors and back ­Turhan confirms: “We are happy we went areas, meeting Rooms, kitchens and of house. In total close to 5,800 LEDs through with the LED lighting retrofit. The entire back-of-house. This represents an were installed with a combined savings of lamps deliver savings and positively affect investment of close to EUR 75,000, with a over 3.67 million watts, resulting in an the lighting design. We are very glad to return on investment below 1 year. The annual saving of EUR 300,000 a return on make a positive contribution to Think installation of LEDs achieved an energy investment below 1 year. In 2014 hotels Planet and to our budget. Our ­corporate consumption drop of 4%. will implement ‘wave 2’ with an LED retroclients are also very much interested in our When the hotel originally opened in fit in lobby and restaurant areas. Think Planet achievements and Green Key 2006, 75% of its lighting came from haloeco-label. In 2014 we will continue our savgen lights with the remainder being com3. Impressive LED lighting retrofit in ings with more LED and an upgrade of our pact fluorescent lamps (CFL). “An addiPark Inn by Radisson Hotel Building Management ­System.” tional advantage of having all LEDs is the Pulkovskaya 70% drop in the cost of purchasing The 800+ room Park Inn by Radisson Employees go for Think Planet replacement lamps each month,” explains Hotel Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Lumi the firefly is the energetic Think Nicholas Fernandez, Chief Engineer for installed 1500 LED bulbs in 2013. The Planet mascot who lights the vital energy saving spark in our staff. A firefly is the ideal mascot for Think Planet: these little insects generate light 100% efficiently. To create energy saving habits among Go for Gold our staff, the 2013 Think Planet employee Think Planet engagement programme consisted of: competition • Back-of-house posters which remind hotel staff to switch off lights and Employees of the hotel which achieves devices. the biggest energy saving will all re­ ceive a folding bicycle. Radisson Blu • Training videos for operational and Waterfront Hotel Cape Town was the engineering departments. winner of the 2012 Go for Gold competi• The Lumiquiz – by answering five tion with impressive energy savings of energy related questions correctly, 28% in kWh/m2 and 17.5% in kWh/occuemployees can win an iPad each month. pied room. In the spring of 2013, each • Lumi-On-Tour employee awareness employee received a folding bicycle as a Think Planet prize. campaign on social media. Employees send in eye-catching pictures of the 28% energy savings happening in their hotels. A selection of images is placed on the Responsible Business Facebook page (https://www.facebook.com/­ RezidorResponsibleBusiness). The energy savings image with most ‘likes’ wins the quarterly competition. 12 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam, Netherlands Siemens Building Technologies partners on Think Planet The Siemens Building Technologies Division is of-the-art guestroom controls, optimisation of with eye-catching information for the hotel one of Rezidor’s key partners in the implementhe Siemens Building Management System, team and the guest.” tation of Think Planet Energy. As part of Think installation of LEDs, and a number of additional The Siemens Building Performance OptimisaPlanet important CAPEX investments are made quick-win measures. tion programme involves an on-site audit, deterin various leased hotels to realize a Siemens Six other projects will be implemented mining individual measurement criteria, and Building Performance O ­ ptimization project. during 2014 in Belgium, France, Germany and optimising the building management systems the Nordics. and processes according to these criteria. Once The Siemens team offers a holistic approach “We are excited to be contributing to the the work is completed, energy consumption and proposes integrated projects which allow Think Planet results,” notes Eike-Oliver Steffen, data is continuously monitored and optimised achieving Think Planet’s targets within 5 years. Senior Vice President – Building Performance remotely by energy experts from ­Siemens. The pilot project at the Radisson Blu Hotel and Sustainability. “Based on our broad experiSiemens has developed and successfully Amsterdam kicked off in October 2013. The ence in building performance optimisation, we implemented the Building Performance project will save an estimated 30% of the are confident that the hotels we have selected ­Optimisation programme in around 20 of its hotel’s total energy spend and has a payback can reach their targets. In the future we will also own production facilities and in 6,300 pro­ time of just over four years. It focuses on stateprovide an energy consumption dashboard perties worldwide. Siemens helps Rezidor achieve Eike-Oliver Steffen, Senior Vice President – Head Building Performance & Sustainability, Siemens Think Planet targets 13 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Minimising the Water and Waste Footprint in our hotels Water Inadequate access to safe drinking water is a major problem across many of the regions in which Rezidor operates. Reducing water consumption in our hotels – without compromising service quality for guests – is a key priority for Rezidor. At the end of 2013: • 71% of guestrooms have water s­ aving toilets • 79% of guestrooms have aerators to control tap and shower water flows • 7% of hotels recycle grey water • 6% collect rainwater for irrigation, car washing and other needs • 12% of hotels use waterless urinals. In 2013, water consumption in litres/­­guestnight (GN) was reduced by 0.9% for the Group as a whole. We see major regional differences in water use per guest-night. The best ­performers are Germany and Sweden with consumption per guestnight as low as 212 litres. Across the Group, we involve guests in towel and sheet replacement programmes. We have an ongoing maintenance programme to complete the installation of been able to reduce their water conWater consumption in litres/guest-night water saving devices such as aerators sumption year-on-year by 23,000 m3 398 without compromising guest satisfaction. 400 and sensor taps. In new hotels, systems to harvest rainwater or reuse grey water • In a water stressed area like the United 362 are integrated wherever p ­ ossible. Arab Emirates, saving water is essential. 350 343 340 The Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Best practices include: Creek has installed bottle free water 300 • In a number of Park Inn by Radisson ­dispensers – i.e. this dispenser is hotels we piloted Green Housekeeping directly connected to the water pipeline 0 whereby guests are offered the option providing filtered drinking water. The 2010 2011 2012 2013 to forego housekeeping services in system eliminates the plastic bottled Data from 247 managed and leased hotels. exchange for Club Carlson points and a water consumption which helps to Rezidor donation to World Childhood reduce the hotel’s waste stream and Foundation. Green Housekeeping saves overall carbon footprint. Non recycled waste in kg/guest-night on water and cleaning chemical usage. • Hippo Water Saver bags have been 2.5 • Hotels in the UK completed the installainstalled in the toilet cisterns at the 1.94 1.96 tion of water saving showerheads and Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London. 1.84 taps. In 2013 25 hotels performed water A double Hippo bag reduces toilet flush 1.46 consumption audits, as a result of which volume from 9 to 7 litres. The overall 1.25 close to 4,000 guestrooms were ­savings amount to a staggering 11,300 m3 equipped with water saving showers of fresh water per year. and tap regulators. These hotels have 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 Data from 156 managed and leased hotels. 14 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Several of our hotels use greywater recycling systems. Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin, Germany In the Radisson Blu Hotel Beijing, grey water is recycled for use in toilets, the ­garden and the hotel cooling tower. The greywater reuse system collects the waste water from guest room and staff shower rooms into the grey water tank, then it is be pumped into a biological pool for biodegradation. Then after filtration and chemical disinfection, the water is be pumped into the clean water tank for reuse. In 2013 the system allowed a reuse of 16,270 m³. In the Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort and Thalasso in Djerba Tunisia, the waste­ water treatment plant converts the grey water to purified water to irrigate all ­gardens of the resort. This treated water is full of fertilizing elements such as nitrogen (nitrate) and phosphate which contribute to soil enrichment. In 2013 16,500 m3 of water were reused – saving precious fresh water. With these grey water reuse systems both hotels together saved over 13 Olympic swimming pools in fresh water in 2013. Waste Solid waste is generated by many activities in our hotels including food preparation, consumption of pre-packaged items, Ralph Goetzmann, General Manager, and Willem Van Der Zee, Area Vice President holding the fish sculpture. guest waste, and cleaning. Rezidor pro­ actively seeks ways to reduce and recycle waste, and to reduce the residual waste which goes to landfill or incineration. 2013 highlights include: to ­collect enough plastic waste to create In our Living Responsible Business • Park Inn by Radisson bans individually the fish. Normally this type of waste course, all Rezidor employees are trained in wrapped pens. In 2013, Rezidor worked would go directly into the recycling bin. techniques to minimise waste and on the with the company which supplies The statue – shining bright blue in the waste hierarchy: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. branded pens for Park Inn by ­Radisson lobby – continually reminds guests and hotels to avoid single packaging. Hotels employees of one very important At the end of 2013: now receive the pens wrapped in bags ­message: Think Planet! • 93% of our hotels had a dedicated waste of 50 pens. This changes avoids the use • Food waste training in Central Europe. sorting area. of 1,000,000 plastic wrappings per year! It is estimated that a third of all food is • 66% of hotels had waste sorting facilities • A fish sculpture made out of recycled wasted. The social and environmental on housekeeping trolleys. plastic inspires waste recycling. Berlin costs of this waste are enormous. Food • Overall recycling rate is 29% for hotels. artist Gerhard Bär has created a 150 cm waste has a detrimental impact on the long fish from the plastic waste ­collected environment as it squanders the materiIn the area of waste (both residual and at the Radisson Blu Hotel, ­Berlin. The fish als, water and energy used in its producrecycled) Rezidor receives reliable data was created from plastic waste such as tion. In the UK alone, 4.2 million tonnes from 156 hotels. Despite many initiatives, dry cleaning covers, plastic newspaper of good food and drink is thrown away residual waste (expressed in kg/guest-night) bags and plastic covers from the restaueach year. This equates to 17 million increased by 6% compared to 2012 levels. rant kitchen. It took employees a week tonnes of carbon dioxide (CO2). 15 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Rezidor hotels in Central Europe have (EEG). In 2013 the hotel collected over In 2013, CO2-equivalent emissions from identified food waste as a key issue. 430 kg of cans. The hotel plans to conelectricity, natural gas, heating oil, district Chefs in the region have developed a tinue their can ­collection drive in 2014 heating and LPG gas for the 247 managed specific food waste reduction workshop. and extend it to staff accommodation. and leased hotels for which Rezidor has The head chefs of all 74 hotels in the In 2013, the Emirates Environment comprehensive data amounted to 455,616 area have received the training which Group annual collection helped save tonnes. The footprint per guestnight has combines food waste tracking, innova382 million tonnes of greenhouse gas increased slightly from 22.1 to 22.8 kg CO2. tion in menu design, and close cooperaemissions, 1,695 mega-watt hours of • In 2012 ITP and WTTC, together with all tion with suppliers. energy, and stopped 617 m3 of waste major hospitality companies, launched • Waste separation in meeting rooms going to landfill. the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiawith SMART meeting. In October 2013, tive. The Initiative includes a single Park Inn by Radisson launched SMART Carbon Emissions methodology for calculating carbon meetings with a smart waste recycling Rezidor’s greenhouse gas emissions pridioxide emissions and consistent metbin for meeting rooms. Designed in Italy, marily result from energy consumption rics for communicating the data. Rezidor the Ovetto bin makes it easy to separate and mainly consist of carbon dioxide continues to be an active member of the waste into three fractions. It also includes emissions. Since 2006, our carbon dioxHCMI working group. a very clever crusher at the top for PET ide and equivalent emissions have been • In 2013, the methodology was rolled-out bottles and cans. calculated. The assessment focuses on to all managed and leased hotels and it • Hotels in United Arab Emirates actively energy related emissions only and conis used in the Meetings Minus Carbon reduce waste streams and maximise tains both scope 1 and 2 emissions. programme. recycling. For three consecutive years, the R­ adisson Royal Hotel Dubai has participated in the Can Collection Campaign with the Emirates Environment Group meetings minus c arb n a plus for planneors With Club Carls on for Planners SM Club CarlsonSM for Planners will offset meeting. Carbon the carbon footpr credits will be pur int of your Standard Windfa chased from a Ver rm in India combin ified Carbon programme in Ke ed with a Tree-b nya – one tree pla uddying nted for every ton CO2. Meetings minus carbon is part of programme. As a our Responsible recognition of our Business sustainability ma continuous efforts ny of our hotels hav in received prestigiou e an eco-label and s environmental have awards. The Ovetto recycling bin is part of Park Inn by Radisson Smart Meetings 16 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet 10,000 tonnes of Carbon offset since Earth Day 2013 Meetings Minus Carbon Club CarlsonSM, the global loyalty programme The benefit for the planet and the meeting The Kikuyu escarpment forest has a diverse for Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, is the first planner is double as each tonne of CO2 is offset mix of both large and small wildlife, birds and loyalty programme in the hospitality industry through the following projects: butterflies. It formed a beautiful gateway to to commit to a global carbon offsetting initiative. • A Verified Carbon Standard (VCS) renewable the Great Rift Valley until degradation set in. green-power generation project which is The environment is a major source of water Carlson Rezidor offsets emissions for all Club installing windmills in India. VCS offsets must and livelihood for neighbouring communities. Carlson For Planners meetings and events be real, additional, measurable, permanent, across the group’s seven global hotel brands. and independently verified. VCS delivers ESCONET members are contributing their This covers 1,077 hotels in operation worldtrust and credibility to our carbon neutrality time, energy, and resources to plant 30,000 wide. The carbon offsetting initiative – a free programme. indigenous trees on 30 hectares of the most service for meeting planners – is managed • One tree planted in the Great Rift Valley in degraded areas in the Valley. through Carlson Rezidor’s partner, Carbon Kenya by the Escarpment Environment ­Footprint Ltd. Piloted with Rezidor Radisson Blu ­Conservation Network (ESCONET). hotels in 2012, the programme was launched ESCONET aims to effectively mobilise and worldwide for all Carlson Rezidor brands on build the Great Rift Valley community’s Earth Day 2013. To date, over 10,000 tonnes of capacity to rehabilitate, conserve and CO2 have been offset. ­protect the natural ecosystem. Renewable energy and tree planting provide a double benefit for the climate 17 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Greening Hotel Operations Green Experience Meetings The eco-labels used in Rezidor hotels In 2013, Radisson Blu Experience Meetset strict requirements on: ings received a special recognition by the • Environmental management Green Meetings Industry Council (GMIC – and monitoring www.gmicglobal.org). As an industry first, • Maximum energy and water use Experience Meetings are recognised for • Energy-efficient lighting innovation and thought leadership in sus• Waste sorting and recycling tainable meeting support solutions in the • Controlled use of certain chemicals hospitality industry. • Controlled use of disposable products • Communication with guests. C ­ arlson, driving greater responsible busiEco-labels ness worldwide. Eco-labels provide an independent thirdWorking with Suppliers All Rezidor suppliers are required to party audit of each hotel’s practices and Rezidor works closely with our global sign the Supplier Code of Conduct and actions to protect the environment. Our ­suppliers to set strict environmental perhave the opportunity to further profile target is to have 100% of our hotels formance criteria and minimise the social their Responsible Business performance eco-labelled by 2015. and environmental impacts of the prodin RezPIN, Rezidor’s central purchasing At the end of 2013, a total of 232 Rezidor ucts and services we purchase. platform. hotels (69%) across EMEA have received Collectively, Carlson’s Global Sourcing Local suppliers are also required to eco-labels. That is a net increase of 15 Council is a driving force for social responsign the Supplier Code of Conduct and properties compared to 2012. A complete sibility and is made up leaders from the 50% of our hotels actively check on suplist of our eco-labelled hotels can be Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, TGI Fridays, pliers’ responsible business perforfound on page 34. Carlson Wagonlit Travel, and other mance. 54% of our hotels also return In some regions and countries, Rezidor ­Carlson business affiliates. packaging to suppliers. already achieved the 100% eco-labelled Over the past year, the council has target This is the case in the Baltic worked to incorporate language into Responsible Renovation ­countries; Belgium, Finland, France, ­supplier agreements that support and Construction Guidelines ­Ireland and the Middle East. Poland ­Carlson’s responsible business values: Rezidor is one of the fastest growing is the newest country to be 100% eco‑ language that condemns all forms of hotel companies in the industry. On labelled with 8 Green Key hotels. commercial and sexual exploitation of ­average we open a new hotel every Started in 2013 and completed before children (ECPAT) and supports the valthree weeks. the 2014 Winter Olympics, five hotels in ues of human rights, labour standards, When building a new hotel or reno­ the Sochi area achieved the Green Key the environment and anti-corruption. vating an existing property, it is important eco-label. This assures ‘one voice’ and One that attention is paid to resource effiRezidor is listed on OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index 18 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet ciency. We want to create buildings with the lowest possible carbon footprint. At Radisson Blu Riverside Hotel, Gothenburg, Sweden Rezidor, this is done in close cooperation with property owners, builders and ­architects. For all newly built hotels and major re­novations, Rezidor applies Think Planet principles. These are captured in our Responsible Renovation and Construction guidelines. The guidelines cover all re­levant issues relating to the construction site and the building itself including: •U  se of sustainable and renewable energy sources and improving the ­thermal insulation of facades to ­minimise heat loss and gain. • Heat recovery systems. • Rainwater recovery systems. • Building management systems which create intelligent buildings. • Effective waste and recycling ­management. • 1 00% LED lighting for outside signage A LEED Gold building on new hotels and major renovations. This requirement became mandatory in 2009 for Radisson Blu and in 2010 Reporting Systems Area management and general managfor Park Inn by Radisson. Rezidor collects monthly environmental ers receive monthly performance statisperformance data for managed and tics and a yearly report on their overall Environmental Compliance leased hotels in the Think Planet section Responsible Business performance, and Rezidor checks all of our 337 hotels of our financial reporting system. All Think Planet in particular. for environmental compliance. No hotels (leased, managed and franchised) issues with environmental compliance are also assessed through the annual arose in 2013. Responsible Business Status Report. Promoting Green hotels online As travellers become more eco-conscious, Rezidor hotels want to make information on their Think Planet ­activities and results available to the interested traveller. We support reliable ­eco-travel websites. In 2013, Rezidor eco-labelled hotels became available on the newly launched ­platforms ­Greenhopping.eu and Bookdifferent.com. 19 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group 35,000 employees 69 countries 65% trained in the new 17 years Responsible Business course 85% of Business School of General Managers trained in Proactive Leadership are our People core capital 20 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees With operations in 69 countries, keeping hotel guests and staff safe in sometimes risky local situations is an essential part of our business. Rezidor believes that maintaining appropriate levels of safety and security is dependent on the daily actions of every employee at every level of the company. This requires a dynamic programme that can be adapted to meet changing circumstances in different locations. As a formula for individual application Carlson our hotels have access to a TRIC=S rather than a one size fits all prescription the main benefit of TRIC=S is that it is not limited by jurisdiction, by organisation or 24/7/365 global security operations centre that monitors threats, dispatches alerts and is available as an emergency hotline – A Formula T ­ ailor-made a Safe, by other constraints. Threat assessments for our hotels. Secure, Decentralized and are based on gathering information from a Since it was originally developed the Dynamic Organisation wide variety of sources, including closely TRIC=S formula has often been cited as In 2007, Rezidor developed and introengaging with local communities we operbeing good practice for managing corpoduced a formula known as TRIC=S, which ate in, with expert providers of analysis rate safety and security. It was included as stands for Threat assessment + Risk evaland with our guests and staff. The on line an example of best practice by the knowluation and mitigation + Incident response risk evaluation and mitigation system we edge bank at the Dutch centre for protecpreparedness + Crisis management, comfirst put in place in 2006 was upgraded tion of infrastructure and in 2009 and munications and continuity = Safe, secure and since 2012 has been freely available external survey carried out by BGN Risk of and sellable hotels. The development of for all hotels in all Carlson Rezidor brands London also concluded that TRIC=S was TRIC=S actually started ten years earlier in all locations around the world. Incident fit for purpose. There is also an increasing when we announced that the role of corresponse focuses on our employees and awareness that this kind of approach is porate safety and security was shifting giving them training, tools and confidence not only fit for purpose, it is also good for from a reactive centralized command and to react immediately when something is our ­business. control to a more proactive, decentralized not the way it should be so small incidents As the world evolves and communicaand dynamic role that focused on playing are not allowed to escalate. However we tion and information increases difficult a support role to our growing number of remain clearly aware that crises can hapdecisions need to be taken more quickly hotels in a growing number of locations. pen and through our partnership with and it is becoming increasingly important Attentive employees save lives On a nice summer day in August a guest of the Radisson Blu Hotel ­Bucharest was in the outdoor swimming pool together with her friends. While swimming, she suffered an epilepsy c­ risis and lost consciousness in the ­middle of the pool, without any of her friends noticing. She literally sank to the bottom of the pool and remained there without any reaction. One of our Security Supervisors and the lifeguard on duty noticed and acted immediately. They took her out of the pool and gave first aid. Thanks to their intervention, the guest quickly regained consciousness. An ambulance doctor confirmed that the help offered by our staff saved her life. 21 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People that they can be taken further out in the Yes I Can! A great way organisation. In their 2006 report The of working and living Business of Resiliency, the UK think-tank Yes I Can! – the core service philosodemos confirmed that a decentralized phy of the Rezidor Hotel Group – is so safety and security system was more suitmuch more than just a slogan: it’s a able for the modern world than the older way of life for our staff, ensuring their command and control type systems. We best professional – and personal – • More fish, whole grains, eggs, fruit acknowledge that every employee at development. and vegetables every level in every location has the • Use of local and fresh ingredients opportunity at any time to raise or lower where feasible • Pure ingredients with minimal the security level through their everyday ­processing actions. This helps us focus on our • Less meat and lower fat content employees as the key deciders that make (maximum 10%) our hotels safe and secure. • Naturally sweetened food and In their recent whitepaper the LRN never more than 10% added sugar Freedom Report concluded that the greatest challenge of the 21st Century is to combine growth with increased resiliency Guest satisfaction is a key factor for and that the right kind of freedom will also success in the hotel business. So Yes I create a competitive advantage. The Can! is also Rezidor’s special customer empirical study showed that “High freesatisfaction programme, reflecting and dom” companies had financial perforpowering our commitment to always mances 10 times better than “low freeoffer alternatives – while seeking the dom” companies and 20 times more long best ­possible solution in all our interacterm success. tions with guests, suppliers, colleagues and the community. Delight our guests Creating a healthy and pleasant environment in our hotels is one of Rezidor’s top priorities. A healthy experience in Knowing that the approach we take total guest comfort works through air towards safety and security is backed up quality, accessibility, food & drink soluby empirical evidence like these studies is tions, the ­fitness and spa options availimportant and gives us increased confiable and choice of guest amenities. dence. The formula is simple and the evi• 88% of our rooms are non-­smoking. dence that supports its usefulness is clear. • 59% of our hotels are smoke-free. In order to communicate this to all of our • 2% of our guestrooms are adapted to employees in all of our hotels we have the needs of disabled guests. also chosen a simple clear message as • 58% of hotels offer fairtrade products our motto: Always Care – if you care (tea, coffee, sugar, fruit, wine, etc.). about people, care about property and • Vegetarian options in each menu. care about the world around you, you • Eliminate unsustainable ingredients Smartfood for Smart meetings will be better able to take care of our from the menu (for example, bluefin Seasonal, local & great tasting guests, our hotels and our colleagues. tuna). That is a message our employees Consider understand and because it aligns to the Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson Sustainability, fair-trade and natural Carlson credo and the Rezidor 4D stratproducts meeting concepts honour principles egy it makes us certain that the Think which are good for the participants’ People pillar of our Responsible Business health and the planet. program providing a firm foundation for Rezidor. 22 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People People Development Develop our Talent: developing tries. They focus on activities such as volThe Business School @ Rezidor is the happy & healthy employees untary health screenings, HIV-AIDS inforlearning platform for employees within As a service provider, people are our core mation, eye testing, and group sports. Rezidor. The School was created in 1996 capital. The quality of the service we and is constantly aligned with the vision, deliver to our guests depends on the willRezidor’s 5-step People brand values and goals of the company. ingness and ability of our employees to Development Programme All courses on offer have an impact on satisfy customer needs and expectations. Rezidor offers employees a comprehensive the business objectives of guest satisfacThe first pillar of our 4D strategy is and ambitious 5-step people develoption, employee satisfaction and owner Develop our Talent. Rezidor believes in ment programme. It includes basic training ­satisfaction. It helps the company to posideveloping talent from within. We offer a around the Group’s unique Yes I Can! tively influence revenue, quality and value range of tools to develop each employee ­service philosophy, high-level training to and offers a thought-provoking, stimulating to their full potential. These include the develop on-the-job skills, a Management and enjoyable time for all who take part. Rezidor 5-step development profile and Development Programme, a company­ In 2013, the Business School offered the Carlson Rezidor Business School and owned Business School, and a dedicated four international schools and two area Learning Platform. Mentor-Mentee Programme for future schools. As we own the curriculum of the Working in a 24/7 operation is very general managers. The programme learning platform, many stand-alone demanding. To support our employees in includes the mandatory New Hire Orien­ courses were organised in the regions. their task, our hotels offer many opportunitation, on-the-job skills development, A total of 950 supervisors and managers ties for staff to be fit and healthy. Employee Yes I Can!, and Responsible Business attended the 20+ courses which were health days are organised in various countraining. held during 2013. Responsible Business School, Abu Dhabi. 23 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Employees in the “I learnt a lot and now clearly spotlight understand the difference between a leader and a manager.” Talent Management New Responsible Business training & Pro-active Leadership Since 2008, Rezidor’s successful Living Deborah Haines In 2012, Rezidor launched the Pro-active Responsible Business and Leading Deborah Haines, Rezidor’s General Leadership Workshop to support all ReziResponsible Business courses have been ­Manager of the year 2013, is an dorians in reaching their full potential. The part of the New Hire Orientation and ­excellent example of Rezidor’s Workshop assists them to achieve their ­mandatory for all staff. The strengths of ­commitment to give employees personal and professional ambitions. the training are its interactivity and intense every chance to rise within the ranks. Deborah began with the ­company in The Workshop encourages participants question and answer sessions. 2000 as an executive ­housekeeper to question, challenge, and learn from each In 2013 both courses were thoroughly at the Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester other. Above all, it requires participants to revised and updated by a team of Master Airport. She now is General ­Manager explore how people can be their best as Trainers and General Managers. The of the General Manager of the Radisleaders and develop active relationships. revamped course now includes the comson Blu B­ elorusskaya Hotel, ­Moscow. In 2013, 85% of General Managers from pany’s targets and programmes in Think our managed and leased hotels were Planet, Think People and Think Together. trained. The response was overwhelmA total of 27 new Responsible Business ingly positive. Master Trainers were briefed in the new Going hand-in-hand with the Pro-active Living and Leading courses. In turn, the Leadership Workshop is the Performance Master Trainers rolled-out the new proManagement Process. gramme to our regional business schools. Through a series of steps and evaluaAt the end of 2013, 65% of all staff had tion moments throughout the year, the been retrained in Responsible Business. Performance Management Process The Living Responsible Business increases the possibilities for individual course illustrates how each employee employees to manage their careers and can live Responsible Business in their develop personally. It also enables pereveryday job and at home. In addition sonal objectives to be consistent with and we focus on our Code of Business Ethics, Miroslav Forejtek support the overall organisational strategy human rights and child protection. LeadMiroslav Forejtek, Park Inn Prague and goals. Clear ‘lines of sight’ to highering Responsible Business focuses on (Czech Republic) won the coveted title level objectives are established. how management staff can drive of the General Manager of the Year, at the Worldwide Hospitality Awards ­Responsible Business action plans 2013. Miroslav is a seasoned manager in their hotels. and hotelier at heart with more than 25 years of experience. He is a leader who ensures 100% guest satisfaction for our clients, builds a true team spirit among his staff members – according to our unique Yes I Can!-service ­philosophy and enthusiastically champions Responsible ­Business. 24 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Employee Satisfaction Employees are hired for their Yes I Can! Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice attitude and willingness to serve the guest. for our people. We care for our employCultural differences enable us as an ees, involve them in our planning and employer, and as a host, to cater to the decision-making processes, and ask needs of our clientele on an individual for their feedback. Our annual Climate basis. Rezidor’s Equal Opportunities Policy Analysis, a Group-wide employee satisstates that no discrimination due to age, faction survey (conducted by an external race, religion, gender or disability is independent party) found that employee allowed, and all our hotels have procesatisfaction in 2013 remained high at 87 dures in place to ensure this is the case. (out of a maximum of 100). The 2013 survey included 25,771 participants from 268 Empowering Employees business units. Compared to 2012, satisand Social Dialogue Time for Inclusive faction has increased. This is an outstandRezidor pays fair wages according to ing result within the hospitality and other industry standards. Rezidor respects the ­Business service industries worldwide. rights of employees to join trade unions if IT’S AFRICA’S TIME is a partnership they so choose and to bargain collectively between the United Nations DevelCelebrating Diversity in accordance with local laws. opment Programme (UNDP) and – Equal Opportunities Pursuant to the European Union DirecRegency Foundation Networx (RFN). Taking into account all hotels under all tive on Works Councils (94/45/ EC, the The goal of the venture is to promote contract types, more than 35,000 employWorks Council Directive) Rezidor has and encourage the adoption of the ees worked under the Rezidor brands established a European Works Council, ‘inclusive business’ model as a component of corporate growth in Africa. during 2013. The company counts no less which has been entered into by represenThe partners aim to demonstrate than 143 nationalities amongst the worktatives of our central management and how this approach can make a conforce, 57% of which is male. employees. Annual meetings are held, tribution towards the UN’s MillenA strong understanding and respect of where issues such as the company’s nium Development Goals. cultural differences is essential to Rezidor. finances, performance, future ventures Rezidor became a corporate Diversity amongst the workforce in our and other important issues are discussed ­partner of It’s Africa’s Time in 2013. Our employment programmes for hotels is as old as the hospitality industry with employee representatives. youth were featured in a television itself. Experience across different hotels Rezidor strives to handle all operational programme. You can watch the epiand different countries is an integral part changes in a transparent and open mansode on www.responsible­business. of any hospitality career. ner, with the goal of giving our employees rezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group supports staff fair influence. When taking over an existtransfers throughout the hotels in all couning hotel, we endeavour to retain the tries, enabling our employees to grow with majority of the employees of the previous Rezidor and to develop themselves. hotel brand. Staff health days in Central Europe Thirteen special employee health days were held in Central Europe last September. Activities for employees included health coaching, complimentary physician check-ups, after work running, yoga classes, and blood donations. For example, the Park Inn by Radisson Sofia organised a session with a nutritionist on healthy diets. The session included a bio-coffee break and yoga class. 25 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People ­ Educating young people for work and for life In many countries around the world – including Rezidor hotels in 4 countries have trained their community through their employment or both developed and developing nations – youth youngsters in the past years. The most recent further studies. unemployment remains extremely high; far graduation ceremony was in the Radisson Blu Building on the success of existing country higher than other age groups in the population. Hotel Addis Ababa. Two of the YCI graduates programmes YCI are now employed in the hotel. wishes to expand Globally the hospitality industry is almost Stephen Farrant, Director of the Internathis important eduuniquely placed to tackle this issue. With hotels tional Tourism Partnership, comments: ‘We cation and employoften placed near disadvantaged communities have had the pleasure of welcoming Rezidor ability initiative but able to offer ground level employment as a new lead partner for YCI in 2013. The within the hospitality opportunities to local people, with genuine ­partnership will allow for a faster and easier industry through the career paths and prospects to climb the ladder, ­roll-out of the YCI training cycles to more introduction of a new they can offer real hope to young people and ­countries.” franchised model. Its their families. These transformative opportunities, offering aim is to train over Youth Career Initiative, a 24-week life and both classroom-based and on-the-job training, 650 young people work skills programme, connects the hotel often spark a real passion for the hospitality per year by 2015. Stephen Farrant, industry and the group of underprivileged trade. Each young person reached can aspire Director, youngsters. To date the YCI programme has to greater economic prosperity, for them and International benefited about 2,400 students in 12 ­countries. for their families, and become a role model in ­Tourism Partnership Rezidor becomes lead partner of the Youth Career Initiative 26 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group 700 activities for the community EUR 690,000 raised for charity projects 10 th anniversary Responsible Business 127,000 EUR Action Month for World Childhood Foundation Proudly contributing to local communities 27 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Business Ethics and Community Action In many communities where we operate there are important local social needs. ­Rezidor hotels contribute by giving volunteer assistance and funding. C arlson Rezidor Hotel Group tionalised children. The charity has a par­supports the World Childhood ticular focus on helping girls and young Foundation (Childhood) as our ­mothers. Little Moments, Big Magic Just one example of Childhood’s 100 corporate charity. Cooperation Rezidor’s mission is to provide its sevprojects around the globe is Little with this worldwide organisation, founded eral million annual guests with a comfortMoments, Big Magic, Russia. by HRH Queen Silvia of Sweden, dates able and restful stay away from home. Little Moments, Big Magic in back to 2007 and engages our hotels Childhood aims to help children who are ­ oscow links adult volunteers (Bigs) M each year in fundraising for Childhood. abused and exploited to ensure that they and children (Littles). By providing The World Childhood Foundation is a are given a safe and secure childhood, ­caring and compassionate adult role non-profit organisation dedicated to servor simply put, a home. These parallel models that communicate and relate ing the most vulnerable children in the aspirations mean that Rezidor’s support to the child individually, the programme provides children with world including: street children, sexually to Childhood fits well with who we are as healthy behaviour models. The chilabused and exploited children, children a company and as a corporate citizen. dren can discuss their future hopes trafficked for sexual purposes, and instituand dreams with someone who will listen and encourage them, and above all, give them self-esteem, dignity and hope for a better life. Professional programme staff regularly monitor the relationships together with social workers and psychologists. – I will never forget when I travelled to the Ukraine with my mother; it was one of my first travels with Childhood. We visited an organisation that supports children who have been victims of trafficking, which is the commercial trade of people and often involves sexual abuse. Talking to two girls my age and hearing about their experiences was terrifying. One of them had been kidnapped during a holiday in Turkey, and had her passport taken from her. I remember thinking to myself that this could just as well have happened to me or one of my friends. Princess Madeleine of Sweden 28 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Celebrating 10 years of action is celebrated by 1,100 Carlson Rezidor During the year our hotels have raised a for the community: Responsible Hotels worldwide – a ten-fold increase in staggering EUR 690,000 for Childhood Business Action Month 2003–2013 its impact in a decade. and various other charities. Hotel employIn September each year – Responsible The enthusiasm of our hotels in this ees have volunteered the equivalent of Business Action Month (RBAM) – our anniversary action month exceeded all close to 3,500 working days for local hotels give extra focus to community expectations. In total Carlson Rezidor charities during the year and especially activities. This year we proudly celebrated hotels across the Europe, the Middle East during RBAM. the 10th anniversary of RBAM. and Africa organised more than 690 activRBAM started in 2003 with the first ities for Childhood and a series of local action month for the community. At that charities. time, 80 hotels participated. Today RBAM Fundraising for the Philippines When Typhoon Haiyan struck the Philipthoughts are with them and the victims Doha sent 100 boxes filled with 6,000 kg pines in November, Rezidor donated of typhoon H­ aiyan,” explained Wolfgang of clothing and dry food to the Philippines. EUR 60,000 to people displaced by the M. ­Neumann, President & CEO of disaster. In Rezidor’s name and to honour ­Rezidor. EUR 66,500 of Carlson’s 75th anniversary, the Carlson Rezidor’s Radisson Blu and Park Inn Family Foundation added an additional by Radisson properties launched fundEUR 6,500, increasing the total donation raising events for the Philippines, organto EUR 66,500. ised charity concerts, sold Christmas “More than 1,000 of our team memballs, and auctioned designer furniture. bers across EMEA are from the PhilipDonations in kind made an additional donated by Rezidor to victims in pines. We want to show that our impact. Our hotels in Dubai, Muscat and the Philippines 29 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Highlights of community action include: (3) A Radisson Blu team cycled the 750 (6) The employees of the Rezidor central  he popular charity drive “The Box (1) T kms of the Baltic Way and collected support office and hotels in Brussels Appeal” in the Middle East is back EUR 10,000 for “the Care Mobile”, a volunteered 230 hours with Serve for the 6th consecutive time. Fifteen mobile clinic that brings healthcare to the City projects in Brussels. Amongst Radisson Bluand Park Inn by children in remote Latvijan villages. The the volunteers was Wolfgang Neu­Radisson hotels in 7 countries Baltic Way is the same route running mann, CEO of Rezidor, and many of ­distributed 15,000 boxes filled with through 3 Baltic States where a human the E­ xecutive Team members. necessities to labourers and people chain peacefully protested and started (7) “Stairways into the Blu(e)”: One Sunin need. This equals a donation in kind the independence process in 1989. day in September the 25 floor staircase of about EUR 300,000. Six years ago, (4) 61 Hotels helped to clean up their local of the Radisson Blu Hotel Hamburg the Box Appeal started as the bright surroundings in World Cleanup 2013. turned into a ‘running’ track. 50 Runidea of two creative employees. Together they collected 17,000 kiloners climbed 25 500 steps in total to (2) Three Carlson Rezidor hotels in grams of waste or about 340 large fundraise for Childhood. Amsterdam organised an 18-hole ­garbage bags. (8) O ne of 5 very sporty teams, The CEO ­charity Street Golf event in the (5) Because ‘You can’t teach a hungry and son of the owners of our Radisson ­business park around the Schiphol child’ more than 50 employees of our Blu Resorts in Malta ran 51 kilometres. ­Airport hotels. To top it off, golfers Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson The pair made up one of the five very could try to land a golf ball in a convertHotels In Cape Town, South Africa sporty teams that raised EUR 110,000 ible car parked 100 m away. The event walked the “Blisters for Bread” charity for the Ladybird Foundation. raised EUR 11,000 for KIKA, a Dutch walk in support of the Peninsula fund supporting kids with cancer. School Feeding Association. Happy children with ‘Quids for Kids’ In 2013, Carlson Rezidor’s UK hotels partnered with Variety, the Children’s Charity to raise funds which will be used to improve the lives of sick, disabled and disadvantaged children. ‘Quids for Kids’ was quickly launched to boost the fundraising pot for both Variety and the World Childhood Foundation. The initiative adds an optional GBP 1 donation to guest bills. The money raised is shared equally between the two charities. Quids for Kids raised EUR 81,750 in 2013. Hotel teams have embraced the opportunity to make a difference for children through Variety. The Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London hosted a Teddy Bear’s Picnic for disadvantaged EUR 81,750 children. The Park Inn York and Radisson Blu Leeds joined forces to collect and donate over 170 Christmas gifts to children who other­wise may not have received one. The hotels raised enough money to buy their first Sunshine Coach in December. It has been donated to a special school in Manchester for children with severe disabilities. raised for ‘Quids for Kids’ 30 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together ­ ezidor’s direct employees. The aim of R this course is to educate individuals about the Bribery Act and the consequences for Rezidor if we do not apply its provisions properly. At the end of the training participants undergo an assessment using reallife cases. The second pillar of ethics in Rezidor is www.rezidorethics.com, a website run by Code of Business Ethics an independent third-party organisation – The Code in short: Ethical Responsibility Ethics Point. Employees can use this site 1. We respect the law In 2013 – for the fourth year in a row – to find information on our Code and report Rezidor was listed as one of the world’s concerns anonymously. 2. We show respect for all most ethical companies by the Ethisphere In general, any employee with concerns ­persons in all situations Institute, a US think-tank dedicated to or questions about the Code is encour3. We think ethically business ethics. aged to raise these directly with their 4. We act fairly Ethical companies are identified by a supervisor. If this is not possible, the 5. We do not discriminate committee of leading attorneys, profesemployee can report the issue on reziagainst anyone for any sors, government officials and organisadorethics.com. The site and hotline are ­reason tion leaders. The methodology for the available in 11 languages. World’s Most Ethical ranking covers Rezidor does not make any contribu6. We are honest and trans­ seven distinct categories: Corporate tions or give other support (direct or parent ­Citizenship and Responsibility, Corporate ­indirect) to political parties or individual 7. We are loyal to our employer Governance, Innovation that Contributes politicians. 8. We do not exploit company to ­Public Well Being, Industry Leadership, The Rezidor Hotel Group receives no resources Executive Leadership and Tone from the direct or significant financial subsidies 9. We think of safety at all times Top, Legal, Regulatory and Reputation from governmental organisations in the Track Record, and Internal Systems and countries where we operate hotels. 10. We take care of the Earth. Ethics/Compliance Programme. The high­However, a number of our hotels have est scoring companies in each industry received subsidies or tax relief for their became the 2013 World’s Most Ethical Think Planet environmental investments. Companies. For more information go to This has occurred in Germany, Norway, www.ethisphere.com. Ireland and the UK. Rezidor’s inclusion in the Ethisphere ranking shows that we strive to act Protecting the World’s Children according to the highest ethical principles Rezidor’s majority shareholder Carlson and make sure that all our 35,000 employwas the first hospitality group in the ees do so – wherever they are. world to sign the ECPAT Code on preAt Rezidor, our corporate Code of venting human and child trafficking. ­Ethics is shared with all employees during As part of the global Carlson Rezidor their Yes I Can! training and in their WHY? Hotel Group, Rezidor fully endorses the information booklets. Code and applies its requirements and In 2013, Rezidor employees received guidelines in all of our 337 properties. specific communication from Wolfgang M. Hotels and hotel staff must be alert to Neumann, President & CEO, on the imporpotentially suspect situations and report tance of the Code of Business Ethics. them to their superiors and to relevant An interactive Bribery Act e-learning local organisations. module and a training session for managFind out more about the 6 commiters were rolled out in 2013 to 70% of ments on ­w ww.thecode.org. 31 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together A magic Winter ball for Children in Need The 2013 VI Winter Charity Masquerade Ball raised a record ­EUR 61,000. The Winter Charity Ball has been a grand event for six years. Last year’s funds were used to ­support eight orphans of the SOS Children’s ­Village in Astana who entered local universities and colleges, repair two SOS buildings, and ­provide equipment for children with needs. This year the Ball welcomed a group of young debutantes and cavaliers who had the honour of presenting the opening dance. The dancers auditioned months before the Ball and spent weeks learning traditional Viennese waltzes. A group of children from the SOS Children’s Village Astana gave a special performance and sang Christmas songs. “The 2013 Winter Charity Masquerade Ball has been our most successful event,” notes Fedor Filimonov, General Manager of the Radisson Hotel Astana and Park Inn by Radisson Astana. “The turnout for this evening speaks for itself. It’s important that we keep working on fundraising initiatives. It is not an easy task but it is more than worth it.” We made Poland run! A nationwide charity event for 4,600 runners raising EUR 90,000. Three years ago, the Radisson Blu Krakow and UBS Poland initiated the first Poland Business Run – the first ever charitable run to fund prosthesis for local handicapped youngsters. Over the years it has grown into a hugely successful run with 4,600 ­runners in 3 cities. This year over EUR 90,000 was raised. Amongst the runners were 35 employees of Radisson Blu Hotel Krakow, Park Inn By Radisson Hotel Krakow and the Radisson Blu Hotel Wrocalw. The amount allows buying artificial limbs for young people through the Jasiek Mela Beyond Horizons Foundation. One of the beneficiaries of the event – 25 years old Agnieszka, who was born without legs, commented: “I can’t believe that so many people get involved in this wonderful action. I am very touched, this is the best day in my entire life – I will be able to walk”. 32 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Summary of Progress Summary of Progress 2013 2012 Responsible Business Indicators Result Result Employees We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues in their private and work lives. P  ercentage of hotels that comply with local labour laws (working hours, freedom of association, equal, 100% 100% opportunities and non-discrimination) Employee satisfaction: Climate Analysis score 87% 86.5% Percentage of hotels that have made information on rezidorethics.com available to employees 97% 97% Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in the Responsible Business activities at our hotels. We provide a healthy environment and offer healthy, nutritious, organic and Fairtrade food and beverages. Third party eco-labels (% of all Rezidor hotels) 69% 65% Responsible Business page on hotel website (% of all Rezidor hotels) 75% 70% Provide refillable amenity dispensers in public washrooms (% of all Rezidor hotels) 93% 94% Facilities for waste sorting by guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 37% 39% Percentage of hotel rooms that are non-smoking 88% 87% Percentage of non-smoking hotels (guestrooms and public spaces) 59% 54% Property owners We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social objectives. Number of hotel owners informed about the Responsible Business programme and hotel activities 95% 97% Shareholders Annual and Responsible Business We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent Report Responsible Business included in ­information on Responsible Business risks and opportunities. investor presentations and roadshows. Suppliers We purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their life cycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Percentage of hotels sharing Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct with their suppliers 79% 79%  ercentage of hotels which request or provide advice on how suppliers can improve their P 30% 28% environmental, social or ethical performance Serve organic-certified food items (% of all Rezidor hotels) 61% 55% Serve Fairtrade-certified products (% of all Rezidor hotels) 58% 47% 33 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Summary of Progress 2013 2012 Responsible Business Indicators Result Result Authorities We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, ­especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the ­environment. Legal cases in legislation related to Responsible Business (environment, anti-bribery) ZERO ZERO Community We take an active role in the international Responsible Business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Amount of money raised for corporate and local charities (in EUR) World Childhood Foundation 127,000 76,966 Local charities 563,769 396,517 Number of hotels participating in Responsible Business Action Month in September 265 265 Environment We continuously strive to improve our performance in the areas of energy, water, chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation in order to reduce our impact on the environment without sacrificing the comfort or ­experience of our guests. Energy use (kWh/m2) 281 284 Energy use (kWh/occupied room) 91 92 CO2-equivalent emissions in kg/guest-night (GN) 22.8 22.1 Water usage (litres/GN) 340 343 Residual waste to landfill or incineration (kg/GN) 1.96 1.84 34 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group 232 Eco–labelled Hotels 232 Eco–labelled Hotels Austrian Eco-Label (1) Denmark Park Inn by Radisson Nürnberg Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Radisson Blu Fredensborg Hotel, Radisson Blu Resort Schloss Fleesensee ­Bornholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Breeam (1) Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport Egypt Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Radisson Blu Hotel, Cairo Heliopolis ­Wiesbaden Golden Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing Estonia Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn Kuwait Green Globe (2) Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn Hotel Missoni Kuwait Germany Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Unbranded Oasis Hotel Kuwait Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus Radisson Blu Hotel, Kuwait France Egypt Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz Latvia Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Cannes Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (12) Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin Park Inn by Radisson Nancy Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan Park Inn by Radisson Lille Grand Stade Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin Park Inn by Radisson Macon Lebanon Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport Lybia Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Al Mahary Hotel, Tripoli Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny Radisson Blu Hotel, Nantes Park Inn by Radisson Cork Airport Park Inn by Radisson Paris Charles De Lithuania Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork Gaulle Airport Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Radisson Blu Ambassador Hotel, Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda ­Airport-member Paris Opéra Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius North Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Green Key (143) Paris Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Austria Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Park Inn by Radisson Linz Paris Eiffel Netherlands Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Azerbaidjan Gaulle Airport Schiphol Park Inn by Radisson Azerbaijan, Baku Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris ­Trocadero Oman Bahrain Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Park Inn by Radisson Muscat The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Park Inn by Radisson Orange Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Belgium Georgia Poland Park Inn by Radisson Antwerpen Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi Park Inn by Radisson Krakow Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Germany Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu Centrum Hotel, Warsaw Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Gewandhaus Hotel, Dresden Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa Radisson Blu Hotel, Dortmund Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Romania Park Inn by Radisson Leuven ­Düsseldorf Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Bulgaria ­Düsseldorf Russia Park Inn by Radisson Sofia Park Inn by Radisson Erfurt-Apfelstädt Park Inn by Radisson Rosa Khutor Radisson Blu Grand Hotel, Sofia Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe Radisson Blu Resort & Congress Centre, Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport Sochi Croatia Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Radisson Blu Beach Resort & Spa, Sochi Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Dubrovnik Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Hotel, Rosa Khutor Sun Gardens Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad Radisson Blu Resort, Split Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiskaya, Park Inn by Radisson Lübeck St. Petersburg Czech Republic Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Lübeck Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, Park Inn by Radisson Ostrava Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter St. Petersburg Park Inn Prague Ring Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, ­­ Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague Park Inn by Radisson Munich East St. Petersburg 35 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group 232 Eco–labelled Hotels Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg (28) Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham ­Kristiansand Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Park Inn by Radisson Belfast Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen ­Airport, Moscow Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Airport Saudi Arabia Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West, Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar M5 J1 (West Bromwich) Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Al Muna Kareem Radisson Blu Hotel, Radisson Blu Hotel, Cardiff Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Al Madinah Hotel Missoni Edinburgh Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh Radisson Blu Resort, Trysil Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Spain Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds ­Trondheim Radisson Blu Hotel, Madrid Prado Park Inn Watford Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Switzerland Park Inn Heathrow, London Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London Sweden Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala Grand Hotel National Park Inn by Radisson Bedford Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Park Inn by Radisson Manchester, Victoria Park Inn by Radisson Malmö Park Inn by Radisson Lully Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport Park Inn by Radisson Nottingham Park Inn by Radisson Solna Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Park Inn by Radisson Northampton Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Park Inn by Radisson Palace, ­Hammarby Sjöstad Tunisia ­Southend-on-Sea Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm Park Inn by Radisson Ulysse Resort & Park Inn by Radisson Harlow Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm ­Thalasso, Djerba Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, StockRadisson Blu Resort & Thalasso, Djerba ­Airport, Stansted holm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Ulysse Resort & Thalasso, Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Djerba Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham ­Stockholm-Arlanda Park Inn by Radisson Telford Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Turkey ­Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara Hungarian Green Hotel Award (2) Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Istanbul Asia Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul Park Inn by Radisson Sarvar Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul Maltese Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme Radisson Blu Bay Point Resort, St. Julian’s Ukraine Nordic Swan Eco-label (40) Park Inn by Radisson Donetsk Denmark Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Resort, Bukovel Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Radisson Resort, Alushta ­Copenhagen Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen United Arab Emirates Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Centre, Copenhagen Yas Island Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Odense Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Finland Radisson Royal Hotel, Dubai Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Green Leaf (1) South Africa Norway Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund ­Johannesburg Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen 36 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table GRI Standard Disclosures Table AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2013 RBR = Rezidor Responsible Business Report 2013 Indicator according to Global Reporting Initiative (G3) Page 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO RBR 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities RBR 4 2.  Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation RBR 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services RBR 2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures RBR 2, AR 10–15, 70, 80 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters RBR 41 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations AR 10–15 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 80 2.7 Markets served RBR 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation RBR 2, AR 10 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR 80, 89 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period RBR 7, AR 36 3.  Report Parameters REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period RBR inside 3.2 Date of most recent previous report front cover 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents RBR 41 REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content, including:  • Determining materiality  • Prioritising topics within the report RBR 4  • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report RBR inside 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report front cover 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly AR inside affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations front cover, 21 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report AR inside front cover 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report RBR 37 4.  Governance, Commitments, and Engagement GOVERNANCE 4.1  Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer AR 89–96 4.3  For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non–executive members 37 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table Indicator according to Global Reporting Initiative (G3) Page STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation RBR 6 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 5 Performance Indicators ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, AR 48–53 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments RBR 27 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change RBR 4 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government RBR 31 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Core EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement RBR 27 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source RBR 10 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements RBR 10 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives RBR 10 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved RBR 9–16 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK INDICATORS Aspect: Employment Aspect: Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in RBR 23 managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews RBR 23 HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken RBR 18 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, RBR 24 including the percentage of employees trained SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures RBR 31 SO4 A  ctions taken in response to incidents of corruption RBR 31 Aspect : Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying RBR 31 SO6Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country RBR 31 Aspect: Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non–monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations RBR 19, 31 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Aspect : Product and Service Label PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction RBR 3 38 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Global Compact Compliance Global Compact Compliance Principles of the Global Compact Rezidor Systems and Processes HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Code of Business Ethics protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Living & Leading Responsible Business training Employee Handbook – Why Booklet Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in Code of Business Ethics human rights abuses. My Rights @ Rezidor www.rezidorethics.com Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Human Resources Guidelines effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employee Handbook European Workers Councils Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced Code of Business Ethics and compulsory labour. Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Code of Business Ethics ECPAT Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct and agreements Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination Human Resources Guidelines of discrimination in respect to employment and occupation. Employee Handbook Living & Leading Responsible Business training Policy on Recruitment and Selection Transfer Policy Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities Social Networking Policy Supplier Code of Conduct ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Responsible Business Policy environmental challenges. Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Environmental reporting and targets Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Global Compact Caring for Climate environmental responsibility. Responsible Business Policy Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Think Planet tools Living & Leading Responsible Business training Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines of environmentally friendly technologies. Think Planet tools and guest-facing communication Club Carlson Meetings Minus Carbon Eco-labelled hotels ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Global Information Security Policy including extortion and bribery. Code of Business Ethics and anti-bribery training Anti-Fraud Policy Internal Audit Supplier Code of Conduct 39 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group Rezidor Responsible Business Timeline Rezidor Responsible Business Timeline Rezidor has a unique and long history of Responsible Business. There’s no business without Responsible Business at Rezidor. 1988 2004 2009 Creation and adoption of the SAS Interna• Rezidor’s efforts are recognised with Rezidor signs the United Nations Global tional Hotels Safety and Security Stanthe Hospitality Award for Environmental Compact. dards. Protection. • Carlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of Conduct against sexual exploitation 2010 1989 of children. • First time awarded as one of the World’s First environmental policy driven by SAS Most Ethical Companies by the EthiGroup. 2007 sphere Institute . • First global responsible business action • World Childhood Foundation becomes month with Carlson Companies. 1996 corporate charity organisation. • Rezidor is first international hotel group • Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental programme with 24 action to offer guests carbon offsetting. 2011 points. • Rezidor targets 100% eco-labelled • Founding member of the International Hotels Environment Initiative. 2008 hotels by 2015 and achieves an eco-­ label for 55% of hotels. • Launch of rezidorethics.com, an independently managed website which 2001 enables employees to raise concerns 2012 • Launch of the Responsible Business about potential breaches of our • Think Planet Energy saving initiative programme encompassing the three Code of Business Ethics. ­targets 25% consumption savings in ­pillars of health and well-being; social • Monthly TRIC=S safety and security 5 years. and ethical responsibility; and environreports distributed to all General mental responsibility. ­Managers. • First Responsible Business Training • Rezidor is one of the founding members ­initiated with 35% of staff trained by of US State Department’s Overseas year-end. Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel • Monthly reporting of energy, water and Security Working Group. waste. • Save the Children becomes corporate charity organisation. 2003 Over 20 years of a continuous • Launch of Hotel Environment Action Month (now Responsible Business Action Month). • Radisson SAS Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first commitment Rezidor property to receive third-party environmental certification with the ­Nordic Swan eco-label. • Rezidor becomes chair of International to Responsible Business Hotels Environment Initiative Executive Committee. 40 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group If you have any comments, queries or questions, please contact: Christiane Reiter, Senior Director Corporate Communication christiane.reiter@carlsonrezidor.com Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President Responsible Business Inge.huijbrechts@carlsonrezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group Corporate Office Avenue du Bourget 44 B-1130 Brussels Belgium Tel: +32 2 702 9000 Fax: +32 2 702 9300 We proudly support Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the most dynamic and fastest growing hotel companies in the world. The of group currently features a portfolio 429 hotels with 94,800 rooms in in ­operation and under development 69 countries across Europe, the Middle East and Africa. Rezidor operates the core brands Radisson Blu (upper upscale) and Park Inn by Radisson (midscale) – ury) as well as Quorvus Collection (lux and Radisson Red (lifestyle select). ­Rezidor is an integral part of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. For more information, visit www.rezidor.com 42 Responsible Business Report 2013 Rezidor Hotel Group
