Findel Education Limited Communication on Progress Implementing UN Global Compact principles throughout our business and value chain. 4th August 2014 Statement of Continued Support To our Shareholders/Stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Findel Education reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of:Human Rights, Labour, Environment & Anti-Corruption In this annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. This year we will focus on furthering our environmental objectives & new targets for health & safety in the workplace across our group. Yours Sincerely, Tony Hillyer Managing Director Corporate Social Responsibility Statement Findel Education strive to purchase both goods and services in a responsible manner, whilst encouraging and supporting our suppliers in doing the same. We are committed to managing all associated environmental impacts, ensuring the fair treatment of those involved in producing the products that we sell and promoting equality throughout our supply chain. By implementing sustainable management systems that adhere to the requirements of both ISO9001:2008 and ISO14001:2004, we have confidence in our continually improving processes, to deliver superior customer service, without impacting negatively on the world we live in. Building sustainable supply chains and eradicating impacts on the environment is a long term commitment and to achieve this Findel Education is proud to have an array of dynamic and diverse people within its organisation. Through the support of effective line management coupled with great opportunities for learning and career progression, our business capability is strong. It is important to us to ensure we encourage all of our people to reach their full potential in everything they do for our business, for our customers, for themselves and for each other. This month, we are undergoing our first ever audit to BS OHSAS18001:2007 for Occupational Health and Safety & have been working towards the principles of accreditation throughout our business. Policies Leading our commitment to ISO9001:2008 and ISO14001:2004 sits our Quality and Environmental Policies. These now sit on our CSR website page, in addition to internal availability. Benefits of OHSAS18001 There are targets that we would like to achieve through our OHSAS18001 accreditation: • Reduce incident and accident rates through identifying risks and hazards. • Improved performance of accident monitoring and reporting. • Better control and absolute minimization of risks to employees & site visitors. • Compliance with health and safety legislation. • Improved communication, training and induction. • To be known as a health & safety conscious business, putting people before profits. • Embedding a health and safety culture within our business. Environmental Objectives and Target Performance Environmental Objectives, Targets and Performance The targets put in place for 2013/14 for our environmental objectives were achieved & surpassed due to hard work & commitment to our ISO 14001 accreditation & commitment to efficient environmental management within our business. Our target for 2014/15 is to further reduce these figures & we will agree key objectives for reduction after our ISO 14001 audit in August 2013. H&S Objectives & Targets Proposed Health & Safety Objectives and Targets Labour/Human Rights Supplier Ethical Audits As part of Findel Education’s ongoing commitment to the UNGC labour principles, an agreement has been reached with a third party audit provider. Whilst we have had supply chain data provided through our own audit procedures for many years, we believe by using a third party provider we provide greater transparency throughout our supply chain and customer base. The audits cover the base code of the ETI to ensure that:• Employment is freely chosen • Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are respected. • Working conditions are safe and hygienic • Child labour shall not be used • Living wages are paid • Working hours are not excessive • No discrimination is practiced • Regular employment is provided • No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed • Environment Audit reports are monitored on a continual basis. Labour/Human Rights contd.. Employee Engagement & Development Findel Education Limited ensure that all its employees are aware of all current legislation surrounding employment . A dedicated Leadership & Development team also encourage active employee engagement through training. A new intranet system is in operation which includes the provision of all HR policies and procedures, every employee has access to this business tool. Findel Education actively encourage employee engagement which helps the business strengthen its processes. Every employee receives a GAME plan which are defined measurable goals to aid them in their development within the business. Measurement of outcomes of the above processes are gauged through our employee voice programme. Actions are put in place to remedy any highlighted weaknesses identified by our employees through our continual improvement programme driven by our leadership team. Anti-Corruption Employees during on-boarding process within the business are informed of the companies anticorruption and ‘whistle blowing’ policy. The company also operate a code of conduct policy which must be adhered to at all times. Additionally, the leadership team and relevant management representatives have completed online courses on the subject through our L&D team. The companies anti-corruption policy enables employees to raise concerns internally at a high level and to disclose information which the individual believes shows malpractice or impropriety. These could be in relation to the following: • Financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud • Failure to comply with a legal obligation or statutes • Dangers to Health & Safety or the environment • Criminal activity • Improper conduct or unethical behaviour An anti-bribery policy is also supplied by our third part audit company to suppliers before carrying out an ethical audit. Findel Edcuation do not have any anti-bribery cases under investigation. Our Vision
