SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 1 Steppen Sustainability Report, is the forth publication that is prepared within United Nations Global Compact of which we have been signatory in 2008, and purposes to submit for our stakeholders’ information the sustainability performance of our company in social, environmental and economical areas in accordance with the transparency principal. This year, our disclosure took the name of “Sustainability Report” and along with the UN Global Compact COP criteria, it is prepared in line with the application level C of GRI G3.1 Reporting Standard which has worldwide recognition in this field. Subjects that form the Report content have been defined through a workshop where all corporate units were represented and systematic methods in line with materiality approach followed The results obtained are completed with expert opinions. As a result of the work realized, Steppen’s material issues are determined as “Environmental Effects of Product and Production Processes, Impacts on Local Community, Informing the Consumers about Products and Customer Relations Management”. As part of the same work Steppen Sustainability Report intended audience is determined as “Customers, Incentive, Credit, Finance and Insurance Companies, Public Institutions, NGOs, Local Authorities and Audit Companies”. Information disclosed in this report is prepared with the data oriented to all operations that Step Yazım Gereçleri ve Kalıp Sanayi Ticaret Limited Şirketi realized in 2013, under the company’s absolute supervision, and did not include the datas towards the supply chain. However, with regard to our stakeholders to hold a more holistic view about company activities and sphere of influence, the report is included also this kind of data. Unless otherwise provided, the specified data are prepared in accordance with the scope, boundry and disclosure criteria determined in the GRI Standard. This Report has been designed as a notebook and published in limited numbers in order to inspire sustainable business ideas that our audiences will create. Through www.steppen.com.tr and www.unglobalcompact.org you may reach to PDF version of the Steppen Sustainability Report 2013 and GRI Index which compiles detailed information on report content and its use. 2 3 Dear Stakeholders; The most important feature of hardly evanished waste creation extent as we became a party of Global Compact principles will Steppen, which was established problem as the most important UN Global Compact in the year of always protect its importance. as a family corporation in 1992, environmental effect of plastic 2008. With the reporting activities We made a significant progress is its capacity of adaption to the products with an eco-friendly that we realized, we recognized during the reporting period through necessities of the period. Over the solution. With our seedy pencils, our development points. Today, our practices carried out with this course of the adventure of progress we turned our environmental effect Steppen’s most important target understanding. On one hand we we have been passing since our from negative to positive. The is to continuously increase its improved variety in our green foundation, only priority that has large number of prizes that our profitability and efficiency with an product portfolio and efficiency not changed is our commitment products and our customers’ interest eco-friendly, socially responsible, in production processes; on the to be reliable, transparent and encourage us to success the better. sustainable, working model and other hand we strengthened responsible to our stakeholders. The development activities reach a corporate company structure relations with various stakeholders, With this understanding, Steppen we started upon environmental in our journey that we began as a primarily with NGOs. In the took its place among the business responsibility had got a different family corporation. In this objective period, we received recognition of partners of choice for corporate of ours, commitment to the UN various entities with our products companies in its market. and management understanding. As one of the firms pioneering its Successful completion of the supply sector, Steppen bases its success on chain audits of the companies that the value given to the innovation follow responsible procurement and design, capacity to supply practices carries a great importance fully customizable, high-quality to us because not only it reflects products in rapid delivery terms commercial success improvement thanks to the local production, highof our activities that we conduct level of after sales services and the with a green business model, but perception of company accountable also a recognition to the accuracy for the environment, people and of our business understanding. community. By maintaining our projects that Nowadays, as the environmental will provide our commercial success problems, especially the climate and organizational development in change, become more evident further periods, without losing our and begin to affect our living understanding which carried us to conditions socially, economically these days, we will keep creating and environmentally, Steppen chose value for our stakeholders, starting to “be a part of the solution, not with our employees, customers and the problem”. With this purpose business partners. By this means, we we have initiated R&D studies in thank and present our compliments 2008 and after achieving successful to all our associates who contributed results, we broke a new ground efforts on our accomplished success. in our market orienting all our plastic pencil production to ecofriendly bio-soluble products. By Tuna Yetkin this means, we suppressed the very CEO 4 5 Steppen as the Pioneer of Its Sector Steppen is a family firm which was founded in 1992 with the purpose of operating in plastic product and cast manufacturing field. While it has been operating in the corporate promotion products market, Steppen focused on plastic pen production since 1995. Thus, by delivering high.-quality product, customer satisfaction for globally competitive prices, it became one of the business partners of choice for corporate companies from divers sectors. Steppen has broke a new ground by starting to use bio-degradable plastic in its plastic pen production as of 2011. It is the unique Turkish company that can still realize all its production with eco-friendly bio-degradable raw material. Except for refills, metal components and springs, Steppen realizes all mould and piece production, coloration, pressing and assembly processes at its own facility with 2.500 m2 indoor space located in Istanbul. Through its annual production capacity of 12 million units, Steppen products are exported to more than 30 countries apart from the Turkish market. 6 7 Promotional Plastic Pen Market and Steppen Many actors operate in the are demanded due to cost advantage, promotional plastic market. China these circumstances return as and India are the major exporters. currency, tax and employment Importers forming the majority losses to the local economy; of the firms operating in Turkish not to mention compromising market, generally, realize their environment and consumer safety. purchases in these countries. Steppen is one of the limited Due to the amounts, promotional number of manufacturers that plastic pen manufacturing is a labormakes local production. Except intensive sector. While all the parts are for refill and metal components produced with machines, assembly of plastic pen products and VIP is realized mostly by handwork. product series, all design and High amount of production and production processes are conducted cheapness of handwork are the by Steppen. These circumstances factors which give Chinese and provide Steppen the ability of While there are sales practices reAmong Steppen’s further deveIndian firms competitive edge. product development fulfilling the alized from various retail outlets lopment strategies there are, devePromotional plastic pen is a sector customers’ expectations, rapid and such as; Metro Group which has a loping project based productions where its customer and consumer qualified delivery, and to give postsales network across Turkey, B2B and preventing seasonal quantity are different. Organizations sales service. Beside product quality sales form the majority of Steppen’s fluctuations by more efficient use purchase these for using on their and branding, through value-added product sales. of retail opportunities, and devecorporate communication activities generated by green and consumerDuring the reporting period, for loping sales volume in export marand distribute to their stakeholders. friendly features our customers more than 900 customers annually, kets with the business partnerships This is why the customers are obtain additional advantages. Steppen, produced 5.7 million units established. sensitive to the product prices. in 2013 thus generated approximaThese characteristics made the tely 5,5 million TL turnover. Turkish market import-intensive. Nonetheless, the advantages of imported products rely on economy of scale, raw material and labor costs. Increase in costs due to the liabilities for the entry of foreign origin products into Turkey, directs importer companies to the products which does not have copyrighted design, produced in low-quality norms and from row material which is harmful to environment and human health. While these products 8 9 Management and Organization at Steppen Steppen’s, which was founded as a family firm in 1992, transformation Vision and Mission venture first initiated with its product portfolio, also left positive influen* Establishing a productive, profitable, and sustainable business model which ces on our management understanding after being a party of UN Global is open to improvement through an eco-friendly and socially responsible appCompact. roach., Our restructuring process which we started in 2012 covers several areas * Being a business partner of choice for our customers through innovative including our organization structure, job definition and performance maproducts and services, nagement, and, in further periods, will form the most important focus of * Providing customers with responsible procurement options with reduced our administrative development activities. supply chain risks through innovative and high-quality products manufactured As a general principle, Steppen commits a full compliance to legal regulawith a societal focus; and without any negative impact on environment and tions, business ethics, principals determined by international initiatives to people. which it is a party, especially UN Global Compact, and business contracts. It stands strictly against all types of corruption such as bribe, perpetration, forgery, and cannot be a party to these in any manner. It respects to intellectual properties and realizes proceedings of the rights that it owns. Up to the present, Steppen has not received any complaint or penalty about the aforementioned subjects . CEO Consultation Committee Operations Marketing, and Sales and Production Finance Exterlan Affairs 10 11 Customer Satisfaction at Steppen Customer satisfaction is an indisAs the responsible procurement pensable priority to us. The fundapractices develop globally, customental objective of our customer mer satisfaction gains a different satisfaction, beginning with design scope. Steppen, with its socially process and supported by post-sales responsible and eco-friendly appservices, is to solidly meet the exroach, takes place in global supply pectations of our customers. Our chain portfolios of multinational ability of local production is of companies who adopt responsibgreat importance in achieving outsle procurement practices. In this tanding success on customer satiscontext, our products, production faction. processes, environment and human First of all, we establish a transrights practices are approved throparent and honest communication ugh regular audits carried out by with our customers. We establish independent institutions. a high variety of designs that will For incoming periods, Steppen has completely meet their expectations. two basic objectives aimed at the We follow our customers’ works development of customer appliand produce creative projects for cations. First of our operations of them. We apply our designs by cuswhich we are executing the resetomizing upon customer demands. arch phases is to establish IT infWe rapidly deliver requested numrastructure for customer relations ber and form of products in a peermanagement processes. The other less quality. We inform our custois oriented to product responsibility mers during the entire process and and informing practices which will fulfill their post-sales demands. ensure that our customers minimize Thus, we become a business partthe supply chain risks by choosing ner for our customers, rather than a our products. supplier. The only product feature that we cannot customize by customer demand is the raw material that gives our products their ecofriendly characteristic. 12 13 R&D and Innovation The qualified model, design and SME Category. Our biggest pride is brand portfolio that we established that we represented Turkey in 2 caensure Steppen’s competitive edge, tegories in the European Business and our products are rewarded by Awards 2011 competition. Nonetgaining appreciation of various insheless, the biggest success for us is titutions. After receiving İSOSME that our products are preferred by Steppen is the first company that spring to mind when it comes to innoGreen Product Award in 2009 and our customers. vation. Our R&D activities, besides the product, material and productiDesign Turkey Good Design Award Our product models being imitated in 2010, Steppen has been awarded is a promise of the success in our on processes, also cover social innovation studies such as development with the First Prize in the Stars of designs; and that Steppen products of working models which create societal and environmental benefit. Export Award Creative Product Caare preferred instead of imitated tegory in 2011, and acknowledged products is a sign of that we produas a Finalist of KOSGEB Turkish ce more than a plastic pen. Entrepreneurs Award Innovative Briefly, we have 4 innovation focuses: 1 Develop useful, ergonomic, economic and original product designs on forms which will gain appreciation of our customers and consumers, 2 Produce selections applicable to our products which are functional and formed of environment and human-friendly such as, bio-degradable plastic and recycled paper, 3 Increase safety, efficiency and green practices in production processes, 4 Develop business partnerships and models oriented to that our product and production processes produce values in social and ecologic manner beside business value. 14 15 Steppen’s Eco-Friendly Product What Kind Of Material Is technology has made great progress. Especially in the last 10 years, Plastics and How Can It developing alternative raw materiBe Eco-Friendly? als, additives, production and conPortfolio Plastics are useful materials that sumption techniques, it is aimed to reduce the environmental impacts we use frequently in daily life. It of plastics. is produced to be a perdurable, The most eco-friendly use of plassanitary and cheap raw material tics is unquestionably reusing. This Steppen as of 2011, started to produce all of its products with and accomplishes this mission in a way, plastic is consumed in complivery stable manner. However, for ance with its purpose. For instance, eco-friendly raw materials and functions. Pioneering its sector in we also recommend our consumers very same reason, it stays many this regard, Steppen still is the only manufacturer which realizes years in the nature without evanisto reuse our pens by changing their hing. This is also the reason which refills. Nonetheless, this is hard its whole production with bio-degradable and eco-friendly raw creates the biggest harm of plastic with a product which is distributed materials in Turkey. A long research process and a decisive resfor the environment. Some resourfree-of-charge. Recycling is also an ces remark that plastics can stay in effective method. That way other ponsibility consciousness underlie this formidable transformation. the nature without evanishing for products are produced by reco5,000-1 million years depending on vering used materials. However, its type. However, these are results due to plastic’s structure, recycled which are obtained in laboratory plastic will not carry the same chaWhy Did We Transform environment. Thus, maybe it can racter. Another practice is to produprotect itself without disappearing ce plastic from biological matters Our Product Portfolio? for much more years. which are obtained from various This feature of plastics also ariagricultural products, without using This is the question that our product went out of their possession. ses some perceptions that they do petroleum products. Therefore, thestakeholders ask when they meet Therefore, the lifecycles of plastic not deserve. For instance, plastics se are called bio-plastics. However, Steppen for the first time: How pens generally end in landfill. increasing crude oil consumption is obtained plastics may not be in sufdid we decide to produce with As a result of our researches, we a wrong judgment. Yet, refineries ficient stability for some products. eco-friendly raw material when saw that 2,000 tons of plastics in do not process crude oil to produce If it is paid attention, these practino-one was obliging us to? To be average are used for 200 millions of plastic. Standard plastic is produced ces provide efficiency in material. able to answer this, we must speak pens consumed annually in Turkey. from bi-products which arise when However, when considered its thoof products and raw materials. Steppen, however, to produce 7 it is processed in refineries to produusands of years of life, it is obvious Plastic promotional pens are millions of pen in average each ce fuel. Thus, as it is produced from that there is no solution for the waste purchased by institutions and year, uses 70 tons of plastics. Our the waste of a valuable material problem. Therefore, there have been distributed for communication understanding of responsibility consumed for other reasons, it prodeveloped some additive materials. purposes. Thus, end-users reach a was requiring us to act as a part vides material efficiency. NonetheThe first of these is “oxo-degradable few number of products free-ofof the solution instead of being a less, this does not mean that it does additives”. With this admixture, charge. They are easily expendable part of this problem which arises not have any environmental impacts plastic loses its integrity within as they are manufactured from inconveniences with regard to yet plastic production is energy 2-3 months after aeration. In other plastic; recycling or reusing environment and human health. So, intensive. Hence, we should use words, it breaks down into invisible by refill change is generally not in 2008, we initiated R&D studies to plastic materials in a strictly careful particles. Waste volume decreases considered. Purchaser institutions, reduce the environmental impacts and responsible manner. but the material does not evanish. h o w e v e r, d o n o t h a v e t h e of our products. Within years, plastic production This application, seeming eco-friopportunity of recycling as the endly, actually produces a total 16 17 adverse effect. Thus, plastic creates Which Techniques Are of plastic materials via more than such as bio-degradation, eco-friendpollution as it breaks down and one method, all of them have their liness and not producing negative mixes with soil, water and air. FurtUsed In Steppen’s own pros and cons. What is needed effects on human health, through hermore, as it rends in a short time, Products? to do is to determine the most procertification in accordance with its lifetime is short and becomes per options fitting to the product internationally valid standards by non-recyclable. Characteristically, In the R&D practices that we started characteristics. And we started out recognized institutions. Therefore, it reduces efficiency in the recycling to mitigate environmental impacts right this way. The material which we carried our products’ eco-friendprocesses. Nowadays, the plastic of our products, we have carefully was going to be used supposed to liness to a more integrated extent. bags frequently appear in the market examined all the raw material metprovide required quality norms and Thus, the whole product portfolio which are called eco-friendly are hods. In accordance with the results applicability for the production, to of Steppen became of reduced enproduced with these additives. obtained, we started our product enable extended life-time and reuvironmental impact products and “Bio-degradable” based additives applications. Firstly, we started se, to be recyclable, and to degrade “Life Supporting Product Series” developed as an alternative to oxowith trying the bio-plastics derived harmlessly to environmental and was born. degradable products, are added to from the starch-batch. However, human health after landfilling. We plastics in small quantities. The we saw that this material did not started production using the biobacteria which exist in its compogive results correspondent with our degradable additive which gathers sition, use the plastic as nutriment products’ quality norms. We also all of these features. From our new after finding a favorable environevaluated the oxo-degradable adraw material, we got the same rement and consume it within 2-3 ditives. Nonetheless, this material, sults as standard plastic material. years. Only residue which has a characteristically, was not provicharacteristic of fertilizer and a ding a proper storage-time, even small quantity of methane remain. its eco-friendly characteristic was Further Reduction of not convincing us. In 2011, the reFor that matter, it is very suitable for sults of the study that British EnviEnvironmental Impacts? the modern understanding of inert waste management and being disronment Agency published, which posed in landfills. Thus, producing evaluated all the life-cycle from The results obtained from the plastic electricity from the methane which production of supermarket bags to raw material which was used in the arises in the landfill is a develowaste process showed, as an effect body of the product, encouraged ping practice. Moreover, plastics in on climate change when standard us to create additional values from which bio-degradable additives are plastic was used, it had a more ecoour products. For this matter, we used do not have a different characfriendly feature than cotton bag, also made changes in refills which teristic than the standard materials, paper-bag and bio-plastic, which is are used in our products but that it can be reused for years, and can be known as eco-friendly when used as we obtained via our suppliers. We recycled completely. The material a bag. Because of the energy used started to use eco-friendly plastic, which creates real bio-degradation in their production, 1 paper-bag refills produced from composite only starts working after the product can produce environmental impact which didn’t involve heavy metal is landfilled. equivalent to 9, bio-plastics to 12 or toxicants. and cotton bags to 393 plastic bags. In the dyes that we used for printing The investigation demonstrates that and coloring, we preferred options oxo-degradable shows performance that did not contain halogen matters behind all other options. Bio-degraor lead, mercury and such harmful dable additives were not yet inclumaterials. We started to use recycled ded in the research in that period. paper for our paper bodied products. We saw that, while it is possible to We ensured the raw material characreduce the environmental impacts teristics that are used in production, 18 19 A Steppen Discovery: Seedy Pencil While our raw material oriented R&D studies were continuing, we started functional design practices. Our objective was to develop products which reduce material consumption to minimum, but without losing from its ergonomics and attraction. We thought that, actually, we can transform our products’ environmental impacts from negative to positive with an innovative practice which also would prompt our consumers. Thus and so, the generously awarded “Seedy Pencil” idea of our head designer Ümit Altun was born. The Seedy Pencil, while carrying all the characteristics that was expected from it, the consumers can, on the other hand, use its seeds which are situated in its special reservoir, by planting them, for afforestation. This application has been supported by our staholders and has become one of our most successful products. Upon demand, we started to produce these products on various forms and with different plant seed contents. Seedy Pencil was awarded in the Design Turkey 2010 Competition as the Best Design, and in the Stars of Export Awards, as the Most Creative Product. 20 21 70 kg of waste paper, that can be reused 5 times, can save one tree. One big tree can meets the need for daily oxygen of 72 people’s. 22 23 More Innovations, More Products Innovation is a culture. You can never problem. Accordingly, we developed stop when you have it, always try to the “Recycled Paper Pencil” product produce better. We, also, developed a in which recycled newspapers are new product group with the continuused as body instead of trees. 70 kg of ing alternative product and material waste paper can be reused for 5 times, development studies. thus a tree can be saved. 1 grown tree Steppen is a company with experience provides daily oxygen need of 72 and capacity to produce different types persons. Our Recycled Paper Pencil, of products. This gave us the idea that with this characteristic, has become an we could produce pens from materials important part of our Life Supporting other than plastic or different plastic Product Series. products. Our only unchangeable We aim to develop our product portprincipal is to develop environment folio in future terms with new highand human-friendly products. With quality products supporting life and this understanding, we started, firstly, nature with functionality, creating to produce different stationary equipvalues for our consumers and orienments from biodegradable plastics, ting them to make responsible choices. such as pen racks, card holders, etc. Eraser is another product for which plastic material is used. Erasers, as requires its consuming characteristic, spread away, breaking down into smaller pieces. As a result of being a product which can harm the environment and human health if produced in low-quality standards, we decided to produce an eraser which is bio-degradable and non-toxic. Our “Bio-Eraser Which Doesn’t Erase the Environment” product was born with this understanding. Pencil is a frequently used writing material. However, pencils produce environmental impact as they are produced from trees. We aimed to develop an eco-friendly option by directing our product development studies into this 24 25 Creating Social Value Via Products We are increasing our business value by developing business models that create social values, meanwhile, we are creating values for the society that we operate in and supporting local economic progress. We are working together with NGOs and initiatives that support social innovation. Supporting Civil Society Support to the Local with Sales Models Economy NGOs need financial support in order Our workforce is constituted entirely to put their activities into practice. To from the local employment sources. support the NGOs for constant fundAssembly, which is an important raising, Steppen is creating various process of the production, is genecooperation models based on product rally handled by outsource services. sales. While making donations to In order to provide a social added NGOs by producing private-brand value through this process which goods on some projects, long-term is performed outside the company, business cooperations with orgaSteppen follows a positive discriminizations such as Turmepa (Turnation practice in favor of the groups kish Marine Environment Protection that face obstacles for employment Association) and TEMA (The Turbecause of socio-cultural or physical kish Foundation for Combating Soil reasons. Within this scope, women Erosion, for Reforestation and the living in our area and with no access Protection of Natural Habitats) proto a conventional job opportunity vide the income from product sales. are prioritized. With this practice, During the reporting period, 12.450 stay-home mothers with no prior pens were donated within the collaprofessional experience are given a boration with NGOs, and 10.000 TL higher chance of employability and worth of products have been sold witan opportunity to generate income hin the profit sharing business model. through a training that also provides project based and target oriented work culture as well as technical knowledge. 26 27 Reducing Environmental Impacts The small amount of plastic burr that is generated during the production is reused as raw material before in Production being ruled out as waste. 1 ton of paper, which is 100% of the total solid waste generated during the Considering the full life-cycle of within the product improvement reporting period, has been disposed the final products, all production studies. Besides, 8 tons of recycled by recycling. activities of Steppen evaluated paper has been used in the body within the light industrial production, production and the packaging of the create environmental impact on Seedy Pen™ and Paper Pen product Solid Waste by Type and a minimal level. However, the groups. On the other hand, plastic Method of Disposal sensibility displayed on reducing waste and burr generated during Non-hazardous / Recycled 1000 the environmental impacts of the the production are recycled and Hazardous 0 products is also shown during the reused in the production of black production process. plastic pens. However, the amount production, we care about using Steppen carries out its production of plastic waste does not reach to a the water efficiently. The water activities in a facility with 2,500 significant level. All raw materials is withdrawn from the municipal m2’s of space in an industrial zone and consumables considered, the use The practices that we have carried out supply, not from underground or in Istanbul. Due to its location, of recycled material in production is during the reporting period in order surface sources, and used majorly for activities carried out by Steppen above 10%. to improve the environmental perforcleaning, maintenance and domestic have no significant negative impact Energy consumption, major input in mance of our activities are changing purposes. Due to the same reason, on water resources, soil, protected our production activities, forms the the machines with more efficient ones no wastewater that could have areas or species, and bio-diversity most significant chapter in terms of and purchasing the necessary additives been harmful to the environment is in general. environmental impact. Within the to make our products biodegradable. generated and all of the wastewater production activities held during the Within this scope, Steppen has spent Within the activities carried out is discharged to the sewage system reporting period, approximately 173 around 100,000 TL on environmental by Steppen during the reporting of the industrial zone according to the GJ’s of direct and 913,50 GJ’s of expenses during the reporting period. period, 49 tons of plastics, 15,5 appropriate quality norms. During indirect energy have been used. the reporting period, 910m3‘s of water has been withdrawn from the municipal supply and an equal Material Consumption (Tons) amount of wastewater has been Plastics 49 discharged to the wastewater sewage Metals 15,5 system afterwards. Recycled Paper 8 Additives 180 Water Withdrawn (m3) Municipal System 910 tons of metal raw materials and Electricity is used as the main energy 180kg of additives in total to provide source in production, while natural the products with biodegradability gas is preferred for heating and diesel have been used. Product weights is used for transportation and other The only type of waste that can are reduced to an optimum level as needs. Although it is insignificant reach a significant level during our a result of the design models created in terms of raw materials used in production processes is waste paper. 28 29 Work Environment at Steppen Total Workforce by Status Steppen, which is a family firm, Our employees are using all of their cares about creating an intimate, fair legal rights based on remuneratiand responsible level of communion, leaves of absence, work safety, cation with its employees. Due to overtime and other business relatiour work norms based on expertise, ons, and all of them benefit health experience and consciousness; the and retirement insurance, from the persistence of our workforce plays legal social security system. From a major role on the quality level that the job application until the termiwe obtain. nation of the business relationship, We believe that everyone is equal they are never exposed to discriand have right to live decent life. minating applications. Suggestions Employee Turnover The fundamentals that we adopt are and complaints of our employees, who can directly communicate with (number) Woman Man the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and United Nations Global the senior management, are taken Employees Hired 5 2 Compact. We form our work enviinto consideration and actions to Employees Resigned 7 2 ronment according to this undersincrease the employee satisfaction tanding, we never tolerate any kind are carried out. of violation of the human rights nor become a party of one. Steppen never employs child labor collective agreements. and doesn’t adopt any kind of forced Steppen avoids applications that Total Workforce by Education Level or compulsory labor practice. would risk the health and safety of Employees are not ordered to work employees and takes the necessary in different tasks without their will. precautions. As a result of this unThey are notified about the changes derstanding, just like the previous on the working conditions according periods, no significant accident or to the notice periods stated in legal occupational disease case has ocregulations. Working hours and curred; no work-day has been lost overtimes are applied according to during the reporting period. the legal regulations and nobody is In order to maintain our long stanforced to do extra work. ding zero-accident performance in Steppen respects the union rights the future, we had already launched and doesn’t have any kind of an improvement project in 2013, opposing practice. Any employee that will contain the evaluation of who prefers to be a member of the the risks of the occupational acciunion is free to do so. However, dents, employee trainings, process within the reporting period, we improvement and standardization. don’t have any employees with 30 31 Contacts Step Yazım Gereçleri ve Kalıp Sanayi Ticaret Limited Şirketi Alemdağ Cd. Deniz Sanayi Sitesi D Blok No: 25 Ümraniye – İstanbul You can find more detailed T: +90 216 634 20 27 information about the application F: +90 216 632 90 10 of the GRI and UNGC Reporting principles through the Sustainability Reporting Index info@steppen.com.tr published on our web page. www.steppen.com.tr To obtain more detailed information about Steppen Sustainability Report and our company practices, and to state your opinion and suggestions; Fırat Yetkin Marketing Manager marketing@steppen.com.tr Design: Lokum Dijital www.lokumdijital.com 32 33 Non-hazardous raw materials are used in pens made by Steppen. When disposed, it breaks down and converts to fertilizer, supporting the nutrient requirement of the vegetation. All raw materials are internationally certificated. We hope our efforts to naturalize hazardous materials give green light to those who support the natural life. 34
