mmun Com nicatio on On Progress (COP) 08//08/2 2014 AREA OF APPLICATION PRINCIPLE ACTIONS & RESULTS: HUMAN RIGHT 1. Businesses should support and respect protection of interniationally proclaimed human rights; 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses REFAS respects national sovereignty and maintains a positive working relationship with government authorities. Stressing dialogue all the way up to the highest levels, we reserve the right to voice our beliefs about the need to uphold human rights when it impacts our operations, employees, shareholders or partners. The corporate responsibility to respect human rights indicates that businesses must act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others and to address negative impacts with which they are involved. The second pillar offers a process for companies to both know and show that they are meeting this responsibility, by which they become aware of, prevent, and address their adverse human rights impacts. The UNGP hold that companies have the power to affect virtually all of the internationally recognized rights. Therefore, there is a responsibility of both the state and the private sector to acknowledge their role in upholding and protecting human rights. In conducting due diligence, the UNGP encourage companies to formally assess actual and potential human rights impacts, to create a statement of commitment to respecting rights, and to integrate human rights across relevant internal functions and processes. Human resources management policy ais based on a fully compliance with the previsions of law, national labour contracts and volutary adoptation of international standards regarding human rights and labour conditions, reflecting the Refas's increasingly proactive approach. The commitment to the principles in the areas of human rights and labour protection is expressed in the Code of Ethics that we have as our internal procedure. REFAS works hard to integrate ethical concerns into our business practices and sustainability management is vital to our core business. REFAS has a clear Code of Conduct, instructing all our employees how sustainable business should be performed under best practice principles. REFAS expects and trusts that our supply base will honor these same ethical, social & environmental principles and practices, as described in the attached Supplier Code of Conduct (SCC). We engage in stakeholder review and consultations on this policy to ensure that it is continuously improved. Our policy aims: 1. To contribute within the scope of our capabilities to improving economic, environmental and social conditions through open dialogue with stakeholders and through active participation in common efforts. 2. Human rights: To support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Employees and contractors engaged as security personnel shall observe international human rights norms in their work. 3. Children and young workers: To ensure that minors are properly protected; and as a fundamental principle, not to employ children or support the use of child labor, except as part of government‐approved youth training schemes (such as work‐experience programs). 4. To require that all employees enter into employment with the company of their own free will; and not to apply any coercion when engaging employees or support any form of forced or compulsory labor. 5. Health and safety To provide a safe and healthy working environment at all sites and facilities and to take adequate steps to prevent accidents and injury to health arising out of the course of work by minimizing, so far as is reasonably practicable, the causes of hazards inherent in the working environment. All the activities of REFAS are mostly in Italy and are according to the current law presents in Italy, including United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights , the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights , the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights , the International Organization of Labour Conventions , and others. We have our code of Ethic that soon will be available in our web site, where inside we insert our important principles about human rights. The REFAS's commitment to the pronciples in the areas of corruption prevention, human rights and labour protection is expressed in the Code of Ethics (soon available in our web site), also distributed to all staff in order to increase awareness and improve behaviours. REFAS employees and stakeholders apply these business principles to their work and actions on a daily basis. Our principles are about providing our customers affordable products and services without compromising on quality or reliability. But they are also about doing the right thing more generally – following the law, acting honorably and treating each other with respect. The REFAS Code of Conduct provides a framework for employees and stakeholders to put business principles into practice with utmost integrity. It is the foundation so that everything we do in connection to our work at REFAS should be, and will be, measured against the highest possible standards of ethics and integrity. AREA OF APPLICATION PRINCIPLE ACTIONS & RESULTS: LABOUR STANDARD 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; 6. The eliminationof discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 6. To facilitate regular consultation with all employees to address areas of concern. To respect the right of all personnel to form and join trade unions of their choice and to bargain collectively. To ensure that representatives of personnel are not the subject of discrimination and that such representatives have access to their members in the workplace. To make sure, in any case of major layoffs, that a social benefits and guidance plan is in place, and already known to employees or their official representatives. 7. To offer equality of opportunity to all employees and not to engage in or support discrimination in hiring, compensation, access to training, promotion, termination or retirement based on ethnic and national origin, caste, religion, disability, sex, age, sexual orientation, union membership, or political affiliation. 8. To counteract the use of mental or physical coercion, verbal abuse or corporal/hard‐labor punishment; and not to allow behavior, including gestures, language and physical contact, that is sexual, coercive, threatening, abusive or exploitative. To develop and maintain equitable procedures to deal with employee grievances and disciplinary practices. 9. To comply with applicable laws and industry standards on working hours, including overtime. 10. To ensure that wages paid meet or exceed the legal or industry minimum standards and are always sufficient to meet basic needs of personnel and to provide some discretionary income. To ensure that wage and benefits composition are detailed clearly and regularly for workers, and that compensation is rendered in full compliance with all applicable laws and in a manner convenient to workers. To ensure that labor‐only contracting arrangements and false apprenticeship schemes are not used to avoid fulfilling REFAS’s obligations under applicable laws pertaining to labor and social security legislation and regulations. 11. To establish and maintain appropriate procedures to evaluate and select major suppliers and subcontractors on their ability to meet the requirements of REFAS social policy and principles and to maintain reasonable evidence that these requirements are continuing to be met. 12. To promote and participate in community engagement activities that actively foster economic, environmental, social and educational development, as part of REFAS commitment to the communities where it operates. 13. To uphold the highest standards in business ethics and integrity and to support efforts of national and international authorities to establish and enforce high ethical standards for all businesses. AREA OF APPLICATION PRINCIPLE ACTIONS & RESULTS: ENVIRONMENTAL 7. Businesses should support a Precautionally approach to Environmental challengers; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies In the corse of the year 2005, REFAS has acquired certitication ISO 14001 for Environmental Requirement. We built an efficient system of management acclimatizes them constantly and operating second the reference norms. ISO 14001:2004 sets out the criteria for an environmental management system and can be certified to. It does not state requirements for environmental performance, but maps out a framework that a company or organization can follow to set up an effective environmental management system. It can be used by any organization regardless of its activity or sector. Using ISO 14001:2004 can provide assurance to company management and employees as well as external stakeholders that environmental impact is being measured and improved. The benefits of using ISO 14001:2004 can include: •Reduced cost of waste management •Savings in consumption of energy and materials •Lower distribution costs •Improved corporate image among regulators, customers and the public Refas is aware that to remain competitive in the market and must take into account the prevention, protection and improvement of the environment, protect human health and improve the safety of customers and employees of the neighboring population. Refas the foregoing is committed, if technically possible and economically feasible to prevent, eliminate or reduce as far as possible, any significant impact resulting from their own activities, products or services, pursuing continuous improvement of its environmental performance. To achieve the above objectives the Company Management, ordered: To ensure compliance with the laws and regulations in the conduct of its business; To take all preventive measures are technically and economically feasible to prevent injuries, illnesses of workers and environmental pollution. To adopt and maintain an Environmental Management System according to UNI‐EN ISO 14001. Systematically analyze all environmental aspects of the current processes or of potential new processes, with the aim of defining and achieving objectives and targets for continuous improvement, and prevent all forms of pollution. To raise awareness and involve all employees, through teamwork, to improve the environment, health and safety. To engage in the reduction of electricity consumption and waste production. To keep under control the processing waste, minimizing their generation. We have a big environmental project closed at the end of last year : Our etablishment was born in 1986 with a material that in these time could be used, but today is out of commerce because dangerous: asbestos. Since today we controled every year the status of amianto, that we before incapsulated. In 2013 we decided, in order to give an high foot in enviromental to replace it. The work will start in July 2013 and will finish in August 2013. The work process is about: ‐ Remove asbestos with a dedicated specialized company – the surface is 2500 m2; ‐ Cover the roof with some panels type Alutech Dach; ‐ Installation impiant solar PV photo voltaic in order to save energy type Grid Connected The project, in environmental view consists in: 1. Remove a toxic material as ASBESTOS replacing it with standard panels type Alutech Dach; the upper surface is in Alluminium thickness 0,6mm; the lower is in iron thickness 0,4 mm where it’s insulating with thickness 40mm high pressure. In this way we eliminate a toxic material that is consider pollutant for our environmental. We always check is status but it’s better to remove a potential cause of pollution 2. Installation impiant solar PV for photo voltaic with nr 796 moduls Schuco MPE 250 PS 60 BB with power 250Wp and nr 10 Inverter SMA STP 17000 TL entry tension 400V‐800V, nominal power CA 17 kW guarantee 5years. Schüco MPE modules in the PS 08 series are distinguished by polycrystalline solar cells with high cell efficiencies for the highest possible outputs per square meter of module area as indicated by the optimum output tolerance of −0%/+5%. The PS 08 modules are available from 225 ‐ 245 Watt. The PV cells are meticulously manufactured in accordance with the highest technical standards, ensuring excellence at every stage of the production process and resulting in highly efficient, long‐life cells. The frames are constructed of aluminum alloy for maximum endurance in rugged weather conditions. They are also given a double oxidation coating for added protection against the elements, ensuring impressive congevity even under adverse conditions. In this way we can produce by ourself 468.092kWh in one years through sun rays; we’re talking about wipe and clean energy. Because of benefits generated from photovoltaic solar technology, in the 2014we decided to enlarge our PV solar roofing. In fact in the next days we’ll settle new system: ¾ System 200 KW power , energy annual production about 253'301 KWh ¾ System 400 KW di power, energy annual production about 468'092 KWh The following environmental Benefits and other of Solar Power are found by us : Environmental advantages. Obtaining electricity from a renewable source will help preserve the earth’s resources. PV systems are renewable, clean and universal power sources. Solar energy helps prevent damage to the environment by producing no pollution. A 2‐kilowatt system will reduce carbon‐dioxide emissions by 85,576 pounds over its lifetime, according to some estimates. Financial savings. The cost savings created by reduced electricity use typically are not a cost‐effective payback that offsets the upfront cost of purchasing and installing a PV roofing system, unless the federal government and some state governments and utilities offer financial incentives, such as tax credits and subsidy programs. Even as the cost of solar cells continues to drop, the upfront cost of buying and installing a PV system remains prohibitive for many institutional and commercial facilities. This situation has led to the development of solar power purchase agreements (SPPA), a financial arrangement between a third‐party developer that installs, owns, operates, and maintains the PV system for the organization. The organization agrees to host the PV system on the roof or property and to buy the electricity from the provider for a predetermined period. This set‐up allows the host customer to receive electricity at a predictable cost, with the potential to have a positive cash flow via reduced electrical costs from the day the system goes into service. The solar provider receives the tax credits and the income the sale of the electricity generates. Reliability. A PV system with a battery‐powered storage system can provide power to facilities in the event of an electrical outage. Hedge against rate hikes. PV systems are less vulnerable to electrical rate increases, which have averaged about 6 percent in recent years. The PV panels produce electricity at a fixed rate over the life of the system. The cost of solar cells — primarily, the main component, silicon — also has been dropping quite dramatically recently. Peak energy savings. PV systems can reduce the cost of peak power. A PV system produces the most power in the summer at mid‐day, when the sun is highest. So it supplements the need for expensive power at peak operating times. Public relations. PV technology can have a legitimate, positive influence on the general public, which might think more highly of the organization for taking action to protect and improve the environment. National security. Renewable energy sources lessen the nation’s dependence on foreign oil. Morover there are some important notes to remarks about this new technology adopted : 1. Pollution from non renewable fuels is inevitable = Emissions such as Sulphur Dioxide, Nitrogen Oxide and Carbon Dioxide all can have a negative effect on farming, people’s health and water. Ecosystems are also at risk of being destroyed. Furthermore, pollutants from kerosene used for lighting purposes is reduced with the use of solar power systems, as well as the decrease in use of diesel generators for the production of electricity. 2. Decrease in Disposing of Dry‐Cell Batteries = Small dry cell batteries are used for appliances such as portable radios and flashlights, but are most commonly used in rural areas where there is lack of electricity .However, the lead from these disposed dry cell batteries can have damaging effects on soil and water. Solar power reduces the need of using disposable dry cell batteries and therefore decreases the risk of contamination. 3. Offsetting Green House Gases = PV Solar power systems produce electricity without giving off carbon dioxide. One PV Solar system can offset approximately six tons of CO2 emissions over a twenty year life span. 4. The conservation of non‐renewable energy resources = Photovoltaic (PV) solar power eases the usage of diminishing natural resources such as oil, coal and gas. Today, we live in an exceptionally demanding environment where the use of energy is growing at an alarming rate. It is vital to preserve the earth’s fossil fuels and other natural resources, not only for a healthier environment but also for the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. 5. Lower Rates of Waste and Pollution = PV solar power systems minimize the amount of waste production. For example, the entire process of converting coal to electricity produces a lot of dust, discarded solid waste, spillages of toxins and harmful emissions, as well as wasting energy, heat, land and water. 6. Reduction of Energy Usage = Solar power improves energy efficiency and is therefore very beneficial for Third World countries. Solar power electricity reduces the costs of conventional power for built up cities, and is cheaper for industrial and commercial purposes to run their operations. This leaves the use of PV systems to generate power for most of the developing world's population in rural areas. Of conducting systems in order to minimize environmental risks. To study, develop, adapt and adopt working methods and production processes that minimize pollution of water, air and soil. Manufacturing of products characteristics according to environmental legislation and recyclable as possible. Give priority to relations with suppliers that are able to provide products and services that meet our environmental management system. Regularly review the environmental management system, with a view to continuous improvement of our services. To disseminate and make available to employees and personnel acting on behalf of the organization, this document (this policy is posted on the bulletin board for internal staff, available on the website www.refas.com the section on the Environment for the external personnel acting on behalf of the organization). It is imperative to REFAS that our Suppliers, which we regard as our ‘Extended Enterprise’, conduct business respectfully towards employees, society, and the environment, in line with the values and principles on which REFAS itself respects and operates. REFAS works in full compliance with the rights established by law and in labour contract, without any limitation or discrimination with regard to gender, race, nationality or religion. REFAS doesn't operate any discriminatory policy in the criteria for selection and remuneration of men and women employees, nor are any differences applied in the treatment of protected categories. Ratio of basic salary of men and women by employee caterory is just one. All stakeholder of REFAS is invited by us to adopt the same Conduct Code. Industrial relations reflect the rigorous observance of commitments set by the relevant national legislation and the collective contract, as weel as policies based on a contructive dialogue with trade unions, for the purpose of increasing productivity and service efficiency and promoting the enhancement and development of the workforce. AREA OF APPLICATION PRINCIPLE ACTIONS & RESULTS: ANTICORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including exortion and bribery We have our internal Code of Cunduct that is always availbale in our “comunication angle” located in internal company and in our web site internal in which employers can consult every moments in PDF format. The rules in our Code of Conduct apply to REFAS employees and non‐employee collaborators (ex. Consultants, suppliers, representatives, brokers and agents), to business partners and all subjects in long‐term commercial relationships with our. It includes, moreover, the following elements: ‐ commitment to obeying law and regulations; ‐ prohibits giving and receiving bribes; ‐ rstricts giving and receiving gifts; ‐ addresses conflicts of interest; ‐ prohibits donations to political parties; ‐ restricts facilitation payment. All suppliers are required to read and subscribe to the principles of REFAS's code of Ethic. donations are only given to officially known and appreciately docuemnted associations and are disclosed in our report and financial statements. REFAS S.R.L. is a modernly equipped company that operates in mechanic component and electromechanical fields. Today we are present in national, european and asiatic. The plant has a covered surface of 5600 mq. It is located in a particulary favorable area at little of Italy. It is well linked with the major cities: Rome, Naple and Milan. Refas S.r.l. is certificated in perfect adhesion to the precription of the rule UNI EN ISO 9001:2000 about quality and UNI EN ISO 14001:2008 about enviroment. The company’s main activities are the following: ‐ manufacturing of dies and mechanic equipment; ‐ metal pressing (iron‐copper‐ aluminium‐steel‐ special alloys ect..); ‐ termoplatic pressing; ‐ polyurethane pressing; ‐ braze welding; ‐ assembly; ‐ precision componentry. Refas is equipped with: ‐ a department of manufacturing and maintenance of dies and equipment; ‐ a department of mechanic working, blancking and metal bending; ‐ a department for special braze welding processes: ‐ a department of termoplastic and polyurethane moulding; ‐ a department of assembly for the production of complex electromechanical and other sets; ‐a department of laser technology for cutting material We just work in order to respect human right ans , labour standard, environmental and anti‐corruption; our target is to mantain our target and improve it years by years. It's a very good tool elaborate the COP yearly because in this way company can resume and mantain the system in the best way. CEO: Tullio Antonietta
