Corporate Responsibility and Governance Report 2013 Content Page 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 4 About Aker Solutions 22 Environmental Impact 4 What We Do 22 Leadership in Environmental Technology 5 Our Customers 22 Managing Our Footprint 6 Where We Operate 23 Reducing Energy Consumption and Emissions 7 Vision and Values 25 Handling Waste and Spills 25 Targets and Initiatives for 2014 8 Introduction from Øyvind Eriksen 26 Supply Chain Management 26 Responsible Supply Chain Management 10 Approach to Corporate Responsibility 26 Targets and Initiatives for 2014 10 Defining Strategy and Goals 10 Strategy Implementation 28 Community Impact 11 Engaging with Stakeholders 11 Organizational Accountability 28 Respecting Human Rights 29 Contributing to Local Economies 30 Another Way of Giving Back 12 People 12 Who Works for Us? 32 Integrity 13 Recruiting and Retaining Talent 13 Reward 32 Managing Integrity Risks 14 Managing Skills and Performance 32 Clear on Corruption 17 Safeguarding Diversity and Equal Opportunity 34 Training to Act 17 Employee Representation 34 Reporting of Ethical Concerns 17 Targets and Initiatives for 2014 35 Transparency Builds Trust 35 Targets and Initiatives for 2014 18 Health and Safety 36 About This Report 18 Entrenching a Safety Culture 18 Zero Incident Mindset 36 Reporting Principles 20 Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring 36 Report Boundaries and Content 20 Security and Emergency Preparedness 36 Data Quality 20 From Sick Leave to Wellness 36 Contact Points 21 Targets and Initiatives for 2014 50 G3 Content Index Content Page 3 Corporate Governance Statement 38 The Corporate Governance Report 39 Business 40 Equity and Dividends 40 Equal Treatment of Shareholders and Transactions with Close Associates 42 Freely Negotiable Shares 42 General Meetings 43 Nomination Committee 43 Composition and Independence of the Board of Directors 44 The Work of the Board of Directors 45 Risk Management and Internal Control 48 Reward of the Board of Directors 48 Reward of Executive Personnel 48 Information and Communication 49 Take-overs 49 Auditors Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 4 About Aker Solutions What We Do Aker Solutions is a global provider of products, systems The company had operating revenue of NOK 42.9 billion and services to the oil and gas industry. Our engineering, and earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and design and technology bring discoveries into production amortization (EBITDA) of NOK 3.5 billion. and maximize recovery from each petroleum field. At the end of 2013, we employed approximately 27,000 people in about 30 countries. Geological Interpretation Concept, FEEDs Process Optimisation Tie-ins Drilling Upgrades Planning of Safe Exploration Drilling Detail Design, Project Secondary Recovery, (IOR) Water, Gas Injection Platform Upgrades Decommissioning and Management Removal Production Testing De-bottle-necking Tertiary Recovery (EOR) Lowpressure Production Exploration Development Production Decommissioning Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 5 Our Customers Aker Solutions provides products and services across the entire offshore upstream segment of the oil and gas industry. We support companies in exploration activities, when they develop facilities and infrastructure to produce oil and gas and when they seek to maximize production and extend the life of fields. We design and build production facilities and provide the maintenance of these plus the decommissioning of facilities once production ends. Our main customers are international, national and independent oil and gas companies around the globe. We also work with drilling and floating production, storage and offloading (FPSO) contractors and construction and offshore installation companies. Key Figures Amounts in NOK Million 2013 2012 Europe & SubNorth America Norway Asia Pacific Saharan Africa Revenue 42 900 41 632 Deepwater North Sea and World’s largest Gas demand drive Materials, goods and services 20 004 19 835 picking up Deepwater fields offshore market our markets Salary, wages and social security Other 14 345 5 048 12 086 5 540 5% 9% 15% 13% 51% 50% 20% 12% Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Total operating expenses 39 397 37 461 employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues EBITDA 3 503 4 171 Dividends to non-controlling interests 6 Dividends to shareholders in Aker Solutions 1 082 1 053 Brazil Global MENA Paid dividend pr share (NOK) 4.00 3.86 Booming market, Floaters for global use – Holds 60% of Assets 48 157 40 215 local content req. no specific market proven reserves Equity 13 555 11 980 6% 7% 6% 2% 1% Employees 27 299 25 667 Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of employees revenues revenues employees revenues For more information regarding key numbers for Aker Solutions, please see Aker Solutions’ Annual Report for 2013. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 6 Where We Operate Our regional matrix organization and global key account approach provides a solid foundation for understanding and engaging with our customers and for offering products, services and technologies based on their needs. Our key geographical presence is in the North Sea region, where the Norwegian home market accounted for nearly half of group revenues in 2013. Our activity in the region remains high, with several new discoveries on the Norwegian Continental Shelf under development. The region will be a stepping stone for Aker Solutions into the Arctic. We operate in the Asia Pacific region in countries such as Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Indonesia, India and Australia. Our regional customers include yards (South Korean, Angola China India Norway Pakistan Thailand Chinese and Singaporean) which build deepwater drilling Luanda Beijing Kakinada Asker Islamabad Bangkok units and production facilities for international markets. Shanghai Mumbai Bergen Sattahip Australia Shenzhen Pune Egersund Republic of Congo Songhkla In Sub-Saharan Africa, we currently operate in Angola, Brisbane Yichang Fornebu Pointe-Noire Congo-Brazzaville, Nigeria and Tanzania. We also have a Melbourne Indonesia Hammerfest UAE Perth Cyprus Batam Horten Russia Dubai strong local presence in Brazil where we secured several Limassol Jakarta Kristiansand S Moscow large new contracts in 2013 and started to build a new Azerbaijan Kristiansund N St. Petersburg UK Baku Czech Republic Italy Lyngdal Aberdeen subsea fabrication facility in Curitiba. The North American Prague Milan Midsund Saudi-Arabia Great Yarmouth market remains important for two reasons, firstly because Brazil Moss Al-Khobar Hastings Curitiba Denmark Kazakhstan Oslo London of the petroleum activity in the deepwater Gulf of Mexico, Rio das Ostras Copenhagen Mangystau Sandnessjøen Singapore Maidenhead and secondly as the home of large international exploration Rio de Janeiro Stavanger Singapore Stockton-on-Tees Finland Malaysia Stokke and production companies and drilling contractors. Brunei Helsinki Kuala Lumpur Stord South Korea USA Kuala Belait Ulvila Labuan Tranby Geoje Bakersfield Port Klang Tromsø Mobile Canada France Trondheim Sweden Houston Calgary Paris Netherlands Ågotnes Gothenburg St. John’s Schiphol-Rijk Ålesund Vietnam Germany Tanzania Vung Tau Bad Fallingsbostel Nigeria Dar-es-Salaam Ho Chi Minh City Erkelenz Lagos Port Harcourt Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 7 Vision and Values Our vision sets the overall goal for our business. Our values and the importance we give them must be reflected throughout our organization and in every aspect of how we do business, every day. Vision Our vision is to be the preferred partner for solutions in the oil and gas industry through living our values. Values All Aker Solutions employees share a common set of values – the compass that guides our policies, our operations and ultimately, our behavior. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 8 Introduction from Øyvind Eriksen Aker Solutions last year implemented its first global We also in the year renewed our agreement with the corporate responsibility strategy, approved by the board European Works Councils to strengthen the forum for in January. communication between management and employee representatives. We are committed to ensuring our This represents a major step to ensure that corporate employee’s rights and renewed an international framework Being a preferred partner responsibility will be a key strategic component of our agreement with Norwegian and international labor unions means that our clients, business on a global scale. We strive to combine growth at the end of 2012. partners and employees with being a socially responsible corporate citizen in all the regions where we operate, as well as to our employees, Regrettably, we failed to meet our goal of zero serious know they can trust us. partners, clients, local communities and the environment. accidents and suffered one fatality last year. One of our We continuously work to strengthen our corporate subcontractors fell from height at a production facility in responsibility and our commitment to the UN Global Batam, Indonesia. Needless to say, this is one too many. As Compact, which we joined in 2008. with all serious incidents and near misses, our health and safety teams have investigated this event to learn from it Our shift to a regional organizational structure gained and take measures to prevent re-occurrences. pace last year, enabling us to better track local markets. We implemented a regional HSE approach to better align As part of our CR strategy we are open and transparent on companywide initiatives with local strategies and meet how we operate and the impact that we have on society. expectations from local and regional stakeholders. The We have adopted country-by-country reporting to provide regional structure also makes it possible to engage with key performance figures and will expand this further in the local experts on anti-corruption compliance and work years to come. hands-on with local teams to ensure the best possible training in business ethics, due diligence and our Code of As a preferred partner for the global oil and gas industry, Conduct. we take operating responsibly very seriously. We seek sustainability across our group by focusing on output Anti-corruption compliance was a key focus for our and results and also on how we deliver. Being a preferred CR commitment in 2013. The Business Integrity and partner means that our clients, partners and employees Compliance team was strengthened by adding staff at know they can trust us. corporate headquarters and a regional compliance officer in Kuala Lumpur to support the Asia Pacific region. We also set up a global compliance network in 2013 to complement our global team and regional compliance officers in Brazil, North America and the Asia Pacific region. Representatives Best regards, from all business areas are now working together to Øyvind Eriksen strengthen compliance within the organization. Executive chairman Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 10 Approach to Corporate Responsibility Our commitment to Corporate Responsibility underpins Defining Strategy and Goals the same strategy, setting a clear direction for where our vision of being a preferred partner for the oil and we want to be with our CR commitments by 2017. The gas industry. We govern our business by the principles Aker Solutions reached a milestone in 2013 with the launch external context varies from project to project and so, of accountable and transparent leadership and of the global Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2013during 2013 we worked with the business area and regional recognize our responsibility to do so for the benefit of 2017. The company carried out an extensive assessment management teams to set localized strategies, relevant to our stakeholders. of material sustainability risks and communicated with their respective projects and operations, using the global stakeholders to formulate a vision and position for CR at strategy as a point of reference. Aker Solutions and a strategy for tackling identified areas Corporate Responsibility (CR) at Aker Solutions is about of material significance. The board of directors approved making good, sustainable business decisions. Integrated the strategy in January 2013, anchoring CR at the very Strategy Implementation CR principles provide a strategic benefit to the company, top of the organization and confirming that strong CR its stakeholders and society. CR helps increase our quality frameworks and actions are essential safeguards against The company established the Aker Solutions’ CR Network through improving processes and mindsets, motivates our irresponsible conduct. to coordinate and execute CR activities. The network employees and makes us a more attractive supplier to our consists of people from the corporate administration and customers, especially large oil companies with strict supply The strategy sets out four objectives for CR performance: representatives from each region and business area who chain requirements. It also reduces our reputation risk and are responsible for achieving and monitoring the CR goals time spent managing negative publicity. We believe CR ■■ Ensure that the values created by Aker Solutions’ with support from their management teams. Due to the helps foster the trust and commitment that our customers benefit the societies where we are present, encouraging size of the company, it is important to ensure that the new expect from a preferred partner. economic and social development strategy is firmly anchored and actively promoted within ■■ Protect the health, safety, human rights and wellbeing the business areas and regions, rather than only perceived of our workforce as a corporate-level policy. Deciding What Matters ■■ Reduce negative environmental effects of the global Based on our engagement with internal and external oil and gas industry by providing leading technology, The network mapped all current CR initiatives across the stakeholders, the following CR areas have been environmentally safe products and reducing the impact company in 2013. Regional management teams have used identified as material to our continued social license of our own operations that mapping to begin defining regional CR plans and to to operate: ■■ Be open and transparent about the way we operate and propose measurable goals for their business areas and the impact we have on society regions. Region Norway has been the frontrunner in this n Supporting local growth and competence creation task, recently launching a regional CR plan relevant to its n Protecting human rights n Implementing responsible supply chain Each objective is accompanied by a set of goals to direct operations and stakeholders (see also «Our Community management efforts towards practical activities, many of which are Impact»). This plan will be approved and implemented n Working against corruption already underway. in 2014. Similar actions will follow in 2014 in the North n Reducing environmental risks America, Brazil and UK regions. n Improving health and safety There are many benefits to a global CR strategy. Having n Promoting sound employee relations a common frame of reference and set of objectives is One of the network’s most important tasks going forward important for business areas and regions to adhere to is to facilitate the strategy implementation and ensure Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 11 alignment across the company. The CR Network held two We will carry out another round of stakeholder engagement the CR strategy, performance and reporting is delegated meetings in 2013 to establish its mandate, set goals for in 2014 to update and validate our initial analysis of to the corporate Business Integrity and Compliance (BIC) the year, share experiences, and discuss opportunities and material issues alongside continuing engagement with function, which reports to the Chief Legal Counsel. challenges. An internal online community has been created individual stakeholders on specific issues and needs. We to allow interested employees to participate in CR work and will also seek feedback on how the new global CR strategy The governance structure and procedures, including risk to share their ideas. is perceived by stakeholders to form part of a planned management, internal controls and performance evaluation, benchmarking survey for 2014, which aims to ensure we are described in more detail in the annual Corporate are aligned with best practice in the industry. Governance Statement, see Corporate Governance Engaging with Stakeholders Statement, included at the end of this report. Going forward we aim to consider the perspectives of The CR Network and online community is just one way we anyone who may be affected by our operations by assessing interact on CR issues. Aker Solutions maintains an active issues they raise and seeking an effective response. dialogue with internal and external stakeholders on CR matters to ensure that the company’s CR work is relevant to its context, market and strategy while meeting the needs Organizational Accountability and expectations of stakeholders. Good corporate governance contributes to reducing risks We use a variety of channels to engage with stakeholders, and ensuring sustainable value creation. Aker Solutions is including the internal CR Network and management committed to ensuring sound governance and an effective meetings, seminars and workshops, articles and interactive framework for managing CR risks. blogs on the company intranet, feedback from training courses, dialogue with customers (including feedback on our The company has 20 policies expressing its position on HSE performance after project completion) and networks CR and governance matters including safety, environment, such as the UN Global Compact Nordic Network and business ethics and integrity. The policies contain various anti-corruption initiatives. These channels provide instructions and operational guidelines to employees to a valuable arena for discussing, benchmarking and aligning ensure that operations comply with internal and external CR activities internally and with international best practice. regulatory frameworks. We engaged in 2011 in extensive dialogue with internal and All policies are reviewed and updated annually. Internal external stakeholders, including representatives of suppliers, control procedures and review mechanisms ensure that customers, trade unions and investors from various our projects are globally conducted in accordance with geographical locations and market segments. We wanted to applicable frameworks. improve our understanding of their interest in and influence on our business and identify the issues they consider The board of directors is ultimately responsible for CR appropriate for Aker Solutions to manage and report on. and governance activities. Development and oversight of Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 12 People As a global technology-based company, Aker Solutions depends on 27,000 employees and a cooperative Key Staff Figures working environment that acknowledges diversity and creativity. It is our responsibility and goal to sustain 2013 2012 a competent and committed workforce, capable of Total staff 27 299 27 554 collaborating effectively with customers. Own employees 22 083 20 861 Contract staff 5 216 6 694 Who Works for Us? Full Time/Part Time Full time 98.0% 97.6% Aker Solutions employs a wide range of engineers, Part time 2.0% 2.4% New employees (excluding external contracts) 3200 4 009 technicians, operators and functional staff representing various professional backgrounds, cultures and nationalities. Age Groups Recruited Own Regular Employees Highly skilled and motivated employees and leaders are a < 30 38.7% 35.7% key success factor for a technology-driven company like 30-50 53.8% 55.5% Aker Solutions, and attracting and retaining employees > 50 7.6% 8.8% were important objectives in 2013. The company strives Gender Distribution Own/Regular Employees Recruited to enhance its attractiveness as an employer by offering Female/Male 24.8%/ 75.2% 24.7%/ 75.3% existing and new employees opportunities to develop their Skilled workers/operations 5 221 28% skills and careers. It also seeks to retain highly skilled and Office workers 16 862 72% motivated employees in more than 30 countries where it Turnover 5.80% 6.9% currently operates. Staff Per Region 1) North America 1 406 1 320 At the end of 2013, the total workforce comprised Europe & Sub-Saharan Africa 4 118 4 232 2) 27,299 people, of whom 22,083 or 81 percent were own Norway 14 043 15 036 employees and 5,216 or 19 percent external contracts. Brazil 1 617 1 403 The corresponding workforce at end-2012 numbered MENA 504 319 3) 27,544, of whom 76 percent were own employees and 24 Asia Pacific 5 595 5 244 percent external contracts. Office workers accounted for Other 16 76 percent of the company’s own workforce at the end Gender Distribution (Own Employees) of last year, down from 72 percent a year earlier. Most of Female/Male 22.1%/ 77.9% 21.1%/ 78.9% Aker Solutions’ own employees work in Norway, but 54 Including own employees and contract staff. percent of the staff recruited in 2013 joined outside Norway, 1) 2) This number counts for employees in Europe ex. Norway. reflecting the company’s worldwide growth. 3) This number counts for employees in Africa and the Middle East. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 13 The company’s procedures concerning recruitment, and for long-term careers with competitive rewards and an a two-day program to orient new colleagues about the training, benefits and welfare, rights in the workplace and understanding of diverse local needs. company, its history and values and give them insight into dialogue between employees and management aim to the products and how they are delivered. manage effectively the diverse profile of the workforce. Twenty-six employees were assigned in 2013 to a twoyear International Talent Program for vocational training of young professionals across the business. The goal is to Reward Recruiting and Retaining Talent develop talent for where it is needed most. So the 2013 program recruited especially in Malaysia and Brazil as well Rewards for work, including pay and benefits, are important Aker Solutions competes for talent worldwide by offering as the USA, UK and Norway. aspects of employee retention. Aker Solutions offers attractive employment opportunities across the business competitive pay, various benefits and extensive welfare portfolio and projects around the world, providing Aker Solutions launched a new global onboarding program programs to full-time and part-time employees. Pay, employees with good opportunities to develop their in 2013 to support growth ambitions and efficiently benefits and welfare programs depend on local statutory competence and careers. The goal is to attract, recruit, introduce new employees to the company. The program provisions and established practices in the countries retain and develop talent that will secure the company’s will ensure an efficient global onboarding approach all where we operate, and benefits include one or more of continued expansion in future growth markets. We want to across Aker Solutions. The aim is to reduce managers’ the following: Life insurance, healthcare, disability cover, be the preferred employer in the oilfield services industry workload related to general onboarding tasks, make new retirement provisions and share ownership. and differentiate ourselves through local and regional employees feel welcome and comfortable, minimize the recruitment and talent development programs as well as time to get new employees up to speed, and strengthen In Norway, where 52 percent of the staff works, about competitive pay and reward packages adjusted to local managements’ commitment to the performance culture. 6 percent of employees took parental leave in 2013 as conditions and regulations. Extensive welfare programs are The onboarding program is named myStart and it includes allowed by law. Eighty-four percent of those who took provided throughout the group. More than 101,8731) applicants from 155 countries registered their information on Aker Solutions’ recruitment system in 2013, down from 127,000 in 2012. More than 3,200 new employees were recruited in 2013, compared Parental Leave in Norway with 3,300 in 2012. Female Male Total The company invests substantially in talent retention and development to ensure that talent turns into a competitive Employees taking parental leave in 2013 253 483 736 advantage. We want to motivate our current and future % employees returning to work after parental leave 1) 91.70 78.97 83.84 employees with opportunities for international experience, % still employed at Aker Solutions 12 months after parental leave ended 2) 92.59 90.24 91.22 for turning innovative ideas into solutions for our customers, 1) Numbers based on employees that took parental leave in 2012. 2) Numbers based on employees that took parental leave in 2012. 1) Includes external contracts in addition to own employees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 14 parental leave in 2012 returned to work after the leave, The Human Resources department ensures that any Managing Skills and Performance and 91 percent of those who returned were still working at downsizing or cutbacks are conducted in accordance with Aker Solutions 12 months later. local legislation and that appropriate support is provided Aker Solutions wants every employee to know what is by the company to directly affected employees. The expected of them and how we view their contribution to the A structured Exit Process for employees who leave the notice period ranges from 1 to 24 weeks depending on an company. So we offer skills and management training as company aims to ensure that they end their time at employee’s length of service. well as regular performance reviews. Aker Solutions with dignity and a positive view of the company. The results of standardized exit interviews and For information about the remuneration of senior All managers and permanent employees jointly evaluate surveys of all leavers are compiled in an online portal with executives, please see note 11 in the Annual Report 2013. their progress at least once a year through the Performance real turnover data. This helps to clarify why people leave Dialogue. They also set out new objectives to foster the company and is a strategic tool for globally reducing employee responsibility for conduct and performance. The employee turnover. The workforce turnover in 2013 Performance Dialogue is followed up with a mid-year review averaged 5.8 percent, which was down from 6.9 percent in to monitor progress and address any change in objectives 2012, continuing a positive trend over the past three years. or accountability. A bi-yearly global People Survey measures employee satisfaction with their roles and responsibilities, the work environment, their experience with management and alignment to corporate values. Data from 2012 indicated that not all employees were engaged in this dialogue so improvements were made in 2013. The 2014 data are expected to show an increase in participation from 68.4 Case: Preferred Employer percent in 2012. There is no difference between men and women employees in the completion rate for the Aker Solutions has a strong foothold in Norway as an employer. performance dialogue. It was voted the second most attractive employer in Norway in A framework for a global career model was developed in the most recent Universum survey 2013 to help employees explore opportunities for future among engineers, maintaining its development and navigate across the company. The new position from 2012. We seek to be career model describes and illustrates a professional and the preferred employer across all leader career track and will facilitate movement of people our countries of operation. across departments and business areas. A set of learning and development programs to support professional, leadership and project execution competence development were executed in 2013. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 15 Case: Collaborating to Innovate Aker Solutions engages in collaborative research programs with universities. Not only because we want to work with the best students, but also because they help fill competence gaps – which can be key to creating products that make Aker Solutions stand out from its competitors and establish market leadership. The company selects collaboration partners for various reasons. Sometimes proximity to the operations is essential, so that we employ local knowledge and skills and engage with the local community. Other times, the quality of research and capabilities are most important. Collaboration with some of the world’s best research institutions enriches our own talent. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 16 Case: Harnessing Employees’ Creative Minds We want to nurture employees’ capability to identify clever solutions and new technology. An innovation portal called MyIdea, which was launched in 2013, has formalized ways of capturing and evaluating innovative ideas that arise informally and allows the company to evaluate them further. Eight idea projects were approved in 2013 for further development. The review and execution process for these ideas will start in 2014. MyIdea is available on the intranet to all Aker Solutions locations around the globe to foster a needs-driven innovation process. It outlines challenges identified by the business areas and key customers, encouraging closer cooperation with clients. Ideas are evaluated by the relevant business area’s technology group on their business merits and potential contribution to sustainable and responsible solutions. Developing and implementing environmentally safe products and services that can help customers address their environmental risks and impacts is a key element in Aker Solutions’ approach to CR. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 17 Safeguarding Diversity and Equal Global Future, an organization that focuses on increasing to communicate our commitment to relevant parties which Opportunity cross-cultural competence in companies and supporting was done in early 2013. highly-skilled staff with multi-cultural backgrounds. Our diverse workforce ensures that we have a wide The percentage of local people in Aker Solutions’ local Globally, 100 percent of the company’s permanent range of skills and insights to benefit our customers and management teams is currently at an average of 80 percent. employees are covered by this agreement and may also be business. Aker Solutions’ People Policy states our clear covered by additional local agreements. Fifty-two percent commitment to non-discrimination and to fostering a of employees in Norway and 90 percent in Germany are culture of equal opportunity. Employee Representation covered by national binding collective agreements. In Brazil this figure is 85 percent (not including management The Human Resources organization is responsible for Good industrial relations are an important part of our history level employees). compliance with the People Policy by setting specific and culture so we encourage employee representation in requirements for diversity in recruitment and employee the business units in all locations. This is also part of our development, and supporting equal opportunity programs. commitment to human rights and labor rights. Employees Targets and Initiatives for 2014 Each business area and region is responsible for developing have the right to be heard, represented and to form and join local procedures that seek to promote equal opportunity trade unions of their own choice, which have the right to be The company’s vision is to be the preferred employer and diversity, ensuring compliance with local legislation. recognized for collective bargaining purposes. Employee for top performers in the oil service industry globally. We representatives provide employees with influence and will focus in 2014 on three main initiatives. First we will Male-dominated industries, including the oil and gas sector, lines of communication through participation in working focus on securing workforce capacity and competence provide challenges for equal gender opportunity. Women committees, on the board of directors and in operational and utilize our workforce optimally. Second, we will drive accounted for 22 percent of Aker Solutions’ own employees improvement and organizational change projects. The initiatives to retain and develop the workforce further in 2013, up from 21 percent in 2012, and we are working in agreement on the European Works Council at Aker was with special emphasis on growth regions. Third, we will various ways to increase gradually the number of women renewed in 2013 in accordance with EU Directive 94/95. The support Aker Solutions’ overall improvement agenda by at all levels, including in leadership positions. For example, main purpose of the agreement is to ensure and develop pursuing standardized and efficient people processes and we have established local female leadership networks to a forum for communication, consultation and information consequently streamlining HR operations cost-effectively. provide a space for learning, personal development and between management and employee representatives. knowledge sharing. The international framework agreement – applicable for all Aker Solutions is strongly committed to ensuring equal employees in the company – between Aker ASA and The opportunities and work to increase the number of local Norwegian United Federation of Trade Unions, Tekna, the people in its management teams. This is mandatory in Norwegian Society of Engineers and Technologists (NITO) some places under Local Content and Local Participation and IndustriALL Global Union trade unions was renewed at regulations aimed at promoting job creation for locals. the end of 2012. Aker Solutions is committed to work for Local management teams should include and build on local continuous improvements in environmental performance, talent, ensuring legal compliance and securing the longfreedom of association, collective bargaining, health and term operation of projects. The company is also a partner of safety and other core labor rights. Part of this agreement is Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 18 Health and Safety Safe operations are at the core of our values and Zero Incident Mindset We kept our long-term focus on achieving zero incidents our value proposition to customers. Each and every in 2013. The Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) was 0.43, accident can and should be prevented. We work hard Regrettably, we experienced a tragic fatality in 2013. exceeding the 2013 goal of <0.6. The Total Recordable to ensure that employees and other people working on A subcontractor fell 14 meters to the ground during Injury Frequency (TRIF) score of 1.75 exceeded our goal our behalf can return home safely. construction work at our Batam workshop in Indonesia. of <1.8. Aker Solutions also experienced 89 serious incidents where 23 resulted in either personal injuries or material damages. Incidents can happen onshore and offshore and range from The company often engages in work under challenging 51 were near misses and 15 were risk observations. slips, trips and falls to injuries sustained while working at conditions, making it imperative to maintain the safety of Aker Solutions investigates all serious incidents and near heights or with tools and equipment or during transportation employees and customers, subcontractors, consultants misses and draws lessons from them to prevent similar to and from projects. and other parties. The Corporate Responsibility accidents in the future. Strategy clearly sets out a goal of protecting the health, A key element of the zero incident mindset is the HSE safety and human rights of the workforce. We have a The incidents in 2013 involved electrical and pressurized Leadership Program where senior managers discuss the zero incident mindset. equipment, falling objects, working at height, lifting connections between HSE performance and business operations and hand tools. Twenty-six percent of total results. The program includes two half days of interactive recordable injuries and 32 percent of lost time injuries team learning supported by advance and follow-up individual Entrenching a Safety Culture involve subcontractors. work This ensures that the Just Care™ mindset and HSE initiatives get the proper attention from management and Aker Solutions strives constantly and consistently to reach The company is strengthening its efforts in relation to are integrated into business decisions. As of January 2014, its zero incident goal. The foundation for this continuous subcontractors to implement HSE requirements and more than 1,200 Aker Solutions managers had attended diligence is the company’s Health, Safety and Environment follow-up actions. It has resulted in renewed actions to the course, exceeding a goal of 1,000 participants in 2013. (HSE) management system, based on the HSE Operative ensure that sub-contractors are aware of Aker Solutions’ System. This ensures that executive management is safety procedures and that everyone gets proper training. focused on HSE performance and that all business areas set HSE initiatives and goals for the coming year. Health and Safety The global Just Care™ program launched in 2005 engages with employees through a simple message: Taking 2013 2012 2011 personal responsibility for health and safety underpins our Just Care™ culture. Certain types of work account Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) including sub-contractors 0.43 0.59 0.66 for many of the serious incidents in our industry. To target Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) including subcontractors 1.75 1.72 2.29 those incidents directly the company introduced in 2008 Fatalities, including subcontractors 1 0 3 Just Rules™, company-wide safety measures to prevent Sick leave rate (%) 2.52 2.63 2.17 injuries and save lives. Just Rules™ are mandatory for all Aker Solutions employees. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 20 Knowledge Sharing and Monitoring country governance will play an important role in furthering collaboration and alignment across the company in 2014. Case: Because We Care To support internal knowledge sharing between HSE Emergency preparedness has also shifted towards being The company aims to provide all employees with the professionals, an online HSE Community of Practice was better prepared for more challenging climate conditions at best health services in the industry by combining the launched in 2013, allowing employees to expand their relevant locations. best of private and public health care. We launched in internal networks, share experiences, ask questions and 2013 Aker Care, a healthcare service giving permanent facilitate debate between experts. employees in Norway quick access to assistance, From Sick Leave to Wellness examinations and treatment. All Aker Solutions A quarterly updated key performance indicator (KPI) employees in Norway will have access in 2014 to four on-site health care centers, providing: dashboard ensures that we monitor leading and lagging The company’s commitment to the health and well-being of HSE indicators. Special attention has been devoted for the its employees means more than simply to prevent sickness n Health promotion services to encourage physical past two years to the reporting of Serious Incidents with and injuries. The right approach to health is to focus not activity, good nutrition and stress resilience potential consequences. This has yielded a higher quality only on sick leave but also on preventive action by focusing n Occupational health services to detect and monitor and quantity of reports, supporting the sharing and learning on wellness and by providing the right environment for a work-related health risks and to advise how to culture of the organization and the ability to intercept healthy lifestyle. The company has rolled out several prevent disease and injury n Personal health services to offer health screening, negative trends before they result in injuries. initiatives globally and locally, including the Aker Active medical examinations, treatment and follow-up on program, and better systems to follow up on employees’ health issues of concern and specialist referrals long-term sick leave. Security and Emergency Preparedness Aker Care is based on a mutual commitment between Sick leave amounted to 2.5 percent of total working company owners, management and employees. Aker Solutions continues to enhance its security and hours in 2013, compared with 2.6 percent the year emergency preparedness to protect its employees and before. Variations in local regulations complicate a direct assets and to cope with increased global security threats comparison of sick leave between countries. Although and incidents. To address emerging security risks, a number low in comparison with the national average, sick leave in of actions on strategic and operational levels have been Aker Solutions’ Norwegian operations is relatively higher initiated by coordinating and aligning business areas and than in other areas of the group. Nutrition and exercise providing regional support on security risk assessments, campaigns were introduced in 2010 and continued in 2013 travel security and audits of security management. This to reduce sick leave. The results have been encouraging. has increased our organizational preparedness towards the prevention and handling of crises and incidents. Shaping the Emergency Response organization has been an important focus in 2013. Existing frameworks and plans were upgraded and optimized, and training sessions and exercises were conducted. Regional and Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 21 Case: The Fitnut Charity Challenge Aker Solutions encourages employees to develop habits for healthier life and has actively supported Aker Subsea’s participation in the Fitnut Charity Challenge since 2005. The Challenge is about improving individual lifestyles through health services and fitness classes. All participants are encouraged to make small donations to a charity, and the employee who improves the most during the 12-week challenge gets to choose which charity receives the total donations. Targets and Initiatives for 2014 The most important target for 2014 is to achieve our best health and safety performance of no fatalities, an LTIF of < 0.43 and a TRIF of < 1.75. A revitalization program for Just Rules will be implemented in 2014 which will include the launch of two new Just Rules: Tools & Equipment and Pressure Testing, two areas where safety incidents have occurred in the past few years. To help reduce serious incidents amongst subcontractors, we plan to add to their contracts more specific requirements for HSE training, supervision and reporting. These plans for 2014 are in line with the overall health and safety goals set in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2017. Aker Solutions will continue to enhance security and emergency preparedness efforts to take a unified approach to aligning, coordinating and executing corporate security initiatives. This will ensure a consistent approach to emerging security and business continuity risks across the company. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 22 Environmental Impact The oil and gas industry – particularly in deepwater the world’s most advanced test plant of its kind at the Managing Our Footprint drilling – carries significant environmental risks, Mongstad terminal in Norway and applied for nine patents including oil spills and CO2 emissions. Managing such related to carbon capture during the delivery. The test Aker Solutions’ commitment to continuously reduce its risks is critical to Aker Solutions and our customers, and center was ready in 2012, but in 2013 the global carbon environmental impact is expressed in the Health, Safety key to ensuring the sustainable future of the industry. market collapsed, and the Mongstad project has been and Environment (HSE) policy: postponed. Carbon capture has good potential for dealing with emissions, and the company is now well-positioned to ■■ The company designs products and services to have The company strives to minimize the environmental impacts roll out this technology, if and when our partners are ready. no undue environmental impacts and to be safe and of its own and customers’ activities by providing leading efficient in consuming energy and natural resources technologically and environmentally sound products and ■■ Our operations are conducted with efficient use of services. We continuously challenge ourselves to reduce materials and energy, minimum waste and damage to the environmental footprint of our own operations, a major the environment goal in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2017. ■■ We seek to ensure that our products can be recycled or disposed of safely Leadership in Environmental Technology The company has identified significant opportunity to Environment address environmental impacts through its products and services by being at the forefront of technological 2013 2012 2011 developments and predicting the future needs of customers. As a preferred partner it is increasingly important that we Energy consumption (MWh) 306 742 284 024 316 768 contribute to clients’ own performance. Energy Intensity (MWh per million worked hours) 5 536 5 760 5 953 Energy Intensity (GJ) 1 104 271 1 022 490 1 140 365 Energy intensity (GJ per million worked hours) 19 930 20 738 21 430 Recent examples of environmentally friendly solutions CO2 Emissions (Tonnes) 77 010 67 062 74 761 include products and systems with zero discharge to sea, CO2 Emissions (Tonnes per million worked hours) 1 390 1 360 1 405 Arctic bow loading with extra stringent environmental safety Recycles waste (Tonnes) 26 091 16 232 18 374 design and subsea systems with electronic operations Total waste (Tonnes) 29 827 19 061 22 599 rather than hydraulic oil. Another example of our work to Recycling factor (%) 87.5 85.2 81.0 provide environmentally friendly solutions is our substantial Hazardous waste (Tonnes) 1 386 1 085 1 216 investment in carbon capture technology. The Norwegian Accidental oil spills (number) 0 0 0 Government expressed interest in capturing carbon in 1) Travel activity is not incorporated into Energy Consumption 2007 as part of its climate initiatives. With the dedication of 2) Travel activity is not incorporated into the CO2 emissions more than 300 employees, Aker Solutions developed and 3) Water recycling is not incorporated into this number, even though recycling is performed at sites where water is regarded as a scarce resource commercialized carbon capture technology and delivered Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 23 The HSE policy is implemented through the management year. The increase from 2012 and 2011 is primarily due system, e-learning and various leadership development to changes in activity and product portfolio. As energy Case: Visioneering® for More initiatives. Programs are in place to monitor and improve consumption is closely linked to the project portfolio, we Environmentally Responsible Operations energy use and to reduce CO2 emissions and waste. look to energy intensity as the key performance indicator Offering innovative technical solutions to customers is Identifying and managing potential environmental risks are (KPI), measuring ‘energy consumption per million worked a key element of our vision of being a preferred partner integral aspects of the company’s project tendering and hours’. This provides a better picture of Aker Solutions’ and in our work towards safer and more environmentally execution, ensuring that appropriate measures are taken energy consumption than some other measures, though responsible operations. Our new Visioneering concept for each project and location. These activities contribute to ‘worked hours’ do not always reflect the complexity of the combines simultaneous engineering and powerful increased environmental awareness at Aker Solutions and diverse product portfolio. 3D visualization tools, enabling project members to better understand the ‘nuts and bolts’ of a project. our customers. It gives employees a common understanding of the The company began in 2013 to map its energy consumption challenges, making upfront problem-solving easier and Aker Solutions was not subject in 2013 to any significant fines at site and unit levels, aiming to identify locations with more efficient, leads to safer operations and minimizes or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws the highest consumption develop targeted initiatives to environmental risks with the help of simulation training and regulations. We continuously monitor governmental effectively lower consumption. before a project begins. Visioneering also helps to guidelines, directives and regulations regarding the identify and control risks before implementation, environment to ensure that we are informed and prepared Total CO2 emissions in 2013 amounted to 74,761 tonnes, making operations more efficient and hence less fuelconsuming, reducing the environmental impact. for changes. up from 67,062 tonnes in 2012 but a decrease from 2011. The main reason for the fluctuating emissions levels is the changing nature of the product portfolio. The company has Reducing Energy Consumption decided not to set a corporate target for CO2 emissions due and Emissions to the nature of its customer-based business. Nevertheless, Aker Solutions is determined to improve its environmental As a global provider of products, systems and services performance, and in 2012 launched an organization-wide to the oil and gas industry, Aker Solutions’ activities and investigation into energy consumption and related CO2 related impacts depend almost entirely on its customers’ emissions that will run from 2013-2017. needs and activities. So the results measured at corporate level depend largely on the type of projects the company This mapping initiative is followed up locally. It is in line with is engaged to perform. This does not exempt us from our the CR strategy which requires that environmental initiatives responsibility, but it helps explain the fluctuation in our should be based on information about local environmental environmental performance despite our continued pursuit impact. Waste handling at Fornebu, for example, has been of energyand resource-efficient products and services. identified as a key local initiative. The waste handling agreements are being revised to save cost and reduce Total energy consumption by the business in 2013, based the environmental impact. At a global level, the new travel on recorded use of oil, gas and electricity, rose to 316,768 policy restricts the number of trips and encourages more megawatt hours in 2013 from 284,024 MWh the previous use of phone and video conferences. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 24 Case: Experienced Arctic Player The Arctic is a key growth area for Aker Solutions. The company has delivered robust technology for Arctic and Antarctic maritime expeditions and activities for more than 170 years and aims to maintain its leading role in developing this market. The Arctic is more challenging than any other region in the world due to the harsh weather conditions, the distances to any infrastructure, and the sensitivity and unique biodiversity of this environment. Aker Solutions’ Arctic strategy aims for (1) better understanding of the challenges through participating in research, and (2) to use knowledge to develop uniquely tailored solutions and services for the Arctic with customers. An important part of this strategy is to collaborate with leading Arctic academic and research institutions nationally and internationally. This currently includes NTNU and UiT, The Arctic University of Norway, Aker Arctic in Finland, and participation in relevant Joint Industry Projects. Finally, to drive and execute the Arctic strategy the company has established an Arctic Knowledge Hub in Tromsø, Norway, which will also be responsible for maintaining close dialogue with all players in the Arctic market. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 25 Handling Waste and Spills Targets and Initiatives for 2014 The company continues to focus on waste reduction. Total hydraulic fluid occurred. About 500 litres of hydraulic fluid The targets and initiatives for 2014 are in line with the waste varies from year to year, depending on the project was released onto the deck and to the sea during well environmental goals set in the Corporate Responsibility portfolio. For example, a decommissioning project will operations from a bleed down hose on the wire line mast. Strategy 2013-2017. We aim in 2014 to have zero oil spills naturally produce more waste than other kinds of projects. The incident was investigated and poor risk assessment/ and to achieve a recycling factor of 82 percent. Life Cycle awareness before the operation was found to be the main Assessments (LCAs) will be performed on key products to As described in the 2012 CR report, Aker Solutions’ cause. The company works continuously to prevent such assess the environmental impact associated with all stages corporate goal has been to recycle more than 80 percent accidents, and in 2014 it will run revitalisation initiatives for of a product’s lifecycle and we will monitor the impact of of total waste. The proportion was 81 percent in 2013. That Just Rules, where rules for Risk Assessment and Control of the new Travel Policy. Launched at the end of 2013, that was, however, a decrease in the recycling factor from 2011 Work are central. policy aims to reduce costs and environmental impact by and 2012. The company aims to reverse this trend in 2014. replacing travel with video conferencing whenever possible. Hazardous waste includes components that require special Two internal environmental reports will be issued in 2014 to care before disposing. The company collected 1,216 sharpen and sustain the focus on reducing the company’s tonnes of hazardous waste in 2013, which was an increase environmental footprint. These corporate initiatives will from 2012 due to the nature of the product portfolio. There be supported by local activities targeted at site-specific were zero oil spills in 2013, but one accidental spill of challenges. Case: Collaborating on Environmental Standards Aker Solutions and other members of the Norwegian Offshore Drilling Engineering (NODE) cluster are working to shape national and international environmental standards through the Environmental Footprint project. The project has three goals: 1) an environmental analysis model (SQL) to assess the environmental performance of products and services, 2) an environmental competence education program, and 3) improved reputational management. The project seeks to increase the environmental awareness of all member companies and contribute to the innovation and development of new products and services. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 26 Supply Chain Management Suppliers and subcontractors help to ensure that the Any deviation from requirements is entered in the new company delivers high-quality, on-time services to Supplier Risk Dashboard and reported to the Health, Safety customers. We exercise responsible supply chain and Environment and Corporate Compliance functions for management and encourage integrity and respect for their assessment of further actions required. This feature human rights and workers’ rights among our suppliers. was introduced in 2013, and so far there have been no deviations identified in the screening process. Responsible Supply Chain Management The SQiS were extended in 2013 to identify political and Aker Solutions is committed to engaging suppliers that social compliance and HSE risks on a country level and operate consistently in accordance with its values, to make this information available to all buyers in a more comply with national laws and regulations and meet the coherent manner. Combined with the individual screening company’s requirements for health and safety, quality of suppliers, this gives a good understanding of the risk management, environment, ethics, anti-corruption and picture for our suppliers. social responsibility, including human rights and labor standards. The Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2013About 95 percent of the 2,000 suppliers listed on the 2017 sets concrete goals to strengthen management of Qualified Suppliers Lists (suppliers approved for use in supply chain risks. sourcing) have signed the Supplier and Subcontractor Declaration. We are currently closing the gap on the Aker Solutions has developed a Supplier Qualification remaining suppliers and aim for completion by summer 2014. and Information System (SQiS) to ensure the required standards from its suppliers. The system helps to measure and predict supplier performance through a rigorous Targets and Initiatives for 2014 qualification, monitoring and performance evaluation process, providing a fact-based approach to supplier The company is now assigning Key Account Managers for selection and development. suppliers, with the aim of identifying and actively managing risks, and expects to finalize this in 2014. Subcontractors All suppliers are required to sign the Supplier and account for a large part of safety incidents, so we will Subcontractor Declaration, confirming that they act sharpen our focus on their safety by incorporating specific responsibly in their organizations and with their own contract requirements for HSE training, supervision and subcontractors. Suppliers engaged after 2013 will only be reporting. These are important steps towards improved approved as bidders for Aker Solutions if the Declaration management of our supply chain. has been signed. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 27 Case: Integrating HSE Requirements When the Aker Solutions’ office in Baner, India chose a local contractor to expand its premises, HSE standards were part of the process from the beginning. HSE requirements were identified and incorporated in the tender as selection criteria and the contractor’s previous HSE performance was evaluated. A dedicated HSE team engaged in continuous dialogue with the contractor’s staff and ensured that they had the necessary HSE training. It proved difficult at first for the contractor to adhere to unfamiliar and stringent requirements, but the dedication was clear and results started to show. Since March 2011, more than 720,000 man-hours have been logged without any lost time injury, and the contractor is able to take on business from other multinational corporations due to an improved reputation for good HSE standards. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 28 Community Impact Aker Solutions recognizes its responsibility to support Human rights considerations are an integral part of the positive economic and social development in the company’s operational and investment decisions. We have Case: Meeting Local Content Requirements countries where it operates. It is our goal to ensure that developed a country risk standard that classifies markets Brazil has some of the most demanding Local Content our activities benefit local communities and that we according to non-financial risks, including potential human requirements in the world. Aker Solutions’ contract with build good relations with local stakeholders to ensure rights risks. The standard is used to assess the risk of the national oil company Petrobras for the Roncador our long-term presence. complicity in human rights abuses or corruption, political Manifold Project required 60 percent Local Content, risk, security risk, ethical dilemmas and risk of supporting meaning that 60 percent of all materials used in the violence or abetting conflict. The assessment procedures project must be fabricated in Brazil. The first goal in the global Corporate Responsibility Strategy can lead to the company deciding not to participate in a Because of the high activity among suppliers in for 2013-2017 is to ensure that the value created by project in a high-risk country. Three projects were wholly or Brazil, it has been a challenge to meet the 60 percent Aker Solutions’ operations benefits the societies where the partly rejected on such grounds in 2013, unchanged from local content requirement. To succeed people company is present and contributes to stimulate economic the number rejected in 2012. employed on the Manifold Project teamed up with and social development. Aker Solutions’ corporate functions involving product The number of countries classified as ‘high risk’ increased engineering, purchasing and QHSE. The commitment The presence of foreign companies and investments in in 2013, and the company put even stronger emphasis on of managers and dedicated project members enabled a country can boost knowledge transfer, employment, compliance with the country risk standard. As a result, the the company to meet the 60 percent requirement on the equipment contract. competence building, technology transfer and public number of projects subjected to this early risk assessment revenues. But there are also challenges, so Aker Solutions increased to 146 in 2013 from 67 in 2012. Activities in takes measures to ensure that it does not contribute to ‘high-risk’ countries still constitute only a small proportion human rights violations or harm the development of a of Aker Solutions’ total project portfolio. community or country. Mapping and assessing whether there is any human rights risk linked to our activities are the first steps towards Respecting Human Rights managing such risk. All office-based staff are required to complete ethics training, which helps them recognize Aker Solutions is present in parts of the world where potential human rights problems. Safeguarding the human human rights and labor rights are at risk and where the rights of the workforce, our subcontractors and suppliers is company could become complicit in violations through a high priority and is integrated in the company’s employee its own activities or indirectly through the supply chain. policies, processes and supplier assessment program. The company supports and respects human rights as expressed in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and When establishing and operating a project, the company Human Rights, and endeavors not to be complicit in any endeavors to mitigate any social risks and ensure that it has human rights violation. This commitment is part of its a positive impact on the communities where it operates. obligations as a signatory of the UN Global Compact and is specified in its People Policy and Code of Conduct. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 29 Contributing to Local Economies requires close collaboration with stakeholders such as local governments, suppliers, training and educational Aker Solutions has had a global presence for many years, institutions and local suppliers. Finding ways to benefit and it is important for the company to have a responsible the company and the local community will ensure mutual and positive influence. This includes establishing longprosperity and long-term sustainable development. term strategies for operating in new regions, developing local competence, recruiting local managers and staff Experiences in Brazil on the Roncador Manifold Project and engaging local suppliers. The Corporate Investment and in Angola on the M/V Skandi Aker well intervention Committee and Corporate Risk Committee evaluate and vessel show that despite real challenges, a sustainable discuss business ethics and sustainability in relation to Local Content strategy can be achieved by working closely new projects and offices. When deciding on new offices with responsible and competent local suppliers and hiring and work facilities, considerations often include the need and training local staff and managers. to attract competent employees by moving to locations where the competence is and supporting job creation in local markets. ‘Being local’ has always been a high priority because the benefits are mutual for Aker Solutions and the local societies. Aker Solutions has offices in 23 countries with 33 separate offices in Norway, including a new office established in 2013 in northern Norway. The regional management is dedicated to ensuring a local presence. Case: Building Local Skills and Expertise in Angola The Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2013-2017 calls What do you do when a contract requires hiring local staff, but recruiting people for strategic long-term development of local suppliers, local with the necessary skills is difficult? Aker Solutions faced this question in staff hires, strategic cooperation with local authorities and Angola in 2012 when it was awarded a contract by Total E&P Angola for the well educational institutions. These are seen as top priorities for intervention vessel M/V Skandi Aker. The company responded by developing the region’s CR activities going forward. a long-term Local Content strategy focusing on transferring and building skills and expertise. A learning and competence development plan was drawn up for the duration of the contract, detailing the required skills for each position. Several of Aker Solutions’ operations in emerging markets, such as Brazil, Malaysia, Indonesia and West Africa, The learning and development plans were supplemented in 2013 with handsare subject to Local Content requirements, a regulatory on assignments, job rotation, performance feedback, coaching and mentoring. obligation to promote local growth from oil and gas Today, 20 dedicated Angolan nationals are working aboard the M/V Skandi Aker. resources. Aker Solutions strives to develop Local Content strategies that are sustainable, long-term and will have a positive effect on local economic development. This Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 30 Another Way of Giving Back Case: Supporting the Good Samaritan Case: United Way of Greater Houston Part of being a committed and trusted partner in the Home in Malaysia Aker Solutions’ Houston offices donated more than countries where we operate is building good relations with The company’s Port Klang base in Malaysia holds an USD 90,000 this year to the non-profit organization local communities. We seek partnerships that promote annual outing for children from a local home. The Good United Way of Greater Houston that supports local mutual benefits and learning and that help Aker Solutions to Samaritan Home cares for more than 30 children of ages community activities in education, income and integrate as a corporate citizen in local society. We support 3 to 17 years who come from troubled homes or have health. Our Houston colleagues also donated over charities and local organizations ranging from cancer lost their parents. This year Aker Solutions colleagues 600 volunteer hours to remodel and refurbish a free research institutions in the US and UK to a polio clinic in and their families invited the children to a day of fun at medical clinic. the Kuala Lumpur Bird Park and presented them with a the Republic of Congo and local football teams for children donation to improve conditions at the orphanage. in Brazil. Community projects are selected and managed through the regional and local offices who know the area’s specific needs and conditions. Besides providing support to important causes, such projects also help employees and the surrounding communities get to know each other, an important internal motivational factor. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 31 Revenues, Investments and Employees and Investments Employees by Country Country hired-in contracts 1) Revenues 2) in assets 3) The table shows 2013 revenues, Norway 14 043 29 422 1 635 investments and employees on a United Kingdom 2 936 5 058 295 country-by-country basis, in countries Malaysia 2 187 2 360 124 where Aker Solutions is present with India 2 080 447 21 more than 10 employees. Aker Solutions Brazil 1 617 2 044 163 aims to contribute to sustainable social USA 1 174 2 626 100 development through responsible Germany 731 1 742 159 and compliant business practices, Indonesia 526 649 38 and it recognizes the importance of Singapore 450 1 339 427 being transparent about its impact by Brunei 421 618 0 publishing key data per country. We Canada 232 548 11 also aim to improve the quality of data Australia 218 1 065 13 and expand the country-by-country Angola 121 205 0 reporting. New tools will help to improve Sweden 102 77 4 the overview of spend per country Nigeria 89 251 2 (purchases from external suppliers), and France 65 144 9 a project has been initiated to improve Thailand 58 81 13 the data quality related to direct and Russia 40 139 18 indirect tax payments. Denmark 34 47 6 Pakistan 27 9 12 United Arab Emirates 83 72 0 China 25 90 0 Kazakhstan 24 34 6 Other (<10 employees) 16 393 110 Sum of countries 27 299 49 460 3 168 Eliminations 2) 0 (6 560) 0 Total Aker Solutions 27 299 42 900 3 168 General comment: Entities sold or held for sale are excluded from this table (WIS and MLS). 1) The locations of employees and hired-in contracts are based on the location of the company where they are employed. 2) Revenue figures per country include internal and external revenues and are based on location of the company where the revenue is recognised. Intercompany sales are subtracted («eliminations») to present external Aker Solutions revenues as in the income statement. 3) Investments in assets includes investments in property, plant and equipment in addition to intangible assets. Investments presented here do not included acquisition of other companies. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 32 Integrity The corporate values and Code of Conduct govern Clear on Corruption our behavior and frame our performance culture. We Aker Solutions Code of Conduct expect the highest standards of ethical behavior and Aker Solutions’ position on corruption is clear: we have The Code of Conduct describes Aker Solutions’ integrity from all employees so that we can be trusted zero tolerance and work against all forms of corruption, commitments and requirements to ethical business by our customers, colleagues and other stakeholders. including bribery and facilitation payments. We are practises and personal conduct. It describes the committed to fair and open competition and do not engage behaviour Aker Solutions expects of its employees Managing Integrity Risks in any anti-competitive practices or other activities that and what the employees can expect of Aker Solutions, violate anti-trust laws or directives. We communicate this and explains the company’s policies on gifts and Being the preferred business partner means being a partner position to employees, customers, governments and public entertainment, corruption, fair competition, human rights, insider information, whistleblowing and other that can be trusted, in every aspect of how we do business, officials in the locations where we operate. The company topics where ethical considerations are of special every day. It is the cornerstone of why we are in business provides a whistleblowing channel to encourage reporting importance. Together with Aker Solutions’ values, the today and why we will continue to create value in the future. of any breaches. Code of Conduct constitutes the basis and framework for our integrity. The Code of Conduct applies to all employees and resides The company has developed and implemented an antiabove all other company policies and guidelines. The Code corruption compliance program to ensure that corrupt covers topics including bribery and facilitation payments, practices do not take place within Aker Solutions and that Preferred partner conflicts of interest, fair competition as well as gifts and the company complies with all applicable anti-corruption hospitality, human rights, sponsorship and whistleblowing. laws and regulations. Training and awareness raising is a The Code was revised in 2012 to provide more specific key component in our compliance program. The program guidance on the conduct expected from employees, also includes corruption risk assessments which form part directors, subsidiaries and suppliers. of the overall due diligence processes for new customers Code of Conduct and projects. These are supported by assessments of highAll permanent employees and managers at Aker Solutions risk markets and operations, integrity reviews of agents and ASA must confirm annually that they have read the Code sales intermediaries and audits. We sharpened our focus in and that they have carried out their tasks and responsibilities 2013 on compliance reviews of third-party representatives in accordance with the Code for the previous year. We (TPR) and invested in new software to obtain a better also require suppliers, subcontractors, representatives overview of TPRs. Overall responsibility for the compliance and other contracting parties of Aker Solutions to confirm program lies with the BIC function. adherence to ethical standards. The Code of Conduct and related training activities are maintained by the Business Integrity and Compliance Team, which was strengthened in 2013. The Aker Solutions The Code is available at www.akersolutions.com Compliance Network was established to boost compliance work within the organization. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 33 Case: Combatting Corruption through Transparency The global organization Transparency International has highlighted transparency as key in preventing and eliminating corruption. This is particularly important in the oil and gas industry where the risk of corruption is significant. In Aker Solutions we are committed to combating corruption by conducting our business in an honest and transparent manner. Part of this commitment is to communicate openly about the actions we have taken and our performance, and we do this through several channels including our website and our corporate reports. We are proud to see that our efforts were recognized in Transparency International Norway’s 2013 survey of the country’s 50 largest companies and their reporting on combating corruption. Aker Solutions came in third in the survey for transparency regarding companies’ programs for anti-corruption and organizational information, and sixth overall with a score of 96 percent out of 100. Themes covered by the survey included whether the company has expressed its commitment to fighting corruption, whether the company’s suppliers are covered by an anti-corruption program and whether all employees receive training. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 34 Training to Act Reporting of Ethical Concerns The emphasis on business ethics training and awarenessAker Solutions’ whistleblowing channel in its current form, raising initiated in 2011 continued throughout 2013. In 2012, has been in operation since 2010. Anyone can report we developed a mandatory training program for all office behavior which they consider to be in breach of the Code staff and reached our goal of training 12,000 employees, of Conduct or any other governing policy. An email-based almost all office workers at Aker Solutions. The training ethics helpline has also been established for questions sessions teach employees about corruption risks and related to the Code of Conduct. how to act if encountered and give them opportunities to discuss challenges and dilemmas. The classroom training Most cases reported to the whistleblowing channel are also serves as a valuable channel for the Business Integrity related to employee relations and HR policies. When and Compliance function at Corporate to obtain feedback whistleblowing reports are substantiated, follow up actions on risks and the efficiency of the compliance program. range from internal communication and changes in policies to warnings and dismissals. Sixty-two cases were reported The business ethics training initiative was taken a step to the whistleblowing channel in 2013. This was a tripling further in 2013 by setting a goal for all new office staff of the 20 reports in 2012, representing the highest activity to receive training within the first six months of their since the whistleblowing channel was opened. We perceive employment. Introductions to business ethics were also this as positive sign that concerns for business ethics are integrated in myStart, the orientation program for new noticed and communicated by the employees, allowing for employees. The company grew in 2013 and the number proper assessment and improvements where necessary. of office based workers increased considerably. Just over 65 percent of all permanent office staff had completed the Business ethics training and efforts to promote awareness training by the end of 2013. This percentage will increase in of the Code of Conduct and the whistleblower channel 2014 as more instructors are added. This is necessary due have been important, and the increase in whistleblower to the high number of new employees. reports is likely a result of this. The 62 reports sent to the whistleblower channel last year can be considered a The training sessions have notably improved the focus on natural number for an organization of this size, though a bit business ethics, with more questions and dilemmas being lower than global benchmarks for ethics hotline reporting. raised and discussed in an open manner. We will continue to raise awareness of internal policies and to promote the whistleblowing channel. We also see a need to highlight data protection regulations and to adapt our system to conform to the strictest standards and regulatory frameworks in this area. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 35 Transparency Builds Trust Aker Solutions firmly believes in the value of open and honest dialogue among ourselves and with our external stakeholders, irrespective of location, and we recognize that transparency is essential in an industry that can have significant impact on local communities. This is highlighted in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2013-2017 which sets a clear commitment to transparency about the way we operate and the impact we have on society. The company operates worldwide, including in societies with a high dependency on oil and gas revenues, countries with high poverty levels and countries where corruption may be a problem. Sharing information in an open and transparent manner is essential to building trust in the communities where we do business. (See the section «Approach to Corporate Responsibility» for more on stakeholder engagement) Targets and Initiatives for 2014 The company aims to complete four compliance reviews in strategically selected parts of its operations in 2014. The reviews will encompass compliance with the Code of Conduct and in particular focus on anti-corruption. Efforts will continue with regards to assessments of projects in high-risk countries and improving business ethics training by adding modules designed for specific groups. These activities are in line with the overall integrity goals set in the Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2017. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 36 About This Report Reporting Principles Associates (usually between 20 and 50 percent ownership) of spend per country (purchases from external suppliers), and jointly controlled entities are generally not included in and a project has been initiated to improve the data quality This report presents the CR performance and activities the reported figures, unless otherwise stated. For more related to direct and indirect tax payments. for Aker Solutions ASA in in the calendar year 2013 and is information on reporting principles, please refer to note 3 in aligned with the Annual Report. The Annual Report 2013 is the Annual Report. issued simultaneously and covers many relevant subjects and should be read in conjunction with this report. There have been no restatements in 2013 that would affect Contact Points comparison with previous periods. The mooring and loading Any questions about this report can be directed to: Aker Solutions has published CR reports since 2006, with and well-intervention businesses were, however, sold in annual releases since 2010. The Corporate Responsibility 2013 so figures for these entities have been excluded from Mari Engh Brekke Report 2013 is based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the 2013 figures. Manager Business Integrity and Compliance guidelines version 3.0 and aims to achieve GRI application mari.engh.brekke@akersolutions.com level B. We have continued to improve our reporting along The report is based on an analysis of material impacts the reporting indicators of the GRI G3 standard, but we have and stakeholders’ expectations and information needs Meylin S. Loo also focused our improvement efforts towards preparing obtained through continuous dialogue and a stakeholder Internal Communications Manager – Region Norway our reporting for the updated version of the GRI guidelines engagement exercise in 2011. The 2013 report has been meylin.sanci.loo@akersolutions.com (GRI G4) which were published in 2013, and which will be expanded to a wider range of topics, including supply chain the GRI version used in the CR report for 2014. An overview management and emerging risks, in response to feedback of the GRI disclosures, including references to relevant from stakeholders. We have also expanded several data sections of the report where GRI reporting indicators are parameters beyond those in the 2012 report, including included, can be found at the end of the report. The report country-specific data on revenues, investments and staff. is also the company’s Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for 2013, describing policies and activities to implement the principles of the United Nations Data Quality Global Compact. We continue to work on improving our data quality to enhance the reporting processes and transparency. All Report Boundaries and Content significant projects report monthly on their operational and financial performance and risk indicators via a web-based The scope of the report is based on guidance in the GRI solution. We initiated a project in 2013 to improve the «decision tree for boundary setting». Companies the group reporting of human resources (HR) data at Aker Solutions. controls (subsidiaries) are fully included in reported figures. These efforts are still on-going and will allow us to more Acquired subsidiaries are included from the acquisition easily gather data on general HR matters. We also aim date, and entities sold during the year are excluded for the to improve the quality of data to expand the country-bywhole year so that the report covers continued operations. country reporting. New tools will improve the overview Corporate Responsibility Report 2013 Page 37 Corporate Governance Statement Page 38 Corporate Governance Statement Corporate governance is a framework of values, responsibilities and governing documents to control Board of the business and ensure sustainable value creation for Directors shareholders over time. Sound corporate governance shall ensure that appropriate goals and strategies are adopted, that the strategies are implemented in a good manner and that the results achieved are subject to measurement and follow-up. Board Risk Audit Executive Committee Committee Chairman 1. The Corporate Governance Report Basis for this Report Corporate Functions The corporate governance principles of the group are laid down by the board of directors of Aker Solutions. The principles are based on the Norwegian Code of Practice HOO CFO CTO CRC CIC for Corporate Governance as last amended 21 December Regions 2012 (the «Code of Practice») available at www.nues.no. This report outlines how Aker Solutions has implemented the Code of Practice. It follows the same structure as the North CSM CHR UK Brazil Norway Code of Practice and covers all sections thereof. Deviations America from the Code of Practice are discussed under the relevant sections. In general, the Aker Solutions board only approves deviations that the board believes contributes to value creation for its shareholders. Business Areas In addition to the Code of Practice, the Norwegian Accounting Act section 3-3b stipulates that companies DRT SUB UMB MMO PRS ENG OMA must provide a report on their policies and practices for corporate governance either in the annual report or in a document referred to in the annual report. Such report is integrated in the below corporate governance statement. CRC: Corporate Risk Committee CSM: Chief Strategic Marketing MMO: Maintenance, Modifications and Operations CIC: Corporate Investment Committee CHR: Chief HR Officer PRS: Process Systems The Overall Governance Structure HOO: Head of Operations DRT: Drilling Technologies ENG: Engineering Solutions The overall structure of the governing bodies, corporate CTO: Chief Technology Officer SUB: Subsea OMA: Oilfield Services & Marine Assets functions, business areas and regions are presented here: CFO: Chief Financial Officer UMB: Umbilicals Corporate Governance Statement Page 39 It is the responsibility of the board of directors of The Values and Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Aker Solutions ASA to ensure that Aker Solutions Aker Solutions wishes to contribute to sustainable social Aker Solutions takes an active approach to corporate implements sound corporate governance. The board of development through responsible business practices. The responsibility. The company has been a member of the directors evaluates this corporate governance statement basis for this is a set of core corporate values defined by UN Global Compact since 2008 and publishes annual on an annual basis. The board’s audit committee, in the board of directors applicable for the entire company. reports on its corporate responsibility and the progress in cooperation with the board risk committee, also evaluates The core values are: this area. Aker Solutions is also committed to follow the the corporate governance statement as well as other policies Global Framework Agreement (GFA) entered into with the and procedures. Compliance with, and implementation of Customer Drive trade unions Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, these corporate governance guidelines are continuously Building customer trust is key to our business NITO and Tekna on 17 December 2012. The GFA builds evaluated by the board and said committees; inter alia by on and continues the commitment from the previous way of the board being the decisive body for the company’s HSE Mindset framework agreements signed in 2008 and 2010, and defined management and reporting structure, which include We take personal responibility for HSE because we care outlines key responsibilities in relation to human and trade regular reporting through monthly business reviews (MOR), union rights. The parties commit themselves to achieving quarterly business reviews (QBR), quarterly regional reviews People and Teams continuous improvements within the areas of working (QRR) and executive management team (EMT) meetings All our major achievements are team efforts conditions, industrial relations with the employees of the and subsequent reporting to the board from the business Aker group, health and safety standards at the workplace areas and corporate center. Open and Direct Dialogue and environmental performance. We encourage early and honest communication Policies and Procedures Aker Solutions has a total of 20 policies providing business Hands-on Management 2. Business practice guidance within a number of key areas. These policy We know our business and get things done documents express the position of the company with regard The objectives of the company, as defined in its articles of to HSE, project execution and governance, for instance. The Delivering Quality Results association, are «to own or carry out industrial and other company has implemented specific procedures and review We deliver consistently and strive to beat our goals associated businesses, management of capital, and other mechanisms to ensure that Aker Solutions’ projects globally functions for the group, and to participate in or acquire are conducted in accordance with applicable framework. The «Code of Conduct» is a handbook that applies to all other businesses». The principal strategies of the group The policies provide instructions and operational guidelines employees and provides guiding on what Aker Solutions are presented in the annual report. Each year, the board of that apply to individual employees in order to ensure that considers to be responsible ethical conduct. The values directors evaluates the existing strategy and approves any the company’s operations are in compliance with internal and the «code of conduct» give a framework for what is significant changes to such, as well as goals and guidelines and external regulatory framework. All policies are reviewed acceptable behavior that should be reflected in every aspect of the company, through a designated strategy process. and updated on an annual basis. of how business is conducted. The ethical guidelines and Information concerning the financial position and principal other policy documents of the company have been drafted strategies of the company, and any changes thereto is on the basis of these basic corporate values. disclosed to the market in the context of the company’s quarterly reporting and in designated market presentations as well as on the company’s web site. Corporate Governance Statement Page 40 3. Equity and Dividends The board currently holds no authorizations to increase the by acquiring additional treasury shares pursuant to existing share capital. authorizations for the board of directors. The management and the board regularly monitor that the group’s equity and liquidity are appropriate for its objectives, Share Purchase Program for Employees strategy and risk profile. The management of financial risk Aker Solutions wants its employees to be able to participate 4. Equal Treatment of Shareholders and is further described in note 5 to the Annual Report. in Aker Solutions as owners to benefit from any increase Transactions With Close Associates in the value of the company. The share purchase program Dividend Policy will also contribute to an even closer relationship between The company has only one class of shares, and all shares The Board of Directors is of the opinion that the average the employees, the company and its shareholders, as well carry equal rights. Existing shareholders shall have predividend payments over time should amount to 30 50 as to enhance interest in the creation of value within the emptive rights to subscribe for shares in the event of percent of the net profit for the year. The board proposes company. A share purchase program for employees was share capital increases, unless otherwise indicated by the level of dividend payment to the general meeting who in therefore introduced in 2009, and the board has approved special circumstances. If the pre-emptive rights of existing turn is the decisive corporate body for dividend decisions. to continue the program also in 2014. In the program for shareholders are waived in respect of a share capital The proposal is based on considerations such as alternative 2013, all employees in Norway and eight other countries increase, the reasons for such waiver shall be explained use of assets and further strengthening of the company’s were invited to buy shares for a maximum amount of NOK by the board of directors. Transactions in own shares are financial structure. 60,000. To the extent possible under local law, the shares effected via the Oslo Stock Exchange. purchased by each employee were funded by a loan Authorizations for the Board of Directors provided by the local employer company. The loan was Aker ASA holds 70 percent of the shares of Aker Kværner The company’s Annual General Meeting on 12 April repaid by salary deductions over a period of 12 months. Holding AS which held 40.27 percent of the shares of 2013 resolved to authorize the board to purchase The program participants were offered a standard discount Aker Solutions as per 31 December 2013. As per the treasury shares up to an aggregate nominal value of of NOK 1 500 for participation in addition to a price same date, Aker ASA directly held 16 440 000 shares of NOK 45 484 000 (10 percent of the share capital). The reduction of 25 percent on the share price. Management Aker Solutions, equivalent to six percent of the shares, as resolution specified three purposes for utilization all of (the executive chairman and 2-3 levels below) was also well as being exposed to 891 762 shares of Aker Solutions which were subject to separate voting under the general invited to take part in a separate management share through a total return swap arrangement. meeting: (i) purchase of treasury shares to be used as program allowing eligible managers to purchase shares for transaction currency in connection with acquisitions, an amount equal to 25 percent of their salary and with a The board of directors is of the view that it is positive mergers, demergers and other transfers of business, (ii) discount of 25 percent on the share price. for Aker Solutions that Aker ASA assumes the role of an purchase of treasury shares to be sold and/or transferred active owner and is actively involved in matters of major to employees under share purchase programs for All shares purchased under both the employee and importance to Aker Solutions and to all shareholders. employees and (iii) purchase of treasury shares for the manager share programs were subject to a 3 years lock-up The cooperation with Aker ASA offers Aker Solutions purpose of subsequent deletion of such shares. The period under which the acquired shares may not be sold or access to special know-how and resources within board’s authorization to purchase treasury shares is otherwise disposed of. strategy, transactions and funding. Moreover, Aker ASA valid for the period until the date of the Annual General offers network and negotiation resources from which Meeting of 2014, however in no circumstances beyond The sale of shares to employees pursuant to the programs Aker Solutions benefits in various contexts. This 30 June 2014. are realized from treasury shares held at any given time, or complements and strengthens Aker Solutions without Corporate Governance Statement Page 41 curtailing the autonomy of the group. It may be necessary In the event of any material transactions between the have common interests. These assessments will be carried to offer Aker ASA special access to commercial information company and shareholders, directors, senior executives, out on a case-by-case basis; in most events, and as a in connection with such cooperation. Any information or close associates thereof, which do not form part of starting point, by the relevant board members themselves, disclosed to Aker ASA’s representatives in such a context on-going projects pursued in the ordinary course of the but often also in cooperation with internal and/or external will be disclosed in compliance with the laws and regulations company’s business, the board of directors shall arrange legal counsel. governing the stock exchange and the securities market. for an independent assessment. The same shall, generally speaking, apply to the relationship between Aker Solutions For instance, board member Kjell Inge Røkke, who Applicable accounting standards and regulations require and the Aker ASA group. is an indirect shareholder of both Aker ASA and Aker ASA to prepare its consolidated financial statements Aker Solutions will, as a ground rule, not participate in the to include accounting information of Aker Solutions. Aker Solutions has prepared guidelines ensuring that board’s discussions of matters that concern commercial Historically, Aker Solutions has been deemed an associate directors and senior executives notify the board of directors relationships between Aker Solutions and the Aker ASA company (in Norwegian: «tilknyttet selskap») of Aker ASA if they have any material direct or indirect personal interest group as his relative indirect ownership interests in Aker under applicable accounting standards. New accounting in any agreement concluded by the group. The rules of ASA exceed his ownership interests in Aker Solutions. Also, standard, IFRS 10, effective from 1 January 2014, implies procedure for the board of directors of Aker Solutions chairman of the board Øyvind Eriksen is also a shareholder that Aker ASA is deemed to have control of Aker Solutions. stipulate that the board members and the CEO shall not of Aker ASA, but external legal counsel has concluded Aker Solutions will as a result thereof be consolidated as a participate in the preparation, deliberation, or resolution that such shareholding, as a ground rule, is not significant subsidiary in Aker ASA’s accounts from this date. In order of any matters that are of such special importance to enough to, under normal circumstances, imply that he is to comply with these accounting standards, Aker ASA themselves, or any of their close associates, so that the under an obligation to automatically step down from such has in the past received, and will going forward receive, board member in question must be deemed to have a discussions. unpublished accounting information of Aker Solutions. prominent personal or financial interest in such matters. Such distribution of unpublished accounting information The relevant board member and the CEO shall raise the The above principles will normally also be applied if from Aker Solutions to Aker ASA is executed under issue of his or her competence whenever there may be Aker Solutions contracts with other companies in which strict confidentiality and in accordance with applicable cause to question it, and are the primary responsible for said board members hold direct or indirect ownership regulations on handling of inside information. adopting the correct decision as to whether he or she interests that exceed, in relative terms, their ownership should step down from participating in the discussion of interests in Aker Solutions. Aker Solutions is however not deemed, within the meaning the matter at hand. of the Public Limited Companies Act, to be a close If ground for incapacity is concluded, the relevant board associate of Aker ASA, or any company in which Aker In general, as further stipulated in Aker Solutions’ member will, as a ground rule, prior to the relevant board ASA holds ownership interests. The board of directors related party transaction procedures, board members of meeting, not be granted access to any documentation and the executive management team of Aker Solutions Aker Solutions should be cautious in participating in the prepared to the board of directors for the deliberation of are nevertheless very conscious that all relations with consideration of issues where a potential conflict of interest the agenda item in question. Aker ASA, its subsidiaries and other companies in which or conflict of role may arise, undermining the confidence in Aker ASA has ownership interests, shall be premised on the decision process. Such person may not participate in In general, Aker Solutions applies a strict norm as far as commercial terms and structured in line with the arm’s board discussions of more than one company that is part competence assessments are concerned. In cases where length principle. of the same related party agreement, unless the companies the chairman of the board of directors does not participate Corporate Governance Statement Page 42 in the deliberations, the deputy chairman of the board of after year end. Notices convening general meetings, Election of Board Members directors chairs the meeting. including comprehensive documentation relating to the It is a priority for the nomination committee that the board of items on the agenda, including the recommendation directors shall work in the best possible manner as a team, As far as the other officers and employees of Aker Solutions of the nomination committee, are made available on and that the background and competence of the board are concerned, transactions with close associates are the company’s website no later than 21 days prior to members shall complement each other. As a consequence, comprehensively addressed and regulated in the group’s the general meeting. The articles of association of the the board of directors will propose that the shareholders Code of Conduct. company stipulate that documents pertaining to matters are invited to vote on the full board composition proposed to be deliberated by the general meeting shall only be by the nomination committee as a group, and not on each Transactions of a certain magnitude between Aker Solutions made available on the company’s website, and not member separately. Hence, Aker Solutions deviates from and companies within the Aker ASA group will be handled normally be sent physically by post to the shareholders the Code of Practice stipulating that one should make in accordance with the procedures in section 3-8 of the unless required by statute. «appropriate arrangements for the general meeting to vote Public Limited Companies Act. separately on each candidate nominated for election to the The deadline for registering intended attendance is as company’s corporate bodies». The «Related parties» note to the consolidated financial close to the general meeting as possible, but not shorter statements contains information on the most significant than five days before the meeting. Shareholders who are Physical Attendance and Electronic Voting transactions between Aker Solutions and companies within unable to attend may vote by proxy. Moreover, information It is a priority for the general meeting to be conducted in the Aker ASA group. concerning both the registration procedure and the filing a sound manner, with all shareholder votes to be cast, to of proxies is included in the notice convening the general the extent possible, on the basis of the same information. meeting and on the registration form. The company also The company has thus far not deemed it advisable to 5. Freely Negotiable Shares aims to structure, to the extent practicable, the proxy recommend the introduction of an electronic attendance, form such as to enable the shareholders to vote on each i.e. arranging for general meetings to be held as physical The shares are listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and are individual item on the agenda. meetings with online coverage allowing for shareholders freely transferable. No transferability restrictions are laid to participate via web. The company will contemplate the down in the articles of association. Chairman introduction of such arrangements on an on-going basis The articles of association stipulate that the general in view of; inter alia, the security and ease of use offered meetings shall be chaired by the chairman of the board by available systems. In connection with the 2012 Annual 6. General Meetings of directors or a person appointed by said chairman. General Meeting, the company for the first time allowed According to the Code of Practice the board should shareholders to cast votes electronically in advance of Attendance, Agenda and Voting however «make arrangements to ensure an independent the meeting (however, not during the meeting). Such prior The company encourages shareholders to attend chairman for the general meeting». Thus, Aker Solutions’ electronically voting possibilities were offered also with the general meeting. It is also the intention to have articles deviates from the Code of Practice in this respect. respect of the Annual General Meeting of 2013 and are representatives of the board of directors as well as the This has its background in a long-lasting tradition in likely to also be offered for the 2014 meeting. chairman of the nomination committee and the company’s Aker Solutions. Having the chairman of the board chairing auditor to attend the general meeting. It is a priority for the the general meeting also simplifies the preparations for the company to hold the general meeting as soon as possible general meetings significantly. Corporate Governance Statement Page 43 Minutes committee are appointed by the general meeting, which on the board of directors of both Aker Solutions ASA and in Minutes of general meetings will be published as soon as also determines the reward of the committee. a number of the group’s portfolio companies. practicable on the announcement system of the Oslo Stock Exchange, www.newsweb.no (ticker: AKSO), and on the The Annual General Meeting of 2010 adopted guidelines The articles of association stipulate that the board of directors company’s own website, www.akersolutions.com, in the governing duties of the nomination committee. According shall comprise six to twelve persons, one third of whom shall Investors section. to these guidelines, the committee shall emphasize that be elected by and amongst the employees of the group. candidates for the board have the necessary experience, In addition, up to three shareholder-appointed alternates competence, and capacity to perform their duties in a may be appointed. The board of directors comprised 11 7. Nomination Committee satisfactory manner. A reasonable representation with regard members as per 15 March 2014, 7 of whom were elected to gender and background should also be emphasized. by the shareholders and 4 of whom were elected by and The articles of association stipulate that the company among the employees. The company encourages the board shall have a nomination committee. The nomination The chairman of the nomination committee has the overall members to hold shares of the company. The shareholdings committee shall have no less than three members, who responsibility for the work of the committee. In the exercise of the board members as of 31 December 2013 are set out in shall normally serve for a term of two years. The current of its duties, the nomination committee may contact, the «Salaries, wages, and social security costs» note to the members of the nomination committee are Leif-Arne among others, shareholders, the board, management, consolidated annual statements. Langøy (chairman), Gerhard Heiberg, Kjetil Kristiansen and external advisors. The nomination committee shall and Mette Wikborg. Gerhard Heiberg is the only member also ensure that its recommendations are endorsed by the Independence whom is up for election at the ordinary general meeting largest shareholders. A majority of the board members elected by the shareholders in 2014. No members of the nomination committee are are independent of the executive personnel and important employed by, or board members of, Aker Solutions. All Information concerning the nomination committee and business associates. None of the executive personnel of members of the nomination committee are independent of deadlines for making suggestions or proposing candidates the company are members of the board of directors. Save both Aker Solutions’ board of directors and the executive for directorships are available on the company’s website, for the fact that the company is operating with an executive management of the company. www.akersolutions.com. chairman model as described below. The committee’s recommendations (relating to particularly The composition of the board of directors aims to ensure members of the board of directors and their remuneration) 8. Composition and Independence of the that the interests of all shareholders are attended to, and shall also address how the new board candidates will Board of Directors that the company has the know-how, resources, and attend to the interests of the shareholders in general and fill diversity it needs at its disposal. Among the 7 shareholderthe requirements of the company, including with respect to Composition elected board members, 5 of such (Lone Fønss Schrøder, competence, capacity and independence. It has been agreed with the employees that the company Koosum Kalyan, Anne Drinkwater, Sarah Ryan and Stuart shall have no corporate assembly. Hence, the board Ferguson) are deemed independent from the company’s The composition of the nomination committee shall reflect appoints its own chairman, cf. the Public Limited largest indirect shareholder, Aker ASA. the interests of all shareholders and ensure independence Companies Act section 6-1(2). The right of the employees from the board of directors and the executive management. to be represented and participate in decision making is Chief financial officer Leif H. Borge is President of The members and the chairman of the nomination safeguarded through expanded employee representation Aker Solutions ASA, while Øyvind Eriksen is executive Corporate Governance Statement Page 44 chairman (in Norwegian: «arbeidende styreleder») for the general meeting. This to provide the nomination committee for the business, and keep itself informed of the financial group. As Mr. Eriksen is not employed by Aker Solutions with the flexibility to propose varying terms of service for position of, and development within, Aker Solutions. but Chairman of its Board of directors, he is formally the candidates. This encompasses the annual planning process of not amongst Aker Solutions’ «executive personnel» (in Aker Solutions, with the adoption of overall goals and Norwegian: «ledende ansatte»). Hence, the fact that he as Meetings strategic choices for the group, as well as financial plans, executive chairman, and in many circumstances carries out The board of directors has held 10 ordinary board meetings budgets, and forecasts for the group and the business typical CEO-like tasks for the group, should not constitute in 2013, which have been attended by an average of 92% areas. The board of directors performs annual evaluations a breach of the NUES recommendation, after which «the of the board members. All board members participated of its work and its know-how. board of directors should not include executive personnel». in 5 of the 10 ordinary board meetings. The board held 1 Aker Solutions however acknowledges that it could be extraordinary board meeting in 2013. This meeting was Audit Committee argued that today’s solution is not fully in line with the attended by all board members. The need for extraordinary Aker Solutions has an audit committee comprising three intention behind this section of the NUES recommendation. board meetings may typically arise because the internal of the board members, which held 6 ordinary meetings authorization structure of the company requires the board and 1 extraordinary meeting in 2013. The audit committee Board members Kalyan and Schrøder are up for election of directors to deliberate and approve material tenders to comprises board members Anne Drinkwater (chairperson), in 2014. The composition of the existing board is more be submitted by the company. Whilst the deadlines for Lone Fønss Schrøder and Atle Teigland. The audit thoroughly described in the annual report. such submission often change, it is difficult to fit this into committee is independent from the management. the calendar of ordinary board meetings. At least one of the members of the audit committee shall 9. The Work of the Board of Directors An overview of current board members’ participation in have either formal qualifications within accounting or ordinary and extraordinary board meetings in 2013 is also auditing, or relevant experience and skills within the same. Procedures included in the «Salaries, wages, and social security costs» Both audit committee members Drinkwater and Schrøder The board adopts an annual plan for its work, with note to the consolidated financial statements of the group. have such qualifications/experience. The audit committee an emphasis on goals, strategy and implementation. has a mandate and a working method that complies with Furthermore, there are rules of procedure for the board of The Matters Discussed in the Board statutory requirements. The committee will participate, on directors, which govern areas of responsibility, duties and The executive chairman, in cooperation with the President behalf of the board of directors, in the quality assurance the distribution of roles between the board of directors, the and CFO, prepares cases for deliberation by the board of of guidelines, policies, and other governing instruments chairman of the board of directors and the chief executive directors. Weight is attached to having matters prepared pertaining to Aker Solutions. The audit committee performs officer. The rules of procedure for the board of directors and presented in such a way that the board of directors a qualitative review of the quarterly and annual reports also include provisions on convening and chairing board is provided with an adequate basis for its deliberations. of Aker Solutions. Significant judgment calls (uncertain meetings, on decision making, on the duty and right of the The board of directors has overall responsibility for the estimates) made in the financial statements in the quarter chief executive officer to disclose information to the board management of Aker Solutions and shall, through the chief are reviewed by the audit committee. The audit committee of directors, on the duty of confidentiality, etc. According executive officer, or, in the absence thereof, the President further supports the board of directors in safeguarding that to the company’s articles of association, each of the board and CFO in cooperation with the executive chairman, the company has sound risk management and internal members elected by the shareholders will serve for a period ensure that its activities are organized in a sound manner. controls over financial reporting. The audit committee of one to three years pursuant to further decision by the The board of directors shall adopt plans and budgets reviews the status on internal controls on an annual basis. Corporate Governance Statement Page 45 Board Risk Committee 10. Risk Management and Internal Control close cooperation between the corporate functions and Aker Solutions has a board risk committee (BRC) comprising the business areas with a view to identify, address, report board members Stuart Ferguson (chairman), Koosum Overall Responsibilities and handle risks for the entire group in conformity with the Kalyan, Anne Drinkwater and Åsmund Knutsen. The BRC is The board of directors and the management of the requirements laid down by the board of directors, audit independent from the management. The BRC shall support company have increased its focus on risk management and committee and board risk committee. the board in overseeing that the company’s Enterprise internal controls. Initiatives are ongoing to ensure risks are Risk Management (ERM) framework is implemented and efficiently managed and reported throughout the company, The group has based its approach to enterprise risk accurately reflects the company’s major risk areas. The and that key controls are in place to achieve strategic, management and internal controls on the principles in ERM categorizes risk in 4 main areas: Customer/Market, financial and operational goals, as well as compliance with ISO 31000, Project Management Institute (PMI) and the Internal Processes/Operations, Financial, and People. The regulatory requirements. Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of Treadwell BRC oversees the Customer/Market, Internal Processes/ Commission (COSO) frameworks. The focus going forward Operations, and People-related areas, while the audit The audit committee and board risk committee support will be to further develop and formalize the processes and committee oversees the Financial area. the board of directors in safeguarding that the company key controls through policies and procedures to ensure has internal procedures and systems in place to ensure risk management and internal controls are in line with the The BRC and the audit committees will share oversight for that corporate governance processes are effective. The COSO framework. the adherence to some non-financial compliance policies CFO reports directly to the audit committee on matters such as the company’s Code of Conduct, anti-corruption, relating to financial reporting, financial risks and internal Risk Management and third party representatives’ policies. The BRC shall controls. The Head of Operations (HOO) reports directly to The responsibility for enterprise and operational risk assist the board in developing an overall risk profile for the board risk committee on matters relating to enterprise management in the group is held by the Head of the company, by defining the criteria and monitoring risk management. Operations (HOO) organization. The operational leaders mechanisms needed to ensure that the risks identified are have ownership to the operating system and governing adequately taken into account. The operating model of the company implies that each documents, including the project execution model corporate function has a global responsibility for their (PEM) and risk management framework and tools. The There have been 4 ordinary BRC meetings in 2013, in which, respective areas of specialization. Such responsibility HOO organization is responsible for risk reporting to the among others, the company’s Head of Operations and Vice includes risk management and ownership of relevant management, audit committee and risk committee. President Risk Management have participated. policies. Group functions set the direction for acceptable levels of risk and risk management within the respective Aker Solutions manages risk through an internal framework Remuneration Committee areas in line with ambitions from the board of directors comprising guidelines, procedures, standards, and tools Aker Solutions currently has no remuneration committee as and safeguards that the operating businesses comply intended to ensure safe and stable business operations the experiences from having such showed more merit in with this direction. and provide unified and reliable financial reporting. discussing matters comprised by this committee’s mandate with all board members present. Each business area and operating unit has an The global «risk management network» consists of independent responsibility for adherence to the internal representatives from each of the business areas (BAs) framework of the group and compliance with external and is headed by corporate risk management. The BA laws and regulations at any given time. This involves representatives are responsible for all risk management Corporate Governance Statement Page 46 work and implementation of the corporate policies within When the business areas request investments and present compliant financial reporting throughout the group, to their BA, across regions and business units, and develop their business cases including calculations, the investments provide high quality and relevant management information and maintain BA specific procedures as required. The risk are reviewed by the corporate investment committee to support decision making processes on all levels, and management network has meetings at least quarterly. (CIC). Approval of the investments is done according to to deliver proactive controller services to drive business the authorization matrix. The committee evaluates the risk improvements on all levels of Aker Solutions». The risk management process is standardized in all projects. from different perspectives such as legal, tax, technical, All significant projects provide a monthly report via a webexecution and finance and is represented by the head of The consolidated external financial statements are based solution summarizing the operational and financial the relevant corporate staff functions. For investments prepared in accordance with IFRS and IAS standards as status, in addition to performance and risk indicators. The requiring board of directors’ approval, the memos from the approved by the EU. The policies and standards governing HOO organization and the CFO organization monitor the CIC reviews are presented to the board as decision making the annual and quarterly financial reporting in the group, project reporting in order to identify early risk indicators. support documentation. including the Aker Solutions accounting principles, are The portfolio risk picture is reported to the executive available on the Aker Solutions intranet. IFRS trainings are management team and to the board risk committee. A new The principal focus of the operational reviews is to held annually for the operational units on various topics, tool for performing risk management is being implemented assess operational and financial performance, and including project accounting. across all projects that will improve the project risk to verify governance aspects (policy compliance and management process. internal control). The reviews are planned based on risk The internal management reporting consists of both assessments, and the review objects can be operational financial and operational information. The financial In addition, there is an annual risk assessment process units, functional departments, portfolios of projects or information used in the management report is in all majority where the total risk profile for the company is presented to specific projects. The reviews can vary from a two to three according to IFRS, except some additional information like the board of directors. hour meeting to in-depth reviews lasting up to two weeks. order intake and best/worst case scenarios where internal The review findings are reported to the HOO and followed procedures are developed. Review and Oversight up until issues are properly closed. The HOO organization is responsible for performing reviews The Continuous Improvement Process of tenders, investments and for performing operational Financial Reporting Internal controls are built into the established financial reviews. All significant tenders have to be reviewed by the The corporate financial reporting department reports to the reporting processes. The most important controls include corporate risk committee (CRC). The CRC is responsible CFO and is responsible for the external reporting process authorization matrix, access controls, segregation of duties, for reviewing the risk assessment, financial estimates and and the internal management reporting process. This also automated validations, reconciliations and management planned execution of the project. The CRC gives guidance includes assessing financial reporting risks and internal reviews. Risks and controls in order to meet process to the tender teams and advises the decision makers on controls over financial reporting in the group. objectives change over time, and there is a continuous the risk profile of the tenders. For tenders requiring board process to improve the internal controls. of directors’ approval, the memos from the CRC reviews The following statement has been widely communicated to are presented to the board as decision making support all financial reporting personnel: Lately, there has been an increased focus on internal documentation. controls over financial reporting in the group. Methods are «The vision of the finance function is to support the strategy being developed using COSO as the overall framework. of Aker Solutions by ensuring efficient, predictable and The starting point for the ongoing strengthening of internal Corporate Governance Statement Page 47 controls over financial reporting is an assessment of the The improvement initiatives are grouped into the following projects. All projects submit a standardized project report financial reporting risks, which is the risk of the external categories: to a central database on a monthly basis (except January and internal financial reporting (either quarterly, annually and July), enabling management to review the quality of or other) being materially misstated. The annual risk ■■ Systems – integrated systems are important to ensure reported figures, evaluate performance and identify red assessment gives valuable input to plan the improvement efficient controlling and reporting of high quality flags in the projects. areas for the finance organization. A number of improvement ■■ Quality and transparency standardized processes with projects are currently on-going to further address and key risks and controls clearly identified is important for The operational units report financial figures in the Hyperion mitigate the financial reporting risks. The improvement quality of reported figures, and transparency is important Financial Management (HFM) consolidation system on projects are monitored after completion in order to ensure when reporting figures, and accounting estimates in a monthly basis (except January and July). Validations a successful implementation. particular are to some extent automated in the Hyperion system, ■■ Guidance, tools and training easy access to useful or performed manually by the reporting unit. The finance guidance, tools and training for all personnel involved in organization at both business area and corporate levels key financial reporting processes is important to ensure perform analysis and run validation reports to ensure that consistency, quality and compliance reported figures are consistent. The figures as reported in the HFM consolidation system are used for both external reporting and internal management reporting. The reporting Assessment of Report and Monitor Financial The Planning Process is more comprehensive at year-end, which also includes Reporting Risks The company has an annual strategy process in which high notes disclosures. level financial plans for the next five years are prepared and approved by the board of directors. The operating units The operational units prepare management reports d are required to submit detailed financial budgets which with financial results compared to budget and forecast, an cy s Sy ty ste ali ren are approved at business area and corporate levels and sensitivities, operational challenges and a number of other m Qu nspa Tra against which corporate monitors performance. The annual figures that are reviewed by the business area. The reports Plan Implement Improvements budget process involves all operating units with detailed from the operational units are aggregated to a report for Guidance, Tools budgets of results and balance sheet for the next year. each business area which is discussed in the monthly and Training Twelve months rolling forecast is updated quarterly. Also, financial meetings held between the CFO and the business the quarterly business reviews (QBRs) are held between area. The focus in these meetings is to discuss financial corporate leaders and the business areas to follow up the performance and sensitivities in the reported figures. Execute strategic development, review performance against budget Improvement Project and forecast, discuss risks and governance issues. The operational units and the business areas are responsible for analyzing the performance based on The Monthly Financial Reporting Process actual and forecasted figures and take measures to The monthly reporting process starts with the forecast secure satisfactory financial performance, cash flows and Illustration: The Internal Control Improvement Process update at project level including an evaluation and safeguard assets. approval process related to risks and opportunities in the Corporate Governance Statement Page 48 Transparency of Judgment Calls hour meeting to in-depth reviews lasting up to two weeks. was introduced for 2009, and it has subsequently been Judgment calls are required when management has to Financial reviews are either integrated into operational decided to extend this to 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and apply judgment to estimate the financial outcome of an reviews as discussed above, or separate financial reviews 2014. A separate manager share purchase program was event. Due to the nature of the project business in Aker are performed. The review findings are reported to the HOO introduced for 2012, and this annual program was repeated Solutions, judgment calls are made each reporting period. and followed up until issues are properly closed. in 2013 and will also be offered in 2014. More information is included under Section 3 above and additional details The projects have to report specifically on judgmental pertaining thereto are available in the «Salaries, wages, items included in the forecast as part of the monthly project 11. Reward of the Board of Directors and social security costs» note to the consolidated report. These include variation orders in an approval financial statements. The executive reward guidelines of process or under discussion with the client, potential The reward of the board of directors reflects its the company are set out in the above-mentioned note, and liquidated damages (LD) exposure, bonuses and incentives responsibilities, know-how and time commitment, as well will consequently be submitted to the general meeting. and uncertainties in cost estimates. If amounts are as the complexity of the business. The reward is proposed The chief executive officer (or in the absence thereof; the significant, projects are required to provide a description of by the nomination committee, and is not performanceexecutive chairman) determines the reward of executive the accounting assessment either in the project report or in related or linked to options in Aker Solutions. More detailed management on the basis of the guidelines laid down by a separate accounting paper. information about the reward of individual board members the board of directors. All performance-related reward is provided in the «Salaries, wages, and social security within the group has been made subject to a cap. Any significant judgment calls in the monthly report costs» note to the consolidated financial statements are reported separately, where management prepares for the group. Neither should the board members, nor documentation describing the significant assumptions companies with which they are affiliated, accept specific 13. Information and Communication made in order to estimate the financial impact of the paid duties for Aker Solutions beyond their directorships. judgmental item. The significant judgment items are If they nevertheless do so, the board of directors shall be The board of directors has approved a designated IR discussed during the monthly meetings between the CFO informed and the reward shall be approved by the board (Investor Relations) policy which covers, among other and the business areas. The most significant judgment of directors. No reward shall be accepted from anyone things, guidelines for the company’s contact with calls are presented to the audit committee and the board other than the company or the relevant group company in shareholders other than through general meetings. Extracts of directors together with the external quarterly report to connection with such duties. from the policy is available on the company’s website. the market. The company’s reporting of financial and other information Financial Reviews 12. Reward of Executive Personnel is based on openness and the equal treatment of all The focus of the financial reviews is to identify improvement securities market players. The long-term purpose of the IR areas for internal control over financial reporting and The board of directors has adopted designated guidelines function is to ensure access for the company to capital on assess the quality of the financial reporting. The reviews for the reward of executive management pursuant to competitive terms, whilst at the same time ensuring that are planned based on risk assessments, and the review the provisions of Section 6-16a of the Public Limited the shareholders are provided with the most correct pricing objects can be operational units, functional departments, Companies Act. Aker Solutions has no option schemes or of the shares that can be achieved. This shall take place a portfolio of projects or specific projects, or group-wide option programs for the allotment of shares to employees. through the correct and timely distribution of price-sensitive special issues. The reviews can vary from a two to three However, a share purchase program for employees information, whilst ensuring, at the same time, that the Corporate Governance Statement Page 49 company is in compliance with applicable rules and market 15. Auditors practices. Reference is also made to the above discussion concerning the flow of information between Aker Solutions The auditor annually presents a plan for the performance of and Aker ASA in connection with their cooperation within, the audit work to the audit committee. In addition, the auditor inter alia, strategy, transactions, and funding. provides the board of directors with a written confirmation to the effect that the independence requirement is met All stock exchange announcements and press releases annually. The auditor attends the meeting in the audit are made available on the company’s website, and committee that deliberates the consolidated financial stock exchange announcements are also available on statements, and the auditor has reviewed any material www.newsweb.no. All information sent to the shareholders changes to the accounting principles of the company, is posted on the company’s website at the same point of or to the internal controls of the company, with the audit time. The company holds open presentations in connection committee. The board of directors holds a minimum of with the reporting of financial performance, and these one annual meeting with the auditor without any executive presentations are broadcasted live via the internet. A capital personnel being in attendance. markets day is also hosted annually, and is open to all interested parties. The financial calendar of the company is The audit committee stipulates guidelines on the scope available in the annual report and on the company’s website. for using the auditor for services other than auditing, and makes recommendations to the board of directors concerning the appointment of the external auditor and the 14. Take-overs approval of the auditor’s fees. Fees payable to the auditor, separated into those relating to auditing and those relating Aker ASA has undertaken to retain control of Aker Kværner to other services, are specified in the «Other operating Holding AS for a minimum of ten years from June 2007. expenses» note to the consolidated financial statements The board of directors has not deemed it appropriate to for the group. adopt specific guidelines for takeover situations for as long as the ownership cooperation context within Aker Kværner Holding AS remains intact. G3 Content Index Page 50 G3 Content Index GRI Application Level B Standard Disclosures: Part I Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 3. Report Parameters Level of Profile Level of Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Disclosure Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for 1.1 organization. Fully Introduction from Øyvind Eriksen 3.1 information provided. Fully About This Report 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Approach to Corporate Responsibility 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully March 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully About This Report 2. Organizational Profile 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report. Fully About This Report Level of 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully About This Report Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure About This Report. See also Annual 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully About Aker Solutions 3.6 Boundary of the report. Fully Report 2013 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully About Aker Solutions About This Report. See also Annual 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. Fully Report 2013 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Annual Report 2012 Accounting 2.3 ventures. Fully About Aker Solutions 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. Fully Principles 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully Oslo Data measurement techniques and the bases of About This Report, Health and Safety, 3.9 calculations. Fully Environmental Impact Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements. Fully About This Report that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues 2.5 covered in the report. Fully About Aker Solutions 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods. Fully About This Report About Aker Solutions. See also Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Annual Report 2013 3.12 in the report. Fully This table 2.7 Markets served. Fully About Aker Solutions This report has no external assurance. Policy and current practice with regard to seeking We are considering external About Aker Solutions. See also 3.13 external assurance for the report. Fully assurance of future reporting. 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully Annual Report 2013 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding 2.9 size, structure, or ownership. Fully About This Report 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Partially People G3 Content Index Page 51 Standard Disclosures Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Profile Level of Level of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Approach to Corporate Responsibility, Disclosure on Management Approach: Economic Fully Community impact Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance 4.2 body is also an executive officer. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Approach to Corporate Responsibility, Disclosure on Management Approach: Environment Fully Environmental Impact Number of members of the highest governance body that 4.3 are independent and/or non-executive members. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Approach to Corporate Responsibility, Disclosure on Management Approach: Labour Fully People, Supply Chain Management Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance Approach to Corporate Responsibility, 4.4 body. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Disclosure on Management Approach: Human Rights Fully Community Impact Linkage between compensation for members of the Approach to Corporate Responsibility, highest governance body, senior managers, and Disclosure on Management Approach: Society Fully Community Impact 4.5 executives and the organization’s performance Fully Corporate Governance Statement Disclosure on Management Approach: Product Responsibility Fully Environmental Impact Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Process for determining the qualifications and expertise 4.7 of the members of the highest governance body. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Internally developed values statement, codes of conduct, About Aker Solutions, Integrity, 4.8 and principles. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social Approach to Corporate Responsibility, 4.9 performance. Fully Corporate Governance Statement Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 4.10 own performance. Fully Corporate Governance Statement 4.11 Application of precautionary approach. Fully Environmental Impact Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 4.12 organization subscribes or endorses. Fully Introduction from Øyvind Eriksen Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 4.13 organizations. Fully Environmental Impact 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully Approach to Corporate Responsibility 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully Approach to Corporate Responsibility 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement. Fully Approach to Corporate Responsibility Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Approach to Corporate Responsibility, 4.17 engagement and the organizations response. Fully About This Report G3 Content Index Page 52 Standard Disclosures Part III: Performance Indicators Economic Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Economic Performance Biodiversity About Aker Solutions, Community Location in areas of high biodiversity value outside EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Fully Impact. See also Annual Report EN11 protected areas. Partially Environmental Impact Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Impacts of activities, products, and services on EC2 due to climate change. Not EN12 biodiversity in protected or high biodiversity value areas. Partially Environmental Impact Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not EC3 obligations. Fully People Strategies, actions and future plans for managing impacts We have not received significant EN14 on biodiversity. Not EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully financial assistance from government Number of IUCN Red List species and national Market Presence conservation list species with habitats in areas affected EN15 by operations, by level of extinction risk. Not EC5 Wage ratios. Not Emissions, Effluents and Waste EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers. Partially Community Impact Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EC7 Procedures for local hiring of senior management. Fully People EN16 weight. Fully Environmental Impact Indirect Economic Impacts Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit. Not EN17 weight. Not EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts. Partially Community Impact Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18 reductions achieved. Partially Environmental Impact EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Environmental NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and Level of EN20 weight. Not Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not Materials EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Partially Environmental Impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Environmental Impact Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN2 materials. Fully Environmental Impact Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated EN24 waste deemed hazardous. Fully Environmental Impact Energy Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully Environmental Impact EN25 discharges of water and runoff. Not EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partially Environmental Impact Products and Services Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products EN5 improvements. Partially Environmental Impact EN26 and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Partially Environmental Impact Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Percentage of products sold and their packaging based products and services, and energy reductions EN27 materials that are reclaimed by category. Not EN6 achieved. Partially Environmental Impact Compliance Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 reductions achieved. Partially Environmental Impact Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with EN28 environmental laws and regulations. Fully Environmental Impact Water Transport EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Significant environmental impacts of transporting Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN29 products, goods, materials and labour. Not EN9 water. Not Overall Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10 reused. Not Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30 investments by type. Not G3 Content Index Page 53 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Social: Human Rights Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Employment Investment and Procurement Practices Total workforce by employment type, employment Significant investment agreements that include human LA1 contract, and region. Fully People rights clauses or that have undergone human rights HR1 screening. Fully Community Impact Total number and rate of employee turnover by age LA2 group, gender, and region. Partially People Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not HR2 taken. Fully Supply Chain Management provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major LA3 operations. Fully People Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights, including Labor/Management Relations HR3 percentage of employees trained. Fully Integrity Percentage of employees covered by collective Non-discrimination LA4 bargaining agreements. Fully People Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational HR4 taken. Not LA5 changes. Fully People Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Occupational Health and Safety Operations identified in which the right to exercise Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint freedom of association and collective bargaining may be LA6 management-worker health and safety committees. Not at significant risk, and actions taken to support these Supply Chain Management, Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and HR5 rights. Fully Community Impact absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by Child labor LA7 region. Fully Health and Safety Operations identified as having significant risk for Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskincidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Supply Chain Management, control programs in place to assist workforce members, HR6 to the elimination of child labor. Fully Community Impact their families, or community members regarding serious LA8 diseases. Fully Health and Safety Forced and Compulsory Labor Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Operations identified as having significant risk for LA9 with trade unions. Partially Health and Safety incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory Supply Chain Management, Training and Education HR7 labor. Fully Community Impact Average hours of training per year per employee by Security Practices LA10 employee category. Partially People, Health and Safety, Integrity Percentage of security personnel trained in the Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects support the continued employability of employees and HR8 of human rights that are relevant to operations. Not LA11 assist them in managing career endings. Not Indigenous Rights Percentage of employees receiving regular performance LA12 and career development reviews. Fully People Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9 indigenous people and actions taken. Not Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of LA13 diversity. Fully People Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee LA14 category. Not G3 Content Index Page 54 Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Indicator Disclosure Reporting Location of Disclosure Community Customer Health and Safety Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of practices that assess and manage the impacts of PR1 products and services are assessed for improvement. Not operations on communities, including entering, operating, SO1 and exiting. Fully Community Impact Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Corruption PR2 safety impacts of products and services. Not Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Product and Service Labelling SO2 for risks related to corruption. Partially Community Impact, Integrity PR3 Product and service information required. Not Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3 corruption policies and procedures. Fully Integrity Total number of incidents of non-compliance with PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning labeling. Not SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Fully Integrity Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Public PR5 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. Not policy Marketing Communications Public policy positions and participation in public policy Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary SO5 development and lobbying. Not PR6 codes related to marketing communications. Not Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Total number of incidents of non-compliance with SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions. Not regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Anti-competitive Behavior PR7 communications. Not Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Customer Privacy behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their Total number of substantiated complaints regarding SO7 outcomes. Not PR8 breaches of customer privacy. Not Compliance Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws with laws and regulations concerning the provision and SO8 and regulations. Not PR9 use of products and services. Not Photos and illustrations: Aker Solutions Design: Bolt Communication Print: RK Grafisk © 2014 Aker Solutions All rights reserved www.akersolutions.com
