CSR Report 2013 Contents 3 The Carlsberg Group at a glance 4 CEO foreword 5 About this report 7 Economic value generated 9 Environment 18 Responsible sourcing 21 Responsible drinking 25 Health & safety 29 Business ethics 32 Labour and human rights 35 Community engagement 39 Section 1: Data summary table 43 Section 2: Independent assurance report 44 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 50 Section 4: Reporting process and scope 52 Section 5: Definitions: environment and health & safety 53 Section 6: Tax assurance principles 55 Section 7: List of reporting sites Version 1.0 Editor Carlsberg Group Corporate Affairs Design and production Kontrapunkt Photos Nana Reimers Proofreading Borella projects Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Contents 2 At a glance No. 4 4th largest global brewer. 9.8 DKKbn operating profit. 78% Somersby brand growth. 40,435 Employees in 2013. 12% Carlsberg brand volume growth in premium markets in Asia. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 The Carlsberg Group at a glance 3 sions at our production sites. Furthermore, we have partnered with key packaging suppliers and set targets to reduce the environmental impact of our packaging. We strive to make our social and environmental We have updated our Responsible Drinking responsibilities a living, Policy and corresponding guidelines reflecting our commitment to promote and support vibrant part of our company responsible consumption. Responsible drinkvalues and performance. ing will remain one of our key focus areas going forward. JØRGEN BUHL RASMUSSEN President & CEO As part of the global Commitments to reduce harmful drinking (commitments. We know that our success depends on a global-actions.org/default.aspx), we have Our new three-year targets (2014-2016) healthy environment and a society where collaborated with our global peers to define reflect our ambition to continue integratbeer is accepted and cherished by all stakea joint list of key performance indicators in ing CSR into the value chain and business holders. We are therefore striving to reduce order to track and report both the progress strategy. CSR helps us to manage risk, our negative impact and develop innovative we make and the challenges we face in our reduce costs and create future business opsolutions to enhance our positive contribuefforts to reduce harmful consumption and portunities. We recognise that partnership tion to the environment and society upon ensure that the enjoyment of beer is part of and collaboration will be essential if we are which we depend for our future growth. a healthy, active lifestyle. to fulfil our 2016 targets. In addition to our commitment to the UN Global Compact, When J.C. Jacobsen founded Carlsberg in The starting point for this journey is a high we will engage with stakeholders and enter JØRGEN BUHL 1847, he was clear that the brewery should level of compliance with our responsible into new partnerships so we can continue to RASMUSSEN President & CEO contribute to the economic and social develmarketing codes (the Marketing Communigrow responsibly for the benefit of the Carlsopment of society. Building on this heritage, cation Policy). Our 2013 results show that berg Group and the environment and society corporate social responsibility (CSR) continues there is room for improvement on awareof which we are a part. to be integrated in the way we do business at ness and compliance levels. In response, At Carlsberg we are determined both global and local level. At Carlsberg we we have strengthened the training schemes to deliver on our growth strategy strive to make CSR a living, vibrant part of our and made the CEOs in all our local markets values and performance culture. I recognise directly responsible for compliance with the and ambitious commercial the value of top management ownership and policy and guidelines. Jørgen Buhl Rasmussen agenda. therefore remain personally committed to keeping CSR high on the shortand longFOCUS ON BUSINESS INTEGRATION term agendas of the Executive Committee. AND OPPORTUNITIES Going forward, we recognise that improving DELIVERING ON OUR TARGETS environmental efficiency in our breweries, In 2013, we came to the end of our current delivering sustainable packaging solutions three-year target period. I am proud that and promoting responsible drinking will be we have succeeded in our focused efforts to important drivers for securing our licence to reduce energy consumption and cut CO2 emisoperate and creating future growth and value. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 CEO foreword 4 Stakeholders differ due to their negative and dedicate extra focus and resources to impact (risk) or positive impact (opportunour three key initiatives: Responsible Drinkity) on the evolution of our ambitions and ing, Sustainable Packaging and Efficient goals. Hence the approach to identifying and Brewery (reducing water, energy and CO2 at analysing stakeholders, both present and our production sites). This approach has the future, is based on the principle that their benefit of making CSR not only a reputainvolvement with us should contribute to the tional and risk-mitigating buffer but also a creation of long-term value. In 2013, we exstrategic driver for business opportunities panded the scope of our stakeholder engageand future value creation for the Carlsberg This report reflects our ambition to be a transparent ment in accordance with the development of Group and society. Integration is not, howcompany. Reporting on progress, achievements and our key initiatives. In particular, sustainable ever, accomplished overnight. It is a journey packaging has led to more and closer colthat involves finding new solutions and ways challenges is important to us and our stakeholders. laboration with key suppliers. You can read of working that take into account the rapidly more about stakeholder engagement in the changing global environment and society in specific policy sections of this report. which we operate. We plan to conduct a new full materiality All CSR areas, including our key initiatives, The CSR polices and targets covered in topics that have the potential to impact the assessment in 2014, including internal and will be explained in detail in this report. this report reflect the topics that are most value and/or perception of the Carlsberg external stakeholder assessment. material to us in terms of impact and the Group, whether positively or negatively. importance of these topics to internal and Based on this definition, and on the focus VALUE CHAIN INTEGRATION external stakeholders. and priorities of our business, we have found We have been working strategically with no need to change the scope of the topCSR since 2008 to drive and document proMATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER ics with which we work. Reducing energy gress and learnings. We have chosen to work ENGAGEMENT and water consumption and CO2 emissions with and report on the sustainability areas Learn more about the We have conducted an internal review of our at production sites, developing sustainable where we have the biggest impact and on materiality assessment, which was develpackaging and promoting responsible drinkwhich our external and internal stakeholders relevance of CSR in the oped in 2011 (see page 13 of the CSR Report ing are still our key initiatives, alongside drivbelieve we should be focusing. In total, we value chain. 2012). For us, materiality encompasses all ing value chain integration of all our policies. work with eight areas across the value chain www.carlsberggroup.com/csr CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY IN THE VALUE CHAIN R&D PROCUREMENT BREWING AND LOGISTICS MARKETING AND CONSUMERS AND BOTTLING COMMUNICATION CUSTOMERS Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 About this report 5 ASSURANCE NEW THREE-YEAR TARGETS Selected information in this report is asIn 2013, we came to the end of our current GOVERNANCE MODEL sured by KPMG. The assured information is three-year target period. In this report, we indicated on the relevant pages by the text will review how we performed in each of “Within KPMG’s assurance scope”. To read our policy areas and communicate the new KPMG’s conclusions, go to the independent targets defining our direction and ambitions Supervisory assurance report on page 43. for 2016. Board The Supervisory GOVERNANCE AND DECISION-MAKING WE WELCOME FEEDBACK Board has overall Carlsberg’s Supervisory Board continues to As always, we welcome feedback, questions responsibility for CSR. be ultimately responsible for all aspects of and comments on the content of this report. our business, including CSR. The Executive Committee provides strategic guidance and Please e-mail your feedback to: approves policies, strategy and KPIs. Specific CSR@carlsberg.com responsibility is assigned to the SVP, Group Corporate Affairs. Group functions and Executive Committee regions drive and support our global targets, ExCom provides strategic guidance and approval of policies and targets. while local champions and policy owners are responsible for implementation and compliance. The governance structure is designed to ensure local and cross-functional ownership and drive regional targets. Group CSR Group Group CSR TRACKING DATA AND MEASURING & Public Affairs Regions policy owners PERFORMANCE Group CSR develops and Group Regions approve The functional CSR policy The data in this report is tracked through a drives forward the CSR and drive regional CSR owners drive strategy and CSR reporting system introduced in 2009. strategy, and provides performance to support policy implementation, and expertise to support global targets. set targets. This system helps us to collect data, measure CSR initiatives. performance and evaluate policy implementation at local, regional and global level. We use standardised definitions across markets to ensure better data quality and comparability. Local CSR Local CSR champions policy owners Each year, we measure progress, or lack of Local CSR champions are Local CSR policy owners progress, in each policy area by conducting responsible for the local drive policy implementation local self-assessment questionnaires. This implementation of the and performance CSR strategy. improvements. enables us to share best practices among markets and companies, and to understand where we need to focus our efforts, where we need additional efforts and where we need to investigate further. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 About this report 6 The Carlsberg Group employs more than The Carlsberg Group’s taxes borne in 2013 40,000 employees directly within Producwere DKK 31.3bn1. The vast majority of our tion, Logistics, Sales & Marketing and taxes borne is indirect tax incurred through Administration. Our employees work in the excise duties, which totalled DKK 27.2bn1 (apcorpor­ate offices as well as at our producprox. 86% of total taxes borne). The remaintion sites, which are often in less populated ing taxes borne of DKK 4.1bn (approx. 14% areas. We employ a highly skilled workforce of total taxes borne) is through direct taxes, in Sales & Marketing, Finance, Production, such as energy tax, corporate income tax and Logistics etc. social security contributions for employees. The Carlsberg Group has a positive economic impact on the 140 economies and societies in which we operate. The Carlsberg In addition to the many direct employees, TOTAL TAX CONTRIBUTION the Carlsberg Group also generates employIn addition to the taxes borne, we also colGroup employs more than 40,000 people directly and ment in related sectors in connection with lected taxes on behalf of governments, for additionally generates approximately 370,000 jobs in related the production, sales and marketing of beer. example payroll taxes from business activities. industries such as agriculture and hospitality. We paid DKK The indirect and induced contribution to 42.5bn in taxes in 2013 and contributed DKK 79.2bn to GDP employment is generated through purchases Thus, the total tax contribution to society in industries such as agriculture, packaging consists of both taxes borne and taxes colgrowth globally. and logistics as well as induced employlected. In 2013, our total paid tax contribution ment in the hospitality and retail sectors. amounted to DKK 42.5bn. It is estimated that the total jobs created by the Carlsberg Group amount to 368,471. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (DKK 95.5BN) Global direct jobs Global indirect/induced jobs 40,435 368,471 Operating costs 49.3% (DKK 47.1bn) Source: EY calculations based on employment figures and market data. Employee wages 9.3% (DKK 8.9bn)  roviders of capital P TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE 2.4% (DKK 2.3bn) In 2013, the direct generated economic value Taxes borne incl. in the countries in which we operate totalled excise duties 32.8% (DKK 31.3bn1) DKK 95.5bn. Economic value retained Our contribution consists of many different 6.2% (DKK 5.9bn) aspects, including excise duties, employee wages, pensions, benefits and goods purchased from suppliers. The contributions in the five main areas are summarised in the graph to the right. 1 W ithin KPMG’s assurance scope. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Economic value generated 7 WIDER ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION We have quantified the indirect and induced EMPLOYMENT GENERATED TO SOCIETY impact on society of our generated economic value and taxes. Based on calculations by EY, Total Carlsberg We will continue to develop employees in 2013 Carlsberg indirectly generated DKK (40,435) and grow our business in a 47.4bn through income tax and social contriway that benefits Carlsberg butions from employees, supplier and retail/ wholesale employees, VAT and hospitality.  Production Sales & Marketing Logistics  Administration as well as the environment 36% 30% 21% 13% and society upon which we Our direct and indirect/induced economic depend for future growth. contributions have a positive impact on the societies in which we operate. We are proud Total JØRN P. JENSEN of this contribution, and also aware that it employment Deputy CEO & CFO generated comes with a responsibility to continue to (indirect/induced) develop and grow our business in a way (368,471) that benefits Carlsberg as well as the envi Hospitality Suppliers (including agriculture) Retail/wholesale  ronment and society upon which we depend 51% 34% 15% for future growth. ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION GENERATED TO GOVERNMENTS Total tax Total value added in industry sectors contribution by incl. Carlsberg Carlsberg (DKK 79.2bn) (DKK 42.5bn) VAT Employee taxes Corporate Other taxes Excise duties  21.2% 7.3% income tax 1 2.3% 63.8% (DKK 9.0bn) (DKK 3.1bn) 5.4% (DKK 2.3bn2) (DKK 1.0bn) (DKK 27.1bn2) Total government revenue generated (indirect/induced) (DKK 47.4bn) VAT withheld by Income tax and social contributions from employees Hospitality Carlsberg hospitality and retail in all sectors (suppliers, hospitality and retail) 44% 24% 54% 46% Suppliers (including  Retail/ agriculture) wholesale 24% 8% 1 Corporate income taxes including withholding taxes. 2 Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Economic value generated 8 1,2 The production of beer is dependent on a stable flow of raw materials sourced directly from nature. As such, we appreciate the importance of a healthy, clean environment to our production and future growth and we remain dedicated to reducing our impact on the environment and the climate. Environmental efficiency has been a key priThe results reflect a high level of compliance ority in the Carlsberg Group for several years. with policy and guidelines as well as awareEfficiency plays a vital role, whether in reness of resource efficiency and cost savings searching and developing new barley breeds, across the Group. However, we did not meet optimising production processes, rethinking our 2013 water reduction target. Going forpackaging or improving our distribution and ward, we will further stress the importance sales. This has brought about many positive of water savings at our breweries. results in terms of continuously improving resource efficiency at production sites and 60 out of 75 sites have now obtained the generating cost savings. environmental ISO 14001:2004 certification. This is mandatory for all majority-owned 2013 – CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON production sites, and new production sites ENVIRONMENTAL EFFCIENCY are required to obtain certification within In 2011, we defined ambitious three-year three years of acquisition. targets for reducing energy and water We remain dedicated consumption and CO2 emissions at proA key initiative in 2013 was the developto reducing our impact duction sites. We are proud to report ment of a new utility strategy, enabling us on the environment and strong performance on energy and CO2 to reduce energy consumption and carry out emission reductions. utility improvement programmes in Russia. the climate. PETER ERNSTING 1  nvironment section within KPMG’s assurance scope (pages 9-12, 15). 2 The environment section (pages 9-16) E SVP, Group Supply Chain reflects the requirements for CSR reporting under section 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, with specific focus on climate change. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 9 The main contributor to this result was a are working systematically to share best high degree of implementation of our util­ities practice, track and monitor performance and Energy and programme across the Group. In 2013, nine improve forecasting abilities. In Asia, the Proout of 17 breweries in Eastern Europe and duction Excellence initiative has contributed to 17 out of 24 breweries in Asia reduced their energy savings and operating cost reductions. emissions relative energy consumption. Performance In Western Europe, our continued focus on was improved for Western Europe with 17 energy consumption was a major contributor out of 30 breweries. However, consumption to our overall achievements. increased unexpectedly at 28 sites, and we are currently investigating the underlying CO2 EMISSIONS reasons in order to align these sites with We recognise the risks to our business Group expectations. presented by climate change and acknowledge our own contribution to this global Our Eco Company programme in Russia was challenge. Continued and focused efforts ENERGY consumption in 2013 was 28.0 kWh/hl, giving expanded to reflect a broader set of environhave helped us to reduce our CO2 emissions The consolidated figures show that relative prius a total reduction of 4.3 kWh/hl (-13.3%) mental areas. The programme has delivered during the past year. Our strategy has three mary energy consumption per hectolitre was since the beginning of our target period in 2011. energy and water savings since 2011, and now focus areas: reducing energy consumption; 20.0 kWh/hl. This is a reduction of 1.0 kWh/ it also incorporates areas such as land degrachanging our energy mix towards cleaner hl since 2012. Our relative electricity consumpWe are proud of this performance, which dation and packaging, reflecting our ambitions energy sources; and offsetting emissions by tion was 8.0 kWh/hl, a reduction of 0.1 kWh/ inspires us to keep pushing and challenging to integrate CSR across the value chain. Good purchasing renewable power certificates1. hl since 2012. This means that our total energy ourselves to achieve even greater reductions. 2013 results reflect the fact that employees In 2013, our CO2 emissions per hectolitre of product produced were 7.1 kg CO2 /hl, thereby reducing our emissions by a further 2.7% since ENERGY 2012 and achieving our target of 7.1 kg CO2/hl. Relative energy consumption Relative CO 2 emissions Thermal energy mix Overall, we have reduced emissions by 26.8% kWh/hl kg CO 2 /hl since the beginning of our target period in 2011. 35 2016 target: 10 2016 target: In 2013, 3.7% of our thermal energy came 30 5-10% reduction 5-10% reduction from renewable sources such as biogas capin relative energy 8 in relative CO2 25 consumption2 emissions2 tured from wastewater treatment and bio6 mass. 13 of our breweries now capture biogas 20 Thermal energy from wastewater treatment operations. 15 Electricity 4 10 To increase our share of renewable energy 5 2 Natural gas Coal District heating originating from by-products, we continued 71.8% 11.0% 7.2% feasibility studies on the use of by-products 0 0 20 20 2 Heavy fuel oil Renewable Light fuel oil as an energy source. 27 studies were carried 10 11 12 13 13 20 20 20 20 10 3 11 3 20 1 20 4.4% energy 1.2% out, from which we will select three brewer3.7% Other ies to roll out pilot projects in 2014. 2 Allowing for adjustments of 2013 baseline when relevant. 3 CO 2 emissions restated due to changes in methodology. 0.7% 1 Documented by Guarantees of Origin certificates. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 10 The main contributor to our CO2 reductions has been the purchase of renewable power certificates, which offset emissions generated by the use of CO2 -intensive energy We are proud to announce sound results for sources. We have bought a total of 372,800 energy consumption and CO2 emissions. MWh, corresponding to our electricity use in Western Europe. PETER ERNSTING SVP, Group Supply Chain We have reinforced our performance and optimised logistics networks and systems. For example, we continued the implementaENERGY AND EMISSIONS tion of our global route planning tool, which is helping us to further improve the efficiency 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements of our deliveries and thereby reduce fuel con1 Define new utility and environmental strategy at brewery level Total energy consumption: 29 kWh/hl Target achieved Total energy consumption: 28 kWh/hl sumption per kilometre driven and product (-13.3% vs 2010) delivered as well as reduce CO2 emissions. Continue to improve utility efficiency globally CO 2 emissions: New Efficient Brewery Programme developed. by partnering with external companies 7.1 kg CO 2 /hl To be implemented in 2014-2016 In 2013, four countries implemented the route planning tool, bringing the total number of Pilot new utility management software Target achieved countries to have implemented the tool since at 2-3 breweries Total CO2 emissions: 7.1 kg CO2 /hl (-26.8% vs 2010) 2012 to eight. We also focused on driver Partnerships initiated with selected suppliers in the UK, training to improve fuel consumption in distriRussia and Estonia bution. Finally, we developed environmental Plan revised to prioritise alignment with other IT projects guidelines for warehouses in Western Europe that will be introduced in 2014. 2 Initiate Group project to explore renewable energy opportunities Renewable energy part of new Efficient Brewery Programme THE ENERGY CHALLENGE 3 Continue pilot tests with renewable energy generation from by-products Feasibility tests conducted at 27 breweries The purchase of renewable power certificates has been the main contributing factor 4 Implement route planning tool in Western Europe as part of the roll-out of the business standardisation project Route planning tool implemented in 4 European markets in meeting our emission targets. However, we will continue our efforts to replace fossil 5 Continue driver training programme in Western Europe and monitor implementation status Establish a 5-year plan in Western Europe to ensure training for all drivers Target partially achieved Driver training conducted in all Western European fuel energy sources. countries throughout 2013 Roll out monitoring tool in 3 countries Roll out monitoring tool in countries with direct We recognise that a shift from highto lowdistribution to stores Tool implemented in 2 additional countries carbon energy sources remains a challenge for us given our increasing volumes in emerg6 Develop and implement environmental guidelines for warehouses Guidelines developed in 2013; roll-out scheduled for 2014 ing markets that use CO2-intensive sources. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 11 reduced their relative water consumption. and local government, we aim to deliver enviIn Western Europe, performance was 23 out ronmental benefits for Russian society through Water of 30 breweries. At the same time, consumprestoration of ecosystems, improved environtion increased at 26 sites, and the procedures mental management and waste management, and systems of these sites will be investigatwhile at the same time reducing the environed in order to determine the root cause and mental impact of producing beer at Baltika initiate corrective measures if necessary. Breweries. In 2013, leading international experts conducted on-site assessments to define and MANAGING WATER SCARCITY plan the projects to be rolled out from 2014. Building on our water risk assessment from 2011, we conducted a new water risk analysis, Furthermore, we entered as a corporate partner focusing in particular on our Asian business. in the public-private partnership W ​ ater Benefits We found that supply and regulatory water Partners. The aim of the partnership is to deWater is essential for producing beer and en­ With a consolidated figure of 3.3 hl/hl, we had risks have to be addressed and that focus on velop a financial mechanism that can support abling future growth. Water is also an increasa flat 2013 performance. We reduced our water watersheds has to be prioritised going forward. water-saving projects in areas facing water scaringly scarce resource. We are constantly explorconsumption by 5.7% (0.2 hl/hl) since the city. We entered into the partnership to learn ing new ways to reduce water consumption beginning of our target period in 2011, but we PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS from industry peers and share best practices. and enable sustainable use of water. did not reach our target of 3.2 hl/hl for 2013. In late 2012, we signed a partnership agreeWe also intend to add an industry perspective This result is not satisfying. In the future, we ment with UNIDO. Together with civil society to the development of a new water scheme. We integrate water-saving projects at will pay special attention to strengthening the our production sites while imposing strict water-saving culture at our breweries. Group requirements to ensure compliance with the necessary standards for waste­ In 2013, nine out of 17 breweries in Eastern WATER water treatment. Europe and 13 out of 24 breweries in Asia 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements 1 Continue water efficiency projects across the Group Water consumption: 3.2 hl/hl Target partially achieved Total water consumption: WATER 3.3 hl/hl (-5.7% vs 2010) Water sources Relative water consumption 2 Conduct new water risk assessment according to Beverage Long-term strategic approach to water risk management to Target partially achieved BIER principles for water source managehl/hl Industry Environmental Roundbe in place ment applied in our CSR reporting system table (BIER)2 principles 4 Detailed water risk assessment Municipal water 2016 target: for Asia also conducted 50% 3.5 5-10% reduction Own boreholes 3 in relative water Take part in public-private New technologies to reuse Target achieved 43% consumption1 partnership relating to water water inside and outside our Explored new technologies for reusing 2.5 Surface water management breweries to be explored water at selected breweries 2 7% 1.5 Entered into public-private partnership Water Benefits Partners 1 0 3 Further develop partnership in Russia with UNIDO Key projects of the UNIDO partnership formalised 10 11 12 13 20 20 20 20 1 Allowing for adjustments of 2013 baseline when relevant. 2 www.bieroundtable.com Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 12 Primary and secondary packaging account Furthermore, we followed up on the weight for approximately 45% of our total CO2 benchmark we conducted in 2012 by assessSustainable emissions, making it an area where potening the weight reduction potential of our tially we can have a substantial, positive primary packaging. We also launched a new impact on the climate and environment. project to increase the return rates for refillpackaging Sustainable packaging is the second of our able glass bottles and reduce the weight of three CSR key initiatives. We have instigated all primary glass packaging. this initiative because we want to build up our resilience and prepare for future growth CARLSBERG CIRCULAR COMMUNITY in a business environment that is facing an An important part of the Cradle-to-Cradle® increase in the scarcity of natural resources. project is the development of the Carlsberg We are aiming to develop solutions that Circular Community, which is made up of benefit not only our business, but also the partnerships between the Carlsberg Group environment and society. and selected suppliers. We have used the Cradle to Cradle® Design Framework, creDuring 2013, we conducted assessments ated by Professor Michael Braungart and Mr. using our instant life cycle assessment (LCA) William McDonough with their companies tool, engaged consumers and customers in EPEA Internationale Umweltforschung GmbH recycling initiatives and created a roadmap and MBDC, LLC, to develop a C2C roadmap for integrating the Cradle-to-Cradle®1 (C2C) outlining the materials and packaging types design perspective in our packaging portfolio. we want to further analyse and innovate. Our Part of this work involved commencing C2C joint aim is to create more sustainable prodassessments of selected packaging materiucts by optimising our packaging portfolio to als in order to further assess their reusability re-enter either the technical or biological cyand recyclability. cles at the same or higher quality and value. SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING REDUCE Reduce weight or change to packaging with lower environmental impact. Increase reuse of packaging materials, HI RET NK with the main focus on glass bottles. REUSE SUSTAINABLE Encourage c onsumers to recycle packagPACKAGING ing and increase the amount of recycled content in new packaging. REC YCLE Rethink packaging and waste, for ­example recycling of packaging ­materials by channelling the ­material into other products. 1 Cradle-to-Cradle® and C2C® are registered trademarks of McDonough Braungart Design Chemistry LLC. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 13 We want to build up our resilience and prepare for future growth in a business environment that is facing an increase in the scarcity of natural resources. JØRGEN BUHL RASMUSSEN President & CEO We also conducted consumer engagement cooperate with retailers and competitors to approach to and opinion on recycling, while at initiatives in nine Group markets, both at fesretrieve packaging, thereby converting the the same time they increase their knowledge tivals and in cooperation with our customers. material from waste to value. Through the about the value and importance of recycling Four of these markets carried out initiatives consumer engagement activities, we receive and responsible use of natural resources. through industry partnerships, where we valuable feedback from consumers about their PACKAGING MIX SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements 1 Identify weight reduction targets for primary packaging Develop 3-year targets (2014-2016) across Target achieved 2016 targets for sustainable programme initiatives packaging developed 2 Conduct Cradle-to-Cradle® analysis to identify potential Cradle-to-Cradle® roadmap developed and specific products for C2C-certified products in the and initiatives integrated into 2014 Carlsberg Group commitments 3 Create consumer engagement communication around recycling Consumer engagement campaigns conducted at 9 Group companies (26%) 4 Develop a sustainable packaging idea catalogue and distribute it Sustainable packaging idea cat­ alogue launched and distributed internally  GB R Cans PET NRGB 29.1% 26.7% 25.7% 8.1% Kegs RPET Bulk Other 7.1% 1.5% 1.2% 0.6% Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 14 ENERGY, EMISSIONS AND WATER 2016 – continued 1 2014 commitments Efficient brewery 2016 targets reductions and focus Utility Leadership • Introduce ISO 50001 energy management on contributions system (EnMS) • Launch new total water management (TWM) concept Technology Pioneer • Continue to develop supplier Energy consumption partnerships to improve 5-10% reduction in relative energy consumption1 and innovate efficient technologies • Design resource-efficient and sustainable CO2 emissions We have defined new three-year targets We will also begin implementing two new flagship brewery plant 5-10% reduction in relative CO2 emissions1 (2014-2016) that encourage us to continue programmes to improve the environmental Future Resources Water consumption our ambitious efforts and find smarter, more impact of our production and logistics. • Continue water source protection 5-10% reduction in relative water consumption1 innovative ways of managing and developing • Explore further purchase of renewable energy our business. We will continue to focus on Among other things, the Efficient Brewery certificates • Achieve 1% improvement in renewable energy areas where we have the greatest impact on Programme will initiate activities that will consumption the climate and environment: reducing enhelp us achieve our 2016 efficiency targets. ergy and water consumption and CO2 emisThe Efficient Brewery Programme consists Waste to Energy • Evaluate relevant breweries (>400,000 hl capacity) sions at production sites and continue our of four initiatives: on feasibility of biogas production focus on developing sustainable packaging. • Initiate 1 Waste to Energy pilot in each 1. Utility Leadership of our 3 regions Our aim is to further reduce our environmental impact throughout the value chain Continue to improve the energy and water efficiency of our brewery sites and reduce 2 Sustainable logistics Continue route planning/telematics implementation while at the same time developing solutions our CO2 emissions. Continue eco-driver training 2016 targets to be developed during 2014 that enable us to contribute positively to the environment and society. Furthermore, we 2. Technology Pioneer Implement environmental guidelines for warehousing will focus on the implementation of our environmental standards at new majority-owned Develop resource-efficient technologies. 3 Water Continue focusing on water risk mitigation production sites in Asia. 3. Future Resources Ensure a sustainable supply of energy and In 2014, we will roll out the first projects under water sources. our UNIDO partnership. A main project will be the construction of a field research station 4. Waste to Energy to study the impact of barley cultivation and Use brewery by-products as energy sources. 1 Allowing for adjustments of 2013 baseline when relevant. train farmers to reduce land degradation. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 15 Our aim is to further reduce our environmental impact throughout the value chain while developing solutions that enable us to contribute positively to the environment and society. PETER ERNSTING SVP, Group Supply Chain The second programme is the Sustainable Logistics Programme. Here, we will also SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING implement four initiatives: 2014 commitments 2016 targets 1. Fleet Performance Improve environmental performance of our 1 Sustainable packaging Cradle-to-Cradle® (C2C) roadmap own fleets. • Launch Carlsberg Circular Community Have 15 suppliers in the Carlsberg Circular and onboard at least 3 additional suppliers Community working actively to create C2C solutions in the Community 2. Logistics Excellence • Conduct C2C assessments of at least 3 products Build a greener logistics culture and drive pro• Obtain 1 C2C product certification Obtain 3 C2C product certifications cesses to improve environmental behaviour. 2 Consumer and customer engagement • Drive consumer awareness on recycling through All Carlsberg Group companies to conduct annual consumer-facing sustainable packaging activity 3. Warehouse Infrastructure campaigns and customer cooperation Create green initiatives in warehouses. 3 Performance improvements • Reduce environmental impact of packaging Improve return rate in markets where returnable glass bottles are part of the long-term packaging by collecting more refillable glass bottles strategy 4. Collaboration and Partnerships and reducing the weight of our packaging Work with customers, other FMCGs and • Develop transparency of RGB return systems and current action plans by market Optimise glass packaging weight through internal third-party logistics providers to create opand external benchmarking • Develop overview of best practice to help local portunities. markets achieve return rate improvements The most important activity within the 4 Innovations and life cycle assessments • Upgrade and launch a new version of the Assess all new products using the instant LCA tool and include C2C analysis in assessments Sustainable Packaging Programme will be to instant LCA tool and include liquids incorporate more partners into the Carlsberg Circular Community platform to increase the scale and scope of solutions. Furthermore, we will develop a water action plan for Asia to mitigate our water risks and engage in the New Visions for Agriculture Programme led by the World Economic Forum. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 16 Cooperating to engage tomorrow’s consumers Sustainability is a collective issue that Going forward, we will use social media needs to be addressed by multiple to communicate innovative and sustainstakeholders in society. able solutions that inspire consumers to live more sustainable lives. In 2013, the Carlsberg Group participated in two cross-industry projects. Our aim Learn more about the Sustainable was to find ways of engaging with Lifestyles Frontier Group: consumers and industry peers on global sustainability challenges. www.bsr.org/en/our-work/workinggroups/sustainable-lifestyles-frontier The projects were led by BSR (Business for Social Responsibility – Sustainable www.business-case-builder.com Lifestyles Frontier Group) and WEF (World Economic Forum – Engaging Learn more about the World Tomorrow’s Consumers). Economic Forum: Together with industry partners we www.weforum.org/issues/sustainableentered into these engagement projects consumption to promote sustainable lifestyles and identify the drivers that instigate change and enable businesses to explore sustainable business models. Continuous focus on efficiency in China Breweries in Western Europe introduce environmentally friendly vehicles Our Chinese breweries continue to Water consumption is also a focal A number of Carlsberg Group companies with a greener profile consists of one truck reduce total energy consumption point in Asia. Since 2012, three of in Western Europe have implemented inirunning on liquid methane gas and two year on year. our Chinese breweries (Korle Brewtiatives to reduce the environmental impact trucks using both electricity and diesel to ery, Akesu Brewery and Carlsberg of our logistics operations. power their hybrid engines. In 2013, Ningxia Xixia Jianiang BrewBrewery Guangdong) have improved ery reduced total energy consumpwater efficiency by more than Our Swiss company, Feldschlösschen, has Carlsberg Danmark has introduced new tion by 9% on 2012. 10% by setting ambitious targets, pioneered the world’s first 18-tonne electric hybrid cars in urban areas of Copenhagen. improving equipment efficiency and truck, the E-FORCE truck. With this truck, The cars are optimised for driving in cities This was achieved by optimising the reusing water. Feldschlösschen is able to offer CO2-neutral and towns; the electrical engine serves as a brewery operation in general and deliveries to customers. The truck can run generator and recharges the battery when improving the efficiency of the equipAccess to clean, stable and adequate up to 300 km on one six-hour battery the brakes are used, thereby reducing fuel ment used at the brewery. Furtherwater supplies is another focus charge, and the average energy consumpconsumption and CO2 emissions. Five hymore, the site focused on preventive area for our production in Asia. We tion is 100 kWh per 100 km on highways. brid cars have already been purchased and maintenance, which reduced unexconducted a high-level water risk seven more will be purchased in 2014. pected production stops, positively assessment covering all the regions The truck’s battery is charged using hydroimpacting brewery performance. in Asia where we operate brewerelectricity. “This vehicle’s high payload fits Together with Carlsberg Supply Comies. The assessment covers both a the needs of Feldschlösschen’s customers. pany (CSC), Carlsberg Danmark has The same approaches have been shortand longer-term perspective We’re proud to serve our customers in an also introduced 31 new, environmentally applied at Dali Brewery and Guangon the future water supply in Asia. efficient, quiet and CO2-neutral way,” says friendlier diesel trucks to its fleet. The dong Brewery. Both breweries demIn the coming years, we will address Thomas Amstutz, CEO of Feldschlösschen. trucks demonstrate the latest innovations onstrated similar rates of improvethe findings from the assessment to within environmentally friendly transportament in total energy consumption ensure that we have access to susCarlsberg Sverige has engaged in the tion and all meet the Euro 6 environmental from 2012 to 2013. tainable and stable water supplies CleanTruck project to increase low-carbon standard. Kaj Nielsen, National Distribution wherever we operate. transportation across Sweden. Carlsberg Manager, Carlsberg Danmark, says: “These Sverige invested in three trucks running on are the most sustainable diesel trucks you alternative fuels. The portfolio of trucks can drive these days.” Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Environment 17 We are committed to improving our environmental and social footprint. We implement necessary actions to understand, monitor and improve the social and environmental aspects of our sourcing, thereby protecting our reputation as a responsible brewer while increasing demand for sustainable sourcing solutions in the global marketplace. In close cooperation with suppliers and industo gain insights into their operations and try partners, we seek to identify solutions to identify how they work with CSR-related RESPONSIBLE SOURCING improve the ethical, social and environmental risks. Suppliers were audited by third-party performance of our supply chain. auditing companies on issues related to envi2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements ronment, business practices, health & safety 2013 – SUPPLIER INSIGHTS and labour rights. The audits demonstrated 1 Finalise pilot programme including 15 Group suppliers for Evaluate findings from Responsible Supplier Initiative pilot and Target achieved Findings from pilot programme AND LEARNINGS no critical non-compliance issues. Responsible Supplier Initiative decide on next steps evaluated and integrated into the roadmap for the next 3 years Based on learnings from previous years, we have evaluated our strategy and approach A number of minor non-compliances with Update the Supplier and Licensee SLCC updated. To be distributed to responsible sourcing and developed a our Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct Code of Conduct (SLCC) among suppliers in 2014 roadmap for future initiatives under our were identified and resolved. This resulted in new Responsible Sourcing Programme. improvements in safety and environmental The programme is designed to help us imissues at supplier sites. Some non-compliance prove our knowledge of social, ethical and issues are still being monitored and closely environmental issues in our supply chain, tracked. In the next three years, we will exmonitor compliance with our Supplier and pand the scope of this programme, including Licensee Code of Conduct and improve the more suppliers and focusing in particular on CSR standards of our suppliers. conducting audits in our Asian supplier base. In 2013, we conducted a programme invitThe Sedex platform, Suppliers Ethical Data ing key suppliers to participate in an audit Exchange (www.sedexglobal.com), continued Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible sourcing 18 starting point for cooperation with suppliers, 3. Sustainable Packaging and we include it in all contracts. The Code of Reduce the environmental impact of our Conduct is aligned with our CSR pol­icies on packaging. See plans and targets on page 13. We seek to identify Labour and Human Rights, Health & Safety, solutions to improve Environment and Business Ethics. During 2014, we will primarily focus on onboarding suppliers in the Responsible Supplier the ethical, social We continued our engagement in AIMInitiative to further strengthen our insights and environmental Progress (www.aim-progress.com), an and cooperation with suppliers and thereby performance of our industry forum for fast moving consumer improve our supply chain CSR performance. supply chain. goods (FMCG) companies and their suppliers, to secure global alignment and impleWe aim to onboard suppliers with the highBENGT ERLANDSSON ment the standards in our Code of Conduct. est spend in order to achieve the widest and SVP, Group Procurement most substantial impact. We will specifically Through this forum, we work closely with focus audits on our Asian supplier base as other FMCG companies to share knowledge, maturity levels need to improve in this region. define CSR standards and promote industry cooperation. 2016 – HIGH STANDARDS AND COMPLIANCE We will continue our journey towards imto be a valuable instrument for enabling us to plementing ethical and responsible sourcing share information with our suppliers regarding practices across the Carlsberg Group. RESPONSIBLE SOURCING their CSR performance. It is an effective and transparent tool that allows us to close nonThis will protect our reputation as well as 2014 commitments compliance incidents and gather learnings our licence to operate and grow. Through along the way. to 2016, our new Responsible Sourcing 1 Responsible Supplier Initiative • Close non-compliance incidents according to findings from pilot in 2013 Programme will be delivered based on three • Continue to onboard suppliers in the Responsible Sourcing Programme • Conduct on-site audits of key suppliers in Asia QUALITY AUDITS major initiatives. • Continue to monitor and ensure corrective actions are implemented by suppliers Each year, we conduct quality audits of selected suppliers. The supplier quality audits 1. Responsible Supplier Initiative also include CSR questions. In 2013, we Define CSR standards for key categories revised these CSR questions to better align and continuously monitor compliance the content with the CSR audits. In total, we and cooperate with suppliers to improve carried out 142 quality audits: 66 in Western perform­ance. Europe, 57 in Eastern Europe and 19 in Asia. 2. Buying Better Barley SUPPLIER AND LICENSEE Promote sustainability through sourcing CODE OF CONDUCT and processing of barley and other starchWe have updated our Supplier and Licensee containing raw materials and cooperation Code of Conduct to meet internal and exterwith farmers in our agricultural projects. nal expectations. The Code of Conduct is our Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible sourcing 19 Assessing suppliers in Malaysia The social and environmental The assessment covered: child standards we set when purchasing labour, forced labour, discrimination, supplies affect the social and enfreedom of association, health & vironmental footprint of our busisafety, working conditions, the enviness. At the same time, we protect ronment and CSR management. our reputation and maintain our licence to operate. GAINING KNOWLEDGE AND BUILDING TRUST Initiated by the Royal Danish Carlsberg Malaysia obtained a Embassy of Malaysia, Carlsberg greater understanding of its supMalaysia assessed four suppliers pliers’ performance and compliduring the summer of 2013, taking ance with our Supplier Licensee an important step in addressing Code of Conduct. They also got unethical sourcing and ensuring to know the suppliers better and lean manufacturing and quality took the first step in building a practices of suppliers in line with closer working relationship. industry standards. Make the difference for your city, says Baltika Baltika Breweries has implemented glass bottle collection systems in 11 cities across Russia. Baltika aims to improve the recycling rate of its bottles, and also to help introduce a waste collection system in Russia. In 2013, a memorandum of understanding between Baltika Breweries and the Danish Ministry of the Environment was signed by Ida Auken, former Danish Minister for the EnvironStriving for a world without waste ment, and Dr Isaac Sheps, President of Baltika Breweries and SVP, Eastern Europe, Carlsberg Group. For years Carlsberg UK has been a “Carlsberg UK has been a valuable The Danish ministry will transfer knowledge and know-how proactive partner within WRAP, the and proactive partner across the about water and recycling to contribute to improving the RusUK government’s Waste Reduction years, demonstrating their readisian waste management system. Action Plan. Following a successful ness to reduce waste,” says Richard light weighing programme for bottles Swannell, Director, WRAP. “The issue of separate waste collection and recycling is very in 2011, Carlsberg UK focused on rerelevant for Russia, as well as the rest of the world. Russia ducing the weight of cans during 2013. AWARD-WINNING COMPANY urgently needs to agree a national policy as regards returnable Carlsberg UK is currently the benchcontainer collection. Baltika calls on society and business not Colin Stewart, Packaging Developmark for best practice in many areas, to ignore ecological initiatives, which will help to preserve the ment Manager, says: “We managed and in 2013 it was once again the beauty of Russian natural resources,” says Dr Sheps. to reduce the gauge on our 440 and recipient of the Green Apple Gold 500 ml cans from 0.255 to 0.250 Award from the Green Organisation, Baltika also invited relevant regional and federal experts and mm. That may not sound like much an independent environmental group. authorities to join the project to identify criteria for the most but, when applied across the 690m successful glass collection scheme. cans we use every year, it has a major impact. Going forward, we’re Baltika shared results from the 2013 project with all stakeholders working with our suppliers to trial an in order to help establish a state approach to production and even greater reduction to 0.245 mm.” consumption waste management. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible sourcing 20 These principles are the starting point for local activities and awareness campaigns, our global commitments with industry peers and marketing campaigns within We believe that our the Carlsberg Group. proactive measures to Marketing encourage consumers 2013 – DEFINING DIRECTION AND AMBITION to drink responsibly communication In the past few years, we have developed and our enforcement of a responsible drinking action plan that is responsible marketing both global and local. On the one hand, we practices are contributing have engaged with global industry partners and public and private health authorities to to public health. define positive standards when it comes to KHALIL YOUNES Every day, beer is enjoyed by millions of people worldwide. Beer consumption of alcoholic beverages as we SVP, Group Sales, Marketing & Innovation consumed responsibly is compatible with a healthy and active lifestyle believe we share a common responsibility to reduce the risks of harmful consumption. On for most adults. However, we are conscious that most beer contains the other hand, we have instigated activities (www.icap.org). This non-profit organisation alcohol and that overconsumption has severe and harmful effects. that maximise our positive contribution to is supported by major international alcohol the local societies in which we operate. producers. We strive to grow our business promoting the Overconsumption of alcohol can have Throughout 2013, we have developed a ReICAP’s mission is to reduce harmful drinking responsible enjoyment of beer and are workserious consequences. sponsible Drinking Policy and accompanying and encourage dialogue and partnerships ing together with public and private stakeguidelines as well as reviewing our existing with key global stakeholders to solve the holders to reduce harmful consumption and 2. Prevent underage drinking Marketing Communication Policy (MCP) to encomplex health problems and cultural issues related health risks. Only people of the legal drinking age or sure that our internal rules and self-regulation associated with harmful drinking. above should drink alcohol. Legislation on support our ambition and efforts for future We believe that our proactive measures to enselling alcohol to minors should be enforced. growth in the responsible enjoyment of beer. European Beer Pledge courage consumers to drink responsibly and our Together with more than 3,000 breweries, enforcement of responsible marketing practices 3. Prevent drinking and driving Our 2013 performance shows that our packwe have continued our efforts to improve are contributing to public health and reducing If you drink, don’t drive. We want to help aging carries health messages to consumers consumer information and ensure responsible harmful drinking. In this way, we aim to creprevent consumers driving under the influon 80% of the volume produced. We are advertising under the European Beer Pledge. ate value for society while enabling long-term ence of alcohol. progressing well towards our commitment Among other things, we have agreed a set of sustainable growth for the Carlsberg Group. to have health messages on all packaging. brewers’ guidelines for responsible marketing 4. Discourage drinking during pregnancy The messages remind consumers about the communication practices in social media. Our proactive approach to promoting responWe recommend that pregnant women risks to their health of excessive or inapprosible drinking and reducing harmful conshould avoid consuming alcohol. priate drinking. GLOBAL ACTIONS: COMMITMENT sumption builds on the following principles: TO REDUCE HARMFUL DRINKING 5. Responsible marketing GLOBAL PARTNERSHIPS In 2013, we progressed on implementing the 1. Encourage responsible consumption We have set ambitious self-regulating AND COMMITMENTS global Commitments to reduce harmful drinkDo not drink more than the weekly amounts standards for how we communicate with We continued our sponsorship of the Intering that we signed with 12 other producers in recommended by public health officials. our consumers. national Centre for Alcohol Policies (ICAP) late 2012. We strengthened and expanded our Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible drinking 21 Responsible Marketing Pact in 2012. Through is essentially about: having a good time MARKETING COMMUNICATION this partnership, we have cooperated with while respecting yourself, the people you are Based on the findings of an internal audit international experts, the EU and national with, the moments you share and the good report, we elevated Marketing Communica“Drink with Respect” means authorities to ensure that the rigorous selfmemories you take with you. tion Policy compliance responsibilities from having a good time while regulated marketing communication standlocal marketing management to local CEO ards that we have established under the pact Carlsberg Polska has been a member of a level across the Carlsberg Group in order to respecting yourself, the are implemented effectively. responsible drinking campaign in Poland for further strengthen implementation of our people you are with, the 10 years. In 2013, a campaign focusing on guidelines and make sure we live up to our moments you share and the LOCAL ENGAGEMENT the issue of underage drinking, “Appearances commitments and targets. good memories you take Responsible drinking activities were carried can be deceptive, ID is not”, received internaout in 69% of our companies in 2013. tional recognition from the jury of Creative 2016 – STRONG INTERNAL AWARENESS with you. for Good, an international initiative involving AND MASSIVE CONSUMER ACTIVATION MORTEN NIELSEN For example, the Drink with Respect camleading US social campaigners. Our three-year targets reflect our commitDirector, Group CSR paign was launched by the Tuborg brand at ment to grow responsibly. As a responsible the highly popular Roskilde Festival in DenThe campaign was run by the Union of Polbusiness and brewer, we are determined to mark in July 2013. The Drink with Respect ish Breweries, of which Carlsberg Polska is contribute to positive standards of behaviour strapline reflects what responsible drinking a member, as well as the Polish police. in connection with the consumption of beer. self-regulatory policies and guidelines in order to advance our joint efforts to reduce harmful MARKETING COMMUNICATION drinking. An industry progress report has been developed and audited by an independent 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements third-party assurer. 1 Further develop internal guidelines for communicating our responsible drinking New 3-year targets to be developed Target achieved Policy, guidelines and targets defined and The report will be published on the Commitcommitments communicated across the Group ments website (commitments.global-actions. org). 2 Develop guidelines to prevent minors from inadvertently viewing alcohol beverage marketing Present first progress report on implementation and compliance with agreed common standards with industry partners Target partially achieved Digital guidelines developed with industry partners communications on social media and draft reports in development. Publication delayed to first half of 2014 due to unforeseen We target our actions under five key areas: challenges with the methodology • Reducing underage drinking • Strengthening and expanding marketing 3 Upgrade e-learning programme Zero incidents of non-compliance with Marketing Communication Policy (MCP) Targets partially achieved codes of practice 100% of employees developing marketing 68% of employees trained • Providing consumer information and communications to be trained responsible product innovation 100% awareness of MCP among employees involved 68% awareness of MCP achieved • Reducing drinking and driving in developing consumerand customer-facing materials • Enlisting the support of retailers to reduce harmful drinking 100% of companies to include MCP in agency agreements 70% of companies now include MCP in agency contracts 100% of companies to have procedures in place to ensure World Federation of Advertisers’ compliance 78% of companies now have procedures in place Responsible Marketing Pact Together with seven other wine, spirits and beer producers, we established the Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible drinking 22 For us, the responsible drinking initiatives and Marketing Communication Policy are RESPONSIBLE DRINKING AND MARKETING COMMUNICATION EMPLOYEES not reactive measures but proactive levers Employees trained through the marketing to enable long-term growth and create value 2014 commitments 2016 targets communication e-learning tool both for the Carlsberg Group and for the societies in which we operate. 1 Encourage responsible drinking Implement moderation lines in our marketing All print communication above A4 and digital and TVC to carry responsible drinking messages 300 communication for our global brands (all print above A4 and digital communication) 250 Our ambition is for all parties involved with 200 developing marketing materials to comply Carry out responsible drinking programmes All companies3 to implement at least 1 responsible with our internal guidelines, whether they be in 90% of our companies3 (compared to 69% drinking programme 150 in 2013) Carlsberg employees or third-party agencies. 100 2 Provide consumer and customer information and choice 100% of primary or secondary packaging to carry health warnings to discourage harmful drinking, 0 We are aiming to activate and engage with Expand use4 of responsible drinking messages such as millions of consumers and customers over 11 12 13 and/or standardised symbols or communication • Drinking and driving 20 20 20 the next three years and to continuously to warn about irresponsible drinking: drinking • Consumption by underage persons and driving, underage drinking and drinking • Consumption by pregnant women expand our global partnerships to promote during pregnancy responsible drinking as part of a healthy, Avoid producing alcoholic products with excessive active lifestyle. amounts of added stimulants (caffeine, taurine etc.) INCIDENTS Avoid promoting the energising or stimulant effects of In 2014, we will take further actions to deliver additives to alcoholic products Reported non-compliance incidents on our external commitments to reduce harmful use of alcohol. This includes training all 3 Prevent harmful drinking Initiate development of responsible retail guidelines Launch responsible retail guidelines 8 key1 employees in the Responsible Drinking Policy, thereby increasing our capabilities to be 4 Comply with Marketing Communication Policy (MCP) 100% of companies to have a procedure for ensuring compliance with MCP 6 part of the solution to reducing alcohol harm. • Update training materials, track execution 4 and follow up on non-compliance incidents We will be reinstating quarterly MCP training • 100% of companies to have procedures in place 100% of companies to include MCP in agency 2 for all relevant2 employees. Local CEOs responto ensure compliance with MCP in Western Europe agreements sible for MCP compliance will receive quarterly • 100% of companies to include MCP in agency agreements in Western Europe 100% of relevant employees to be trained 0 updates on training coverage and inclusion of 11 12 13 MCP in agency contracts, enabling immediate 3 Markets where we have majority-owned breweries. 4 Compared to 2013 benchmark. 20 20 20 local action in the event of compliance issues. Our aim is to motivate and strive for zero compliance breaches of the MCP guidelines in 2016. In 2014, we will focus our efforts on Western Europe and identify best practices 1  ey employees are defined as senior management levels in the global sales and marketing functions and senior manK to share with our Eastern European (2015) agers in regions and local markets. and Asian (2016) markets. 2 Relevant employees are defined as those involved in developing consumerand customer-facing materials. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible drinking 23 Carlsberg Polska: Appearances can be deceptive, ID is not. Carlsberg Italia supports tour Part of our effort to promote responsible drinking involves to prevent drunk driving the prevention of underage drinking If you drink, don’t drive. This advice is one In June 2013, the Carlsberg invested in the “Appearances Mainly aimed at alcohol venof the principles of our responsible drinking Polska campaign “Appear­ can be deceptive, ID is not” dors and parents of teenagers, initiatives. ances can be deceptive, ID is campaign run by the Union the campaign has won the not” was recognised as the of Polish Breweries. active commitment of Polish It was also the clear and direct message of most interesting and effective self-governments, schools and the Italian Brewers Association’s Alternative international social campaign The campaign strives to non-profit organisations. Movida campaign carried out during the in the world by the jury of activate local communities summer 2013. Creative for Good, an internaacross Poland to build a tional initiative involving leadstrong social front against A task force toured the main cities and ing US social campaigners. the sale of alcohol to minors summer holiday resorts of Italy with a and a coalition to limit this portable showroom. Inside, the public could LONG-STANDING EFFORT demographic group’s access experience the negative effects of drinking in Carlsberg Polska has been acto alcohol. relation to driving. Among other things, they tively involved in responsible experienced how drinking: drinking campaigns for 10 The Polish police headquar• Affects the vision and slows down years and since 2009 has ters is also an active partner. reaction time. • Affects the ability to correctly estimate the distance and speed of other vehicles. • Leads to overestimation of driving abilities. “Drink with respect,” See how difficult it becomes to fit a pen into a container or hit a target with a ball close up: says Tuborg www.youtube.com/watch?v=NMCacEs4hp8 Responsible marketing brings credibility to the beer category and enables the Carlsberg Group to create and maintain Carlsberg Kazakhstan combats underage drinking a sustainable market for our products. In June 2013, Carlsberg Kazakhstan PARTNERSHIP TO STRENGTHEN 135,000 people gathered at the 2013 organised Beer Watch, a responsible COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW annual Roskilde Festival in Denmark. drinking campaign to prevent the sale Carlsberg Kazakhstan organised This made the perfect setting to launch of beer to underage people. Beer Watch for the fourth time and Tuborg’s responsible drinking campaign, expanded it to cover 21 cities across Drink with Respect. The campaign is supported by the the country. In the capital of Almaty, Almaty Mayor’s Office and Youth the participants found that 20 out of The Drink with Respect strapline reflects Policy Development. It is led by repre45 stores were violating the law and what responsible drinking is essentially sentatives of public bodies and youth selling beer to teenagers. about: having a good time while respectorganisations, journalists, well-known ing yourself, the people you are with, the Kazakhstani athletes, pop stars and In the Carlsberg Group, we strive to moments you share and the good memoemployees of Carlsberg Kazakhstan. initiate various local collaborations ries you take with you. The campaign and nationwide campaigns to combat continued at other events such as Green The participants distributed stickers underage drinking. Beer Watch in Concert, a collaboration between Tuborg and information material in vendKazakhstan will continue to support and the Danish Muscular Dystrophy ing locations in cities all over the the long-term efforts of public stakeAssociation; 185,000 people attended country to remind the owners of their holders to strengthen compliance concerts across Denmark. responsibility to comply with the law with the law. banning the sale of beer to individuals under the age of 21. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Responsible drinking 24 We continuously work to build a safe working environment for all our employees and contractors. Every accident is one too many. We strive towards zero accidents by instilling a culture of safety in each and every one of our people. The health and safety of the people who our Health & Safety Policy and guidelines During the last three years, we have achieved contribute to the growth and development become an integrated part of our production a 29.3% decrease in LTAR across the Carlsberg LOST-TIME ACCIDENTS of the Carlsberg Group are absolutely vital to and logistics working environment. Group and we are heading in the right direcBY FUNCTION us. Furthermore, a safe working environment tion with our efforts to improve safety. Howis part of our licence to operate. We have expanded our assurance scope and ever, we are striving to continually improve included selected logistics data in the scope our performance with a view to achieving our Despite our best efforts, accidents still hapfor 2013. targets, not just for 2014 but also beyond. pen. For every one of these, we make sure that we learn lessons and make improveFurthermore, we have initiated the roll-out of Our target for 2013 was to decrease LTAR by ments because the only valuable benchmark health and safety activities in Sales & Market11% compared to 2012. With a 12% decrease, will always be zero accidents. ing and Administration to cover the full scope equivalent to 326 lost-time accidents throughof functions across the Carlsberg Group. out the Group, we achieved this target. 2013 – CONSOLIDATION AND BUILDING BEHAVIOUR LOST-TIME ACCIDENTS AND DAYS LOST LTAR in Production was 10.3%1, a reduction of During the last three years, we have focused The lost-time accident rate (LTAR, num10% compared to 2012, while DLR decreased primarily on our production sites and second­ ber of lost-time accidents per 1,000 FTEs) by 7%. In absolute figures, there were 2,010 arily on our logistics operations as these measures occupational accidents resulting days lost in Production across the Group. areas account for 86% of our accidents. in employees taking a minimum of one day ProducLogistics S  ales & Marketing off work. The days lost rate (DLR, number The progress was due to the fact that LTAR tion 42% and Administration 44% 14% In 2013, we consolidated our procedures and of days lost per 1,000 FTEs) measures the and DLR in Asia and Eastern Europe prooperations to ensure that all requirements of severity of accidents. gressed in line with or beyond expectations. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 1 Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Health & safety 25 In Western Europe, the first quarter of the A cornerstone of our health & safety stratFATALITIES year was challenging. In response, efforts egy is training our leaders to become role were made to reinforce awareness and models in demonstrating visible engagement Company Description Employed by discipline among managers and employees, with health & safety. We have developed Baltika Samara Brewery A warehouse employee crossed into the active path Carlsberg deploying local programmes where necestools to support CSC leaders and keep them and was hit by a forklift sary. The rest of the year was aligned with committed to safety. Baltika Tula Brewery Road accident. A truck driver was hit by another truck Carlsberg or above expectations in this region. Baltika Tyumen Office Road accident. A sales employee driving a car Carlsberg These tools include procedures and guidelines was hit by a truck In Logistics, DLR dropped by 19% from 2012. for what people should do when they visit sites Baltika Krasnoyarsk Brewery Road accident. A car driver was hit by another car Carlsberg In absolute numbers, there were 136 accisuch as breweries, warehouses and depots. dents and 2,087 lost days in Logistics across the Group. Fatalities The accident in Samara in Russia reminded accidents. At Tula Brewery, the procedures for We regret to report that we lost four colus that the safety of our employees is very road crossing were revisited and recommuniCarlsberg Supply Company as a role leagues to work-related accidents in 2013. much dependent on the working culture and cated, and the relevant lanes were optimised model for safety The accidents in question were subjected to mindset that we must continue to implement for pedestrian crossing. With 86.2% of accidents occurring within our crisis management and investigation proto avoid breaches of our safety procedures. supply chain facilities, employees and leadcedures and their circumstances shared across Baltika Breweries launched an online training ers have been given a prominent part to play the Carlsberg Group to help our sites identify The accidents in Tula, Tyumen and Krasprogramme to raise awareness and improve in setting the necessary safety standards. any improvements required in their procedures. noyarsk in Russia were unfortunate road skills among its drivers. Baltika will continue to roll out the programme during 2014. SELF-AUDIT AND RISK ASSESSMENT HEALTH & SAFETY In recent years, we have defined a set of safety priorities based on the findings of risk assess2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements ments carried out in Group companies. In 2013, 1 Continue to implement the overall strategy in Production and Logistics across all regions Production LTAR: 10.9 (-35% vs 2010) Target achieved LTAR: 10.31 (-38% vs 2010) we refrained from this practice to focus on con­solidating the system to ensure sustainable DLR: 142 (-45% vs 2010) DLR: 1421 (-45% vs 2010) improvement and give the local markets an op2 Reinforce a proactive approach to health & safety Safety risk assessments to be conducted in at least 90% of workplaces (Production, Logistics, Target partially achieved Western and Eastern Europe: target achieved portunity to overcome specific local challenges. Sales & Marketing and Administration) Asia: ongoing action to meet target Our cross-audits have significantly contributed 3 Develop cross-audits in all regions All H&S coordinators to perform 1 yearly cross-audit Target partially achieved Total Group: 73% to our overall health & safety progress over the (including 100% in Western Europe) past three years. We have succeeded in involving more managers and employees in the im4 Ensure sites comply with Group Policy requirements 3 Group mandatory requirements to be implemented every year at at least 90% of sites Target partially achieved Western and Eastern Europe: target achieved plementation of the health & safety priorities. Asia: ongoing action to meet target 5 Manage a coordinated approach to implement OHSAS 18001 at Western and Eastern European sites At least 50% of production sites across Western Europe to be OHSAS 18001-certified Target achieved 61% of Western European sites certified In Western Europe, the cross-audits are 100% implemented, meaning that all health & safety coordinators have conducted at least one audit per year in another country since 2011. 1 Within KPMG’s assurance scope. In Asia, 32 audits were carried out across China and a programme of cross-audits between Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Health & safety 26 Lost-time accident Days lost rate Lost-time accident Days lost rate rate in Production in Production rate in Logistics in Logistics During the last three years, Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees Per 1,000 employees we have achieved a 29.3% 20 300 30 600 decrease in our lost-time 15 250 25 500 accident rate across the 200 20 400 Group. 10 150 15 300 100 10 200 PETER ERNSTING 5 SVP, Group Supply Chain 50 5 100 0 0 0 0 10 10 12 20 11 1 20 11 1 10 11 12 13 1 10 11 20 12 1 20 12 1 20 13 1 20 20 13 1 20 20 13 1 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 countries has been established. However, imalso introduce this integrated multi-site certifiplementation in Asia and Eastern Europe has cation process in Eastern Europe and Asia. HEALTH & SAFETY not met the expectation of at least one crossaudit per year per health & safety coordina2016 TARGETS – STRIVING TO JOIN 2014 commitments 2016 targets 1 tor due to turnover of coordinators, different THE BEST IN CLASS Road to zero accidents Group LTAR = 5.4 (-38%)2 • Develop and implement new safety standards Including: levels of maturity and restricted budgets. The Carlsberg Group improved its safety (chemical handling, electrical safety etc.) 5.7 in Production performance from 2010 to 2013 by 41.6%. • Implement a dedicated 3-year plan in Logistics 9.5 in Logistics CERTIFICATION By 2016, we are aiming to further reduce our • Roll out an internal safety communication programme Multi-site OHSAS 18001 certification has been accident rate by 38%. Our aim is to be one of • LTAR in Production: 7.8 achieved in 2013 for sites in France, Switzerthe best FMCG companies in class by 2020. • LTAR in Logistics: 14.8 land, Italy and Russia. This has been an opportunity for us to establish and share comIn 2014, we will maintain and reinforce the 2 Policies and standards Implement the 2nd phase of the coordinated 100% of Western and Eastern European sites to be OSHAS 18001-certified mon standards for all supply chain sites. Our initiatives already in place. Among other certification roll-out Certify 5 additional sites in Western Europe 2013 target was to have at least 50% of our things, we will continue the certification Certify 1 pilot site in Ukraine Western European sites certified. We are proud process in Europe and also implement a new to say that we exceeded this target. A total of three-year logistics plan focusing on People 3 Leadership and organisation Roll out a training programme as part 100% of VPs and directors within Carlsberg Group supply chain sites and facilities to be trained in 14 out of 23 production sites in Western Europe & Behaviour, Process & System, Performof the Carlsberg Supply Chain Academy Health & Safety Academy are now certified, corresponding to 61%. ance Management & Reporting, Technical & Conduct at least 3 training sessions Equipment and Contractors. In 2014, we will continue the pursuit of an Integrated Management System that will A strong safety culture starts at the top. We centralise and standardise the ISO certificawill train operational and functional managers tion process for the most important standards in health & safety excellence. Carlsberg Supply covering environment, health & safety, quality Company (CSC) will implement the training as 2 Versus 2013 performance. and food safety. In the coming years, we will part of the Carlsberg Supply Chain Academy. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 1 Within KPMG’s assurance scope. Health & safety 27 Szczecin and Kasztelan breweries in Poland recognised for safety improvements At Carlsberg, we strive to instil a culThe competition involves two stages: ture of safety in each and every one the regional heats, carried out in 16 of our people. In 2013, Szczecin Brewprovinces across the country, and a ery and Kasztelan Brewery, both part national final where all top-ranked of Carlsberg Polska, were recognised regional finalists compete to be the for their significant safety improvenational champion. ments in a competition organised by the National Labour Authority. Both breweries received a number one ranking as “Employer: Provider of The competition rewards companies Safe Work” in their respective regions. that work proactively to improve safety and occupational hygiene above regulations and standards. Aldaris sets new standards for termination processes Our employees are our single most valuable 150 NEW VACANCIES PREPARING EMPLOYEES FOR NEW CAREERS resource and we aim to maintain high standards The main goal was to provide the affected With an average tenure of 20 years, it was also in respect of providing a fair workplace. In employees with employment opportunities important for Aldaris to prepare the employees September 2013, when our brewery in Aldaris, in other companies. A total of 150 equivalent for new careers outside the company. The Latvia, was undergoing restructuring and had vacancies were offered for the employees to employee support programme focused on to lay off 62 employees, the HR department choose the most suitable one. developing employee skills and capabilities worked together with the local trade union to to help them become more competitive in the find new positions and make the process as Trade union leader Inga Ozola was satisfied with local job market. Carlsberg Ukraine combats corruption constructive as possible for the employees. the outcome: “Although it will be emotionally difficult to say goodbye to colleagues, it’s now in their hands to choose what they’ll do with the We want to be a trusted business Also, a new tool was developed to new job opportunities offered.” partner and employer across the systematically handle third-party markets in which we operate. screening. The Carlsberg Ukraine contract system now contains all To support this ambition and documentation relevant for the maintain ethical business conduct third-party screening, including and compliance with applicable law, questionnaires, forms, contracts and including anti-corruption regulation, anti-bribery clauses, and the system we have introduced a third-party ensures that contracts can be downscreening procedure designed to enloaded only if the third-party screensure that the third parties with which ing steps have been carried out. we engage do not pose a corruption risk to our business and employees. In this way, Carlsberg Ukraine has ensured that the third-party During 2013, Carlsberg Ukraine screening procedure is followed in completed the implementation of the an efficient manner for all contracts third-party screening procedure. With entered into by Carlsberg Ukraine. the support of the Supervisory Board, the legal department completed 11 training sessions in the procedure involving a total of 123 key employees. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Health & safety 28 BUSINESS ETHICS 2011 2012 2013 Number of training sessions held on business ethics 184 184 184 Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 6,653 3,795 5,798 Percentage of companies with mechanisms in place to avoid business ethics incidents 841 832 883 1 32 out of 38 companies. 2 33 out of 40 companies. 3 35 out of 40 companies. Corruption brings additional costs and is a barrier to economic Furthermore, compliance with the Business We have translated the e-learning into three growth, both for the Carlsberg Group and for the societies Ethics Policy is part of all employment conadditional key languages (Mandarin Chinese, tracts in headquarters and has been incorpoVietnamese and Russian), which means the in which we operate. Our Business Ethics Policy gives clear e-learning is now available in eight lan­ rated into employment contracts in approxiguidance to all employees and external parties on our position mately two thirds of local markets. However, guages (the others being English, French, on corruption and other ethical concerns. Through awareness according to an internal audit report conGerman, Polish and Finnish), with Swedish and training, we want to build a strong ethical and antiducted in 2013, there are still improvements planned for Q1 2014. to be made on this point. Integration of corruption culture across the Carlsberg Group. Through our network of in-house legal counthe Business Ethics Policy in employment contracts must reach higher implementation sels, we have conducted a total of 184 training levels, and we will pay special attention to sessions across 29 companies. The network this area going forward. also coordinates activities, shares best pracFighting corruption is an important part of the tices across the Group and increases the level Carlsberg Business Ethics Policy. The policy We want all employees to understand how of awareness in our local market companies. and guidelines, e-learning programme, live to respond to and resolve any ethical dilemtraining, third-party screening procedure and mas they come across. various toolkits are designed to provide clear guidance for our employees on how to reWe aim to empower our people, through edusolve not only corruption issues but also other cation and training, to make the right decisions, business ethics concerns such as conflicts of and we monitor the measures that our compainterest, misuse of company assets, wrongful nies have in place to avoid policy breaches. donations and breaches of confidentiality. Training has been a focal point in our impleWe aim to provide all relevant 2013 – ENGAGEMENT, INTEGRATION, mentation measures, not only in 2013 but employees with sufficient TRAINING AND DUE DILIGENCE throughout the three-year target period that awareness and the necessary We believe top management engagement is a has now come to an end. All key employees cornerstone for achieving high performance in must undergo biennial training. knowledge to ensure that and compliance with ethical standards. This is we develop and grow our why we have integrated the Business Ethics In 2013, 3,765 employees were trained business in an ethically Policy into our Leadership Competencies through our e-learning system. The e-learning responsible way. Programme. Business ethics is now part of the gives employees a thorough knowledge of Carlsberg performance measurement system for the policy and guidelines, and all participants ULRIK ANDERSEN all line managers within the Carlsberg Group. must pass an exam to complete the training. General Counsel, VP, Group Legal & Risk Management Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Business ethics 29 88% of all Carlsberg Group companies now In moving towards zero tolerance, it is cruensuring high levels of compliance with busihave appropriate measures in place to avoid cial for us to help our employees tackle and ness ethics. The roll-out of the compliance business ethics incidents. Another important refuse requests for facilitation payments. management system will commence in 2014. We want to send a strong, step up in integrating business ethics in our On this basis, our training in 2014 will inclear signal to all our business is that 60% of Group companies clude clear guidance to employees on what To support the new compliance managehave implemented our third-party screening to do when confronted with a facilitation ment system and strengthen the impleemployees and partners procedures. payment requirement. mentation of the Business Ethics Policy in that corruption, including general, we have increased our compliance facilitation payments, should WORKING AGAINST BUSINESS ETHICS resources, including a new lawyer in Carlsnever be part of the way FACILITATION PAYMENTS MANAGEMENT SYSTEM berg China headquarters with business ethics Facilitation payments are a risk in some During 2013, we tested a new compliance as a dedicated task. we do business. parts of our operating markets. We have management system with the aim of facilitatbeen continuously striving to eliminate ing a more efficient and systematic approach WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM ULRIK ANDERSEN General Counsel, VP, Group Legal facilitation payments in Carlsberg, and in to managing, tracking and monitoring business Our whistleblower system enables employ& Risk Management 2013 we decided to move to a policy of zero ethics activities across the Carlsberg Group. ees to report breaches of internal policies tolerance of facilitation payments in 2014. and guidelines or criminal conduct. The We want to send a strong, clear signal to all According to the above-mentioned internal system is managed by an independent third our employees and partners that corruption, audit report of 2013, improving our ability party to provide employees with a high level including facilitation payments, should never to track and monitor implementation and of confidentiality and security. Once a report be part of the way we do business. performance will be a key precondition for has been submitted, it is handled by specially trained and designated employees within Carlsberg Group Internal Audit. In 2013, 26 BUSINESS ETHICS reports were submitted and investigated by Internal Audit. None of the reports submitted 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements had material impact on the financial results 1 Roll out e-learning in more Group languages 100% of key employees to be trained in business ethics Target partially achieved 89% of key employees trained. of the Carlsberg Group or on the local company in question. E-learning programme available in Chinese, English, Finnish, French, German, Polish, Russian and Vietnamese. Swedish to be launched at the 2016 – BUSINESS ETHICS PART OF beginning of 2014 THE CULTURE AND DECISION-MAKING 2 Continue awareness and training – focus on high-risk areas Business Ethics Policy to be communicated to all employees Target partially achieved 93% of companies have communicated the Policy Our 2016 targets reflect our ambition to firmly root the Carlsberg Group Business Ethics 3 Prepare and design process for audit and self-audit Introduction of audit and self-audit in selected areas Target achieved Compliance management system now includes Policy in our culture and place it at the heart of all business decision-making. The targets audit and self-audit functionalities form part of our continuous efforts to ensure 4 Incorporate business ethics compliance into Carlsberg’s performance measurement system Relevant key employees and top management to be measured regarding business ethics Target achieved Business ethics compliance now part of the Leadcompliance with the Business Ethics Policy compliance ership Competences Programme and training throughout the Carlsberg Group. On this basis, we will pay special attention to further integrating the principles of the Policy into our business practices and relations. The first step in fighting corruption Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Business ethics 30 is to identify where we face a risk. The thirdThe most important update to the policy will party screening and due diligence target be our move to zero tolerance of facilitation aims to ensure that the business relations payments. and transactions we enter into are analysed for corruption risk and that these risks are Furthermore, the roll-out of the compliance properly mitigated. management system will enable us to improve efficiency and compliance documentation. Training will continue to be an essential implementation tool. We aim to provide all relevant employees with sufficient awareness and the necessary knowledge to ensure that we develop and grow our business in an ethically responsible way. In 2014, we will continue our focus on training key employees and ensuring that the updated policy and guidelines are communicated to employees in a language they understand. BUSINESS ETHICS 2014 commitments 2016 targets 1 Implementation and compliance • Communicate updated policy to all employees Zero incidents of material non-compliance with the Business Ethics Policy in a language that at least 90% understand, with emphasis on zero tolerance of facilitation Third-party screening and due diligence to become payments part of our business decision-making, including • Optimise efficiency and documentation of mergers & acquisitions compliance work by implementing the legal compliance management system Updated policy to be communicated to all employees in a language they understand 2 Training 100% of key employees to be trained in updated Continue training with greater focus on e-learning policy as part of regular biennial training We want all employees to understand how to respond to and resolve any ethical dilemmas they come across. ULRIK ANDERSEN General Counsel, VP, Group Legal & Risk Management Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Business ethics 31 LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS (LHR) 1 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements 1 Introduce employee engagement as a KPI for local CEOs Employee engagement to be introduced as a KPI for Target achieved and country management team all managers members 2 Conduct LHR audits in 5 selected countries Audits in 5 selected countries Target achieved Our employees are our single most valuable resource and remain a strategic lever for the Carlsberg Group. 3 Build e-learning module for LHR Specific module to be developed for LHR for use in induction training Target achieved Globally implemented labour and human rights are the and management development foundation for our employees to develop their potential 4 Expand toolbox for LHR for local HR All people managers to be automatically trained in LHR when Target achieved An internal website has been and contribute to the growth of our business. hired/appointed as new people established for the entire HR commanagers munity, making it easy to maintain and distribute relevant information, such as reports and best practices shared by the companies Our Labour and Human Rights Policy is based valued. Going forward, we will broaden our the Engagement Index alongside financial competences is Passion and Integrity, which on international conventions such as the Unitapproach to continuously ensure adherence measures to illustrate the organisational embraces both our Business Ethics Policy ed Nations Universal Declaration of Human to the UN Guiding Principles on Business and health of the business. Engagement continand our Labour and Human Rights Policy. Rights and the International Labour OrganisaHuman Rights. ues to be an integrated part of the Group tion’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles strategic scorecard. DIVERSITY and Rights at Work. Based on these, our 2013 – INCREASING EMPLOYEE We wish to proactively drive gender diversity policy provides equal minimum standards for ENGAGEMENT AND TRAINING The policy has been communicated to all in top management. We believe it benefits all employees across the Carlsberg Group. Overall implementation and training have employees at our majority-owned producour working environment and our ability to progressed as planned. Data disclosed in this tion sites in a language they understand. develop and grow. In our global recruitment We acknowledge that continuous efforts are report reflects that we have made good imThe implementation status reached 95%, an policy, we state that our employee comporequired to effectively implement our policy plementation progress and taken important increase on previous years. Also, we conductsition should reflect the different societies and guidelines in all our operating countries steps to build up the foundation of a Labour ed training for managers with direct reports in which we operate. We have signed the as we continue to grow and acquire majorand Human Rights Policy fully anchored in in 85% of our companies. This is an increase equality charter stating that we will work to ity ownership of more breweries. In line with the organisation. of 10% on 2012. Furthermore, the policy was leverage equality and increase the number this, we continue our efforts to ensure prointegrated into local onboarding programmes of females in management positions. gress on policy implementation and awareA target for 2013 was to introduce employee in 100% of all companies, maintaining the ness across the Carlsberg Group. engagement as a key performance indicator stable and high integration level from 2012. So far, our numbers are in line with our (KPI) for local CEOs and country manageindustry peers. However, we have set a This effort reflects our commitment to provide ment team members. As a result, “People” is LEADERSHIP COMPETENCE INTEGRATION specific diversity target of 40% females on a productive, supportive working environment now part of KPI measurements for our top We have defined eight leadership compeour Supervisory Board by 2015. The figure is where our employees feel empowered and leaders. A number of companies also use tences for Carlsberg managers. One of these currently 21%. In general, the composition of Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 The labour and human rights section (pages 32-34) reflects the requirements for CSR reporting under section 1 Labour and human rights 32 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act, with specific focus on human rights. strike was ruled to be illegal by the compeLABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS tent court as Carlsberg Danmark does not and cannot legally require employees to join 2014 commitments 2016 targets specific unions. Our policy reflects our commitment to provide 1 Talent management Anchor integrity in the organisation 2016 – DIVERSITY AND LEADERSHIP • Roll out Leadership Competence Framework for top and upper-middle management level across as one of the leadership competences a productive, supportive The Carlsberg Group was founded on very the Group strong ethical values by our founding father, working environment • Define at least 2 initiatives that contribute to Increase gender diversity in top and middle achieving a higher degree of gender diversity management across the Group J.C. Jacobsen. We strive to keep these values where our employees feel in management positions across regions and Group functions alive as a vibrant part of the way we conduct empowered and valued. business and cooperate with our employees. 2 Employer branding Introduce commitment to the Labour and Human Integrate policy into Employer Branding and implement it across the Group CLAUDIA SCLOSSBERGER SVP, Group HR Rights Policy into Carlsberg Group Employer Brand Integrity as a leadership competence is at Group level and in selected countries about leaders living the Carlsberg spirit, having a strong sense of responsibility towards 3 Policy and guidelines • Review the LHR Policy with reference to the Understand and demonstrate continuous due diligence in accordance with the UN Guiding the company, the employees, society and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Principles on Business and Human Rights the environment, and being guided by strong Rights (UNGP) • Conduct a UNGP gap analysis on the LHR ethical values. It is closely linked with one Policy and guidelines of our core values: We are engaged with society. By 2016 at the latest, all leaders at 4 Training Introduce new e-learning module on LHR for Roll out LHR Policy e-learning to HR and line managers across the Group and as a pilot for Carlsberg will have the leadership compeGroup HR and line managers in 2 countries other target groups tences to guide them on how to lead, including with an explicit focus on integrity. Diversity is essential if we want to continue Also, the leadership competences will beto develop and grow as a global business. come the yardstick for qualitative aspects our workforce is 74% male and 26% female. As always, the results form the basis of disThrough to 2016, we will focus on impleof performance for all leaders. These figures have been relatively stable in cussions across the Group, and improvement menting measures that particularly help recent years. The turnover rate increased to measures are put in place, including in areas female employees to develop into leadership NEW E-LEARNING MODULE 15% from 14.0% in 2012. In terms of gender, where we are not meeting expectations. roles and/or grow into more senior manageA new e-learning module will be piloted in turnover for females was 30%, an increase ment positions. selected countries. Our aim is to quickly and of 1% on 2012, while turnover for males was As in 2012, we conducted audits in selected effectively reach out to more employees 70%, a decrease of 1%, on 2012. countries in all our regions to further build up Finally, we will work to ensure that we do across the Group in the future. understanding of implementation issues, track not contribute to human rights violations. AUDITS AND SURVEYS local compliance and identify best practices. Our aim is to understand and demonstrate During the development of our new threeIn 2013, more than 30,000 employees were due diligence in accordance with the UN year targets, we decided to conduct a thorinvited to complete the survey on working LABOUR DISPUTES guiding principles. ough review of the existing policy in 2014. conditions and satisfaction. 88% participatDuring August 2013, there was a strike at ed. The results show continued high engageCarlsberg Danmark involving 130 workers. In 2014, we will introduce gender diversity Part of this review will include an internal ment scores as well as pride in working for A newly employed worker was not a memas part of career plans and promotions gap analysis of our present policy against the Carlsberg Group. ber of the 3F union, and consequently his and establish a network of female executives the UN Guiding Principles on Business and co-workers refused to work with him. The to exchange experiences. Human Rights. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Labour and human rights 33 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER % BY GENDER 2013 20 Male 70% 16 Female 30% 12 8 4 Our My Voice results continue to show 0 positive results with high employee 11 12 13 20 20 20 participation and engagement scores. MY VOICE RESULTS Engagement score Response rate 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 78 1 83 83 88 82 82 TOTAL WORKFORCE 2013 2012 2011 40,435 41,708 42,670 1 The engagement score dropped in 2013 due to significant redesign of the engagement survey (changes in both questions and scale). Most of our scores are strong compared to norms. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Labour and human rights 34 EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Each year, our employees make great efforts to integrate our CSR policies and initiatives into their local communities. In 2013, 7,432 We keep the legacy of our employees across the Group volunteered in founding father alive through 1,599 various local community activities. Tohundreds of local community gether, they invested more than 23,000 hours. Among the activities were the Sinebrychoff engagement activities across Park Rangers and the Seven Rivers clean-up markets each year. With engagement come empowerment and the ability to projects, introduced at Olivaria Brewery ANNE-MARIE SKOV influence and make a difference. In the Carlsberg Group, we in Belarus and Carlsberg Kazakhstan for the SVP, Group Corporate Affairs first time as a result of continuous activities want to empower our people and the communities in which in Baltika, Russia, during the previous years. we operate. This enables us to develop and grow in close cooperation with our employees and society at large. GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP Entering into partnerships with international future growth. A continuous dialogue with the stakeholders, such as NGOs and other social people and communities in the areas in which organisations, enables us to maximise synerwe operate enables us to develop our business gy from joint efforts. Furthermore, we receive according to the influence that we achieve. valuable feedback and insights that allow us to continuously improve our strategy and apWe aim to build a strong foundation of emOur founding father, J.C. Jacobsen, built his engage in voluntary and non-commercial proach. Following the commitment between ployee engagement because our employees company on the passionate and dedicated activities. We have done this because we the Carlsberg Group and Baltika Breweries in are our best and most qualified ambassadors. belief that the prosperity of Carlsberg was want to link community engagement more Russia and UNIDO in 2012, Baltika Breweries Our targets reflect our ambition to focus our conditional on engaging with and giving back closely with our business. This has resulted has started implementing the initiative Make efforts where we have the most significant, to society. Today, we keep this legacy alive in a sharpened focus on two of our key CSR the Difference for Your City. This is a pilot positive impact on the environment and socithrough hundreds of local community eninitiatives: responsible drinking and sustainproject designed to identify the best system ety. The engagement of our employees will gagement activities across the markets where able packaging. for returnable glass bottle collection. be a cornerstone in instigating and achieving we operate majority-owned companies. these targets. In 2013, our majority-owned companies inFurthermore, the Danish government, repre2013 – COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT vested DKK 47m within their local communisented by the Minister for the Environment, While we continue to acknowledge that difCLOSER TO BUSINESS ties. This included in-kind donations, such as signed a Declaration of Intent to support ferent opportunities and challenges may take Over the past 12 months, we have developed free products to support charity events, direct resource-efficient and cleaner production as priority in our local companies, we encourage and implemented a tool to systematise financial contributions and cause-related well as sustainable natural resource manimplementation of projects that reflect key and prioritise our community engagement marketing activities. agement in Russia under the Carlsberg/ Group initiatives, namely sustainable packactivities and enable the Group companies to UNIDO partnership. aging, responsible drinking and employee better integrate activities into their business In 2013, we invested in 34 cause-related engagement. We will develop and introduce plans and evaluate the outcome and busipartnerships, engaging with a number of civil 2016 – BUILDING A COMMUNITY an educational programme to prevent underness benefits of the selected activities. Also, organisations to support a shared cause. One ENGAGEMENT CULTURE age drinking and encourage Group companies a Community Engagement Guidebook has example is Carlsberg Deutschland’s support Being a global business in an ever-changing to roll out recycling programmes. been developed to provide the foundation of local flora and fauna with the Nature and global environment makes community enof a common set of principles on which we Biodiversity Conservation Union. gagement, whether local or global, vital for Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Community engagement 35 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 2013 commitments 2013 targets 2013 achievements 1 Develop a community engagement guidebook and impact All our companies to have a system in place to strategically Target achieved Community engagement inteevaluation prioritise potential community grated into Group procedures activities and evaluate outcomes of business plans Actively involve Carlsberg Group 7,432 employees spent 23,162 employees in global community hours on volunteering activities efforts 2 Advance community activities together with global NGOs 2 global partnerships to be developed to advance community Target partially achieved Activities under the partnership activities at local level between UNIDO and Carlsberg Group/Baltika Breweries ongoing A 2nd partnership postponed due to budget restrictions COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 2014 commitments 2016 targets 1 Sustainable packaging Introduce sustainable packaging/recycling Implement sustainable packaging/recycling projects in at least 75% of all countries with active involveinitiatives in at least 3 markets ment of employees 2 Responsible drinking Develop and approve educational campaign for Reach at least 1 million young people through local education campaigns addressing underage drinking implementation in selected markets in 2015-2016 3 Employee engagement Improve engagement score through employee 100,000 hours of volunteer activities to be spent by employees of the Carlsberg Group annually volunteering We aim to build a strong Scores should reach 40,000 hours of employee volunteering activities foundation of employee 4 Compliance and implementation Strengthen implementation of policy and Implement policies and guidelines 100% in Group companies engagement because our guidelines. Assist local companies in roll-out employees are our best and most qualified ambassadors. ANNE-MARIE SKOV SVP, Group Corporate Affairs Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Community engagement 36 DISTRIBUTION OF COMMUNITY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES Education Environment and culture 22% 28% Our employees make great efforts to Sport 14% Responsible drinking integrate our CSR policies and initiatives 12% into their local communities. In 2013, 7,432 S  upport of vulH  ealth and care employees across the Group volunteered nerable groups 11% 6% in 1,599 various local community activities. Other Natural disaster 4% relief 3% COMMUNITY INVESTMENT AND VOLUNTEERING ACTIVITIES COMMUNITY INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES AND ENGAGEMENT Hours spent on community Number of volunteering Total number of employees Total number of Community investment activities activities who participated in community investment engagement volunteering activities activities 35,000 800 8,000 2,000 60 Total cash and 30,000 700 7,000 in-kind donations 50 DKKm 600 6,000 1,500 25,000 40 N  umber of cause-related 500 5,000 marketing partnerships 20,000 400 4,000 1,000 30 15,000 300 3,000 20 10,000 200 2,000 500 1 Data restated for total 5,000 10 cash and in-kind donations 100 1,000 due to errors in previously 0 0 0 0 0 reported data. 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 12 13 11 1 12 13 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Community engagement 37 Carlsberg Malawi joins ShareHope initiative Carlsberg Malawi has entered into the Carlsberg Malawi is contributing to the ShareHope initiative, a multi-stakeproject as a bottling partner. Besides holder partnership to address health Carlsberg Malawi, the partnership conissues in Africa. The goal is to contribsists of The Coca-Cola Africa System, ute to improved health service delivery the charitable organisation MedShare by donating medicine and equipment International, CitiHope International to Malawi’s major hospitals. and the Malawi government. In 2013, three 40-foot containers of ShareHope has received notable medical equipment worth almost USD commendation from Malawi’s 1m, together with USD 4.4m in essenPresident, Mrs Joyce Banda, as tial medicines, were donated to Queen an example of successful privateElizabeth Central Hospital, the largest public partnership. central hospital in Malawi, serving over half a million patients annually. Lao Brewery helps to educate future generations In 2007, Lao Brewery made a long-term commitment to help improve the education in Laos and increase access to it. Education is the backbone of a prosperous society as well as the foundation for building a business. During 2013, the brewery distributed education materials to underprivileged students in districts of the Savannaket and Every can counts to Carlsberg UK Khammuan provinces. Mr Oudone Singsouvong, Deputy ManagDuring the summer of 2013, Carlsberg Carlsberg UK is the first UK brewer ing Director of Lao Brewery, says: “We UK became partners in the national to invest in this national aluminium hope to encourage and motivate children recycling campaign Every Can Counts. packaging recycling campaign, which to contribute to the future of Laos.” Together with its partner, Alupro, it encourages on-the-go recycling at targeted over 600,000 people to encouroutdoor events across the UK. Lao Brewery cooperates with the Ministry age recycling at six major UK festivals. of Education and Sports to help the The campaign is led by Alupro, the government achieve the UN Millennium Head of CSR at Carlsberg UK, Matt Aluminium Packaging Recycling Development Goals. Winterburn, says: Organisation. Carlsberg UK is one of the campaign’s main funding partners. LONG-TERM EFFORT TO “We aim to demonstrate leadership in The partnership marks Carlsberg UK’s STRENGTHEN EDUCATION social responsibility and this partnercommitment to increase the recovery Every year, Lao Brewery donates LAK 300m ship further underlines our commitand recycling of its aluminium cans (approx. USD 37,000) to the project, which ment to being engaged with society. across the brand portfolio. will run until 2016. We hope to engage with customers, suppliers and consumers on a variety Watch the Every Can Counts In so doing, Lao Brewery is helping to of sustainability initiatives besides the video: www.youtube.com/ educate children and further strengthen Every Can Counts campaign.” watch?v=Ys2TqvuvwQo the development of Laos. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Community engagement 38 Data summary table ENVIRONMENTAL DATA GENERAL PRODUCTION FIGURES 2010 2011 2012 2013 RELATIVE FIGURES FOR BEER AND SOFT DRINK PRODUCTION 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of reporting sites 74 75 76 75 Thermal energy (kWh/hl) 1 23.5 21.1 21.0 20.0 Beer production (million hl) 99.4 99.1 100.7 100.3 Electricity (kWh/hl)1 8.8 8.1 8.1 8.0 Soft drink production (million hl) 10.1 11.7 12.2 13.0 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/hl)1 32.3 29.2 29.1 28.0 Beer and soft drink production (million hl)1 109.5 110.8 112.9 113.3 CO2 emissions (kg CO2/hl)1 9.72 8.82 7.3 7.1 Malting (ktonnes) 464.8 410.1 467 459.9 Water (hl/hl) 1 3.5 3.3 3.3 3.3 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA (BEER, SOFT DRINK AND MALT PRODUCTION) RELATIVE FIGURES FOR MALT PRODUCTION Total thermal energy (GWh) 1 3,012 2,735 2,808 2,671 Thermal energy (kWh/tonne) 749.2 760.1 712.1 703.9 Total electricity (GWh)1 1,016 949 966 954 Electricity (kWh/tonne) 101.6 103 97.2 94.4 Total CO2 emissions (ktonnes)1 1,1852 1,0792 949 918 Combined energy (thermal and electricity) (kWh/tonne) 850.8 863.1 809.3 798.3 Total SO2 emissions (tonnes) 3,222 1,376 1,440 1,249 CO2 emissions (tonnes CO2/tonne) 0.27 0.24 0.22 0.20 Total NOx emissions (tonnes) 3,098 1,568 1,483 1,387 Water (m³/tonne) 2.8 2.5 2.1 2.0 Total water consumption (million m³)1 40.1 38.0 38.7 38.7 Total wastewater discharged (million m³) 26.4 24.9 25.2 24.4 OTHER FIGURES Total organic load (COD) before treatment (ktonnes) 81.2 79.8 73.6 74.8 Complaints 55 47 42 38 Number of sites that are ISO 14001-certified 47 60 60 60 SOLID WASTE Incinerated (ktonnes) 4.4 6.6 7.1 7.3 WATER SOURCE SPLIT To sanitary landfill (ktonnes) 41.0 43.5 45.1 73.4 Municipal water 54% 49% 51% 50% Special waste (ktonnes) 0.43 0.79 0.32 0.4 Own boreholes 40% 45% 43% 43% Recycled (ktonnes) 151.5 135.2 147.5 141.3 Surface water 5% 6% 6% 7% Disposed of for land applications (ktonnes) 284 209 244.5 174.1 Other 1% 0% 0% 0% Other (ktonnes) 0.8 0.8 8.3 6.2 Total solid waste (ktonnes) 483 396 452.8 403 Brewer’s grains and brewer’s yeast (ktonnes) 1,299 1,341 1,317 1,379 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 1: Data summary table 39 SECTION 1 Data summary table ENVIRONMENTAL DATA – CONTINUED HEALTH & SAFETY WASTEWATER DESTINATION 2010 2011 2012 2013 FIGURES FOR PRODUCTION 2010 2011 2012 2013 Public sewer with WWT 72% 71% 68% 68% Number of lost-time accidents 233 195 1 171 1 1451 Public sewer without WWT 3% 5% 3% 4% Lost-time accident rate 16.7 13.6 1 11.4 1 10.31 On-site treatment, followed by discharge to river/lake 24% 24% 28% 27% Number of lost days 3,608 2,559 1 2,306 1 2,0101 Other 0% 0% 1% 1% Days lost rate 258 178 1 153 1 1421 THERMAL ENERGY MIX FIGURES FOR LOGISTICS Natural gas 73.2% 71.1% 69.7% 71.8% Number of lost-time accidents 230 180 148 1361 Coal 11.8% 12.7% 12.3% 11.0% Lost-time accident rate 27.2 21.6 19.0 16.71 District heating 8.3% 8.4% 7.9% 7.2% Number of lost days 4,810 2,991 2,457 2,0871 Heavy fuel 3.2% 2.6% 4.7% 4.4% Days lost rate 568 359 316 2561 Renewable energy 1.6% 3.1% 3.5% 3.7% Light fuel 1.5% 1.5% 1.2% 1.2% FIGURES FOR THE GROUP Other 0.4% 0.6% 0.6% 0.7% Number of lost-time accidents 540 457 367 326 Lost-time accident rate 14.9 12.3 9.9 8.7 CO2 EMISSIONS FROM REFRIGERANTS Number of lost days 9,761 6,831 5,489 4,830 HFC-based refrigerants (ktonnes CO2)1 N/A3 N/A3 N/A3 11.3 Days lost rate 270 184 147 129 Fatalities 2 2 0 4 SUSTAINABLE PACKAGING Percentage of companies carrying out sustainable packaging N/A3 N/A3 N/A3 26%4 LOST-TIME ACCIDENTS BY FUNCTION activities Percentage in Production 43% 43% 47% 44% Percentage in Logistics 43% 39% 40% 42% PACKAGING MIX Percentage in Sales & Marketing and Administration 14% 18% 13% 14% Cans 23.1% 23.8% 24.8% 26.7% RGB 29.4% 28.9% 29.2% 29.1% NRGB 8.0% 8.6% 8.2% 8.1% R-PET 1.6% 1.6% 2.2% 1.5% PET 27.9% 27.4% 26.3% 25.7% Kegs 8.0% 7.4% 7.4% 7.1% Bulk 1.4% 1.8% 1.4% 1.2% Other 0.6% 0.5% 0.5% 0.6% Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 1: Data summary table 40 SECTION 1 Data summary table COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT RESPONSIBLE DRINKING 2010 2011 2012 2013 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total cash and in-kind donations (DKKm) 36 5 52 5 38 47 Percentage of companies implementing responsible drinking initiatives N/A 80% 12 78%13 69% 14,15 Number of cause-related marketing partnerships N/A 3 16 16 34 Percentage of fermented produced volume with health warnings N/A N/A N/A 80% Percentage of companies investing in community engagement initiatives 78%6 86%7 85%8 85%8 Number of community engagement activities 788 1,504 1,731 1,599 BUSINESS ETHICS DISTRIBUTION OF ACTIVITIES 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environment 22% 22% 23% 22% Sports 10% 13% 15% 14% Number of training sessions held on the Business Ethics Policy 118 184 184 184 Responsible drinking 10% 10% 11% 12% Total number of employees trained in the Business Ethics Policy 6,234 6,653 3,795 5,798 Education and culture 24% 22% 25% 28% Percentage of companies with mechanisms in place to avoid business ethics incidents 7816 8417 8318 8819 Support of vulnerable groups 21% 10% 11% 11% Health and care 5% 7% 8% 6% Number of markets that held business ethics training sessions 22 24 24 29 Natural disaster relief 4% 4% 3% 3% Percentage of companies that have implemented third-party screening procedures N/A N/A 3520 6021 Other 14% 12% 4% 4% Number of employees involved in community engagement activities N/A3 3,527 4,146 7,432 Number of hours spent 22,590 29,465 32,104 23,162 LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS MARKETING COMMUNICATION 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total workforce 41,402 42,670 41,708 40,435 2010 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of companies with a procedure in place to track PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT consumer complaints 949 949 9710 9411 Number of permanent employees 93% 93% 93% 90% Number of reported incidents of non-compliance with Marketing Number of temporary employees 7% 7% 7% 10% Communication Policy 10 7 5 4 Number of sales, marketing and innovation employees trained PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT TYPE through the marketing communication e-learning tool N/A 235 251 251 Full-time 94% 94% 93% 92% Part-time 6% 6% 7% 8% Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 1: Data summary table 41 SECTION 1 Data summary table LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS – CONTINUED PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY 22 2010 2011 2012 2013 EMPLOYEE TURNOVER PERCENTAGE BY GENDER21 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total presidents and top managers 2% 2% 2% 2% Male 76% 75% 71% 70% Total managers 10% 11% 11% 11% Female 24% 25% 29% 30% Total specialists 36% 39% 39% 40% Total workers 52% 48% 48% 47% HOURS OF TRAINING Average for the Group 18 17 13 33 PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER22 Male 74% 74% 73% 74% COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Female 26% 26% 27% 26% Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 69% 68% 71% 71% PERCENTAGE OF MANAGEMENT LEVEL BY GENDER POLICY IMPLEMENTATION STATUS Male 76% 76% 77% 76% Percentage of labour and human rights procedures and processes Female 24% 24% 23% 24% implemented as average for the Group 87% 89% 93% 95% PERCENTAGE OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE Younger than 18 0.05% 0.03% 0.03% 0.00% RESPONSIBLE SOURCING 19-29 24% 23% 23% 23% 30-39 35% 35% 35% 34% 2010 2011 2012 2013 40-49 26% 26% 26% 26% Number of integrated quality audits 54 76 121 142 Older than 50 15% 16% 16% 17% 1 Within KPMG’s assurance scope (see KPMG’s assurance report). 13 29 out of 37 companies. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER 2 CO2 emissions restated due to changes in methodology. 14 24 out of 35 companies. 3 Data not reported in previous years. 15 33% of the activities were industry initiatives and Employee turnover percentage 12% 16.5% 14% 15% 4 44% of the activities were industry initiatives and 66% 67% were carried out by Group companies. were carried out by Group companies. 16 28 out of 38 companies. EMPLOYEE TURNOVER PERCENTAGE BY AGE 5 Data restated due to errors in reported data. 17 32 out of 38 companies. 6 28 out of 36 companies. 18 33 out of 40 companies. Younger than 18 0% 0% 0% 0% 7 32 out of 37 companies. 19 35 our of 40 companies. 19-29 41% 43% 41% 37% 8 34 out of 40 companies. 20 14 out of 40 companies. 30-39 30% 32% 32% 31% 9 34 out of 36 companies. 21 24 out of 40 companies. 10 37 out of 38 companies. 22 2013 data not including 430 part-time sales promoters 40-49 15% 14% 15% 19% 11 38 out of 39 companies. in Laos due to non-available data. Older than 50 15% 11% 12% 13% 12 28 out of 35 companies. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 1: Data summary table 42 Independent assurance report TO THE READERS OF THE 2013 We do not provide any assurance on the professional competences needed to provide tors submitted by all production sites for CSR REPORT achievability of Carlsberg’s objectives, targets assurance on sustainability information, and consolidation at corporate level. We were engaged by the Executive Board of and expectations. that they comply with the requirements of • Evaluating internal and external documenCarlsberg A/S (“Carlsberg”) to aprovide assurthe Code of Ethics for Professional Accounttation, based on sampling, to determine ance on selected information in the Carlsberg Procedures performed to obtain a limited ants of the International Federation of Acwhether the selected information is supGroup Corporate Social Responsibility Report level of assurance are aimed at determining countants to ensure their independence. ported by sufficient evidence. 2013 (“the Report”). The Executive Board is the plausibility of information and are less • An analytical review of the selected tax responsible for the preparation of the Report, extensive than those to obtain a reasonable WORK UNDERTAKEN information for the individual consolidated including the identification of material issues. level of assurance. Our procedures included the following: entities. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance re• A risk analysis, including a media search, to • Reconciliation of selected tax information port based on the engagement outlined below. REPORTING CRITERIA AND identify relevant environmental and safety iswith the audited consolidated financial ASSURANCE STANDARD sues for Carlsberg during the reporting period. statements of Carlsberg A/S. SCOPE For the information covered by our engage• Reviewing the suitability of the reporting Our engagement was designed to obtain limment scope Carlsberg applies criteria as criteria. CONCLUSION ited assurance on whether the following infordetailed in sections 4 to 6. It is important to • Evaluating the design and implementaBased on the procedures performed, as mation is presented, in all material respects, view the assured information in the context tion of the systems and processes for the described above, nothing came to our attenin accordance with the reporting criteria: of these criteria. We believe that these cri­ collection, processing and control of the tion to indicate that the selected information • In the “Environment” section, the introducteria are suitable in view of the purpose of selected information. is not presented, in all material respects, in tion, “Energy and emissions”, “CO2 emisour assurance engagement. • Interviews with the relevant staff at corp­ accordance with the reporting criteria. sions”, “Water” and “HFCs” (pages 9-12, orate level responsible for collecting, con15, 39-40). We conducted our engagement in accordance solidating and carrying out internal control • In the “Health & Safety” section, the folwith the International Standard for Assurprocedures on the selected information. lowing 2013 indicators: lost-time accident ance Engagements (ISAE) 3000: Assurance • Visits to three production sites in Laos, Amsterdam, Copenhagen, rate (LTAR) and days lost rate (DLR) in Engagements other than Audits or Reviews Russia and Finland to review the environ26 February 2014 26 February 2014 KPMG Sustainability part KPMG Statsautoriseret Production and Logistics (pages 25-27, 40). of Historical Financial Information, issued mental and safety data and the design of KPMG Advisory N.V. Revisionspartnerselskab • In the “Economic value generated” section, by the International Auditing and Assurance and implementation of validation procethe following information for 2013: taxes Standards Board. This Standard requires, dures at local level. Wim Bartels Henrik Kronborg Iversen borne incl. excise duties, corporate tax paid among other things, that the assurance team • An analytical review of the data for the Partner State Authorised Public and excise duty paid (pages 7-8). possess the specific knowledge, skills and selected environmental and safety indicaAccountant Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 2: Independent assurance report 43 Global Reporting Initiative table The Carlsberg Group utilises the Global the criteria for Application Level C+. KPMG to develop the maturity of our reporting Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3 framework to provided assurance on selected economic, Given that our products are made from systems and procedures so we can improve produce an overview of our CSR progress. environmental and safety indicators based natural resources, the sustainability of the the level of disaggregation in the future. The framework provides organisations with on the International Standard for Assurance environment is vital to our business. In total, principles and indicators to measure and Engagements (ISAE) 3000. we report on 27 indicators (13 of which are If you have any comments or questions report their economic, environmental and related to the environment), which is signifiabout our GRI reporting, please contact: social performance. To increase the transparency and comprecantly above the required 10 profile indicacsr@carlsberg.com hensibility of the table, we indicate whether tors for level C. In order to simplify the table, The following GRI table details how our CSR our level of disclosure covers the GRI requirewe have included only the indicators for progress data from 2013 is aligned with the ments fully or partially. In addition, every which we provide either full or partial data. GRI G3 guidelines (www.globalreporting.org). profile or performance indicator we apply is linked to a specific section of either our The GRI G3 guidelines encourage disagThis is our fifth year reporting in accordance Annual Report (AR), our company website gregation of information where feasible, but with the GRI. Following our self-assessment, (www.carlsberggroup.com) or the CSR acknowledge that the level of disaggregawe declare our reporting to be consistent with section on our company website tion may vary by indicator. We will continue (www.carlsberggroup.com/csr/reports). GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1.1 CEO statement CSR: 4 AR: 9-11 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation CSR: 57 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Carlsberg Group brand selector (www.carlsberggroup.com/brands) Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 44 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation AR: 41 Executive Board 49 Executive Committee 162-163 Supervisory Board 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CSR: 57 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates www.carlsberggroup.com/markets 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR: 36 2.7 Markets served AR: 13-18 www.carlsberggroup.com/markets SCALE OF THE REPORTING ORGANISATION 2.8.1 Number of employees CSR: 34 2.8.2 Net sales AR: 7, 52 2.8.3 Total capitalisation broken down in terms of debt and equity AR: 7, 56 2.8.4 Quantity of products or services provided AR: 7 2.8.5 Total assets AR: 7, 56 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding AR: 105-108 size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR: • Carlsberg UK recognised for sustainability excellence 28: Szczecin and Kasztelan breweries in • Carlsberg UK receives Green Apple Gold Award Poland recognised for safety improvements • Carlsberg Polska: “Appearances can be deceptive” • Carlsberg UK scoops “Heart of the Community Award” Read the stories on www.carlsberggroup.com/csr 3. REPORT PARAMETERS REPORT PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period The report covers the 2013 calendar year 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2013 published on 26 February 2014 3.3 Reporting cycle The reporting cycle is annual 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents csr@carlsberg.com Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 45 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY 3.5 Process for defining report content CSR: 50 3.6 Boundary of the report CSR: 50 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary CSR: 50 of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, CSR: 50 outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information CSR: 10, 37, 39-42 10, 39-40: 2011 CO2 emissions restated due to changes in methodology provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement 37: 2011 total cash and in-kind donations restated due to errors in previously reported data 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, CSR: 50 boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report GRI CONTENT INDEX 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures The information contained in this GRI table in the report. [...] ASSURANCE 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external CSR: 43 assurance for the report AR: 161 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS, AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure of the o ­ rganisation AR: 41: Executive Board 49: Executive Committee 162-163: Supervisory Board 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body No, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board is not an executive officer is also an executive officer 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state AR: The Supervisory Board is made up of 14 members, none of whom are involved in the number of members of the highest governance body that 36-42, 162-163 operative mangagement are independent and/or non-executive members Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 46 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recomAR: 36-37 mendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation CSR: 12: UNIDO partnership, Water Benefits Partners 12: Cradle-to-Cradle® design framework 19: AIM-Progress 21-22: Global Actions: Commitment to reduce the harmful use of alcohol, European Beer Pledge, WFA Responsible Marketing Pact 4.15 Basis for identification and s­ election of stakeholders CSR: 12, 13, 19, 21-22 Community Engagement Policy with whom to engage www.carlsberggroup.com/csr PERFORMANCE INDICATORS ECONOMIC EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CSR: 7-8, 35 AR: 52-53: Financial review 124-126: Retirement benefit obligations and similar obligations 113-114: Corporation tax EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities CSR: 9-11, 13-14 7 for the organisation’s activities due to climate change ENVIRONMENT EN3 Direct energy consumption by p ­ rimary energy source CSR: 10-11, 39 8 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source CSR: 10-11, 39 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements CSR: 10-11 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based CSR: 10-11 8, 9 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these intiatives Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 47 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption CSR: 10-11 8, 9 and reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source CSR: 12, 39-40 8 EN16 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions by weight CSR: 10, 39 8 EN18 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions and reductions achieved CSR: 10-11, 39 7, 8, 9 EN20 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions by type and weight CSR: 39 8 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination CSR: 39-40 8 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method CSR: 39 8 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products CSR: Find more case stories from 2013 online at www.carlsberggroup.com/csr 7, 8, 9 and services, and extent of impact mitigation Case stories: 17, 20 Sections: 10-14 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials CSR: 14 8, 9 that are reclaimed by category LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, CSR: 41 and region (Core) LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, CSR: 42 6 gender, and region (Core) LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements CSR: 42 1, 3 (Core) LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, CSR: 40 1 and total number of work-related fatalities by region LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee CSR: 42 category Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 48 SECTION 3 Global Reporting Initiative table GRI PROFILE & PERFORMANCE CSR REPORT 2013 (CSR) OTHER LOCATION LEVEL OF UNGC INDICATORS ANNUAL REPORT 2013 (AR) &/OR ELABORATIONS REPORTING PRINCIPLE SOCIETY S01 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices Community Engagement Policy that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communiwww.carlsberggroup.com/csr ties, including entering, operating, and exiting S04 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption CSR: 30 10 S05 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Carlsberg is active in the political debate related to the regulatory environment for beer 1-10 development and lobbying and soft drinks etc. We engage directly and indirectly in dialogues with authorities and other stakeholders at national, regional and international level. At national level, we are active through our membership of brewers’ associations, trade associations etc. We also engage regionally through The Brewers of Europe (www.brewersofeurope.org), which is the voice of the European brewing sector and a platform for dialogue with the EU institutions. We have registered our corporate interests in the EU lobby register. At global level, we have signed the Global Action: Commitment to reduce the harmful use of alcohol. Furthermore, we provide input to policy dialogues, e.g. through the World Wide Brewing Alliance, in the World Health Organisation, the World Trade Organisation etc. Carlsberg contributes to carry out research on beer and other alcoholic beverages, i.a. through the European Foundation for Alcohol Research (ERAB) and the International Centre for Alcohol Policies (ICAP). Also, Carlsberg is a member of EUROPEN, a crosssectoral industry body working on the environmental challenges facing the packaging supply chain PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Marketing Communication Policy and Responsible Drinking Policy codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, www.carlsberggroup.com/csr promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and CSR: 41 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes N/A % of employees trained on responsible marketing. Training could e.g. CSR: 41 be e-learning, workshop or induction training HUMAN RIGHTS HR3 Total hours of employeee training on policies and procedures 100% of our companies have reported that all HR employees have been introduced to 1-6 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to the Labour and Human Rights Policy and are familiar with the situations covered by the operations, including the percentage of employees trained policy. Furthermore, 85% of our companies have trained all their people managers with direct reports in the Labour and Human Rights Policy, an increase of 10% from last year. Figures for the total percentage of employees trained are not available HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 2 incidents of discrimination reported in 2013 1, 2, 6 Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 3: Global Reporting Initiative table 49 1 Reporting process and scope REPORTING APPROACH AND CRITERIA trols more than 50% of the voting rights • The following sites are not included even not. Our aim is to provide our stakeholders Scope of the CSR reporting or that it otherwise controls. though they are majority-owned: Qitai Maltwith sufficient information about our comOur CSR reporting is aligned with GRI G3. ing (China), Yinchuan Bottling Plant (China). pany so that they are able to make their In this document we cover the relevant and Joint ventures and companies over which • The following company has become own judgements concerning the Carlsberg significant social, ethical and environmental Carlsberg does not have the opportunity majority-owned during 2013: Chongqing Group’s position and role in the societies issues for the financial year 1 January to 31 to exercise management control are not Brewery Co. Ltd. (Dec. 2013). Chongqing where we do business. December 2013. Our GRI table includes referincluded in the reported data. However, we Brewery Co. Ltd. covers 23 beer producences to our Annual Report, which covers our work constantly with our partners to ensure tion sites. Integration into the CSR reportClarity financial and economic performance. Togetha continuous focus on CSR issues. ing system will start up in 2014; reporting We strive to make our CSR reporting access­ er, this information supplies our stakeholders scope will depend upon maturity level. ible and easy to read. We have worked with with an overview of our social, environmental If a majority-owned entity is acquired during • During 2013, Derbes changed its name usability and web experts to ensure that the and economic performance. the financial year, the entity will be included to Carlsberg Kazakhstan; Baku changed performance data and reporting content are in the reporting for the following year. its name to Baltika Baku; and Slavutich understandable and well communicated on We receive recommendations on our CSR The boundary setting is different for the changed its name to Carlsberg Ukraine. our corporate website. activities and reporting from our assurance information related to “Economic value provider, KPMG, and continuously analyse generated” and “Total tax contribution”. ENSURING DATA QUALITY Accuracy and reliability competitors and industry initiatives. The principles used for this data can be In gathering information about our CSR Since 2009, we have used a dedicated CSR Furthermore, we use the internationally found in section 6. performance, we have applied the widely reporting system to help us collect data recognised Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) used principles of balance, clarity, accuracy, from local sites and consolidate this at standard in order to ensure comparability Comments on boundary setting: reliability, timeliness and comparability. Group level. Every year since 2009, we have with other companies. Find out more from • The following site has been excluded improved the definitions of our performance our GRI table in section 3. from 2013 due to closure: Changji Please find additional information on each indicators in order to help our entities report Brewery (China, Xinjiang Group). of the topics below: accurate and reliable data. However, we BOUNDARY SETTING • The following sites have been closed/sold also recognise that there is still a challenge Entities included in the performance data since 2012 and will be excluded from 2014 Balance ahead in order to obtain a complete and include majority-owned subsidiaries, defined reporting: Huocheng Brewery, China (June We are committed to communicating honfully aligned overview of all our CSR data, as companies that the Carlsberg Group 2013), Hami Brewery, China (Dec. 2013). estly and openly about our performance, especially when it comes to local procedures directly or indirectly owns, in which it conboth when it has improved and when it has for data gathering. Our reporting system Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 The scope and boundary described in this section mainly relate to CSR data gathered primarily through our CSR reporting 1 Section 4: Reporting process and scope 50 and management system. has been developed by Enablon, an interWithin the environmental data, any reference national provider of CSR software solutions. to “production site” or “site” refers to sites The system gives us a high degree of control where we produce beer, soft drinks or malt, over the data-gathering process, helps local as well as combinations of these, and the companies to compare data year on year, consumption at these sites. and also allows instant consistency checks during the data-gathering phase. The term “production site” does not include off-site consumption such as logistics and We have appointed KPMG to provide indeoff-site administration. pendent assurance regarding selected economic, environmental and safety indicators. In the Definitions for environmental indicators and various sections, we indicate which data has health & safety are available in section 5, been assured. For further details, see page 43. page 52. Timeliness Targets Internally, we report our CSR data with varyWe communicate two different kinds ing degrees of frequency, determined by the of plans and targets: nature of the data. Where necessary, we revise • One-year short-term commitments. the reporting frequency in order to strike the • Three-year targets and objectives. right balance and obtain the right data at the right frequency. Our annual data gathering These have been developed by each of the and external reporting are aligned with the fifunctional owners of the CSR focus areas. nancial data gathering using the calendar year. These targets may be adjusted according to Comparability significant changes in the business, such as Our reporting criteria and indicators are major acquisitions and divestments, when based on the GRI G3 guidelines (2006) these are made before the target date. To where applicable. In the GRI table (section the extent possible, we include such changes 3, pages 44-49), we have listed whether our by applying scenario planning to our targetreporting is fully or partially in line with the setting process. GRI indicator definitions. We include three-year comparisons, as recommended by GRI, for all data for which a comparable three-year history is available. Definitions Some differences in the interpretation of some indicators at site level were identified during the reporting process. However, we do not believe these differences are material for the validity of the reported data. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 4: Reporting process and scope 51 Definitions: environment and health & safety DEFINITIONS INDICATOR NAME INDICATOR DEFINITION UNIT Total thermal energy consumption Total thermal energy consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production GWh Total electricity consumption Total electricity consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production GWh Total water consumption Total water consumption for beer, soft drink and malt production m3 Total production of beer and soft drinks Total fermented and non-fermented products produced hl Total CO 2 emissions Total fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect ­emissions) emitted due to energy used for beer, soft drink and malt production 1 ktonnes CO 2 Specific thermal energy consumption Thermal energy needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific electricity consumption Electricity needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kWh/hl Specific water consumption Water needed to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks hl/hl Specific CO 2 emissions Fossil carbon dioxide emissions (direct and indirect emissions) emitted from the energy used to produce one hectolitre of beer and soft drinks kg CO 2 /hl CO 2 emissions from refrigerants Impact from refrigerants refilled or recharged in any system at a brewery or malting site. Expressed in CO2-equivalents ktonnes CO 2 Lost-time accidents (LTA) in Production Occupational accidents that result in employees being unable to perform the full range of their normal duties for at least one day, Number and Logistics excluding the day of the accident (LTA) Lost-time accident rate in Production Number of LTAs x 1000 / number of FTEs Rate and Logistics (LTAR) Days lost (DL) in Production and Logistics Days absent from work (excluding the day of the accident) due to lost-time accidents Number (DL) Days lost rate in Production and Logistics Number of DLs x 1000 / number of FTEs Rate (DLR) Full-time equivalents in Production Number of employees on payroll, where part-time workers are converted into FTEs by an equivalent proportion Number and Logistics and one person counts as maximum 1 FTE (FTE) 1 CO 2 emission factors used for fossil fuels and electricity are in accordance with 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories and IEA statistics: CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2012 Edition). CO 2 from other activities, such as Logistics, and CO 2 -equivalents from HCFCs are not included in the total or specific CO 2 figures. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 5: Definitions: environment and health & safety 52 disposed of or wound up are recognised in Total tax contribution the consolidated income statement until the Total tax contribution is the sum of borne Tax assurance date of disposal or winding-up. and collected taxes paid to governments for the period from 1 January to 31 December. The data includes a degree of estimation, as Amounts are included as paid when cash is principles tax per entity is not reported in detail if a type released from or received by Carlsberg. of tax is below DKK 100,000 per year. Instead, taxes below DKK 50,000 are not reported, Operating cost and taxes above DKK 50,000 but below DKK Includes cost of sales, sales and distribution 100,000 are reported as DKK 50,000. expenses, administrative expenses, other operating expenses, expenses included in The data is reported by the entity in local special items and share of profit after tax in currency in multiples of 1,000. associates, but excluding employee wages. BASIS OF PREPARATION Data is collected for all companies that SCOPE OF REPORTING AND DEFINITION Employee wages Carlsberg A/S controls. Control is obtained OF KEY TERMS Include wages to employees excluding social GENERAL COMMENTS when Carlsberg A/S directly or indirectly “Tax” in this Report means any amount of security costs. This Basis of Preparation presents the scope owns or controls more than 50% of the votmoney required to be paid to, or collected and methodology of the collection and ing rights in the subsidiary or has control in and subsequently remitted to, a government. Providers of capital reporting of the data on tax payments used some other way. Subsidiaries that Carlsberg Taxes have been reported by differentiating Include financial expenses recognised in the in the Carlsberg Group Corporate Social controls have reported 100% of their taxes between taxes borne and taxes collected. income statement, but not financial expenses Responsibility Report (“the Report”). borne and collected, and the full amount is The following sections provide the scope of recognised in other comprehensive income. included in the Carlsberg tax contribution. the data presented in the Report. The Report aims to provide readers with an Economic value retained overview of the total tax contribution that Companies over which the Group exercises Terms defined in Carlsberg’s Annual Report Consolidated profit after tax. the Carlsberg Group (excluding associates) a significant influence, but does not control, 2013 are not ­described below. has generated during the year. The total tax are considered to be associates. Significant Current tax contribution is defined as taxes borne and influence is generally obtained by direct or Taxes borne and taxes collected are the The corporate income tax due in respect of taxes collected by the Carlsberg Group. indirect ownership or control of more than taxes due in respect of an accounting period taxable profit for an accounting period, as 20% but less than 50% of the voting rights. as defined in the IFRS, as adopted by the defined in the International Financial ReportThe Basis of Preparation supports the data Data for associates is not part of the CarlsEU. Borne taxes paid and collected taxes ing Standard IAS 12. for taxes borne, taxes collected and total tax berg tax contribution. paid, including excise duty paid, are included contribution included in the Report. when cash is released from or received by Deferred tax Entities that, by agreement, are managed Carlsberg. The corporate income tax due in respect of It is the responsibility of the Management of jointly with one or more other parties (joint temporary d ­ ifferences between accountCarlsberg to ensure that appropriate proceventures) are consolidated proportionately, KEY TERM DEFINITIONS ing values and tax base, as defined in the dures are in place to prepare reporting in line and data is recognised in proportion to the Economic value generated ­International Financial Reporting Standard with this Basis of Preparation. ownership interest. Economic value generated comprises gross IAS 12. revenue, other income, financial income and All data, unless otherwise stated, is preEntities acquired or formed during the year income included in special items. Income pared for the year from 1 January 2013 are recognised in the Report from the date recognised in other comprehensive income to 31 December 2013. of acquisition or formation. Entities that are is not included. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 6: Tax assurance principles 53 Employee taxes Excise duties (beer and soft drinks etc.) Withholding taxes on dividends, royalties, however, indirectly generated from Carlsberg’s Include personal income taxes and social Excise duties are indirect taxes on the coninterest and p ­ rofessional fees business activities and therefore part of Carlscontribution for e­ mployees (borne and sumption or the use of certain products (e.g. Withholding taxes comprise the final tax berg’s total tax contribution. collected). alcoholic beverages or tobacco). In contrast burden on payment of dividends, interest etc. to value added tax (VAT), they are expressed after possible tax relief. Personal income taxes Government as a monetary amount per quantity of the This comprises employee taxes withheld The term government means any governproduct. Transportation taxes from employee wages and paid to government body or nation, state, region or district. Transportation taxes comprise flight tax, petrol ments, i.e. tax collected and remitted to Energy taxes (net, non-refundable) tax, registration­duties and other taxes levied governments on behalf of employees. Direct tax Energy taxes comprise environmental taxes on the mobility of goods and employees. A tax paid directly to a government by the levied on the consumption of energy borne Social contribution withheld by the company person on whom it is imposed. Such taxes by companies’ own supply of energy. Such Social contribution for employees This comprises social contributions payable also include non-refundable VAT, nontaxes may include taxes on the consumption Social contribution for employees comprises by employees to social security, private recoverable withholding taxes, real estate of electricity, oil, gas or coal. the social security contributions levied on funded and unfunded schemes. Generally, tax etc. and borne by the employing company. Such the employment of staff requires the emEnvironmental fees contributions may include the employer’s ploying company to administer employees’ Indirect tax Environmental fees comprise additional ennational insurance contributions, employsocial security contributions by deducting A tax required to be paid to a government vironmental taxes that may apply depending ment insurance tax, employees’ provident these from wages and salaries. by one person at the expense of another. on company operations. Such taxes may fund, old-age, survivors’ and disability insurinclude other taxes and duties on the supply ance tax. Withholding tax on dividend distributions of goods and services that are potentially made by Carlsberg A/S SCOPE OF REPORTING harmful to the environment and have not Stamp duties This comprises taxes that are required to been included in the energy taxes. Stamp duties comprise taxes that arise on be withheld in advance on payments 1. BORNE TAXES AND EXCISE DUTIES transfers of assets or capital. Typically, these made to shareholders. These are the taxes that Carlsberg is obliged VAT (non-deductible) taxes would be reflected in stamp duty to pay to a government on its own behalf, or This comprises the non-deductible part of returns made to governments and tend to VAT taxes that Carlsberg is obliged to pay to a third the value added tax, i.e. taxes that arise in become payable, and are paid, to governValue added tax, or VAT, is a broadly based party and that cannot be recovered from a relation to brewing or sale, which cannot be ments shortly after capital or assets have consumption tax assessed on the value government. recovered from a government. The paybeen transferred. added to goods and services. It applies more ment is borne by the company and not the or less to all goods and services that are Corporate income tax consumers. Other taxes bought and sold for use or consumption in Corporate income tax comprises any tax on This category comprises all paid taxes certain geographic areas. This comprises the the business calculated on the basis of its Real estate taxes which have not been included in the above net VAT payable to a government, i.e. VAT profits, income or capital gains. Typically, Real estate taxes comprise any propertycategories. on sales minus VAT on purchases. these taxes would be reflected in corporate related taxes, including property, land and income tax returns made to governments estate tax (other than stamp duty, which is 2. TAXES COLLECTED and tend to become payable, and are paid, shown below). Typically, these taxes tend to These are taxes not finally borne by Carlsberg, either in the year the profits were made or become payable, and are paid, to governbut Carlsberg bears an administrative burden up to one year later, depending on the local ments throughout the year. for the collection of taxes. These taxes are, tax rules as to timing of payments. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 6: Tax assurance principles 54 List of reporting sites 1 COUNTRY COMPANY SITES WESTERN EUROPE BULGARIA Carlsberg Bulgaria Pirinsko, Shumensko CROATIA Carlsberg Croatia Koprivnica DENMARK Carlsberg Danmark Jacobsen Brewhouse, Saltum, Carlsberg Fredericia Carlsberg Breweries Not a production site Danish Malting Group DMG Denmark ESTONIA Saku Ölletehase A/S Saku FINLAND Sinebrychoff Kerava FRANCE Brasseries Kronenbourg Kronenbourg Obernai GERMANY Carlsberg Deutschland Holsten-Brauerei AG (Hamburg), Mecklenburgische Brauerei Lübz GREECE Mythos Brewery S.A. Thessaloniki ITALY Carlsberg Italia Varese LATVIA Aldaris Aldaris Riga LITHUANIA Svyturys-Utenos Alus Utena, Klaipeda NORWAY Ringnes E.C. Dahls Bryggeri, Trondheim, Farris, Gjelleråsen, Imsdal POLAND Carlsberg Polska Okocim Brewery, Brzesko, Kasztelan Brewery, Szczecin Brewery Danish Malting Group – Polska Danish Malting Group Polska Sp. z o.o. Slodownia Strzegom Sp. z o.o. SERBIA Carlsberg Srbija Carlsberg Srbija, Celarevo SWEDEN Carlsberg Sverige Falkenberg, Ramlösa Sverige SWITZERLAND Feldschlösschen Rhäzüns, Rheinfelden, Sion Carlsberg Supply Company Not a production site UK Carlsberg UK Northampton 1 The reporting sites described in this paragraph relate to CSR data gathered primarily through our CSR reporting and management system. Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 7: List of reporting sites 55 SECTION 7 List of reporting sites COUNTRY COMPANY SITES EASTERN EUROPE AZERBAIJAN Baltika Baku Baku Brewery BELARUS Olivaria Olivaria KAZAKHSTAN Carlsberg Kazakhstan Derbes Brewery (Almaty) RUSSIA Baltika Breweries Baltika Brewery St. Petersburg, Baltika Don Brewery Rostov-Na-Don, Baltika Khabarovsk, Baltika Novosibirsk, Baltika Samara, Baltika Tula, Pikra Brewery Krasnoyarsk, Vena Chelyabinsk, Yarpivo Brewery Yaroslavl, Yarpivo Voronezh UKRAINE Carlsberg Ukraine Lvivska Brewery (Lviv), Slavutich Zaporozhye, Slavutich Kiev UZBEKISTAN Carlsberg Uzbekistan Tashkent ASIA CHINA Xinjiang Wusu Group Akesu Brewery, Hami Brewery, Houchen Brewery, Kashi Brewery, Urumqi No. 2 Brewery, Wusu Brewery, Korle Brewery, Yining Brewery Carlsberg Brewery ­Guangdong Carlsberg Brewery, ­Guangdong (Huizhou) Ningxia Group Ningxia Xixia Jianiang Brewery Yunnan Group Kunming Huashi Brewery Yunnan Dali Beer Co. Ltd Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Not a production site Carlsberg Hong Kong Not a production site LAOS Lao Brewery Lao Softdrink Company Vientiane (Pepsi), Lao Brewery Vientiane, Lao Brewery Pakse MALAWI Carlsberg Malawi Carlsberg Malawi Brewery Ltd. (CMBL), SOBO Blantyre, SOBO Lilongwe, MDL, SOBO Mzuzu MALAYSIA Carlsberg Malaysia Carlsberg Kuala Lumpur NEPAL Gorkha Brewery Gorkha Brewery SINGAPORE Carlsberg Singapore Not a production site VIETNAM SEAB (South East Asia Brewery) SEAB Hanoi Hue Vietnam Hue Brewery (Hue), Hue Brewery (Phu Bai) Carlsberg Group CSR Report 2013 Section 7: List of reporting sites 56 Carlsberg A/S 100 Ny Carlsberg Vej 1799 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone +45 3327 3300 Fax +45 3327 4701 carlsberg@carlsberg.com www.carlsberggroup.com CVR No. 61056416
