2 From the wheel and the dugout canoe to the ship and the plane, and from the first step to the entire world. The history of movement and evolution of man, who after his first step, never ceased to discover the unknown, to invent new ways and means to reach ever closer to the distant. To get where his mind had travelled. On land, at sea, in the sky. A story without end and a continuous journey. But above all a limitless inspiration. For a banking organisation that doesn’t stop evolving. That remains solid in motion. In 2013, in an economic environment full of challenges, Piraeus Bank continued to operate with responsibility and measured optimism in every sector. As an employer facing its valuable human resources, as member of a society that cares for the environment, as a cultural institution but also as a lever of growth of new business ideas. In 2013, the Bank, remaining committed to its values, continued to move ahead with hope and determination, keeping its gaze firmly fixed to the future and to all that it can achieve. 3 PIR AEUS GROUP’S POSITION IN THE MODERN BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT Piraeus Bank held a leading role in the consolidation of the Greek banking sector in a responsible and planned manner, and continues to address the challenges while setting new priorities: effective management of non performing loans with innovative tools and methods, enhancement of recurring revenue sources, further decrease of operating costs, further consolidation of internal processes and practices post the recent acquisitions, further improvement of the quality of customer experience. K E Y TA R G E T S F O R 2014 To contribute in the greatest possible extent to the forseeable Greek economic recovery. Main strategic axes are the following: provision of financial support to Greek businesses with competitive terms, further diversification of funding sources, by tapping the international debt and capital markets at the right timing and at attractive pricing, by the enhancement of deposits and by further reduction of Eurosystem financing, the restoration to profitability. 5 S E L E C T E D F I G U R E S A S S O C I AT E D W I T H C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y PIRAEUS BANK GROUP HUMAN RESOURCES 22,509 EMPLOYEES TRAINING MAN-HOURS AT GROUP LEVEL 846,457 VOLUNTEERISM 90 ACTIONS 3,821 VOLUNTEERS CUSTOMERS 7.0 ΜΝ OF TOTAL RESPONDENTS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION INDEX (GREECE) 91% customers shareholders 164 thousands Data as of 31.12.2013. Contribution to Social, Cultural and Environmental Actions, Human Resources/ Programmes and Initiatives Work Εnvironment 1.9% of the Group’s pre-tax and pre-provision profits in FY 2013 38 training man-hours on average per employee at Group level The Environment Environmental Management System Environmental Risk and Opportunities Incorporation of recently acquired branches and new administration The climabiz project was awarded by the EU as one of the Best buildings to the Bank’s Environmental Management System certified LIFE Environment projects evaluated in 2013 under EMAS and ISO 14001 6 The Environment Biodiversity and the Environment Environmental Management & Cost Saving Initiation of the new LIFE-Stymphalia project of the Bank, co-funded by the EU (LIFE Nature), aimed at the sustainable management of Lake Stymphalia €1.3 million approximately saved annually from the Bank’s operating expenses, Carbon Footprint due to the effective Environmental Management System 18% reduction of per capita CO2 emissions since 2008 Green Banking The MW of installed RES capacity funded until year-end 2013 was 69% greater versus 2012 Culture Museum Network Collaboration with Piraeus Group’s Environment Unit P  lanning of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) 7 thematic museums in operation at select sites in Greek regional areas: environmental policy and creation of an Environmental Action Plan Energy upgrading and EMAS certification of PIOP Museums Soufli, Dimitsana in Arcadia, Lesvos Island, Tinos Island, Cultural Actions and Educational Programmes the mountainous region of Korinthia, Volos, Sparta: the year 2013 14 exhibitions marked ten successful years of contribution to culture through 61cultural actions an extremely successful paradigm of cooperation between the public 7 standard educational programmes and private sector in constructing and operating these museums. 47 anniversary educational programmes for minors and adults R  ealisation of the educational programme “Pausanias Network 112,000 visitors in 2013, 67% of which free of charge 2.0: From the School to the Museum” New activity under the theme “Cultural Landscapes” Scientific Support 2 S cientific support to the academic and research community and various research bodies Training of young scientists museums under preparation: Museum of Chios Mastic on the island 1,705 of Chios, Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina Operation of Museums as daily public places of the cities they are located in volumes (including 104 educational folders) of educational material/ Historical Archive books, donations of books to schools and libraries E xpansion of the archives– electronic cataloguing Contribution to the shaping of cultural policies Educational activities that utilize archival material Dissemination of PIOP research to various public groups Library Incorporation of former ATE Bank library Expansion of thematic titles with emphasis on the environment Collaboration with local communities 7 Last update of Piraeus Bank Corporate Responsibility Report: July 10, 2014. 8 CONTENTS 10 CHAIRMAN’S NOTE---------------------------------------------------------------CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY PRINCIPLES------------------------------------------12 14 STAKEHOLDERS’ DIALOGUE-------------------------------------------------------PARTICIPATIONS IN GLOBAL INITIATIVES & HARMONISATION WITH INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS ------------------------------------------------18 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE-------------------------------------------------------22 CUSTOMER AND SUPPLIER RELATIONSHIPS---------------------------------------38 54 HUMAN RESOURCES--------------------------------------------------------------SOCIETY, CULTURE AND THE ENVIRONMENT--------------------------------------70 APPENDICES GRI G4 AND ISO 26000 REPORTING CONTENT------------------------------------104 118 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE LETTER---------------------------------------------------9 CHAIRMAN’S NOTE 2013 was a significant year for the Greek economy and of the recession, towards a sustainable growth within a stable consequently for the Greek market. The implementation of business environment, with investments that support export structural reforms and the recapitalisation of the Greek banks activities as well as promote the modernisation and the restructuring shaped a new scene while at the same time, on a macroeconomic of the private sector. level, expectations for a waning of the recession were confirmed We address these challenges with a strong sense of responsibility, during the year. The achievement of a primary surplus as well as we promote a spirit of cooperation and we aim to take action in a positive current account balance ushered the Greek economy order to support: in a new phase, while steps towards restoration of competitiveness Our shareholders, by strengthening the structures and are continually being taken. At the same time, on a European transparency in corporate governance matters. banking level, the establishment of the Single Supervisory Our customers, according to their specialized needs and demands Mechanism is expected to ensure competition on fair terms among shaped by the present economic conditions. banks as well as to introduce stricter regulatory supervision. The Group’s 25,509 employees, by ensuring a working environment which provides a balance between professional and We find ourselves at crucial crossroads for the future of the Greek personal life as well as encourage their constant development. economy. Our actions will determine whether the visible positive Our suppliers, business partners and social partners, on a basis of signs and the favorable developments will take us through the end mutual benefit and harmonious collaboration. 10 T  he reorganisation and restructuring of sustainable sectors and businesses, aimed at enhanced productivity and strengthened competitiveness. The recovery of the Greek economy, with emphasis on entrepreneurship and extroversion. The liquidity needs of the agricultural industry and farmers, aiming to strengthen the growth of Greek agricultural sector. The protection of the environment, through our active support of green entrepreneurship, our constant reduction of the environmental footprint from the Group’s operation, implementation of programmes related to the protection of biodiversity and by addressing climate change risks. Corporate responsibility actions, by systematically fostering the Bank’s relations with all stakeholders, with particular emphasis on the preservation of culture, traditional technologies and industrial heritage in the Greek region, through the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) Museum Network. The principles of the UN Global Compact for the protection of human and labour rights, the environment and the efforts to eliminate corruption. In this Report, we present the corporate responsibility principles that we apply and the specific actions and results of 2013 as well as the targets we have set. It is our priority to provide support to our customers, our shareholders, the Group’s employees as well as all our social partners in a challenging environment, striving to overcome this difficult juncture, to actively contribute to a sustainable Greek economic recovery and towards the stability of the banking system. Piraeus Bank Group’s basic principles of trust, consistency, solidarity, collectiveness and action are, now more than ever, its key guidelines for its business activities as well as for all its endeavors. At Piraeus Bank Group we continue to work responsibly and fully committed to our targets. We are fully aware that as the leading financial Group in Michalis Sallas Chairman of the Board of Directors Greece, our actions have direct or indirect effect on households, on businesses and their employees in Greece and all the countries we operate. 11 C O R P O R AT E R E S P O N S I B I L I T Y PRINCIPLES Corporate Responsibility is the responsibility of enterprises regarding their impact on society. For the Group its is the voluntary commitment to include social, environmental and cultural actions in business practices and the assumption of initiatives over and above the legal obligations with the aim of enhancing social welfare and progress. 1. Harmonious Relationship with Social Partners  eturning part of the value generated by the Bank to its social partners within a strategically designed and systematic framework of social R actions. 2. Alignment of Business Targets with Social Progress and Solidarity E ffective customer service before and after product and service sales, with emphasis on the Bank’s consulting role. Strengthening of entrepreneurial initiatives with the aim of promoting competitive fields with potential and prospects for growth. 3. Corporate Governance Optimisation  ransparency in governance and operational structures T Adoption and realisation of best practices of governance and operation. Symmetric and systematic information dissemination to the investment and business communities, media and NGOs. Transparent supplier/business partner evaluation and selection procedures. 12 4. Adoption of Best Workplace Practices Development of a humane and responsible organisation, where competent, committed and inspired employees work collectively to lead through diversity the market, innovate by adding value and ensure the prosperity and sustainable development of the Group. 5. Environment Protection using natural resources responsibly and supporting environmentally beneficial business activities S ystematic support of green entrepreneurship through development of new green products and enhancement of existing ones. Development of strategies to improve the Group’s environmental performance and reduce its operational environmental footprint. Development of innovative solutions for business and biodiversity. Development of evaluation tools and procedures to manage climate change risk Support to individuals and enterprises and preparation of the market for better adaptation to the effects of climate change. 6. Promotion of Culture  ctive contribution to the promotion of Greece’s cultural identity through the creation, operation and maintenance of a network of thematic A technological museums of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), which act as cultural focal points in the Greek region, and by organising scientific events and educational programmes for adults and minors. Continued implementation of research programmes and production of publications relevant to the purposes of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). Safeguarding and highlighting of Piraeus Bank’s Historical Archive. Provision of scientific advisory material to public and local community bodies and contribution in shaping cultural policies. Operation of a specialized library. 13 S TA K E H O L D E R S ’ DIALOGUE Investors Cooperation Framework Provision of precise information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate investment in Piraeus Bank. Means of Communication-Cooperation  isclosure of Financial Results on a quarterly basis (presentations, press releases, teleconferences, internet). D Communication of business developments (press releases, internet). Contact with the Management and the special Investor Relations unit (events, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows). Immediate response to individual requests by means of website and e-mail contact form. ➢ Contact with the Shareholder Registry. General Meetings of Shareholders. Customers Cooperation Framework Responsible information and provision of products and services with respect to the code of business conduct and business ethics. Means Of Communication-Cooperation 24h/7 Customer Call Centre Branch network and alternative channels (ATMs, e-banking, mobile banking) Customer Service-complaint handling procedure. Seminars and informative meetings with customer groups. Customer satisfaction survey at regular intervals. Structured discussion between customers and the “Relationship Management Service” for personalized organisation and management of their finances. Immediate response to individual requests by means of website and e-mail contact forms. Significant presence in social media. Voice of Customer programme: Tool applied for systematic and structured collection and analysis of the customers’ experience with the Bank’s products and services. 14 Investment Analysts Cooperation Framework Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate investment in Piraeus Bank shares or securities. Means Of Communication-Cooperation R  egular contact with Management and specialized Investor Relations unit (presentations, meetings, teleconferences, roadshows). Disclosure of Financial Results on a quarterly basis (presentations, press releases, teleconferences). Communication of business developments (press releases). Banks Cooperation Framework Mutual Information sharing and collective representation in financial agencies. Means Of Communication-Cooperation C  ontact and meetings with relevant units at each Bank. Participation in legislative drafting or technical committees at an international, European and national level. Cooperation with foreign financial agencies and associations in the framework of bilateral and multi-lateral collaborations. Business Community Cooperation Framework Mutual cooperation on a win-win basis. Means Of Communication-Cooperation D  ialogue and cooperation with Trade Associations, Commercial, and Industrial Chambers. Participation in Seminars and other information events. Employees & their Families Cooperation Framework  pen Communication with employees and safeguarding their ongoing development, fair treatment and rewarding. O Provisions for strengthening employee resilience in order to effectively manage the challenges they face in all aspects of their lives. Means Of Communication-Cooperation Internal network (intranet). Internal newsletter ″Winners″ distributed to all Group employees. Piraeus Bank Group Employee Culture Survey. Open communication with all employees concerning staffing needs to offer development and transfer opportunities. Training programmes. Established procedure for employee performance review and competency appraisal. Collective Representation. Employee Assistance Programmes. Volunteer actions with employee participation. Employee cultural sensitivity actions. State-Regulatory Authorities Cooperation Framework Group compliance with the regulatory framework. Means Of Communication-Cooperation  rdinary and extraordinary communication with supervisory authorities. O Data provision, report compilation, meetings, participation in consultations. 15 Local Communities Cooperation Framework Supporting local actions. Means Of Communication-Cooperation  peration of a Museum Network on a national level (support to local economies, job creation, collaboration O with local suppliers). Providing guidance in cultural development to third parties. The Media Cooperation Framework Information, communication and promotion of corporate actions and products of the Group . Means Of Communication-Cooperation P  ress releases and conferences. Communication through the Bank’s Press Office. Social Media. Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO’s) Cooperation Framework Supporting environmental and social actions. Means Of Communication-Cooperation S ynergies for common interest actions for society, culture and the environment. Financial support of specific NGO actions. Cooperation through volunteer actions and common European programmes. Suppliers/Service Providers Cooperation Framework Cooperation on a win-win basis. Means Of Communication-Cooperation E stablished procedures for supplier and service provider tendering, evaluation and selection through outsourcing. Seminars, information meetings and attendance of live material demonstrations for large procurements of information systems, green supplies & procurement etc. Credit Rating Agencies Cooperation Framework Information regarding the course and strategy of the Group to evaluate the credit rating of Piraeus Bank. Means Of Communication-Cooperation R  egular communication and meetings with Management and relevant Bank units. Delivery of financial data. 16 17 P A R T I C I P AT I O N I N G L O B A L I N I T I AT I V E S A N D H A R M O N I S ation W I T H I N T E R N AT I O N A L S TA N D A R D S U.N. Global Compact In the past 12 years, Piraeus Bank has been voluntarily participating in the UN Global Compact, actively supporting it and promoting its principles, which pertain to human rights, employment rights, environment protection and anti-corruption. The Global Compact 10 principles and the actions taken by Piraeus Bank in order to comply with these: Basic Principles Implementation Method Description or Reference to the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Support, respect and protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Full compliance of the Group with the relevant Greek and international laws within the businesses and their sphere of influence. and implementation of the Group’s Human Right’s Policy. 2. Ensure that businesses have no complicity in human rights abuses. LABOUR 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Full compliance of the Group with the relevant Greek and international recognition of the right to collective bargaining. legislation. 4. Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, “Human Resources” 5. Effective abolition of child labour. 6. Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation THE ENVIRONMENT 7. Support the precautionary principles in environmental challenges. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, “Society, Culture and the 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Environment” 9. Encourage the development and expansion of environmentally-friendly technologies. Code of Conduct and Compliance Policy. Relevant terms in employment contracts. Labour Relations Framework. ANTI-CORRUPTION Control mechanisms and procedures, and anti-money laundering 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion information systems (including fraud detection). and bribery. Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, “Corporate Governance” Training programmes, Corporate Responsibility Report 2013, “Human Resources” 18 AWARDS / D I S T I N C T I O N S I N 2 013  iraeus Bank received the PLATINUM distinction, P for implementing corporate responsibility practices under CR Index. The event was held in Greece for the sixth consecutive year by the Corporate Responsibility Institute, in which the Bank has participated an equal number of times Corporate Responsibility Indices Distinction for Piraeus Bank in the European and Distinctions Business Awards for the Environment for 20132014, with the Bank participating in the “Product Piraeus Bank participates in the following: Award for Sustainable Development” category. UNEP FI: Since 2007, Piraeus Bank has participated in the United Assessment of participants was undertaken by Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), PASEPPE, the Greek Association of Environmental ηaving signed UNEP Statement of Commitment by Financial Protection Companies. Institutions on Sustainable Development. In accordance with the Recognition of successful participation for the Statement of Commitment, Piraeus Bank recognizes that economic third consecutive year in the SUSTAINABLE development needs to be compatible with human welfare and FINANCE AWARDS 2013 in the Sustainable Bank a healthy environment. The Bank has committed itself to consider of the Year category, organized by the Financial the environment, society and sustainable development in its Times and the International Finance Corporation business decisions. (World Bank Group). The Hellenic Network for Corporate Social Responsibility: in 2007, The prestigious international magazine “The Piraeus Bank became a full member of the Network, its mission is Banker”, published by the Financial Times, to promote the notion of Corporate Social Responsibility and best awarded Piraeus Bank the “Bank of the Year” practices applied in Greek businesses. distinction for 2013. The international not-profit organisation Carbon Disclosure Project Award by the European Commission for the (CDP): since 2010, Piraeus Bank has been submitting to the CDP Piraeus Bank project “Financial Institutions: information concerning its environmental performance and the Preparing the Market for Adapting to Climate respective actions and initiatives. CDP aims to change the present Change” (climabiz). The project was selected as mode of operation of businesses to enable them to deal with one of the best LIFE Environment projects climate change and to protect the Earth’s natural resources. assessed in 2013. The MSCI ESG Indexes: since 2013, Piraeus Bank is a constituentof MSCI World Socially Responsible Indices and the MSCI Global ex Controversial Weapons Indexes. With these Indexes, enhanced incorporation of environmental and social criteria in business investment decisions is achieved. Additionally, Piraeus Bank: Is a signatory of the UN Global Compact “Caring for Climate: The Business Leadership Platform”. The Statement provides a framework for businesses to advance practical solutions and create public awareness on Climate Change issues. 19 C O R P O R AT E G O V E R NAN C E 2 013 KE Y AC TIONS C O R P O R AT E Emphasis on adopting an integrated GOVERNANCE and autonomous approach for managing non performing loans by establishing: Piraeus Bank safeguards its corporate interest as well as the Τhe Recovery Banking and the Task interests of its shareholders to the utmost. To this aim, the Bank has Force/Merchant Banking units, thus adjusted itself to the institutional framework of corporate governance. At the same time, constant upgrading of the systems of enhancing the curing framework of governance and internal control, regulatory compliance, problematic loans, adding value to the transparency and information dissemination towards the investment Bank’s shareholders and contributing community all constitute key concerns for the Group. Additionally, to the restructuring of the Greek integration of best governance principles to cover all activities also holds a decisive role. Within this framework, Piraeus Bank applies economy. the following: Adjustments to the composition of the Board of Directors in order 2 014 to be compliant with the effective regulations on Executive, Non-Executive and Independent members. TA R G E T The characterisation of BoD members as independent has been Safeguarding the Group’s balance sheet designated in accordance with the criteria defined by Law 3016/2002 and the Greek banking regulatory framework; in all and raising the already high standards cases of independent candidates nominated by the BoD, the of structures and transparency in requirements of the above-mentioned law regulatory framework corporate governance issues. are complied with. Indisputably, the banking regulatory authority requires particularly demanding skills and abilities from bank BoD 22 members (rules of morality and competence) both on an individual and a collective level, some of which may only be acquired through extensive experience in banking matters. In cases of persons outside the banking sector, this experience and skill can only be gained by terms of office in the BoD. The Audit Committee, comprised of non-Executive and Independent non-Executive Directors, which monitors and evaluates the efficiency and effectiveness of the Internal Control System at both Parent and Group levels, based on the data and information provided by the Internal Audit Unit, and findings and remarks of the external auditors and regulatory authorities. The Risk Management Committee, which aims to cover all forms of risk (credit, market, operational), and ensure integrated risk control, expert risk management and the required coordination on individual and consolidated basis. The Corporate Governance and Board of Directors Secretary units, are responsible for the development of Corporate Governance actions and programmes approved by the Management, and for the supervision of their implementation in the Bank and the Group’s companies in Greece and abroad. Additionally, the General Division of Corporate Governance supervises the operational support provided to the BoD and its committees by applying Corporate Governance best practices. The Internal Corporate Governance and Operating Regulations Manual, which ensures transparency and symmetrical information, and encompasses issues which are not stipulated in the Bank’s Articles of Association but are indispensable for its smooth operation as well as the Code of Conduct, which governs the obligations of the Group’s employees. The General Division of Internal Audit (Internal Audit Unit under Act 2577/2006 of the Governor of the Bank of Greece), which is independent, reports to the Board of Directors-through the Audit Committee-and the CEO of the Bank, and is responsible for Group-wide internal control. The Compliance unit, which institutes and applies procedures and prepares the annual compliance programme in order to achieve the Group’s timely and permanent compliance with the effective regulatory framework, to ensure complete adjustment to the regulatory framework for preventing the involvement of the banking system in legalizing funds that originate from illegal activities and combating terrorism. Investor Relations, Shareholder Registry and Corporate Announcements services, entrusted with the task of informing investors, shareholders and appropriate regulatory authorities accordingly. In relation to the responsibilities arising from the state aid that the Greek banks received, in January 2013 Monitoring Trustees were appointed to all 4 systemic banks. At Piraeus Bank, the firm KPMG undertook the role of Monitoring Trustee. In mid July 2013, HFSF contracted a Relationship Framework Agreement (RFA) with Piraeus Bank, as well as the other three systemic banks which received capital enhancement from the Fund. Piraeus Bank signed the RFA for the banks in which the Fund holds restricted voting rights (private sector participation equal or above 10%) according to L.3864/2010. The RFA regulates the relationship between the banks and the Fund, as well as the issues related, among others, with a) the corporate governance of each Bank, b) the drafting and approval of the Restructuring Plan, c) the important liabilities of the Restructuring Plan and the changes on the voting rights of the Fund, d) the monitoring of the Restructuring Plan materialisation and the implied risk exposures for the Bank and e) the consensus rights of the Fund. It is noted that, the Bank’s management, will continue to independently determine the Bank’s business strategy and policy, according to the Restructuring Plan and the Bank’s management and bodies will continue to hold the responsibility for the day-to-day operations. Information regarding the aforementioned RFA are published according to the regulations of the Memorandum of Economic and Financial Policies (MEFP) on the HFSF internet site (www.hfsf.gr); For more details on implementation of institutional regulations& Corporate Governance practices, please refer to: Consolidated Annual Financial Report 2013/Corporate Governance Statement 23 Supreme Management Bodies The supreme body of Piraeus Bank is the Shareholders’ General Meeting, and inter alia is responsible for electing members of the Board of Directors (BoD), manages and represents the Bank judicially and extrajudicially. The present BoD is comprised of 13 members, 3 with executive duties and 10 with non-executive role. Executive members deal with the Bank’s day-to-day administrative duties while non-executive members are responsible for promoting corporate issues. Three of the ten non-executive members are independent non-executive members, without material or pecuniary relationship with the Bank, pursuant to the legal requirements. Additionally, the BoD meetings are attended by a Representative of the Greek State, pursuant to Law 3723/2008, as well as a Representative of the Greek Financial Stability Fund, pursuant to Law 3864/2010. The BoD’s primary duty and responsibility is the constant strengthening of the Bank’s long-term economic value and protection of its corporate interests. BoD members and any third parties who have been assigned responsibilities by the BoD are forbidden from pursuing personal interests conflicting with the Bank’s interests. The independent members of the BoD may submit, individually or jointly, reports separately from those of the BoD to the regular or extraordinary General Meeting of the Bank’s shareholders, should they deem it necessary. The BoD serves a 3-year term of office with member election taking place at the Shareholders’ General Meeting, where any BoD member replacement during the term is announced. BoD members can be reelected. The BoD convenes at least once a month following a call by the Chairman, minutes are kept and signed by the members present. Remuneration may be submitted to BoD members and is determined by specific decision of the regular Shareholders’ General Meeting. For more details on Group Administrative, Managerial and Regulatory Bodies and Committees, please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance 24 BoD Composition Piraeus Bank announces that during the 16.05.2014 BoD meeting, the new Board of Directors, elected during the Regular Shareholders’ General Meeting on 16.05.2014, was converted into a Body, with the designation of Executive and Non-Executive members pursuant to Law 3016/2002: Chairman of the Board of Directors Michalis G. Sallas Non-Executive Member Non-Executive Vice Chairmen Iakovos G. Georganas, First Vice Chairman Panagiotis V. Roumeliotis Executive Members Stavros M. Lekkakos, Managing Director & CEO Anthimos C. Thomopoulos, Managing Director & CEO Hariklia A. Apalagaki, Authorized Director, Executive Member Non-Executive Members Argyro A. Athanasiou, Independent Non Executive Member Georgios P. Alexandridis, Independent Non Executive Member Eftychios Th. Vassilakis, Non Executive Member Stylianos D. Golemis, Independent Non Executive Member Chariton D. Kyriazis, Independent Non Executive Member Vassilios St. Fourlis, Non Executive Member The appointed Representatives participating in the BoD are: Ekaterini C. Beritsi, Representative of the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund Athanasios A. Tsoumas, Representative of the Greek State PIRAEUS BANK Audit Committee Risk Management Committee Remuneration Committee Board of Directors (BoD) Committees Succession and Nomination Committee of BoD members Strategic Planning Committee Group Executive Committee IT Planning and Operating Quality Committee (BOG 2577) Credit Committee Work Out Committee Main Executive and Administrative Committees Asset-Liability Management Committee (ALCO) Expenditure and Budget Committee Corporate Responsibility Committee 25 Remuneration Policy A remuneration policy has been established, as an integral part of the Group’s Corporate Governance, aimed at deterring from excessive risk-taking and at continually strengthening the Group’s values and long-term interests. The remuneration policy, designed in the framework of the Governor’s Act 2650/19.1.2012 of the Bank of Greece, is in accordance with the Group’s business strategy and supports its performance-driven culture, which aligns the organisation’s goals with those of the interested parties, employees, management and shareholders. The policy is aimed at aligning remuneration with profitability, with risk and capital adequacy; at enhancing performance; at attracting and retaining talents; at compliance with the regulatory framework; and at internal transparency. The remuneration-defining procedures are clear, recorded and with internal transparency. Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee is responsible for regular reviews of the Group’s Remuneration Policy as well as monitoring its implementation. The Committee is composed of Non-Executive BoD Members, the majority of whom are independent, including the Chairman of the Commitee. The Committee takes into account the long-term interests of the shareholders, investors and interested The remuneration-defining procedures parties of the credit institution; it is oriented towards long-term, are clear, recorded and with internal prudent management of the institution and towards prevention transparency. or minimizing of conflict of interest situations which would be detrimental to this management. Piraeus Bank’s Remuneration Policy The function and detailed responsibilities of the Committee are constitutes an integral part of the Group’s governed by its regulation framework. Its responsibilities Corporate Governance. include: Preparation of the decisions concerning remuneration, ultimately The Remuneration Committee is responsible taken by the BoD, which should correspond to their authority, for regular reviews of the Group’s duties, specialisation, performance and responsibilities and which Remuneration Policy as well as monitoring have an effect on the institution’s risk-taking and management its implementation. The Committee is as well as monitoring the implementation of these decisions. To ensure that during the evaluation of the mechanisms adopted composed of Non-Executive BoD Members, to align the remuneration policy with risks undertaken, all kinds the majority of whom are independent, of risks along with the Bank’s liquidity and capital adequacy are including its Chairman. taken into account. Ensuring the necessary advisory contribution of the supervised institution’s relevant units (Risk Management, Regulatory 26 Compliance, Internal Audit, Human Resources, Strategic Planning) as well as that of external experts -when deemed necessary by the BoDis provided for shaping, reviewing and consistently implementing the remuneration policy. Other Involved Parties The Remuneration Policy is designed by the Group’s Human Resources with the participation of the Risk Management, Compliance and Internal Audit units. It is submitted to the Remuneration Committee which in turn proceeds with any potentially necessary changes before submitting it to the BoD for final approval. The independent control units contribute to the design of the remuneration policy; however, they are primarily involved with the Policy’s review and monitoring process, which is conducted at least once a year. It is duly noted that no external advisor participated in the shaping/review of the Bank’s Remuneration Policy in 2013. Remuneration Structure Total remuneration may include variable components, apart from the fixed ones, in order to ensure a link between remuneration and longterm business effectiveness. In all cases, standard remuneration constitutes the greatest part of total remuneration to a degree that an employee’s living standards do not depend on variable remuneration. Variable remuneration may be provided as reward for performance based on pre-defined qualitative and quantitative targets and are linked to the individual’s performance, their division, the credit institution/Group and the long-term business targets. Indicative criteria that are assessed for payment of variable remuneration may include among others, profitability, minimum capital adequacy, effectiveness, management of change, development of partnerships etc. Evaluation of employees with control duties is not linked to the outcome of the processes/units audited by them. In order to strengthen the link between variable remuneration with long-term Group targets, the award of variable remuneration is spread over time ; the amounts awarded for both deferred and not deferred variable components, are not only paid in cash, but in other instruments as well (e.g. shares). Criteria for Cancellation/Return Of Variable Remuneration The Bank may cancel payment of deferred variable remuneration if specific performance indicators are not met. The same may apply if serious breaches in regulations/procedures are detected. Moreover, if at a later date it is decided that the reasons for payment of this variable remuneration were wrong, the total deferred payment originally calculated may be cancelled. If deceit or misleading of the Group concerning payment of variable remuneration is detected, the employee may be required to return it, with compliance to labor laws. Evaluation of employees with auditing duties is not linked to the outcome Principle of Proportionality of the procedures/units audited The Bank applies the current regulatory framework based on the by them. Principle of Proportionality, taking into consideration the Bank’s nature and size, its structure, complexity of activities etc. 27 Remuneration Disclosure The following tables provide quantitative information on remuneration of senior management and employees with significant impact on the Group’s risk profile, analyzed by business sector: TOTAL NUMBER TOTAL FIXED TOTAL VARIABLE OF EMPLOYEES REMUNERATION REMUNERATION BY BUSINESS AREA BY BUSINESS AREA* BY BUSINESS AREA* (THOUSAND €) (THOUSAND €) LARGE ENTERPRISES AND INVESTMENT BANKING 56 4,977.71 0 RETAIL BANKING 13 989.16 0 THIRD PARTY ASSET MANAGEMENT 2 231.75 0 OTHER 102 10,375.62 0 *Note: Including severance payment amounts due to Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES). The Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES) implemented by Piraeus Group was formulated according to general criteria. The Scheme was addressed to all employees in Piraeus Bank and its Greek subsidiaries, with indefinite term employment contracts and in-house lawyers. VES severance payments were not associated with risk assumption as per the Bank of Greece Governors Act 2650/19.01.2012. The Voluntary Exit Scheme has been duly authorized by the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF). 28 SENIOR PERSONS ASSUMING PERSONS WITH MANAGEMENT RISKS CONTROL DUTIES NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES PER CATEGORY 96 51 26 TOTAL FIXED REMUNERATION (THOUSAND €)* 10,773.21 4,121.23 1,679.81 TOTAL VARIABLE REMUNERATION, OF WHICH: In cash 0 0 0 In shares or other equivalent 0 0 0 Other 0 0 0 TOTAL ANNUAL DEFERRED VARIABLE REMUNERATION, OF WHICH: Vested 0 0 0 Non-vested 0 0 0 TOTAL AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION ADJUSTMENTS APPLIED DURING THE YEAR, FOR PERFORMANCE OR REMUNERATION AWARDED 0 0 0 IN PREVIOUS YEARS NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING SIGN-IN PAYMENT WITHIN THE YEAR 0 0 0 TOTAL AMOUNT OF SIGN-IN PAYMENTS WITHIN THE YEAR 0 0 0 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES RECEIVING SEVERANCE PAY 0 0 0 TOTAL AMOUNT OF SEVERANCE PAYMENT WITHIN THE YEAR 0 0 0 HIGHEST AMOUNT OF THE ABOVE CATEGORY PAID TO AN INDIVIDUAL 0 0 0 WITHIN THE YEAR *Note: Including severance payment amounts due to Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES). The Voluntary Exit Scheme (VES) implemented by Piraeus Group was formulated according to general criteria. The Scheme was addressed to all employees in Piraeus Bank and its Greek subsidiaries, with indefinite term employment contracts and in-house lawyers. VES severance payments were not associated with risk assumption as per the Bank of Greece Governors Act 2650/19.01.2012. The Voluntary Exit Scheme has been duly authorized by the Hellenic Financial Stability Fund (HFSF). Internal Audit System (IAS) The Bank has set up a solid Internal Audit System to ensure protection of its assets, the individual and detailed maintenance and safeguarding of its customers’ assets and to ensure the interests of its shareholders. It systematically monitors the efficiency and effectiveness of the existing System, promptly implementing the actions that may be required to constantly deal with and reduce risks as the IAS aims to not only eliminate possible risks but also deal with them effectively and in a timely manner. At the same time, the Group applies early warning mechanisms to ensure consistent implementation of the IAS in the units as well as full compliance of all parties involved with the principles and targets of the System. It is a priority for the Bank to develop and constantly upgrade the Internal Audit system, on both an individual and group level. Auditing mechanisms and procedures which cover all activities and transactions and are conducive to the Bank’s effective and safe operation –are recorded in detail and constitute the IAS. In accordance with the effective statutory framework, the IAS is supported by an integrated communication and Management Information System (MIS) as well as mechanisms which complement each other and constitute an integrated audit system of the organisational structure and the activities and the Bank as well as of the Regulations. 29 The Internal Auditor, the Audit Committee and Internal Audit are all in charge of adherence of IAS. The members of the Board of Directors have the ultimate responsibility for maintaining, monitoring and assessing the efficiency and effectiveness of IAS. They assess IAS annually and design the strategy for its improvement based on the relevant report submitted by the Bank’s Administration and on the Audit Committee’s report observations. The efficiency evaluation of IAS on a Bank and Group level is assigned to external, non-regular, chartered auditors/ accountants and takes place periodically and at least once every three years and following Audit Committee recommendation. The relevant evaluation report is made known to the Bank of Greece within the first six months of the year following the three-year expiry. For more details on IAS and Internal Audit, please refer to: Annual Financial Report 2013/Corporate Governance Statement Internal Audit The Group’s Internal Audit, , is independent and reports to the Bank’s Board of Directors, through the Audit Committee and supervises and coordinates the activities of Internal Control units in the Group subsidiaries. Within this context, in 2013, the Group’s Internal Audit: Maintained its continual observation and monitoring of branch activities in Greece and subsidiary banks in Bulgaria, Romania, Albania, Egypt, Cyprus, Serbia and Ukraine by means of the Regional Divisions’ Auditors. Continued the development of a data base using own resources aimed at electronic transaction tracing, the development of fraud identification and prevention “scenarios”, and at supporting the auditing work performed by Regional Divisions’ Auditors. Provided consulting in the development of specific Bank processes in order for them to incorporate appropriate auditing mechanisms. Participated in the development and conducting of specialised seminars on more effective operation of branches and combating fraud. Continued training and further specialisation of its resources, directing them towards appropriate professional certifications The efficiency and effectiveness (CIA, CISA, CFE, CFSA etc.) of the existing Internal Audit System Conducted internal training seminars for the new colleagues from (IAS) are systematically monitored the Greek operations of the Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank and Millennium Bank aiming to more effectively and actions that may be required incorporate them into the auditing activities and implementation of are promptly implemented the in order these in accordance with the Internal Audit’s processes. to constantly deal with and mitigate risks as the IAS aims to not only eliminate The action plan for the Group’s 2014 Internal Audit, which aims to continuously perform its duties smoothly and successfully in order to possible risks but also deal with them strengthen IAS operation in the parent Bank as well as to Group effectively and in a timely manner. subsidiaries in Greece and abroad, will place particular emphasis on the following, among others: 30 F urther developing scenarios of examination of related transactions and complete incorporation into subsidiary Bank of Cyprus’ monitoring system. Further enhancement of the monitoring processes involved in the Anti-Money Laundering system (AML) on a Greek Branch Network level. Monitoring of effectiveness and efficiency of Recovery Banking unit’s Internal Audit System. Controlling that corporate governance rules are being implemented with emphasis on monitoring of related party transactions, in accordance with the relevant requirements of the Bank’s binding RFA agreement with the HFSF. Application of quality assurance in audit processes at Group level. Support the Management for more effective monitoring of findings that remain pending Participation of Internal Audit executives of the Group as speakers at training sessions targeted mainly at Branch executives and new employees, with the aim of informing them about risks assumed while conducting transactions. Moreover, in the framework of the Bank’s support towards the shaping of a common culture in the internal audit system of the expanded Piraeus Bank branch network, the Group’s General Division of Internal Audit has committed itself to participating in the transfer of the relevant know-how at the Bank’s Regional Divisions’ meetings and in meetings to this aim both at a Manager and Branch Manager as well as at a total branch employee level. External Auditors According to the resolution of the General Meeting of Shareholders of Piraeus Bank made on 29.06.2012, the audit firm PricewaterhouseCoopers was chosen as Certified Auditors for Piraeus Bank’s stand alone and consolidated financial statements for 2013; specifically Mr. Dimitrios Sourbis (Reg. no. 16891) was appointed Regular Certified Auditor and Ms. Despina Marinou (Reg. no. 17681) as Substitute Certified Auditor. It is duly noted that the certified auditors are elected by the General Meeting of Shareholders annually and the maximum mandate may be up to five years. Certified Auditors may offer their services for a period of no more than four consecutive years and their reappointment may take place after the lapse of three consecutive years. Compliance The Group Compliance operates in the context of the “Basel II” regulatory framework and the relevant guidelines of the Bank of Greece. It is headed by the Group Compliance Officer, who is responsible for the Group’s compliance function. The Group Compliance reports directly to the Managing Director & CEO, in accordance with the Bank’s organisational chart, and is accountable to the Group’s Internal Audit in terms of the adequacy and effectiveness of the compliance procedures. Furthermore The Group Compliance has certified its processes according to ISO 9001:2008 standards. In 2013, the following actions were implemented: Management approved the new organisational structure of the Compliance Policy, with the creation of new fields of responsibility for more effective accomplishment of the increased compliance duties of the Bank. Successful incorporation under one roof of human resources of the acquired business activities (ATEbank, the Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank and Millennium Bank). Incorporations of an ex-ATEbank information system for a more effective monitoring and timely submission of regulatory reports by the Bank. Extended inspection and examination of Bank units, Bank subsidiaries and companies on money laundering and terrorist funding and compliance with the regulatory framework in general. 31 C  ompletion of risk analysis on money laundering and terrorist funding at Group level, based on a special model that was developed. Reviewed and updated the Group Compliance Policy in order to incorporate the recent amendments of the regulatory framework. Updatedthe relevant training material on regulatory compliance, in collaboration with the Group’s Human Resources and Organisational Training. In 2014, the following are expected to be implemented: Implementation of all necessary actions for compliance with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FATCA). Provision of advisory support for completion of installation of the Anti-Money Laundering system (AML) modules at subsidiary JSC Piraeus Bank ICB. Continual monitoring of the degree of implementation of corrective measures required for full compliance of Bank units and subsidiaries to the terms of the regulatory framework. Continual training of Bank employees in money laundering, terrorist funding and regulatory compliance. Enhancement of the Compliance Chart with the existing regulatory framework, which is applied at all Bank subsidiaries, for systematic monitoring of their operational compliance to this. Conduct of a quality evaluation analysis of the control environment on issues of regulatory compliance risk. For further information regarding the Group’s Compliance Policy please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.gr > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Compliance Shareholder Relations Investor and Analysts Relations Investor information is provided by the Business Planning and Investor Relations Division with the active involvement of the Top Management. Its purpose is to provide systematic and symmetrical information to individual and institutional investors regarding the course and progress of Piraeus Group. Shareholder Registry The Shareholder Registry is responsible for providing direct and symmetrical information to all shareholders, as well as assisting them in exercising their rights in accordance with the law and the Bank’s Articles of Association. Corporate Announcements Service Corporate announcements are the responsibility of the Corporate Announcements Service. It was set up in accordance with Law 3016/2002 and the Capital Market Commission’s Board resolution no. 5/204/14.11.2000, and is responsible for the Bank’s compliance with the institutional framework of this resolution. The Bank’s announcements are sent immediately to the Hellenic Exchanges in order to be recorded in the Daily Official List and to inform the investors. Shareholder Structure Piraeus Bank is a multi-shareholder company with a broad shareholder base comprised of eminent representatives of the business world, local and foreign institutional investors and numerous private investors. 32 Piraeus Bank Group has a diversified shareholder structure.On 22.04.2014 the total number of Bank shareholders was 167,000. Out of the total common shares (6,101,979,715 shares of nominal value €0.30 each) 67% was held by the HFSF and the 33% by the private sector; more specifically 30% by legal entities and 3% by individuals. Furthermore, the Bank had issued 1,344,234,800 preferred shares (77,568,134 of nominal value €4.77 each on 14.05.09 and 1,266,666,666 of nominal value €0.30 each on 30.12.11) without voting rights, to the Greek State, in accordance with Law 3723/2008. On 21.05.2014, Piraeus Bank has fully redeemed the total preference shares amounting €750mn to the Greek State. In conclusion, following the Bank’s share capital increase, by means of cash payment and contribution in kind, the HFSF issued and granted “HFSF Warrants”, in accordance with Law 3864/2010, MCA 38/2012 and MCA 6/2013. Each Warrant gives the holder right to purchase 4.47577327722 HFSF New Shares. The valid issued Warrants at the date of the publication of this report are 843,640,590. 33 SHAREHOLDERS’ Foreign Institutional Investors i Data as of 22.04.2014. 34 S tructure i Individual investors Greek Institutional Investors Hellenic Financial Stability Fund 35 C USTO M E R AND SU P P L I E R R E L AT I ONSH I P CUSTOMER R E L AT I O N S H I P Piraeus Bank’s new corporate identity Piraeus Bank responds to the challenges of the new economic and business era by constantly expanding its presence in the Greek and international environment. In 2013, following its acquisitions and successful absorption of Millennium Bank Greece as well as of the banking activities of the former networks of Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank and the Bank of Cyprus in Greece, Piraeus Bank Group formed a strong network numbering 1,037 branches and 2,023 ATMs. Having formed the largest banking group in Greece and with a complete sense of responsibility towards its existing and new customers and employees, Piraeus Bank Group promptly responded to the need for creation of a uniform, homogenous and at the same time familiar and an immediately recognizable image by applying its new corporate identity. The interconnection of the notions of stability & motion – the way in which they combine trust, experience and responsibility with progress, innovation and effectiveness – defines the Bank’s philosophy on communication in all its aspects: brand name, logo, slogan. Since its first steps, Piraeus Bank selected the trireme the emblematic ancient Greek galley with three banks of oars – as a symbol of its corporate identity: stability and dynamism, flexibility and speed, all distinctive features of the trireme, reflect perfectly the Bank’s philosophy. At the same time, the image of the trireme highlights the benefits of the collaboration and coordination of many people to achieve a common goal. 38 The design of the Bank’s new corporate identity continues to give prominence to the Bank’s corporate strategy and the values which propel its policy, by utilizing the existing symbol but redesigning it in 2 013 order to respond to the needs and demands of the new era: the trireme’s basic structure is reduced to three minimal parallel KE Y AC TIONS straight lines – the oars – enclosed in a sharp square; simple with its Optimisation of customer service Doric style, friendly with its clean design lines – it represents the Bank in its transactions with its customers; it reflects the desire through an expanded branch for honest collaboration and genuine interest in achieving it while network following the consolidation also emphasizing the high priority given to customers’ familiarisation of the 6 banks acquired in Greece with the expanded Piraeus Bank network, resulting from the Group’s and implementation of significant expansion and unification of branches, services and operations. synergies. This new, abstract depiction of the trireme also represents Piraeus Bank Group’s evolutionary dynamics. The new design preserves the Introduction of the new, innovative basic colors of the previous corporate identity – blue and yellow – contract farming product which which symbolize the sky, the sea and sunlight; the font, speciallyattracted 13 thousand producers, designed for the Bank – counterbalances with its simplicity the and 75 thousand business units austere/rigid lines of the brand name and logo, thus creating a clearly recognizable, timeless and strong visual image equal and with loans amounting to €0.4bn equivalent to Piraeus Bank Group’s position in the modern business in just one year. environment. Timely disbursement of €1.9 bn In adopting this most modern approach to shaping the corporate in loans to 660,000 farmers communication strategy, the new design offers a simpe and clear through OPEKEPE (Payment and visual message, applicable in a multitude of functions and products. Naturally, particular emphasis was placed on the study and design Control Agency for Guidance and of the brand name of the branch network and headquarters. Guarantee Community Aid). The new corporate identity is now applied to all operating forms (from cash vouchers to passbooks and cheques books), to all Support of agricultural correspondence and corporate presentation material (printed and entrepreneurship for young farmers electronic), to all means of advertising (brochures and branch through the implementation of posters, TV spots, publications in the Press, internet banners), to the a programme which includes approx.30 company websites (intranet, extranet & Internet sites), to the content of customer alternative service and information training, land provision, financing channels; the symbol’s visual dynamics enhance familiarisation and and guaranteed product purchasing further develop the customers’ bond with the largest bank in for the first three years of production. Greece. Loan disbursements totaling Relationships of trust, transparency €200mn to further enhance and responsibility liquidity of small and medium-sized Forming relationships of trust is the cornerstone of the Bank’s Greek businesses in collaboration relation with its customers. This is achieved primarily through clearly with the European Investment Bank. provided information, transparency in contractual terms and security in all types of transactions, physical and electronic. 39 K E Y A C T I ONS / TA R G E TS The Bank has adopted a self-regulation mechanism at all stages of development, promotion and distribution of its products, thus ensuring compliance to the principles of the regulatory framework Financing of or equity as well as the rules of the Code of Banking Ethics, which govern the participations in select exporting, relations between banks and customers. More specifically, the innovative companies that Bank’s product or service units are actively involved in designing are active in the areas advertising campaigns for relevant products or services, ensuring the campaign’s success without misleading the potential target of technology, energy, the group. The content and style of the campaign are evaluated and environment or with specialisation approved by the Promotion and Advertising Committee while the in niche markets. final campaign plan is communicated to the Group’s Regulatory Compliance, which ensures the content is in full compliance with the Participation once again in regulatory framework. These processes ensures that the products the ETEAN “Business Restarting” and services are advertised accurately, without exaggerations, inaccurate or misleading statements, excessive promotion or programme which finances attempts to conceal any features eliminating any possibility of working capital and investment exploiting the public’s unfamiliarity, inexperience or fears. costs of small and medium-sized businesses. The Bank provides timely and clear pre-contractual information for housing credit products; equally, for consumer credit contracts, the Bank ensures the implementation of the 2008/48 EU Directive as has been agreed on by the European Consumer Associations and the 2 014 European Credit Sector Associations. Moreover, concerning payment TA R G E T S services, the Bank fully complies with EU Directive 2007/64/EK, (Payment Systems Directive PSD). Piraeus Bank has modified and To offer customers competitive aggregated the existing General Terms concerning payment services and high-quality products into a unified agreement –the Provision on Payment Services and services. Agreement – in an attempt to make these terms fully comprehensible and clear. In all cases, when providing its services, To support funding of Greek the Bank operates strictly within the framework of the national and EU legislation as well as its internal regulations and policy. businesses with competitive terms. Piraeus Bank places particular emphasis on security of internet transactions. It was the first bank to receive ISO:9001 certification in To form solid, long-term 2004 and PCI DSS certification in 2011, the latter pertaining to collaboration with Piraeus Bank safeguarding credit cards transactions and of cardholder data. In customers. 2013, Piraeus Bank continued to offer its innovative service Piraeus Customer Protection. In case of loss, theft or suspicion of theft of personal or bank data, this service offers its holder global banking 40 TA R G E TS and insurance coverage (wallet & shopping protection),. In 2014, the Bank is planning to expand the scope of this service in order to cover more extensively the needs of the Bank’s customers. Strategic focus on the agricultural sector by providing Focusing on Individual Needs short-term and medium and Customer Support to long-term financing as well Since the beginning of the economic crisis, Piraeus Bank has been as the financing proposal for intensifying its support of its customers -both businesses and Contract Farming. It is estimated householdsfacing difficulties in repaying their loans through debt adjustment programmes for existing loans. that over 25 thousand farmers will benefit from the liquidity Individualized customer service is a priority for Piraeus Bank. The programme provided by the Bank Bank designs and provides customer-centered services tailored at all production stages, specifically to each customer’s needs, such as granting new loans or balance transfer programmes with more favorable terms. Moreover, from the commencement the Relationship Manager, a specialized bank executive responsible of cultivation to product delivery. for individualized overseeing of a customer’s overall banking The Bank’s target is for over 100 relationship, manages, among other things: regular transactions, active contracts by the end of financial “check up1”, financial planning and portfolio management. Additionally, in order to make the Bank’s products and services the year versus approx.15 accessible to non Greek citizens, specific Bank branches have in 2013. employees fluent in the equivalent languages. Forming of agreements with The Bank seeks to enhance its customers’ financial literacy to the primary governmental facilitate their access to its services. Particular emphasis is placed on bodies involved in rural customer familiarisation with terminology, thus ensuring their comprehension of special transaction and product terms, as well as development such as: the of the use of new technologies. More specifically, in 2013, through Ministry of Rural Development the Alternative Channel Promotion Programme “Save Time” -which and Food, OPEKEPE, the Greek is implemented since 2010 by the Customer Experience Agricultural Insurance Management unita significant number of customers were introduced and coached to the use of new transaction channels, Organisation (EL.G.A) and OGA achieving 2% increase in use of alternative channels and decreasing (Agricultural Insurance branch Tellers transactions. Organisation). Educating customers and the public in general focuses on issues of More effective management environmental management and sustainable development. of non performing loans, A dedicated website -Green Banking Portal (www.greenbanking. in accordance with international gr)was introduced to promote and present best practices in environmental footprint reduction and in green entrepreneurship. best practices. This website offers information on recent developments in the environment, climate change and green entrepreneurship. More effective management of loans in arrears, in accordance with international best practices. 1 A free service which by means of an easily accessible 18 question tool, advises the customer on his finances and recommends the most suitable products. 41 Extensive Branch Network and Accessibility The acquisition of the Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank and Millennium Bank increased the number of Bank branches in Greece to 1,354 initially and following the rationalisation programme to 1,037, servicing 5.8 mn customers, strengthening the Bank’s geographical presence and allowing it to offer existing and potential customers a more extensive and easily accessible network. It is notable that certain branches, operating in non-urban or sparsely-populated areas, constitute the only bank presence at local level -such as the branches in Zagliveri in Volvi, Socho in Lagada, Sikourio in Larissaor even at municipality level, such as the branch on Paxoi islands. A key concern for the bank was to ensure smooth operation of the new, extended branch network and to provide customers greater accessibility to services. The Bank takes care to improve and simplify its customers’ physical access in the branch network. More specifically, it employs special architectural design, removing obstacles from branch entrances and providing for ramps allowing access to the disabled people and people with special needs. E-banking services are being continuously optimized and simplified to appeal to the greatest possible audience. In 2013, the Bank acquired the expanded customer base of all the banks which were incorporated into the Group and, accordingly, the customers previsouly serviced by ATEbank, Hellenic Bank, the Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, and Millennium Bank have been transferred to the electronic banking platform Winbank where they have now full access to the whole range of e-services. In 2013, the Bank introduced the innovative ClicktoChat service, a totally new communication channel through which web banking customers can clarify any possible issues during a transaction within the same online environment (e.g. without sending an e-mail or switching to a different means of communication e.g. phone call). Agricultural Development, Development Programmes and Support of Entrepreneurial Innovation Piraeus Bank Group took a leading role in supporting the agricultural sector, one of the key pillars of growth of the Greek economy. Since the acquisition of ATEbank in the summer of 2012, Piraeus Bank has been expediting the implementation of the investment programmes of the National Strategic Plan for Rural Development for enhancing sector liquidity. Piraeus Bank already offers a wide range of products which cover both short-term loans for production expenses and medium to long-term loans for the investment needs of agricultural exploitation. These funding programmes include: Agricultural Entrepreneurship Fund: targeted at both new entrants to the agricultural profession, covering their capital needs for the initial setup and short-term loans to cover production needs as well as to professional farmers who seek to expand from traditional forms of organisation and operation of their production and to invest in business farming and livestock breeding. Contract Farming and Livestock Breeding Programme: aims to enhance liquidity and modernize transactions in the agricultural economy; the programme secures total production prepayment to groups of producers directed to specific industries (or buyers). Renewable Energy Sources (RES) Investment Financing for Energy-Saving in Agricultural Exploitation Programme: aims to reduce the energy cost of agricultural businesses by encouraging investment in Renewable Energy Sources (RES). Such investments include: installation of photovoltaic systems, energy production from waste and farming waste; and, waterand energy-saving facilities. 42 In addition to the above, in 2013 , the Bank provided funding to OPEKEPE -the Greek Payment Authority of Common Agricultural Policy (C.A.P.) Aid Schemesto bridge finance disbursement of funds to beneficiaries. The disbursement of the 2013 EU funds to 660 thousand farmers, totaling approx. €1.9bn, was successfully completed promptly in December 2013. The Bank can tend to farmers’ needs in issuing letters of guarantee -to receive an advance payment of the disbursement they are entitled to/or by providing loansto ensure implementation of planned investments. The Bank recognizes that recovery of Greek entrepreneurship is a means for the re-launching of the Greek economy. In the new economic reality of Greece, the Bank remains focused on its targets with realism, optimism and with full knowledge that its actions have an impact on households and businesses. In this framework, Piraeus Bank supports: The efforts towards Greek economic restructuring. Every initiative that supports entrepreneurship, competitiveness and improved productivity of businesses and sectors. Its 7mn customers, according to their individual needs and demands. Moreover, in 2013 as well, Piraeus Bank invested in innovative Greek companies with a clear competitive advantage and exporting character. These include: Advent Technologies, active in cutting edge fuel cell technology HT-PEMF (High Temperature Proton Membrane Fuel Cell) and UNISMACK ABEE-Food Industry (Brand name: Wellaby’s) based in Kilkis. These companies were supported through Piraeus-TANEO Capital Fund of Piraeus Capital Management. Piraeus-TANEO Capital Fund invests in innovative companies which are active in the global competitive environment. The Fund has already supported 7 companies since 2009. Newly-founded IT companies, with competitive prospects in the global technology market, were included in the funding programmes by means of a new venture capital fund the JEREMIE Technology Catalyst Fund (“PJ Tech Catalyst”). In 2013, PJ Tech Catalyst invested as a shareholder in 7 newly-founded companies. Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship ‘Excelixi’ In the framework of effective support of responsible entrepreneurship in Greece, Piraeus Bank Group founded in January 2013 the Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship ‘Excelixi’, a hub for developing entrepreneurship in critical sectors of the Greek economy, with the aim of promoting sustainable growth, innovation and economic reconstruction of the Greek economy. In this direction, ‘Excelixi’ builds on Piraeus Bank Group’s know-how to offer its customers 360-degree service with non-financial products and services. At the same time, it creates synergies with established agencies in these sectors in order to provide innovative services on issues of sustainable entrepreneurship to businesses. ‘Excelixi’ designs and implements innovative training programmes and provides advisory services with a focus on the emerging sectors of the economy: Green Entrepreneurship, Contemporary Rural Development, Electronic Business, Entrepreneurship and Innovation. With these targets in 2013, ‘Excelixi’, a certified center of Lifelong Learning, focused on training in subjects as Contemporary Rural Development and Green Entrepreneurship. More specifically, it initiated the Integrated Development Programme of Rural Development for Youths, as part of the Contemporary Rural Development Training cycle which Piraeus Bank Group undertook with the aim of strengthening agricultural entrepreneurship for youths. It is a pioneering programme targeted at individuals under 35 and who seek to develop business activities in the agricultural sector, adopting responsible farming and sustainable entrepreneurship practices. The Programme provides participants with farming land, the necessary farming and business training, setup funding as well as securing purchasing of products for the first three years of production. Moreover, it provides consultation by the Group’s experts in agricultural and financial matters. The Center of Sustainable Entrepreneurship received a total of 1,765 applications and following their evaluation, 100 successful applicants were selected; in December 2013 to attend and complete a 120-hour training. 43 With regard to Training in Co-financed EU Programmes, ‘Excelixi’, in collaboration with the Ministry of Interior, carried out training of Civil Servants (mainly Police Officers) on intercultural issues. In particular, a total of 150 Civil Servants and Police Officers received 50 hours of training in 5 cities from Excelixi’s Center of Lifelong Learning Level. Additionally, ‘Excelixi’ provided the Group with the necessary support services for the operation of the Group’s Training Center at Kastri Hotel, thus ensuring excellent and proficient implementation of the particularly demanding training programme in 2013. Continuous Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Since 2001, Piraeus Bank systematically conducts customer satisfaction surveys annually. Through this process the Bank gathers valuable information which is based around its customers’ satisfaction regarding its services and products both overall and in particular customerperception indices. Ot is Piraeus Bank’s constant aim to maintain a high degree of customer satisfaction. The survey for the year 2013 was conducted by the market research company TNS, in a sample of 15,300 Piraeus’ customers via phone interviews, thus covering geographically a great part of the Greek periphery. It should be noted that this survey is the first measurement post the completion of the absorption of all banking operations that were acquired by Piraeus Bank in Greece in 2013. Regarding the overall customer experience of Piraeus Bank, the results are positive, as 58% of the interviewed customers assessed their overall experience with the Bank as “excellent / very good” and 33% as “good” while only 1.5% evaluated it as being “bad”. Although in recent years, and particularly in Greece the public maintains relatively a negative attitude towards banking institutions, eight out of ten customers prefer “strongly” to “very strongly” Piraeus Bank than any other bank. Focusing on the Bank’s distribution channels and the overall customer satisfaction regarding the servicing experience provided by their main branch, both staff politeness and expertise scored high. In terms of “providing complete information from the beginning on the terms of the transaction” a measurement of transparency it is worth mentioning that only 1% of the total customers that were interviewed perceive their total experience as a “bad” whereas 67% of the customers grade it as “excellent/very good”. It should be pointed out that when the survey is conducted, customers are asked to identify areas of improvement in the standard of service provided by the Bank, and the information collected is used by the Bank to implement respective corrective actions. Systematic procedures are incorporated to improve the overall experience of customer contacting in all distribution channels of the Bank. Specifically, the unit Customer Intelligence & Experience has implemented and continues the following actions: Programme promoting alternative channels “Save Time”: The programme, aimed at sustainable cost reduction customer service of the store by promoting them to use alternative channels ATM, APS and web banking, achieved in 2013 the training of a significant number of customers to these new ways of service, increasing the rate of migration of transactions from the tellers towards alternative channels by 3%, compared to that of 2% that was achieved in 2012. In 2014 the programme will continue aiming to promote additional 5% migration of transaction in alternative channels, while the promotion of web banking will be done incorporating tablets in a large number of branches. In the context of customer-centric approach in management, servicing and customer experience, Piraeus Bank, in 2013, enhanced the retail 44 customer segmentation. Furthermore following the migration of all acquired banking operations the Bank proceeded with the mapping of all major retail clients into groups of customers with specific and distinct characteristics between them. As a result of this segmentation is the application of SNA (Social Network Analysis) for all retail customers, ie recognition of all networks amongst clients and the emergence of a leader in them. Both the segmentation and the SNA contribute to a more targeted communication with customers and servicing them more effectively. In 2013 the Piraeus Bank, was the first bank in the domestic and the Balkan market, that launched Marketing Automation, by installing one of the leading platforms worldwide. The system will be integrated by the end of 2014 to all distribution channels and applications that service operations of the Bank. This new system has many advantages, as it allows for a simultaneous launch new products (several parallel campaigns) through all channels of the Bank and the expansion of the customer base, while making the large number of customers of the Bank. The effectiveness of promotional activities reached 22% in 2013, covering the 4th consecutive year of increase since 2010. During 2013, the Bank continued its programme “Voice of the Customer” with the aim of disseminating a single customer-oriented culture within the Bank and provide a superior level of customer experience. The implementation of the programme is a useful tool for collecting and analyzing information in a structured way of the customer’s experience through products and services provided by the Bank. It also helps in processing important information about developing future products and services and potential growth opportunities. Within this context, during 2013 Piraeus Bank enhanced the application of programmes encompassing the pilot in selected branches of its network. In 2014 the overall implementation in the total branch network, as part of special project is of high value for Bank. PIRAEUS BANK’S OVERALL EXPERIENCE RATING 17 41 33 7 21 Overall Experience 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Excellent Very Good Good Moderate Poor Ν/Α Degree of preference of Piraeus Bank over any other Bank 12 22 47 13 3 2 Degree of Preference 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Absolutely Very strongly Strongly Slightly Not at all Ν/Α Note: Percentages are rounded to the nearest integer number. 45 Additionally, Piraeus Bank, having started in 2012 the systematic recording and categorizing complaints resulting from their customers, through the programme “Multichannel Management Customer Complaint” managed to record customer satisfaction by determining the real cause of the problem/complaint, and timely response in addressing them. In 2013, a mechanism was established for daily briefing on complaints that are filed by customers via the Bank’s call centre of the Bank. While at the same time the appropriate product and support units incorporated actions to minimize the occurrence of similar complaints with “dual” benefit for both the Bank and the customer i.e. reduction of hours that were focused in managing such complaint on one hand and increase customer satisfaction on the other. Assessment of overall customer service per distribution channel 100% 2 1 1 2 2 2 1 1 3 5 5 5 8 3 4 15 13 22 20 80% 27 28 27 25 36 60% 42 39 38 38 38 38 39 40% 46 20% 42 37 35 29 28 28 27 0% Politeness Knowledge Providing Provide advise/ Resolution Speed of service WEB BANKING ATM-Cash of Staff of Staff complete recommendation of problems availability and accurate information Other Branch distribution channels EXCELLENT VERY GOOD GOOD MODERATE POOR Note: Percentages are rounded to the nearest interst number. 46 Customer Service and Ombudsman for Banking-Investment Services In compliance with the institution of the Banking Ombudsman, the Code of Banking Ethics as well as the Governor’s Act 2501 of the Bank of Greece, Piraeus Bank Group has set up a Customer Service unit, tasked with resolving customer issues extrajudicially, while its scope embraces all products and services which are provided by the Bank. In 2013, along with the acquisitions the took place, all the necessary actions that were required in order to incorporate a unified policy were also implemented by the Bank. The Customer Service and Ombudsman’s mandate is to review and manage any grievances or complaints addressed to the Bank by customers and at the same time follow quality standards which are defined by it’s institutional framework. In consideration of the above, the Customer Service also ensures that there is continuous training of the staff of the newly acquired branches through tailored made training programmes, while the daily management and communication is facilitated through an electronic workflow platform in which the branches, the Branch Regional Directorates and other Business Units, have access with a view of an effective cooperation in resolving issues within the allotted time. All cases which are forwarded to Customer Service are analyzed quantitatively and qualitatively to reach conclusions, in identifying potential areas for improvement which in turn will be communicated to the Bank’s management and appropriate units and hence participating in recognizing causes of problems that trouble the relationship amongst customers and Piraeus Bank. The Customer Service, representing, single contact point after the acquisitions that took place, is in communication on a regular daily basis with bodies (Hellenic Ombudsman for Banking-Investment ServicesHOBIS, Consumer Ombudsman, General Secretariat for Consumer Affairs) aiming to address matters through the exchange of views and proposals. According to the data announced by HOBIS , Piraeus Bank’s share of customer cases of their total that were addressed to banking institutions was recorded at 24% in complaints that were filed in a written form and 20% of the total case that were in filed by phone. The aforementioned shares are considered being at a satisfactory level given the high market shares that Piraeus holds in the Greek market of deposits and loans (29% and 30% respectively). From the data analysis for the year 2013, but also when data is compared to the 2012 (including the corresponding cases stemming from the acquired banking operations), one can draw conclusions which are related to all Customer Services, including those from the acquired operations. At the same period of the systemic integrations, necessary steps were implemented to existing procedures in order to incorporate a uniform policy regarding: The handling of customer cases, according to the existing procedure for managing complaints which has been adopted by Piraeus Bank The operation of the Customer Service in cooperation with the other business units of the Group. Updating the personnel stemming from the recently acquired banking operations regarding relevant processes and communication systems. In 2013, a 17% increase was recorded in customer cases compared to the same period in 2012. Both the number of cases and the nature of the issues are in line with the economic downturn and the general situation of the Greek economy and society. The decline in the income, and businesses, the rise of unemployment and the information received from consumers by other organisations significantly affect the way in which customers perceive fees and commissions related to their transactions, but also the terms and conditions and obligations stemming from them. Particularly issues regarding customer privacy, it is noted that in 2013 there were two filed cases originating from one of the acquired banks which during their investigation proved to be only allegations. 47 89% of customers choose to communicate the issues that concern them directly to the Bank, avoiding the intervention of third parties. The high percentage reflects that banking customers are familiar with the process, and they trust it. The Customer Service intervening acts, aim to resolve the issues in an unbiased manner, with objectivity and with guidance in strengthening a relationship of mutual trust to resolve the issues that have emerged. It should be noted that after the completion of the review and the Bank’s initial response to the customer request from Customer Service, only 3% of the customers who submitted applications in 2013 chose to return with another filed request or contact other mediating institutions. At the same time, due to the increasing number of formal complaints to the relevant agencies (General Secretariat for Consumers, Hellenic Consumers’ Ombudsman, Ombudsman for Banking and Investment Services), the Customer Service unit submitted a proposal to amend the policy currently implemented concerning customer payroll account charges for payment of overdue loans. The approval of this proposal resulted in changes in management of this issue. 48 Distribution of filed customer cases per product category Piraeus Bank Greece (2013 2012) 2013 2012 Change % % PPTSii Deposits 14 14 Loans 67 57 +10 Investment and Structured Products 4 5 -1 Funds Transfers/ Payments 4 6 -2 Other 11 18 -7 Total 100 100 Origination of filed complaintsi Piraeus Bank Greece (2013 2012) 2013 2012 Change % % PPTSii Directly by Customer 89 88 1 HOBIS 4 4 0 Consumer’s Protection Authority 0 0 0 Consumer’s Secretariat 4 4 0 Consumer’s Ombudsman 1 2 -1 E.K.POI.ZOConsumer’s Union for quality in life 0 0 0 Other consumer protection organisations 1 2 -1 Legal authoritIES 0 0 0 Other bodies 1 1 0 Customer addressed complaint to multiple recipients 1 0 1 Total 100 100 i D  ue to the acquisitions, Piraeus Bank adopted a series of assumptions in order to categorise uniformly the aforementioned data for comparability reasons between 2013 and 2013. ii Τhe change is displayed in ppts (percentage points). 49 S upplier R elationship Piraeus Bank evaluates collaboration proposals and financial offers submitted by potential business partners and suppliers are evaluated on the basis of specific, objective and measurable criteria, such as the quality to price ratio, reliability and market position. There are uniform procedures which apply to all suppliers. Collaboration with Piraeus Bank’s supplier relations all existing suppliers and business partners is regularly evaluated and are governed by the principle of revised, so as to maintain effective collaborations and high-quality services. merit-based selection and are based on established criteria and selection In an effort to ensure smooth and transparent supply management, processes, which are incorporated in for both products and services to the Group, the “Group the responsibilities of the Group Procurement Regulation” has been adopted, which defines relations with existing and potential suppliers, contains the rules and basic Engineering Project Management principles on all products and services supplied, and describes the & Administration Support Division and manner in which supply requests of all Group organisational units in the relevant Group’s Outsourcing are handled to cover their operational needs. Policy. Moreover, evaluation criteria It should be noted that the Group Procurement Regulation is concerning active contribution governed by the rules and principles as they are described in the towards safeguarding of the section “Outsourcing” of “Piraeus Bank Group Regulatory principles are met. Compliance Policy”, pursuant to Governor’s Act 2577/2006 of the Bank of Greece. 50 This Regulation is uniformly applied to the entire Group (Piraeus Bank and subsidiaries both in Greece and abroad). Its basic goals are: The formation of a regulatory framework, through which transparent and clear supply processes take place. Uniformity in procurement management throughout the Group. Definition of quantitative and qualitative specifications for all products and services supplied. Mitigation of operational and credit risks which might arise from collaboration with suppliers. Timely supply of products and services to the Group’s Organisational Units. Restraining the cost of supplying products and services, by using e-auctions. Formation of long-term collaborations with suppliers who are evaluated on a regular basis. Establishment of a uniform contractual framework and its enforcement on prospective suppliers and external partners. Definition of a cooperation framework between the organisational units involved in the supply management. In line with its efforts to support local economies and communities and to reduce transportation of goods thus limiting its environmental footprint, the Bank ensures that almost 100% its procurements are made by local suppliers with the exception of furniture, cashier counters and signs, for which the Group has signed a global contract in order to maintain a uniform corporate identity. A central supplier list is maintained by the Piraeus Bank Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support Division and is revised annually and approved by the Group’s Expenses Committee. Indicatively, in 2013, the Piraeus Bank Group Engineering Project Management & Administration Support Division supplier list reached 2,757, of which 2,554 had a budget of under €26,000 (excl.VAT), with the remainder 203 over €26,000. 51 HU M AN R E SOU R C E S HUMAN RESOURCES Piraeus Bank Group operates fully acknowledging that human 2 013 resources constitute a key success factor for any organised activity KE Y AC TIONS aimed at achieving Group strategic goals. It perceives human resource management as a complete set of actions and operations Intensification of coordinated undertaken in order to acquire, retain and utilise skilled employees actions aimed at the smooth who successfully and productively execute their tasks. Excellent integration of former employees staffing according to business needs and the creation of strong relations with employees are both key points of the Group’s from ATEbank, Hellenic Bank, philosophy. At the same time, special emphasis is placed on issues of Cyprus Popular Bank, the Bank of morality, trust, devotion, team spirit in the workplace as well as Cyprus, and Millennium Bank into human resource development. the Group. In 2013, the Bank reaffirmed its commitment towards its employees 95% coverage of vacant positions and ensured job positions, full-employment contracts, support and strengthening of human resources with pioneering training in the Group through internal reassignments and promotions. 54 K E Y A C T I ONS programs, support and empowerment of its people and recruitment procedures free of discriminations adopting specific candidate selection systems. Utilisation of the entire Human Following the acquisitions of the domestic banking activities of the Resources integrated into Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank and Piraeus Bank Group, with 16.3% acquisition of Millennium Bank Greece and fully aligned with the in higher and top management Group’s strategic goals, a uniform policy was applied to allow for smooth and successful transition of employees to the new positions. combined form of the Group. Provision of Employee Support Programs for all Bank employees Commitment to Safeguarding and utilization of these Human Rights by Bank subsidiaries in Cyprus Piraeus Bank has adopted the principles of the UN Global Compact and Serbia. for the protection of human rights, applies equal opportunity principles to all its actions and is opposed to any form of Implementation of actions aimed discrimination, inequality and all forms of harassment in the workplace. All the Bank’s policies, procedures and human resource at support of the young management practices are governed by respect for human rights. generation, with a focus on career Thus, the Bank ensures that there is no room left for orientation for Group employees’ discrimination, while at the same time individuality is recognised children, on promotion of youth and promoted. entrepreneurship and cultural All employees have access to the Group’s fully-defined Human awareness. Rights Policy on the internal internet contact point (intranet). Implementation of uniform In 2013, there were four incidents of human rights violation, which performance review policies and was dealt with in accordance with the established procedures for tools to at least 85% of the complaint management. Group. Dissemination of the Policy is achieved through systematic training Securing over 97% retention rate of the Group’s human resources in Greece and abroad and has a twofold aim: to inform and sensitize. for talents in the Bank. In this framework, in 2013 emphasis was placed on redesigning Ensuring 38 training hours the e-learning training unit “Human Rights in Piraeus Bank Group”, per Group employee on average which was attended by 134 Group employees. and 46 hours on average at bank level. At the same time, human rights issues and protection thereof were once again a separate course in the curriculum of the Accomplishment of 90 volunteer Management Academy. The study material of these courses is based on the six fundamental principles of human rights according actions with the participation to the UN Global Compact and ILO Conventions: Forced Labour, of 3,821 employees. Child Labour, Equal Opportunities, Collective Bargaining, Health and Safety at Work and Working Conditions. 55 K E Y A C T I ONS / TA R G E TS Expanded and more in-depth employee training in e-Banking and Green Banking. In the framework of ensuring equal opportunities, in 2013, 99% of new mothers who requested it, utilized their cumulative leave after With the key target being their maternity leave; 63% took up to 3.5 months of cumulative the preservation of jobs as well leave, 25% took 6 months and 12% took 9 months. as ensuring the Group’s In addition, with the aim of actively contributing to the protection of long-term prosperity, Piraeus the principles of human rights, specific evaluation criteria have been Bank’s Voluntary Exit Scheme designed for its partners and suppliers. was implemented with the www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Corporate Governance > participation of 2,114 employees Human Resources > Commitment of Safeguarding Human Rights at Group level. Number of People Working 2 014 at Piraeus Group TA R G E T S At the end of 2013, with the incorporation of employees from the Cypriot banks (Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank) Focus on issues of operational and of Millennium Bank, Piraeus Bank Group employed 22,509 (of which 9,614 were men and 12,895 were women) versus 18,597 integration and common culture in 2012. Piraeus Bank in Greece employed 14,084 employees versus of Group employees. 9,604 in 2012. In total, at the end of 2013, the Group employed 16,558 people in Greece -versus 12,365 a year before5,952 Conduct of Employee Culture people abroad, versus 6,232 in 2012. Survey. The average age of the Group’s employees is 39 years; 82% of 95% coverage of vacant positions employees is 45 years old or younger. The age distribution of human in the Group through internal resources of the Group facilitates the introduction and application reassignments and promotions. of changes to the technological infrastructure, to the methods and to the target setting. The percentage of employees who possess Implementation of uniform university degrees or even postgraduate titles amounts to 75% in Greece and 84% in the subsidiaries abroad. performance review policies and tools to at least 85% of the Furthermore, the Group employs 209 people through third-party Group. companies, of which 116 men (56%) and 93 women (44%), as well as 56 people (equally divided in men and women) with payment through services-rendered invoice. 56 TA R G E TS Additionally, in 2013 the Group had 117 seasonal employees, of which 75 were men (64%) and 42 were women (46%). 93% of seasonal employees was employed during April-October 2013. Securing over 97% retention rate for talents in the Bank. For further information regarding the Group’s organisational chart and detailed presentation of the individual operations please refer Design of a target-setting system to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Investor Relations > Corporate Governance > Organisational Chart and its interconnection to employees’ annual evaluation. Distribution per Employment Type Ensuring 40 training hours and Contract per employee on average Piraeus Bank Group employs 99.8% (9,598 men and 12,858 in the Bank women) of its people on a full-time basis and 98% on an indefinite time contract (9,353 men and 12,651 women). The equivalent Bank Active use of the webinar percentages are 100% and 99.9% respectively. Moreover, 100% e-training system in 5% of the of Piraeus Bank employees receive as a minimum the compensation training man-hours. and benefits agreed to in the employment contracts that resulted from collective bargaining while at Group level, this percentage Technological and operational is 78%. upgrading of the central HR management system. Promoting Equal Opportunities for Career Development Accomplishment of 120 2013 was a milestone year for the course, quality and size of the volunteer actions with 4,500 Group as well as for its position in the banking sector, due to the size employee participation; of the absorptions made. With transparency and merit as the focal training of all Group employees point and with a strong sense of responsibility, the Group’s operational needs were covered by placing people in positions which on Volunteerism and Corporate correspond to their experience. Of the total Cypriot and Millennium Responsibility, by means bank employees integrated into the new organisational chart, of e-learning. 16.3%2 were placed in senior and top management positions (Q1 2014 data) while in the branch network, 34.6%2 of positions of Extension of Employee responsibility were covered by the absorbed banks. Support Programmes at Group Once again in 2013, the equal opportunities policy of the Bank and level and focus on prevention, its clear orientation towards the effective development of its people, promotion of health and enabled new managers to develop and get promoted, covering safeguarding against positions that arose mainly from the Voluntary Exit Scheme. psychosocial risk in the Regarding career advancement, irrespective of level of management, 434 persons, of which 242 men (56%) and 192 workplace. women (44%), were promoted. Concerning Group subsidiaries abroad, 285 persons, of which 83 men (29%) and 202 women Systematic implementation (71%), were promoted. of actions promoting support of the young generation. 2 R eference period Q1 2014. 57 Selecting the Right People for the Right Roles For Piraeus Bank, respect of human value, ethos and integrity of character carry special weight. This is reflected in the philosophy and practices of human resources management, starting from the selection and recruitment stage. For the purpose of candidate selection and evaluation, the Group uses a set of standard tools, which vary according to the candidate’s level of education and experience and which ensure a transparent and objective recruitment procedure. The tools include job simulation exercises, competency tests, occupational personality questionnaires and a structured interview. This active policy has contributed to optimal utilisation of the existing human resources based on their skills and knowledge. More specifically, in 2013, the need arose to cover 1,249 positions. Of the 1,089 positions covered, 95% (1,039 positions) were covered with internal reallocations (by the Bank or other Group companies) and promotions; only 5% of positions were covered by external hirings due to the need for completely specialised positions – of these, 56% were men and 44% women. Coverage of vacant positions and assumption of new job roles by means of employee positioning/upgrading is mainly achieved through an integrated process which promotes transparency and meritocracy. Special emphasis is placed on issues of morality, trust, loyalty, team spirit and acceptance of diversity in the workplace. Employee development is an intrinsic part of the Group’s culture. Consequently, there is continuous enhancement of a working environment which provides equal opportunities irrespective of gender, age, religion, nationality or physical ability; in the framework of open communication and adhesion to selection and staffing procedures, the following are applied: Open communication of vacancies and fully transparent selection processes. Development and career incentives to all employees in combination with each individual’s prospects for development. Assessment & Development Centres are used for middle and senior management roles. It should be noted that as far as new hirings are concerned, the Group places particular emphasis on local candidates, thus achieving: strengthening of the local communities where it operates as well as better understanding of the local needs, leading to achievement of business goals. 99% of the Branch Managers in the Greek region meet the criterion of locality. Piraeus Bank Group makes great Moreover, expatriation is encouraged, with the posting of employees effort to cover internally any arising to Group subsidiaries abroad for optimal coverage of staffing needs hiring needs, giving priority to the with experienced and able executives. In 2013, at Group level there existing human resources. were 36 international assignments active in 6 countries, of which 6 were new assignments that commenced during the year. The Therefore, most business needs are average duration of an international assignment is 3.6 years. covered by internal staff reallocations. The Group seeks to cover specialised executive needs by means of expatriation of executives to subsidiaries abroad, wherever the 58 Group has presence, while at the same time providing opportunities for development of people with high potential and competitiveness in the market. In 2013, the Human Resources unit was faced with the More specifically, with expatriates, the following are targeted: particularly important task Coverage of positions in countries with Group presence, where the of incorporating the 6,248 local market does not provide executives with the required knowledge or experience. employees from the acquisition Transfer of technical and professional know-how, experience and of the banking activities of best practices. the Cypriot banks in Greece and Development of the local executives of subsidiaries abroad as well of Millennium Bank employees as preparing them for succession to the positions. Promotion of common Group culture, policies and procedures in into the Piraeus Bank Group. countries of Group presence. The key principles that were Acquirement of significant experiences by executives and strengthened in this process were enhancement of their management of complex situations in a foreign environment, to be transferred later to the Group as the new employees’ active value-added expertise with their repatriation or through a new participation in the Group’s assignment to another international subsidiary. operation right from the start and the offer of opportunities for high www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Human Resources > Career Staffing & Professional Development > Staffing performance and creativity. Employee Turnover Driven by a deep sense of responsibility and with the key target being the preservation of jobs as well as ensuring the Group’ and the human resource’s long-term prosperity, Piraeus Bank Group implemented the Voluntary Exit Scheme during the second half of 2013. The Scheme was offered to all Group employees in Greece, with a 13% participation rate in total, 2,114 employees participated (2,093 persons in 2013 and 21 in early 2014); of the 2,114 employees, 1,081 were men (51%) and 1,033 women (49%). 79% of the Scheme’s participants (1,663 persons) were from the Bank, with participation being almost equally divided between Branch Network and Central Units employees. Additionally, all participants to the Scheme were given the opportunity to utilise the Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) advisory services as well as career orientation advice for their children. As far as voluntary turnover is concerned, Piraeus Bank Group recorded a 3% rate in 2013, (excluding Voluntary Exit Scheme participants). At Bank level, the voluntary turnover rate amounted to less than 1% with no gender differentiation. Human Resources Communication Philosophy 2013 was a milestone year for Piraeus Bank Group, given the large scale of absorptions that occurred and the need for timely and accurate information dissemination throughout the organisation, integration of new employees, their motivation and empowerment, by means of two-way communication with Management. 59 In this framework, the organisation’s Intranet was utilised once again as a key tool for internal communication. Through this dynamic communication channel, employees have access to daily information on HR issues, infrastructure, procedures, benefits, as well as the possibility of receiving guidance from specialized scientific associates on issues that concern them. By year-end 2013, Piraeus Bank Group’s Intranet had unified the equivalent websites of the Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, the Hellenic Bank and Millennium Bank Greece. A new series of innovative communication tools is being organizsed, with the aim of shaping a common corporate culture and forming solid foundations of internal dialogue and information. Investing in People’s Development Piraeus Bank Group consistently invests in the development and improvement of its employees’ competencies and skills, creating a learning and development environment, aiming to bring out the full potential of its people. The use of standard efficiency criteria, incorporated into the advanced evaluation systems used by Piraeus Bank Group, enables the alignment of human resources performance with the Group’s strategic goals. The performance appraisal procedure ensures continuous communication and guidance of employees by their managers, and creates the framework for recognizing individual contribution. Similarly, employees are given the opportunity to make self-assessment and then review their evaluation and openly express their views prior to the finalisation of the procedure. Annual performance appraisals based upon the above procedure were applied to 92% of the Bank and subsidiary employees in Greece in 2013. In subsidiaries abroad, these appraisals were undertaken for 4,273 employees, of a total of 5,550 (77%). At Group level, the above performance review system was applied to 85% of total employees. In the framework of actions pertaining to the shaping of a common corporate culture and homogenizing of Human Resources following the merger of five banks, in 2013 overall combined actions were undertaken in the form of workshops and with the aim of developing a common work profile, work standards and commitment to customers, partners and society. At the same time, the high level of training employees received significantly contributed to effective and high-quality customer service and to achievement of the Group’s business goals in a The Group continued to invest difficult economic environment last year. extensively in the training of employees and also in raising their In full alliance with its strategy, in 2013 the Group designed and implemented high-added value training actions in the awareness of issues related to fraud direction of: and corruption, with 3,999 Ensuring smooth operational integration, by means of new IT receiving training in these issues. systems and uniform procedures and products. Enhancement of alignment of the employee value and behavior systems promoting a new, uniform culture. 60  onformity with the existing legal and regulatory framework and the Group’s systematic coverage against any possible risks (operational, C credit, market). Continued operation and further promotion of a complete skills development system, consisting of specially designed “Academies”. In total, 846,457 training man-hours were recorded in Piraeus Bank Group in 2013 (of which 161,466 in subsidiaries abroad) while 4,351 training courses (in-house and external) were organized or attended. More specifically, at Group level, 38 training man-hours per person on average were recorded (34 man-hours on average for men and 40 man-hours for women), with the number of Group employees to have attended at least one training course reaching 82%. The respective figures for Piraeus Bank were 46 training man-hours per person (42 on average for men and 48 for women), while 87% of employees participated in at least one training course during the year. Allocation of Training Man-Hours (MH) piraeus bank HIGHER & TOP MANAGEMENT MIDDLE MANAGEMENT OTHER EMPLOYEES MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN PEOPLE 178 67 253 160 5,664 7,788 training 3,329 1,506 11,680 8,055 240,637 377,291 MAN-HOURS AVERAGE 19 22 46 50 42 48 MAN-HOURS 61% of training man-hours at Group level were aimed at women and 39% at men. Distribution according to the Group’s internal hierarchy was as follows: 69% of training man-hours were aimed at employees, 30% at middle and senior management (Branch Managers, Managers, Senior Managers and Heads of Central Units) and 1% at top management (Assistant General Managers and higher). In the framework of integrating the banking systems of Piraeus Bank, 2,935 people from the branch network received training in specially designed 8-day programmes. Moreover, special e-learning programmes were designed and they were attended by 2,637 employees. Particular emphasis was placed by the Group to issues of Regulatory Compliance and antfraud and anti-corruption. By means of the Piraeus Bank Group Compliance Policy, which is posted on the Bank’s internal communication channel (Intranet), and by continuously training its employees, the Group seeks to define, determine and prevent: the risk of legal and supervisory sanctions, financial losses, damage to Group’s reputation, all of which may be incurred by the Group and/or its stakeholders as a result of nonor partial compliance to laws, supervisory authorities’ decisions, self-regulatory rules and the codes of ethics. More specifically, in 2013, all Piraeus Bank Branch executives received training in issues of Regulatory Compliance. At Group level, 56,053 training man-hours were recorded in regulatory compliance, anti-fraud and anti-corruption. Participant numbers reached 3,981, of which 1,737 were men (41%) and 4,930 women (59%); with regard to distribution according to the Group’s internal hierarchy, 148 senior and top executives, 1,889 middle-level executives and 6,302 other employees received training. Respectively, at Bank level, participants reached 3,981 persons, of which 1,737 were men (44%) and 2,244 women (56%), distributed hierarchically as follows: 9 senior and top executives, 1,094 middle-level executives and 2,878 other employees. 61 In 2013, 70 employees of Piraeus Bank were certified in providing specialised insurance advice and 168 employees were certified in financial investment services. In addition, the Bank, steadily oriented towards employee development and at ensuring the Group’s business continuity, implemented a series of training activities aimed at developing and further enhancing managerial and leadership skills. Specifically in 2013: Thirty (30) executives (6 of which expatriates) completed the “Branch Network Management Academy”. 23 (77%) of those executives were appointed to new roles. The “Management Academy”, which is attended by 170 middle and senior level managers, continued successfully A 3-month training programme entitled “School of Management” and aimed at enhancing the participants’ ability to fulfill their role as heads of units was implemented for middle-level managers. Six sessions of the programme were completed amounting to a total of 2,472 classroom training man-hours for the 104 participants who attended. 43 Bank executives and 100 from subsidiaries abroad were assigned to the “Stepping Up to Management” e-learning programme; 39 Bank executives and 75 from subsidiaries abroad were assigned to the “Harvard Manage Mentor” programme, which is certified by the prominent Harvard Business School Publishing. Emphasis was also placed on training the Bank’s human resources in corporate social responsibility issues. More specifically, the following were reinforced: safeguarding of human rights and equal opportunities, management of operational risk associated with human factor and management of traumatic event associated with robberies at branches. Finally, employees who participated in volunteer social and environmental actions received the relevant training through focused programmes. E-learning proved once again a major foothold for training workforce. There was increased use of e-learning with 234,174 training man-hours at Group level. It should be noted that a high percentage of participation in e-learning courses is recorded in the framework of integrated modular courses, implemented with the combined use of classroom, e-learning courses or other learning means. In international subsidiaries, 69,465 man-hours of e-learning/distance learning were recorded, with equivalent participants numbering 20,074. The Group uses benchmarking with other organisations so as to keep With the aim of enhancing alternative learning methods and compensation and benefits knowledge dissemination, in 2013 the Bank inaugurated a new at a competitive level and according e-learning platform to which all the Greek HR was immediately incorporated, with continuation of the previous platform to cover all to the level of experience, the needs of subsidiaries abroad. knowledge and skills. In conclusion, in 2013, 109 individual training programmes and development plans were designed and executed. 62 Talent Management and Retention Recognizing that one of the key factors of success is its people, Piraeus Bank Group ensures the constant development and the best possible use of its talented employees’ skills and abilities, via a variety of actions. In addition to retention of high potential employees, emphasis is placed on enhancing management of the talents’ dynamic characteristics, of business excellence conditions as well as of a culture positively inclined towards change. Recognition of the added value of performance which differentiates itself by creating new standards of excellence is a vital factor in shaping practices regarding high-performance management. HR Management Systems The integrated human resources management system (HRMS) remains the core platform for managing human resources information thus ensuring automation of the relevant procedures. In 2013, emphasis was placed on the particularly demanding project of employee data migration of all employees stemming from the acquired banking operations that took place that year. The ultimate goal was to achieve unification of all HR management processes into the consolidated platform. Goals set for 2014 are the technological and operational upgrading of the Human Resource Management System (HRMS) as well as its enrichment with possibilities which will contribute to increased productivity, speedier decision-making and homogenisation of the organisation’s culture. Providing a Modern and Safe Working Environment Piraeus Bank complies with the legislative regulations regarding employees’ health and safety. Fully respecting its legal obligations and the importance of the issue, and showing particular sensitivity to employees’ physical and mental health, the Bank takes care to provide a modern, healthy and safe workplace. During 2013, there were no accidents or injuries at Piraeus Bank. Aiming to reduce the psychosocial risk and its effects in the workplace, the Group has created an integrated system of prevention, evaluation and management of the risk by means of specific tools, programmes and services. In the above framework, measurement, evaluation and effective management of absenteeism in the workplace is ensured by means of a specially designed survey. For further information regarding health and safety at the work place, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr > Human Resources > Human Resource Management > Work Environment Rewarding Human Resources On the basis of the equal opportunities policy, no discriminations are made in the definition of minimum wages between men and women, nor in the various hierarchy levels or age groups. With the aim of improved performance and efficiency, employees’ additional effort is recognized and rewarded. It should be noted that the incentives provided are aligned with the regulatory framework of operation for Financial Institutions and executives’ remuneration is shaped in accordance with the principles that are against the assumption of excessive risks and against the promotion of immediate profit when this inhibits the achievement of long-term goals. 63 Maintaining competitive benefits is particularly difficult in this critical economic climate. Nevertheless, group benefits covering basic and essential employee needs remain at competitive levels and Assistance Programmes for employees and their families continue unabated. In these difficult times incentives of qualitative value which place emphasis on employee development are being implemented more than ever.. Such types of incentives include: training, ethical rewards, enrichment of knowledge /experiences in different aspects of work, etc. www.piraeusbank.gr > Human Resources > Human Resource Management > Remuneration and Benefits Social Policy Piraeus Group aims to offer its employees the compensation and benefits that ensure a satisfactory standard of living and motivate productivity. Total payroll expenses of the Group reached €884 million on 31 December, 2013, allocated as follows: STAFF COMPENSATIONS €574 mn SOCIAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS €146 mn OTHER EXPENSES* €28 mn VOLUNTARY EXIT SCHEME €126 mn RETIREMENT BENEFITS €10 mn TOTAL €884 mn * Other expenses include the cost of: medical care, employee insurance with death and/or permanent disability coverage (Group Insurance Scheme), preventive check-up for managers and executives, nursery schools and employer contributions other than social security funds. For further information regarding employee benefits, please refer to: www.piraeusbank.gr > Human Resources > Human Resource Management > Remuneration and Benefits For with the incorporation of the new banks, the following were developed and enacted to all employees: group life insurance with death and/ or permanent disability coverage and medical care. In the consolidated new Group, insurance programmes were activated in order to embrace all employees such as life insurance plan, permanent disability and health care programmes, as well as children support programmes. Furthermore the integration of all staff products and the unification of approval processes leading to staff loans were completed. 64 New mortgage loans worth €246 thousand were granted to Bank employees in 2013, while employee outstanding loan balances amounted to €248 million at the end of 2013. In addition, for the first time within the Piraeus Bank Group, in 2013, a children’s summer camp was organized. The camp, which until July 2012 belonged to the former ATEbank, successfully hosted over 200 employee children for two full camp seasons of 22-day duration each, from 21/6/13 until 06/08/13, providing a complete programme of entertainment, educational and sports activities as well as cultural and environmental activities, in collaboration with the Environmental Unit and The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Bank Group (PIOP). Collective Representation Almost all Piraeus Bank employees are represented by seven unions in total, of which the one with the most representatives is recognised as the competent body for bargaining with Management. Seeking to empower the dialogue with employees and their collective representation bodies, in order to establish an even better working environment, the Bank not only fully complies with the respective legislation framework and the individual and business contracts, but also organizes a work meeting among top management executives and Union representatives at least once a month. During these meetings, among other topics, parties exchange information and opinions on the Group’s activities -including those regarding important operational changes. www.piraeusbank.gr > Human Resources > Human Resource Management > Collective Representation Employee Assistance Programmes EAPs In 2013, all Bank employees and members of their families had the opportunity to take advantage of the internationally-certified Employee Assistance Programmes (EAPs). These programmes offer counselling and psychosocial support for prevention and intervention in order to manage more effectively the issues being faced in different aspects of our lives. With the gradual integration of the employees from the newly-acquired Banks, all the above programmes and services were also made available to them and their family members. More specifically, in collaboration with the external EAP provider (with significant experience in the field), a 24/7 Helpline, face to face counselling and critical incident stress management (regarding robberies and health issues) services were provided. In order to strengthen the new employees familiarisation with the EAP Services, particular emphasis was given to sensitizing and informing them through focused briefings. These, contributed decisively to the use of the services, thus reflecting the increasing needs and trust employees placed on Employee Assistance Programmes; this is also confirmed by the 100% satisfaction rate of the Programmes’ beneficiaries. In accordance, in 2013 EAPs were also provided to the Group subsidiary companies in Cyprus and Serbia. The 24/7 Helpline and the face to face counselling sessions with local specialized EAP counsellors were utilized, and relevant information has been provided by means of lectures and specially-directed brochures. In the same framework, in 2013, the support for the Group’s expatriate executives was continued, with the aim of ensuring their smooth transition and their families’ to a new culture and work environment as well as strengthening them in the new challenges they are facing. These support services include, among others, a 24/7 Helpline and face to face counselling sessions concerning their work and personal life. Giving emphasis on promoting health and wellness in the workplace, implementation of relevant training and awareness sessions continued to be provided systematically, aimig to reduce operational risk, associated with the human factor. At the same time, with the aim of enhancing employee resilience and change management, emphasis was placed on sensitisation to such issues through lectures. 65 Moreover, employee information was provided via the internal website (Intranet) and specific thematic brochures, with issues that address the needs of employees and their families. In the framework of the Employee Assistance Programmes and placing particular emphasis on the need for offering guidance to teenagers and their parents on the key issue of career orientation, in 2013, 192 high school students were given the opportunity to take a specialised career orientation test and receive individual counselling, based on their test results. www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Human Resources > Human Resources Management > Employee Assistance Programmes Support of the young generation and enhancement of youth entrepreneurship With the volunteer participation of executives in relevant programmes, the Group aims to assist young people (students and school leavers) to comprehend the meaning of entrepreneurship, leading them towards proper use of business, housing and consumer credit. At the same time, they are informed about the role of economies, the role of businesses in the global economy as well as the value of competitiveness and innovation. Recognising how important the Group’s contribution to guidance of young people can be in familiarizing them with the financial environment and developing their business thought while also promoting volunteerism, 10 actions were performed at 10 different schools in Attica, Thessaloniki and Mytilini, in collaboration with the Junior Achievement Greece organisation and the Association for Youth Entrepreneurship (SEN). Overall, 10 Bank executives participated in the actions and 300 junior and senior high school students benefited accordingly. At the same time, youth entrepreneurship is enhanced and the future leaders of Greece and local societies are supported, in collaboration with the Future Leaders Association. More specifically, in 2013, two Bank executives provided guidance, as advisors, to two groups of university students, in the design and implementation of projects in various parts of Greece. Moreover, seeking to boost entrepreneurship and disseminate the Group’s best practices, Piraeus executives are encouraged to participate in conferences and seminars organized domestically or abroad. Within this context, in 2013, 21 Bank executives participated as speakers at conferences and scientific meetings, providing expertise and best market practices, thus supporting the business and academic community. Finally, in the framework of the continuous promotion of Greek cultural identity, the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP) organises educational-experiential programmes for employees’ children, aiming to familiarise primary and secondary school children with the various aspects of technological culture. 66 67 SO C I E TY, C U LTU R E AND TH E E N V I R ON M E NT SOCIETY Piraeus Bank has incorporated, on a volunteer basis and driven by solidarity, social and ecological actions into its business activities and its contact with other stakeholders. It is continuously adapting the financial, social and environmental impact of its operation to a balanced approach of economic development, sustainability and social cohesion. In this framework, every year it sponsors and supports various programmes aimed at assisting disadvantaged social groups and protecting the natural environment. Moreover, the Bank has made a remarkable contribution to preserving and promoting the cultural heritage of Greece through the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP). Corporate Responsibility Committee Piraeus Bank Group invests in Corporate Responsibility in order to Corporate Responsibility remains substantially contribute to the promotion of sustainable a strategic investment for Piraeus Bank development, through actions that support initiatives concerning society and the environment. In this framework, in 2007 the and through this, the Bank contributes Corporate Responsibility Committee was established, chaired by Mrs to the development of the economy Sofia Staikou, Chairman of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural and society in every possible way. Foundation. The Bank’s contribution to actions, The members of the Committee are five General Managers from the programmes and initiatives regarding Corporate Governance, Human Resources, Group Finance, Group social, cultural and environmental work Retail and e-banking and Green Banking units, the Scientific Advisor in 2013 accounted for 1.9% of the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation and the Head of the Environment Unit. of the Group’s annual pre tax and provision profit and for 0.6% of the The aim of the Committee is: Group’s operational costs. To define, monitor the implementation and assess the Group’s principles and strategy on Corporate Responsibility 70  o set the targets, coordinate and evaluate the actions and programmes that promote sustainability and are related to the pillars of Corporate T Responsibility To promote the participation in programmes, partnerships, initiatives and financial instruments that enhance the Group’s Corporate Responsibility Social Actions In 2013, Piraeus Bank Group continued to strengthen and support the fields of family, education, health and entrepreneurship by means of employee volunteer actions, direct grants and donations and collaboration with non-governmental organisations. At the same time, it provided assistance togroups and individuals facing difficulties on a professional and individual level. More specifically: Recognizing the action of Non-Governmental Organisations (NGOs), Piraeus Group pursued collaborations with these, it supported their efforts in a multitude of ways and ensured its customers’ informing about the NGOs important work. Indicatively, some of the organisations the Group supports are, among others: the Greek Red Cross, the Hellenic Society for Disabled Children (ELEPAP), The Smile of the Child, the “Ark of the World”, The Pammakaristos Children’s Foundation’. The Group also supported many research agencies multifariously. These include “NCSR DEMOKRITOS -Institute of Nuclear and Particle Physics”, The National Observatory of Athens, the Hellenic Association for the Study of Internet Addiction Disorder. Moreover, donations were made to Further and Higher Education Institutions, such as the University of the Aegean, the University of Crete, the University of Macedonia, the International Hellenic University, the Cultural University of Athens, Alexander Technological Educational Institute of Thessaloniki (ATEITH), the Technological Educational Institute of Epirus, the Company for the Development and Management of University of Macedonia Property, the Aristotle University Property Development and Management Company. In the framework of its broader social work and in response to the crucial demands and needs of public health units, in 2013 Piraeus Bank proceeded with donations to University General Hospital Attikon, 417 NIMITS Hospital, Elefsina General Hospital Thriasio, Theageneio General Hospital of Thessaloniki, The Cardiology Department of the University of Crete. Aiming to cover the needs and demands of the local communities where it is active, in 2013 Piraeus Bank proceeded with donations to 23 Municipalities and Regions of Greece as well as support to the beneficial social actions of 31 social, sports and cultural clubs and associations. Moreover, it supported various ecclesiastical organisations in aid of their important social work, such as: the Archdiocese of Athens, the Archdiocese of Patra, the Diocese of Serres and Nigritas, the Holy Bishopric of Neapolis and Stavroupolis. Finally, financial support to non-profit sports clubs and associations all over Greece constitute another significant part of the Group’s contribution to young people and their interests, as sports are not only a social institution of pedagogic and educational character but also a cultural benefit which reflects social actions. In this framework and in collaboration with the Hellenic Football Federation, the Group continues to contribute to the national efforts to enhance sports in Greece, remaining a proud Golden Sponsor of the Greek National Football Team. With the aim of promoting a spirit of volunteerism within the Group, in 2013 90 volunteer actions – twenty-one (21) to subsidiaries abroadwere realized with a focus on: the material needs of vulnerable groups (children of all ages, families); on enhancing the skills and abilities of teenagers – through youth entrepreneurship support programmes; promotion and utilisation of future leaders; strengthening of local communities; fair play in sportsmanship – through our participation in charity matches in the company spirit; support of the environment and culturethrough synergies. In 2013 the total number of Bank employees who participated in volunteer initiatives reached 3,821 and 743 in subsidiaries abroad, with 8,400 people benefitting from these actions. www.piraeusbank.gr > Corporate Responsibility > Human Resources > Volunteerism 71 C ultur Ε Cultural Actions The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Group (PIOP) is a non profit public benefit foundation which is subsidized for its operation by Piraeus Bank. It carries out the planning and implementation of actions and programmes related to culture while at the same time it enacts an important part of the principles and targets of the Group’s commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility. Operation Framework The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Group’s primary statutory targets are fulfiled through: Ιmplementation of research programmes and serving the research needs of the scientific community. The Cultural Foundation of Piraeus Strengthening of rescue actions. Group’s primary statutory targets Operation and preservation of a historical archive linked to the are to safeguard traditional economic, banking, industrial and rural history of Greece. Scientific publications. technology and the industrial heritage Cultural actions. of Greece and to contribute to the PIOP’s involvement in public dialogue in order to shape and cultural and economic development influence cultural policies. of the Greek regions, through the Creation and management of an extensive network of thematic technological museums in the Greek regions. These museums do promotion and utilisation of its not belong to PIOP or the Bank but to the Local Authorities or the cultural reserve, the protection and Greek State. The Foundation shoulders the museums’ exemplary management of the natural, operation, covering their operational and maintenance costs and residential and cultural environment, managing the buildings and the museum collections for 50 years. Following that period, the owners of the museums take on these the preservation and highlighting responsibilities, if they choose to do so. of landscapes as well as the promotion of environmental and Further integration of Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility social awareness of citizens and Principles to PIOP’s operation, was pursued consistently in 2013 as well. More specifically, the following were implemented: agencies, within the framework of Further additions to and monitoring of key performance indicators sustainable growth. concerning its environmental performance, while also preparing PIOP to receive EMAS certification. 72 SOCIAL MEDIA THE DAILY PRESS, PERIODICALS SPECIAL FEATURES OR ARTICLES (FACEBOOK, YOUTUBE) & SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS IN THE PRESS OR PERIODICALS P I O P C O L L A B O R AT I O N S A N D S Y N E R G I E S ΣΥΝΕΡΓΑΣΙΕΣ ΚΑΙ ΣΥΝΕΡΓΕΙΕΣ ΠΙΟΠ LOCAL COMMUNITIES OF INDUSTRIAL AREAS IN ATTICA MINISTRY OF CULTURE AND SPORTS LOCAL AUTHORITIES, GENERAL SECRETARIAT OF CULTURE LOCAL CULTURAL AND OTHER AGENCIES LOCAL COMMUNITIES IN THE GREEK REGIONS, LOCAL AUTHORITIES, LOCAL CULTURAL, ENVIRONMENTAL PRINT AND ELECTRONIC AND OTHER AGENCIES MINISTRY OF FINANCE MEDIA DIRECTORATE OF NATIONAL ENDOWMENTS MINISTRY FOR EDUCATION AND RELIGIOUS AFFAIRS UNIVERSITIES IN GREECE PIRAEUS GROUP EMPLOYEES PERIPHERAL DIRECTORATES OF EDUCATION THE CULTURAL ESA OP “EDUCATION AND LIFELONG LEARNING” ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CENTRES (EEC) FOUNDATION OF PIRAEUS GROUP (PIOP) ASSOCIATIONS OF INSTITUTIONS MINISTRY OF ENVIRONMENT, ENERGY EUROPEAN FOUNDATION CENTER AND CLIMATE CHANGE MINISTRY OF TOURISM SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATIONS GENERAL INVESTMENT & DEVELOPMENT AGENCIES RELATED TO PIOP’S DIVISION, FINANCIAL DIVISION, SCOPE OF ACTIVITIES: SPECIAL UNIT OF COORDINATION ICOM, EMA, TICCHIC, TIMS, TEE GREEK AND INTERNATIONAL & IMPLEMENTATION RESEARCH AND SCIENTIFIC INSTITUTIONS GREEK AND INTERNATIONAL ARCHIVE AGENCIES MINISTRY OF DEVELOPMENT GENERAL STATE ARCHIVES (GSA), AND COMPETITIVENESS SOCIETY OF GREEK ARCHIVISTS (SGA), ESA OP “COMPETITIVENESS EUROPEAN ASSOCIATION FOR BANKING AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP” AND FINANCIAL HISTORY (ΕΑBH) 73 P I O P C O M M U N I C AT I O N C H A R T ΧΑΡΤΗΣ ΕΠΙΚΟΙΝΩΝΙΑΣ ΠΙΟΠ COMMUNICATION MEANS GROUP SPECIAL COMMUNICATION METHODS www.piop.gr PIRAEUS BANK GROUP INTRANET, “WINNERS” PARTICIPATION IN FORA, E-SHOP SCIENTIFIC COMMUNITY EVENTS HOSTED BY UNIVERSITIES AND SCIENTIFIC ASSOCIATIONS SPECIALIZED PROFESSIONAL NETWORKS, CULTURAL TOURISM THE E-NEWSLETTER MUSEUM SHOP NETWORKS, EDUCATIONAL/ “PIOPNEWS” CULTURAL/ENVIRONMENTAL INSTITUTIONS AND UNIONS EVENTS HOSTED IN ATHENS AND THE PIOP MUSEUM NETWORK ATHENS AND PARTICIPATION IN EVENTS HOSTED PRINTED PROMOTIONAL MATERIAL BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES LOCAL COMMUNITIES EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMΜΕS IN SCHOOLS AND COLLABORATION WITH ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION CENTRES (EEC) SOCIAL MEDIA THE DAILY PRESS, PERIODICALS SPECIAL FEATURES OR ARTICLES (FACEBOOK, YOUTUBE) & SCIENTIFIC JOURNALS IN THE PRESS OR PERIODICALS ΣΥΝΕΡΓΑΣΙΕΣ ΚΑΙ ΣΥΝΕΡΓΕΙΕΣ ΠΙΟΠ 74 LOCAL COMMUNITIES OF INDUSTRIAL AREAS PIOP FINANCIALS (IN €MN) 12.41 11.89 9.96 9.28 4.91 5.78 2.48 1.25 ASSETS EQUITY TURNOVER RETAINED EARNINGS 75  evision of its Quality Management System and preparation to R extend PIOP’s quality management certification in order to submit proposals for EU funding programmes. Training of employees (1,000 training hours for all 71 employees). Preparation to implement the Environmental Management System already adopted by the Piraeus Bank Group to all of the Foundation’s premises and the Museum Network by consistent compliance to relevant procedures and measurements (paper, ink PIOP measures and analyzes the cartridge/toner, battery, lightbulb recycling). effects of its actions on target groups by means of: The constantly growing involvement of the Foundation’s employees in the implementation of the principles of Corporate Social Systematic data collection on Responsibility and the relevant commitments of Piraeus Group is visitor numbers to Museum achieved through the continuous provision of information, which covers all sectors where it is applied, its actions and public Network. accountability. Visitor log books at the Museums The Foundation’s communication strategy is defined by its close of the Network. relationship to Piraeus Bank, the institutional establishment it abides by, the distinctiveness of its field of operation and the scope Systematic recording of requests described in its Statute. and comments/complaints. In 2013, PIOP once again upheld the high specifications for Continuous contact with all operation in and service to Greek society despite the objective interested parties and response difficulties of the present economic conjunction. to written requests and The Museum Network consists of seven thematic technological comments. museums which depict and preserve the local traditions of technique and industrial production: Silk MuseumSoufli, Open-Air Qualitative and quantitative Water-Power MuseumDimitsana, Museum of the Olive and Greek analysis of website visitors. Olive OilSparta, Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos-Aghia Paraskevi, Lesvos island, Rooftile and Brickworks Monitoring of response from Museum N. & S. TsalapatasVolos, Museum of Marble Craftse-newsletter “piopnews” Pyrgos, Tinos island, Museum of the EnvironmentStymphalia. recipients. During 2013 construction continued on two new museums: Museum of Chios Mastic on the island of Chios and Silversmithing Museum of Monitoring press releases. Ioannina, which are to be included in the Museum Network in the immediate future. PIOP ensures the sustainability of these local museums by covering all their operational costs as well as ensuring 76 their smooth operation through a centralized management system; there are also monitoring committees in which local stakeholders and representatives of the Ministry of Culture and Sports also 2 013 participate. Furthermore smooth operation of the Museums entails KE Y AC TIONS dealing with all regular and extraordinary management issues: maintenance-extension work and event supporting, enrichment and Planning and commencing management of Museum Shops, caf΄ es and as well as further a thematic redirection with enrichment of museum collections (data base management, simultaneous revision of PIOP’s maintenance-storage, framing, digital programs etc). In addition to statute, incorporating contributing to the increase in tourism in distant or island regions, PIOP also contributes to the economic development of local the environment into its goals, communities, as the majority of goods and products sold in the on a par with culture, for the museum cafes and shops are supplied by the local markets. The next four years. Museum staff are mostly hired from the local community and undergoe regular training, thus upgrading the standard of services Operation of a Network of 7 offered to visitors (assistance of people with vision problems, use of thematic technological Museums audio tour guides, emergency evacuation, etc). Visitors to the Museum Network reached 112.000 in 2013, 67% of them free of in the Greek regions. charge. Visitor numbers stem from the support provided by the local communities, in recognition of the benefits from the promotion of Preparation for the operation their cultural identity, the promotion of the local economy, and from of 2 new museums. continuous renewal of cultural actions – by means of periodic exhibitions, lectures, conferences and a multitude of other cultural Preparation of 2 new events. The organizing of high-standard cultural events in the programmes included in PIOP’s Multi-Purpose Halls of the Museum Network aims to establish the Multiannual Action Plan: Museums as permanent cultural centres for the local communities in which they operate. The Foundation organizes artistic and scientific “Museums, everyday city sites” actions which are related to the character of each museum or are and “Friends of PIOP”. presented in the whole network; it often collaborates with local bodies and houses their events in its Multi-Purpose Halls. In Integration of Piraeus Bank particular, in 2013, 14 exhibitions, 61 cultural actions, 7 regular and Group’s total archive material, 47 ‘anniversary’ educational programmes for minors and adults restructuring/enrichment were organized. Some of these are: “A Balkan Tale” in collaboration of Historical Archive collections with Goethe Institut; photograph exhibitions combined with art photography seminars by Platon Rivellis; the cartoon exhibition and relocation to an archive “Museums and Humor” by the Norwegian artist Geir Helgen; a building of modern specifications painting exhibition by Maria Kallipoliti entitled “Alhambra Olive oil in Tavros. press”; “Olive oil presses, mills and water mills at Pilio”, a scientific seminar and tour of select pre-industrial workshops at Pilio; music Contribution to lifelong learning events, screenings and guided tours for officials, foreign delegates, and to internships of young scientific and professional bodies. scientists and professionals. Research work remained, this year as well, an integral part of PIOP’s Provision of internship to young threefold strategy: research/exhibition/publication for the creation of scientists. its museums. This work is interdisciplinary and based on the Foundation’s long-standing, renowned and specialized experience in 77 K E Y A C T I ONS specific thematic research and the development of similar innovation. The results of this work are implemented in the: Creation of thematic technological museums. Donation of educational material Enrichment of museum collections. to school communities: 104 folders Organisation of exhibitions. and 1.705 volumes of PIOP Publication of studies – often setting the basis for the existing bibliography. publications. Creation of marketing tools to promote local economies. Digitisation of research output which contributes to research Restructuring and updating of PIOP’s development. website, currently functioning with The Foundation’s participation in national scale initiatives on a multitude of new technical behalf of Greece and in collaboration with well-established cultural capabilities and complying to the institutions. website specifications of the greatest With regard to topic selection, emphasis is placed on traditional Foundations and Museums technologies, the country’s natural resource management, material internationally. wealth and culture of the recent past. Priority is given to the study of the most important sectors of Greek economy, with special Expansion of PIOP’s research interest products-techniques also meriting study. Other studies concern local to the basic zones of industrial traditions of particular regions -often upon request from the development in modern Greece. relevant local communityas well as cultural tourism issues. In 2013, the following took place: Capitalisation of PIOP’s research Completion and delivery of the core of a museological scenario and a volume to be published by PIOP to accompany the mobile reserve and its promotion to exhibition “The art of Tinsmithing in the 20th Century. The case of the broader public in order to benefit Georgios Chatzilaos” at PIOP’s Museum Network. local communities. Continuation of the in-house research programme entitled “Long-lasting Short Stories”, referring to Piraeus Bank’s historic Continuation of PIOP’s publication overview, to be included in Winners and the publication of a work with 4 new publications. relevant volume in the near future, Emphasis was placed on further utilisation of the research reserve, Contribution to the shaping of on employees’ scientific specialisation as well as their networking with the research community for the creation of a multitude of national cultural policies. cultural products and services for the benefit of the educational, Provision of scientific advisory research, professional and local communities. support to agencies, new scientists, Extension of PIOP’s educational action to lifelong learning was researchers and doctoral achieved through an annual workshop for 80 participants – young candidates. scientists and professionals of 6 different expert fields. The workshop was held at PIOP headquarters in collaboration with the Hellenic Section of the International Committee for the Conservation 78 of Industrial Heritage (TICCIH). The workshop focused on the K E Y A C T I ONS / ΤΑ R G E TS multifariousness of industrial heritage and the need for an interdisciplinary approach, which was achieved by the formation of 4 volunteer groups which undertook the interdisciplinary study of Support to the Ministry of Culture equally significant industrial heritage monuments in Attica. These and Sports programme for the group’s studies were presented in the workshop. In addition, lifelong promotion of Greek Intangible learning educational actions were realized at PIOP Museums, at Cultural Heritage (UNESCO). PIOP head offices and at PIOP’s library. Enhancement of PIOP Library’s Moreover, PIOP submitted a proposal entitled: “Pausanias Network 2.0: From the School to the Museum” under the Call 164 for the operation with parallel provision Special Programme “Education and Lifelong Learning” of the for incorporation of the former Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. “Pausanias Network 2.0: ATEbank library. From the School to the Museum” is an innovative proposal for the development of experiential educational activities and educational Planning a pilot programme material linking the school to the land, natural resources, production to restore listed buildings in the history, cultural heritage and the Museum. The aim is to develop Historical Center of Ermoupolis. educational activities in the Foundation’s Museum Network, taking into account the principles of the “21st Century School”, in particular Organisation of an important the strategic objectives of the promotion of cultural heritage, getting to know the local history, sustainable education and supporting International Meeting on culture experiential activities. Following evaluation of the 50 proposals and the environment, to be submitted to the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, PIOP’s held at the Acropolis Museum proposal classified first, receiving the highest score. The project to and at the Museum of be implemented in 2014-2015, is directed at students of Junior High School, General Education and Vocational Senior High Schools, the EnvironmentStymphalia Second Chance Schools and is to be applied to PIOP Museums, in in October 2014. the regions of East Macedonia-Thrace (Silk Museum), Thessaly (Rooftile and Brickworks Museum N. & S. Tsalapatas), the Peloponnese (Museum of the EnvironmentStymphalia, Open-Air Water-Power 2 014 Museum, Museum of the Olive and Greek Olive Oil) and the North Aegean (Museum of Industrial Olive Oil Production in Lesvos). TA R G E T S Promotion and Utilisation of The university student internship, under the supervision of PIOP employees, in 2013 was provided to six trainees (1.066 hours of Cultural Heritage. one-to-one mentoring) from Universities in Greece. Creation of a link between culture Organizing scientific and experiential actions, with emphasis on and the environment. producing new and promoting previous research findings, is significant. These actions are organized in a manner which enables Support of cultural and creative local communities to utilize their cultural reserve towards their industries and modern culture. self-awareness, cultural and economic growth. Development and establishment In this framework, the following actions were successfully organized: of cultural tourism. “Olive oil presses, mills and water mills at Pilio”, a PIOP research programme on industrial archaeology (presentation of PIOP 79 ΤΑ R G E TS research programme, held in February 2013 and combined with a tour of traditional workshops at Pilio). “From ancient to modern rust: the mining city of Lavrio in modern Enhancement of PIOP’s times” (PIOP workshop and tour of the Lavrion Technological Cultural Park, held in April 2013). extraversion and contribution to the cultural and broader Donation of educational folders and other PIOP publications development of Greece by means continued, aiding with preparation for visits to the Museum of combined cultural/scientific Network. Moreover, a total of 1.705 PIOP publications were sent free of charge to public, school, local, university and research and environmental actions. libraries upon request and 779 volumes of 14 PIOP titles were used as university textbooks, at a significantly reduced price. New publications. Support of historical research and Bank operations is achieved by Development of Digital means of the PIOP Historical Archive (HI). The Historical Archive organizes and manages the complete archives of the banks, Applications that promote cultural organisations, enterprises and individuals who were directly linked to heritage and the natural the Group’s business activities. By the processing achieved to date, environment. the Archive collections are in excess of sixty, 4 of which are bank archives, 4 organisation archives, 52 enterprise archives, 2 Support of modern Greek association archives and 3 individual archives. The Archive deals creativity and organizing with requests from external researchers interested in Economic History and Industrial Archaeology as well as Bank research requests exhibitions, various educational concerning a large section of its semi-active archive. In 2013, the actions and cultural events. following actions took place: Relocation of the HI and complete reconstruction of the building Recording, protection and complex in the area of Tavros for this purpose. promotion of cultural landscapes Cataloguing and storage of the former ATEbank archive. and intangible heritage. Recording, inventorying by title and storing of former ATEbank publications. Creating awareness and provide Appraisal and disposal of former ATEbank archive. Processing of already acquired archival material, by subcollections. training on environmental Database formation. issues. Filing and classification of photographic and multimedia material. Respond to 57 requests by HI users. Operation of the PIOP Historical Compilation of a collection of 709 HI artifacts. Archive as an archive agency with New acquisitions/donations. Delivery and initial recording of the multiple service recipients. “Hellenic Chemical Products & Fertilizers Company Ltd” archive from the National Hellenic Research Foundation (NHRF) (101 cases). 80 TA R G E TS  aintenance of paper material. M Research preparation for a bank history exhibition. Increase in the number of visitors The operation of a library, highly specialized in museum studies and to the 7 thematic Museums cultural management, constitutes one more key action for PIOP. In operating in Greece and participants 2013, work began on incorporating former ATEbank’s Library. Already including 10.120 titles, the Library of PIOP is constantly in the cultural/educational actions being enriched in order to better serve the research and education at the Museums and at PIOP communities. The acquisition of material (monographs, periodical headquarters. titles and educational material) is achieved through purchase and exchange with similar institutions. In 2013, 185 new titles were Completion of the largest part acquired. In the Central Section of the Library, researchers have free of preparatory work needed for the access to original PIOP research findings located in the following digital databases: 2 new museums under construction “Information on technology through Archives and Libraries of (Museum of Chios Mastic on the Venice”, the result of a research programme on technology in the island of Chios, Silversmithing Greek regions of the post-Byzantine period, by PIOP in Museum of Ioannina). collaboration with the Greek Institute of Byzantine and PostByzantine Studies of Venice. Creation of new research reserve, “Greek Musical Instruments”, the result of a five-year research capitalisation and promotion of this programme from the Department of Music Iconography of the School of Fine Arts, Aristoteleio University of reserve to the broad public. Thessaloniki. Provision of scientific counseling Provision of scientific advisory support to national and public to public bodies and local agencies, local authorities, educational institutions, Environmental communities. Education Centers (EEC), young scientists, researchers and doctoral candidates upon their request, further susstains the preparation of Shaping policies in the field cultural actions, products and projects related to PIOP topics. In of culture. 2013, there were 51 cases. Among these are the following: “Marketing Policy of PIOP Museum Network”, in the framework of the subject Administration and Financial Management of Cultural Organisations, Post-Graduate Programme, Museum Studies, National and Kapodistrian University of Athens. “Old Industrial Buildings put to new Use”. Research project, School of Architecture, Democritus University of Thrace. “Nutrition as an Expression of Culture. Cultural Actions concerning nutrition and food museums as factors of Greek cultural, social and economic development”. Thesis project, Post-Graduate Programme, Administration of Cultural Units, Hellenic Open University. “Museum Communication Policy, in connection with the targets set by the 2013 National Museum Day “Museums (Memory+ Creativity) = Social change” in the framework of the course Dimensions of Cultural Units, Post-Graduate Programme, Administration of Cultural Units, Hellenic Open University. 81 S cientific and management support to institutions such as the Greek section of the International Committee for the Conservation of Industrial Heritage (TICCIH) and the Greek Division of the International Molinology Society (TIMS). Participation in national and international educational institutions constitutes a key action point for PIOP, and it’s aims are: Contribution to the shaping of cultural policies [announcements/lectures/speeches by PIOP executives in scientific fora (11 cases in 2013)], participation in actions organized by the Ministry of Culture and Sports , collaborations within the NSRF framework, participation of executives from the Ministry of Culture and Sports in PIOP Museum Monitoring Committees. PIOP’s participation in research and academic partnerships for the development of international scientific programmes :“Re-connecting the bonds between archaeological artifacts and historicity” project; “The Civil Society Facility–EU–Turkey Intercultural Dialogue, Museums (ICD-MUSE)” programme. PIOP’s international networking with scientific agencies (ΤΙCCIH, TIMS, EMA etc) and with European networks for know-how transfer, the observance of “good practices”, enhancement of opportunities for scientific collaborations and the pursuit of common project funding. Publications from a wide range of research fields, such as the history of technology, industrial archaeology, museological studies, economic history, are a defining PIOP action. The Foundation’s publications are mainly in coordination with the Museum Network’s actions and with the research programmes that are in progress, have already been completed or presented to research or broader communities. They also include submitted studies within the framework of the Foundation’s statutory objectives. The fact that PIOP publications are selected as university textbooks illustrates the extent of their success in the scientific world. At the same time, there are also publications with more popularized orientation. In 2013, 4 works were published, 2 basic works/university manuals were reprinted, while preparation for 24 publications was continued, among which: 4 monographies, Three-Day Conference proceedings, manuals of museology, museum studies, science and technology, museum and cultural guides, fairy tales, reprinting of PIOP publications, educational folders, museum brochures, products for the Museum Shops and promotional material for PIOP events. PIOP’s aims for the near future mainly concern the completion of construction and museum work on the Museum of Chios Mastic on the island of Chios and the Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina, which will broaden the Foundation’s influence on the Greek cultural map. Fullycoordinated high-quality actions will continue in the Greek regions to support the local communities both culturally and financially – through the creation of tourist attractions. Similar actions, addressed to a broad range of recipient groups in Athens, will take place in PIOP’s Historical Archive and Library. Apart from continuation of its key activities, PIOP’s basic target for the immediate future remains the even greater dissemination of its work to multiple public groups, following Piraeus Group’s Corporate Responsibility Principles. More analytically, PIOP’s targets for the near future are: Promotion and utilisation of Cultural Heritage. Creation of a link between Culture and the Environment. Operation of PIOP’s Historical Archive, as an archive agency with multiple service recipients. Recording, protection and promotion of cultural landscapes and intangible cultural heritage. Enhancement of PIOP’s extraversion and contribution to the cultural and broader development of Greece by means of combined cultural/ scientific and environmental actions. 82 S upport of cultural and creative industries and modern culture. Development of Digital Applications that promote cultural heritage and the natural environment. Support of modern Greek creativity and organizing of exhibitions, various educational actions and cultural events. Support of cultural tourism in the areas where the Museums of PIOP’s Network are located. Completion of the largest part of preparatory work needed for the 2 new museums under construction (Museum of Chios Mastic on the island of Chios, Silversmithing Museum of Ioannina). Increase in the number of visitors to the 7 thematic Museums operating in Greece and participants in the cultural/educational actions at the Museums and at PIOP headquarters. Continuation and enhancement of PIOP publications. Creating awareness and provide training on environmental issues. Creation of new research reserve, capitalisation and promotion of this reserve to the broad public. Provision of scientific counseling to public bodies and local communities. Shaping policies in the field of culture. 83 THE ENVIRONMENT 2 013 KE Y AC TIONS Environmental Actions Integration of new branch networks and central services Environmental Strategy and Structure certified by EMAS and ISO Piraeus Bank’s environmental actions are implemented in the 14001 Environmental framework of its environmental policy, which primarily acknowledges that the principles of sustainable development Management System of constitute a fundamental value in its operation. In line with the the Bank. above, Piraeus Bank: incorporates environmental criteria into its business processes; reduces its environmental footprint, enhances Commencement of the green entrepreneurship; proceeds with environment-climate risk Bank’s new project assessment; implements actions for the protection of biodiversity, (LIFE-Stymphalia), co-funded and thus contributes to the environmental and socio-economic challenges of our times. by the EU (LIFE Nature), targeting sustainable All this carries special weight as Piraeus Bank Group now holds a key management of Lake role in the Greek banking system, having gained a leading role in the Stymphalia. Greek financial system. In the past years, coordinated and strategically-designed actions have been undertaken in this Development of common direction, while the formation of specialized management units actions by the Environment (Environment Unit, Green Banking etc) is proof of the Group’s active commitment to environmental management and green Unit and PIOP, regarding entrepreneurship. The environmental policy and its implementation the management of Lake is a key element that is present throughout the Group’s hierarchy, Stymphalia as well as starting from the BoD. development of environmental/ Forfurtherdetails, pleaserefer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > cultural training programmes. Corporate Responsibility > Environmental Policy Principles > Piraeus Bank Group’s Green Structure Completion of PIOP’s Environmental Management In 2013, the third LIFE project implemented by the Bank and System. co-funded by the EU, commenced. The aim of the LIFE-Stymfalia project is to achieve sustainable management of Lake Stymphalia, an area with the presence of PIOP since 2010, when the Environment 84 Museum of Stymphalia was established. By means of this project, K E Y A C T I ONS / TA R G E TS the Bank aims to promote the significance of business and biodiversity. Development of Environmental By year-end 2013, at least 2,600 Bank executives had participated Management System at the ETVA in training sessions on environmental management and green Industrial Park in Komotini. entrepreneurship. Following the acquisition of other banks, direct renewal of the training material commenced in order to train the 13% reduction in electricity new employees in the branch network and administration units consumption per employee. whose duties will require such knowledge. The key goal is to enable customers, private individuals, and entrepreneurs all over Greece to 4% increase in paper recycled receive immediate and accurate information on green entrepreneurship and on reducing their environmental footprint and per employee. consequently their operational cost. Training of 577 new Environmental In 2013, particular emphasis was placed on integrating all new Management System Coordinators infrastructures deriving from the acquisition of other banks in in the Bank’s branches. Greece into the already-certified Environmental Management System of the Bank. In addition, the process for ISO14001 Planning the upgrading and certification and inclusion in the EMAS registry of all PIOP implementation of the Climate infrastructures and of one Industrial Park was initiated. Completion Risk Management Model (climabiz) of certification is expected within 2014. to assess environmental risk of The dedicated Database on Environmental Legislation & Case Law businesses. (DEL&CL) supports Piraeus Bank’s compliance with all legal requirements and corporate responsibility commitments regarding the environment. The DEL&CL provides the Bank with the necessary 2 014 legal information regarding: The general obligations and trends of international, EU and TA R G E T S national environmental and sustainability laws. Shaping of a common culture The legal aspects of the Environmental Management System applied by the Bank and PIOP. within the Group, by means The task to reduce the Bank’s business environmental impact. of educational and volunteer actions, which aim to enhance Regarding the Database, in 2014, particular emphasis will be placed contribution to and familiarisation on enrichment of the issues linked to protection and management of the natural and cultural environment, with the Natura 2000 sites with cultural heritage and and incorporation of culture into sustainable development as points the environment. of reference. Completion of procedures for Support of green entrepreneurship was maintained in 2013 as well, EMAS and ISO 14001 by means of green financial products and services. In 2014, new Environmental Management products and services are expected to be designed, related to a continuously expanding green loan portfolio. System certification forPIOP and the ETVA Industrial Park For further details regarding the Group’s Environmental Strategy and in Komotini. Dimension, please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Corporate Responsibility > Environment 85 TA R G E TS Environmental Management The integration of six banks into a uniform legal and operational framework in 2013 led to a significant increase in the number of Upgrading of the Climate Risk building infrastructures (Branches and Administration Buildings) and Management Model, with in the human resources involved in the implementation of the special emphasis on assessing certified Environmental Management System as well as an increase in the Bank’s environmental footprint compare to 2012. climate risk in agriculture. Operation of an extended and uniform Environmental Management Continuation of procedures System poses new prospects and challenges. With the appropriate for environmental risk adjustments and employees’ active participation, the Bank will assessment for customers continue to lead in environmental performance. and employee training in the Piraeus Bank not only exceeded its initial target for 2013 to Climate Risk Management integrate all former ATEbank activities and infrastructures into the Model. Environmental Management System but also gradually implemented the EMS integration of the 3 Cypriot networks operating in Greece Completion of the and Millennium Bank. Through continuous information and training Management Plan for Lake of employees, since 2013 efforts have been focused on cultivating a Stymphalia, in the framework uniform environmental behaviour, which is expected to become evident in the medium term in individual measurable indices. of the LIFE-Stymphalia project and formation of a local team The approximately three-fold expansion of the Group in both human to manage the region’s resources and buildings brought about significant changes, thus biodiversity. making comparison of environmental footprint absolute figures versus previous years challenging. More specifically, the analytical Extension of monitoring and environmental footprint chart presented below records the first reference year3 for the new combined Bank. This was deemed control practices of electrical necessary for proper target-setting for 2014, to make monitoring of energy and monitoring of 2014 environmental programmes possible and to allow for data water consumption to all the comparison with future annual reports. Bank’s branches In 2014, the following targets have been set: Extension of paper and ink Incorporation of new infrastructures and operation of the merged cartridge/toner recycling to banks into Piraeus Bank Group’s certified according to EMAS and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. all Organisational Units in Completion of certification proceduresof the Industrial Park in Greece. 3 T he term “reference year” is defined as a base year in which all data, collected by all the banks and reduced to the year, is included. 86 Komotini. The goal is to create a common environmental TA R G E TS management tool for all Industrial Parks which will cover all operations with pending certification and will be applied to all the relevant sectors of activity of ETVA-Industrial Parks SA. Attendance of four e-learning Implementation of an Environmental Management System to cover courses on the environment total activities constitutes a strategic goal for ETVA-Industrial and climate change by at least Parks SA. Automation and simplification of Environmental Management 2,000 employees. System procedures, which includes the upgrading of: a) environmental footprint monitoring procedures by other Bank Design and implementation of systems, b) the Environmental Legislation & Case Law Database training programmes regarding (DEL&CL). culture and the environment Installation of systems for electricity and water saving and for employees’ children. monitoring in all branches under renovation. Extension of paper and ink cartridge/toner recycling to all Organisational units in Greece. Electricity Consumption Electricity consumption has the greatest impact on the Bank’s environmental footprint. Since 2013, the relevant sector responsible for this issue (Engineering Project Management & Administration Support Division) commenced building and branch renovations, to be continued in 2014. In this framework, energy-saving interventions were designed and implemented in 20 branches, with the aim of reducing energy-consumption and attaining better thermal comfort in building shells and electromechanical infrastructures. Indicatively, the most significant interventions that were implemented are presented below: Thermal insulation of building shell (walls, ceilings) the interior where possible and the exterior in the rest of the cases. Replacement of simple aluminium glazing panels with thermal break panels. Replacement of single glazing panels with double low-emission ones (low-e). Installation of low energy membranes on glazing panels. Installation of exterior permanent shading devices. Installation of BEMS energy-management systems. Lighting design. Installation of motion sensors in WC’s. Ventilation of areas of transaction with customers by means of air quality measuring systems. The majority of the above-mentioned practices were implemented at the Karpenissi Branch. According to a special Energy-Efficiency Study, the first results of the above interventions indicated that its energy demands were reduced by 66% (energy demands were 614kWh/m2; following these interventions they dropped to 208kWh/m2), thus upgrading the building’s energy class to B from Z previously. Moreover, a trial installation was made, by which ventilation of areas of transaction with customers is achieved by means of air quality measuring systems (CO2, VOC). Air quality is measured and ventilation systems are activated when pollutants exceed acceptable comfort levels, thus limiting unnecessary operation. Initial measurements indicated that with this system, operation of fans is reduced by 30% during the Branch’s hours of operation. Additionally, photometric studies are undertaken for all buildings and branches under renovation, with particular emphasis on energy-saving and upgrading of visual comfort. A combination of linear T5 fluorescent lighting and LED light bulbs is applied. In these studies, the reduction of the installed power/energy consumption compared to conventional solutions is 33-62%. In 2014, photometric studies are expected to continue, with parallel installation of motion sensors in WC’s. Moreover, installation of BEMS energy-management systems will continue. These systems will be monitoring exterior sign lighting, security lighting and ventilation while also monitoring internal and external conditions, energy consumption of the entire facility, lighting and airconditioning. The recorded data will be analysed monthly and recommendations will be made to the users. 87 Activation/deactivation of exterior sign lighting and security lighting of all Bank building infrastructures with BEMS is already achieved by light measurement at a central point in the Bank, thus reducing problems of photometric dispersion. Also in 2014, Branch computers will be upgraded for centralized operation of their applications. This will result in the removal of substantial quantities of equipment from Branches and the respective reduction of energy consumption. As far as air-conditioning is concerned, the fully-renovated building infrastructures now operate on the most effective systems on the market. A project of great significance, in regards to the implementation of the Bank’s strategic targets of upgrading equipment and infrastructures and of energy-saving, is the formation of a new, modern and compatible with the demanding international standards, ofthe Piraeus Bank Data Centre. It was developed in accordance with all the modern standards, in order to achieve high energy-efficiency and reduction of the environmental impact. Systematic measurements and interventions were made to reduce heating loss and optimise its systems’ operation. Additionally, there is continuous, 24-hour monitoring also by means of the BEMS automated system in order to ensure immediate response to any problem that arises as well as to achieve optimal energy operation of infrastructures. Electricity Consumption For the precise estimation of electricity consumption, data was collected regarding the periods before and after the systemic integration of each newly-acquired bank. For data accuracy, estimations were made based on 4 climatic zones which apply to Greece. Thus, total electricity consumption reached almost 90GWh for 2013. Because the absolute figures are not comparable to last year’s data, ratios per employee and per surface unit were applied. Both ratios noted reductions greater than 10%, which is mainly due to the increased rate of organisational units which use heating oil as well as to the milder weather conditions, especially during the summer season, which reduced significantly the need for cooling. GWh kWh/EMPLOYEE kWh/m2 100 8,000 177 6,695 75 89 6,000 150 5,798 50 4,000 25 2,000 33 0 0 88 Heating Fuel Consumption Although until recently, heating fuel was consumed at only 5% of the Bank’s buildings, changes in the geographical distribution of the branch network resulted in significant changes to the diesel consumption for heating results. Specifically in 2013, more than 500,000 litres of heating oil were supplied, with the ratio per employee rising by more than 30% versus 2012. Water Consumption With the aim of reducing water consumption in the Bank’s buildings, installation of controlled water flow faucets was initiated. In 2014, such faucets were installed at each branch under renovation, aimed at limiting unnecessary water use. Moreover, at every branch where BEMS is implemented, there will be water consumption gauge, thus allowing for monitoring of total water consumption at each branch in real time. Especially for 2013, no notable change in consumption per employee versus 2012 was observed. Consumables In 2013, the results indicated an increase in paper consumption, particularly for promotional, internal and external communication purposes. Meanwhile, for the first time, there was reduced use of recycled, chlorine-free paper in relation to conventional paper, as the newly-acquired banks used the latter for the most part. In 2014, the rate of recycled versus conventional paper is expected to return to 2012 levels. For 2014, the extension of FSC-certified paper supply is being examined for use in the Bank’s promotional and communication printed material. In 2013, despite continuous transfers of central services and human resource redeployment to administration buildings, the Managed Print Services (MPS) application was partially extended to 14 buildings. With this application (centralized means of printing equipment operation), firstly, the possibility is provided to use modern equipment with advanced printing, scanning, faxing etc capabilities and with increased security and availability and secondly, significant reduction of total printing costs can be achieved. In 2014, the Group IT Operations plans to expand MPS to fully cover 19 administration buildings. As far as ink cartridge/toner consumption is concerned, it showed a more than double increase. 89 Solid Waste Management During the operational integration period, there was a significant number of one-off waste collection events of non-usable paper for recycling. In parallel efforts being made towards sensitisation of new employees ink cartridge/toner, battery, electronic and electrical equipment recycling. The above actions were undertaken in collaboration with the licensed partner companies and the equivalent Collective Systems of Alternative Waste Management. PAPER (TONNES) 682 90 PAPER/EMPLOYEE PAPER RECYCLED/ (KG) PAPER CONSUMED (%) 45 44 44 43 42 42 41 Vacating of storage space at branches and removal of old archives, especially of the former ATEbank, resulted in a very large increase in the quantity of paper delivered for recycling. Over 680 tonnes of paper were delivered. Transportation In order to cover the training needs that arose from the new, expanded network, e-learning was utilized thus drastically limiting employee transportation. In total, only in 2013, over 3,500,000km of trips by car were prevented, with the participation of employees in training, through e-learning. PREVENTION OF TRANSPORTATION DUE TO e-LEARNING (MILLION KM) 4.0 3.8 3.0 2.0 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.0 0 91 With the exception of business trips by car, business trips by plane and training trips by car almost doubled. Consequently, business trips by plane reached 2,800,000km and training trips by car, 570,000km. This is justified since the human resources related to these volumes is more than double compared to 2012. Gas emissions The chart below depicts the results concerning total pollutant gas emissions in 2013 from total Bank Group. For calculation of total CO2 Bank emissions, emissions from the following are taken into account: Heating fuel consumption (scope 1) Electricity consumption (scope 2) ➢Employee transport for business and training (scope 3) In 2013, there was a 15% reduction in CO2 emissions (kg/employee) due to the equivalent reduction in electricity consumption. 92 RESULTS TREND TARGET GAS EMISSIONS 2012i 2013 REALii 2013 baseiii 20122014 2013 base (%) (%) CO2 EMISSIONS (τόνS) 29,342.65 72,511.60 78,131.18 166 CO2 EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 5,987.07 5,148.87 5,069.83 -15 -3 CH4 EMISSIONS (τόνS) 0.87 1.53 1.66 82 CH4 EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 0.18 0.11 0.11 -42 N2O EMISSIONS (τόνS) 0.45 0.92 0.99 119 N2O EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 0.09 0.07 0.06 -31 NOχ EMISSIONS (τόνS) 65.72 160.49 173.01 163 NOχ EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 13.41 11.40 11.23 -16 SO2 EMISSIONS (τόνS) 92.12 233.02 251.14 173 SO2 EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 18.80 16.55 16.30 -13 CO EMISSIONS (τόνS) 66.90 107.39 117.16 172 CO EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 13.65 7.63 7.60 -13 NMVOC EMISSIONS (τόνS) 8.96 13.57 14.83 171 NMVOC EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 1.83 0.96 0.96 -14 PM10 EMISSIONS (τόνS) 15.43 39.12 42.15 173 PM10 EMISSIONS (kg/employee) 3.15 2.78 2.74 -13 CO2, εQiv EMISSIONS scope 1 (τόνS) (Ι) 335.05 1,433.26 1,471.74 339 CO2, εQ EMISSIONS scope 2 (τόνS) (ΙΙ) iv 27,500.44 69,467.78 74,884.60 172 CO2, εQ EMISSIONS scope 3 (τόνS) (ΙΙΙ) iv 1,664.36 1,921.95 2,112.14 27 TOTAL CO2, εQ EMISSIONS (τόνS) (Ι)+(ΙΙ)+(ΙΙΙ) 29,499.85 72,822.99 78,468.48 166 CO2 = carbon dioxide, CH4 = methane, N2O = Nitrous oxide, NOΧ = nitrogen oxides, SO2 = sulphur dioxide, CO = carbon monoxide, ΝΜVOC = non-methane volatile organic compounds, PM10 = particulate matter. i T he 2012 data regarding gas pollutants were reviewed. These changes are attributed to the updating of gas pollutant emission factors for electricity production based on the latest data regarding the energy mix in the electrical energy sector of the country. ii 2013real: Regards the integrated Bank environmental footprint based on the period of Organisational Unit operation in 2013. Regarding Piraeus Bank Organisational Unit operation before integration with ATEbank as well, environmental footprint is calculated for all the months of the year, while for acquired banks, the included data are from the date of acquisition of each bank within 2013 until year-end. iii 2  013base: Regards the environmental footprint he Bank would have had if all the Organisational Units acquired throughout the year had operated. This specific index category constitutes the Bank’s environmental footprint report based on which the 2014 targets were set. iv F or calculation of equal CO2 emissions the following factors were applied: 1 for CO2, 25 for CH4 and 298 for N2O. For further details, please refer to: IPPC Fourth Assessment REPORT (AR4), Working Group 1, Chapter 2, Changes in Atmospheric Constituents and in Radiative Forcing, Table 2.14, p.212. 93 results τrend TARGET PIRAEUS BANK ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 2012 2013 REALi 2013 baseii 2012-2013 2014 base (%) (%) CONSUMABLES Newspaper consumption from subscriptions (τόΝνΕS) [I] 24.37 37.48 38.33 57 Newspaper consumption from subscriptions (kg/employee) 4.97 2.66 2.49 -50 Paper consumption from the use of paper consumables & bank 119.16 370.55 488.50 310 transaction forms (τόΝνΕS) [IΙ] Paper consumption from Marketing (τόΝνΕS) [IΙΙ] 0.42 32.11 32.57 7,654 Total conventional paper consumption (τόΝνΕS) [I]+[II]+[IIΙ] 143.95 440.13 559.40 289 Total conventional paper consumption (kg/employee) 29.37 31.25 36.30 24 Consumption of toner and cartridges (ITEMS) 19,146 36,479 41,186 115 -5 Consumption of toner and cartridges (items/employee) 3.91 2.59 2.67 -32 GREEN PROCUREMENT A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (τόΝνΕS) [IV] 312.93 270.91 270.91 -13 A4 and A3 recycled paper consumption (kg/employee) 63.85 19.24 17.58 -72 Recycled paper consumption from Marketing (τόΝνΕS) [V] 2.45 0.00 0.00 -100 Total recycled paper consumption (τόΝνΕS) [IV]+[V] 315.38 270.91 270.91 -14 Total paper consumption (τόνS) [I]+[II]+[III]+[IV]+[V] 459.33 711.04 830.31 81 Total paper consumption (kg/employee) 93.72 50.49 53.88 -43 percentage of recycled chlorine-free versus conventional paper (%) 68 38 33 -52 +100iii i 2  013real: Regards the integrated Bank environmental footprint based on the period of Organisational Unit operation in 2013. Regarding Piraeus Bank Organisational Unit operation before integration with ATEbank as well, environmental footprint is calculated for all the months of the year, while for acquired banks, the included data are from the date of acquisition of each bank within 2013 until year-end. ii 2013base: Regards the environmental footprint he Bank would have had if all the Organisational Units acquired throughout the year had operated. This specific index category constitutes the Bank’s environmental footprint report based on which the 2014 targets were set. iii R  eturn of rate of recycled paper use to 2012 levels. For more details, please refer to: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Corporate Responsibility > Environment > Environmental fields of action > Environmental Management > Environmental footprint 94 results trend TARGET PIRAEUS BANK ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 2012 2013 REALi 2013 baseii 20122014 2013 base (%) (%) Energy Consumption Consumption of electricity (GWh) 32.81 82.89 89.35 172 Consumption of electricity (kWh/employee) 6,695.34 5,885.81 5,798.02 -13 -3 Consumption of electricity (kWh/m ) 2 177.35 153.14 150.05 -15 Heating fuel consumption (LITRES) 123,888 529,957 544,186 339 Heating fuel consumption (LITRES/employee) 25.28 37.63 35.31 40 Heating fuel consumption (LITRES/m2) 0.67 0.98 0.91 36 Water Consumption Water consumption (m3) 36,127 99,426 108,734 201 Water consumption (m /employee) 3 7.37 7.06 7.06 -4 -2 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT Paper recycled (τόΝνΕS) 207.59 654.64 681.90 228 Paper recycled (ΚG/employee) 42.36 46.48 44.25 4 +5 paper recycled (recycled/consumed) (%) 45 92 82 82 Recycled ink cartridges/toners (ITEMS) 5,826 11,143 12,125 108 +15 Plastic recycled (κG) 13,386 6,153 6,153 -54 Small batteries recycled (κG) 5,753 9,995 10,297 79 large accumulators recycled (kg) 2,550 1,113 1,364 -47 Electrical and electronic equipment recycled (kg) (excl. ΚΚΑ 5Α, 5Β) 21,118 43,863 55,604 163 Light bulbs and lighting equipment recycled (κG) 544.50 1,827 1,845 239 +10 Μετακινήσεις Business travel by plane (km) 1,503,346 2,665,074 2,799,475 86 Business travel by plane (km/employee) 306.74 189.24 181.65 -41 Business travel by car (km) 7,585,759 7,913,110 8,838,255 17 Business travel by car (km/employee) 1,547.80 561.89 573.50 -63 Travel by car for educational purposes (km) 292,419 565,656 565,656 93 Travel avoided by opting for e-learning (km) 1,928,328 3,757,542 3,757,542 95 +5 i 2 013real: Regards the integrated Bank environmental footprint based on the period of Organisational Unit operation in 2013. Regarding Piraeus Bank Organisational Unit operation before integration with ATEbank as well, environmental footprint is calculated for all the months of the year, while for acquired banks, the included data are from the date of acquisition of each bank within 2013 until year-end. ii 2013base: Regards the environmental footprint he Bank would have had if all the Organisational Units acquired throughout the year had operated. This specific index category constitutes the Bank’s environmental footprint report based on which the 2014 targets were set. 95 E-Banking The significant increase in e-banking services (winbank, easypay platform and use of Phone, Mobile and SMS Banking) played a substantial role in the resulting environmental benefits and particularly in the consumption of natural resources. e-Banking transactions almost doubled (52mn versus 28mn in 2012), with paper saved reaching 251 tonnes (versus 150 tonnes in 2012). Taking into account that for the production of 1 tonne of paper 17 trees are cut, in 2013 the felling of 4,200 trees was prevented. Environmental Risk Assessment Piraeus Bank in collaboration with WWF Greece and FACE3TS completed the EU project “Financial Institutions: Preparing the Market for Adapting to Climate Change”, with the acronym climabiz ,co-funded by the EU through the “LIFE + Environment Policy and Governance” funding instrument. The project was awarded by the European Committee as one of the best Environment projects in 2013. For the first time in Greece, a Model was developed to assess in monetised terms climate risk for businesses and to intergrate in the Bank’s credit risk management procedures in general. In addition, the need arose for businesses for adapting to the new climate conditions and for taking actions to deal with these, with parallel analysis of the business opportunities created by climate change as well as its cost for Greek businesses. In 2013, planning was continued towards incorporation of climate risk into the credit-rating system of Bank customers. In 2014, updating and upgrading of the Climate Risk Management Model is being designed, so that it will provide more in-depth data assessment in the agriculture and tourism sectors. European Project LIFE-Stymfalia In October 2013 the project LIFE-Stymfalia(LIFE12 NAT/GR/00275) commenced with 50% co-funding from the EU financial instrument “LIFE+ Nature and Biodiversity”. The project is being implemented by Piraeus Bank in collaboration with the Piraeus Bank Group Cultural Foundation (PIOP), the Municipality of Sikyonion, OIKOM Environmental Studies Ltd., the Society for the Protection of Prespa, the Centre for Renewable Energy Sources and Saving (CRES) and has a 4-year duration, during which time a multitude of actions and projects will be undertaken both at the Environment Museum of Stymphalia and in the broader region of the Municipality of Sikyonion. The general aim of the project is the restoration of Lake Stymphalia, which is part of the Natura 2000 network of ecologically sensitive areas in Europe. More specifically, it aims to restore the wetland habitats and to create the appropriate conditions for the continuation of protection following the conclusion of the project, by ensuring the necessary financial resources to be derived from the commercial use of the wetlands’ excessive reed bed biomass. The innovation of the project lies in the fact that it aims to combine business and nature conservation, thus contributing to the EU target to halt loss of biodiversity. Designing a sustainable development model based on the protection of the Lake (but which can be applied to other protected areas in the Natura 2000 network), gives significant added value to the project. This is consistent with the EU goal to find alternative forms of finance for the Natura 2000 areas, which includes private sector involvement. For more information, please refer to: www.lifestymfalia.gr 96 Green Banking The Greek economic crisis over the past years has led the majority of businesses to change their operating model. New sectors are surfacing as the focal point of a new growth model, while corporate responsibility is now a distinct element within the strategic planning of most firms. Piraeus Bank promptly realized the potential and the necessity of supporting such actions. The Bank itself developed the necessary know-how, which led to the creation of a constantly expanding “family” of green banking products and services adapted to the needs of the emerging sectors of the environmental economy. In 2013, in the framework of a continuous effort towards creating and promoting new green banking products, Piraeus Bank’s “Green Move” was introduced. By means of this promotional action, green companies, and in particular certain of their products, are supported while significant discounts or other special offers are provided for individual Bank customers. The “Green Move” was initially designed for credit card holders, and is expected to be expanded through the development of relevant loan products. At the same time, throughout 2013 training actions for the Bank’s Branch Network as well as external agencies were carried out, as well as a comprehensive evaluation of all green investments and the provision of information regarding the Bank and its subsidiaries’ green loans. With a firm commitment to actively support green business, Piraeus Bank continues to provide loans to investments in all related sectors while continuously adjusting its existing green loans so that they correspond to the changing market conditions. Although 2013 was another year of recession for the Greek economy, Piraeus Bank managed to increase its loans towards such investments. At year-end, the approved green loan limits reached €1.6bn – a 23% increase versus 2012with loan balances at €1.2bn, up 33%. Total power from RES projects which have received Piraeus Bank loans reached 798MW with the simultaneous prevention of 1,062 thousand tonnes of CO2 emissions – which would have required 80mn trees to be absorbed. 2013 2012 change MW POWER FROM BANK-FUNDED RES (ΜW) 798 471 +69% CO2 EMISSIONS PREVENTED (τηousand TONNES) 1,062 775 +37% Calculation of the CO2emissions prevented by Piraeus Bank loans is achieved based on an average rate of CO2 emissions from Greek electricity production. In 2013, the above data was calculated based on the assumption that an average photovoltaic system of 1MW capacity prevents the emission of approx. 1,058 tonnes of CO2 per year. A wind and a hydroelectric park of the same capacity prevent emissions of approx. 1,673 tonnes and 2,630 tonnes of CO2respectively. Collaborations In the framework of Piraeus Bank’s strategic alliances with the civil society for the protection of biodiversity and the environment, it has a long-standing co-operation with a number of environmental NGOs organisations and bodies. Specifically, it supports the activities of: MOm for the protection of the endangered Mediterranean Monk Seal, of ARCHELON for the protection of sea turtles,, the Hellenic Ornithological Society, the Society for the Protection of Prespa, Callisto and the Ecological Recycling Society. The environmental organisation,Society for the Protection of Prespa, is one of the Bank’s partners in implementing the new EU project LIFE-Stymphalia, which was initiated in October 2013. In the framework of employee participation in volunteer actions, in 2013 the Bank collaborated with the Hellenic Ornithological Society. Finally, Piraeus Bank extended its collaboration with the social cooperation of limited liability “Klimax plus” for the collection of paper to be recycled in 97 Attica. This collaboration, apart from contributing to the achievement of the Bank’s environmental goals, is also part of the Bank’s policy to support organisations that are involved in the rehabilitation of disadvantaged social groups. Environmental Awareness and Training Environmental training of employees is an integral part of the Group’s environmental policy. It takes place on two levels. The first level is general, targeted at all employees and mainly implemented with e-learning programmes that describe basic environmental terminology and the Bank’s environmental work. On the second level, training is more specialized, targeted at specific groups and concerns green business, the Bank’s green products and the Environmental Management System procedures in accordance with EMAS. In 2013, with the increase in employees and infrastructures deriving from the acquired banks, the environmental training focused exclusively on the new Environmental Management Coordinators. In 2013 a total of 577 employees with this role were trained. In early 2008, “Green News” was posted for the first time on the Bank’s intranet and is viewed by 400 employees per month on average. Employees in some Group subsidiaries also have access to it (e.g., ETVA-VIPE, Piraeus Direct Services, Piraeus Bank Cyprus). A significant incentive for employee sensitisation is the annual competitions where employees from branches and administrative buildings with the best performance in recycling of consumables and energy-saving are rewarded. Information on and the results of environmental initiatives are disseminated to employees by means of regular presentations in “winners”, the Group’s internal newsletter. Volunteerism and Environmental Training of Children With the aim of promoting volunteerism, in 2013 the Bank organized, with employee participation, volunteer actions such as the clean-up of Vravrona wetland, visit to the Environment Museum of Stymphalia as well as the clean-up of the Agios Mamas wetland, in Chalkidiki. In 2013, the employees’ children summer camp “FYLLARAKIA” was organized for the first time. Apart from the completeregular camp programme, during the 2-week period a number of cultural and environmental activities took place aimed primarily at introducing and familiarizing the children with the natural and cultural environment as well as cultivating their aesthetics. The actions included a visit to the Environment Museum of Stymphalia water-related games and activities – in the framework of the United Nations International Year of Water Cooperation, clean-up of the forested area around the camp as well as an environmental walk along a nearby trail. In total, more than 300 people, adults and children, participated in the above actions. Environmental Behaviour Questionnaire In the framework of a two-year study on employees’ environmental behaviour, a questionnaire was completed on a voluntary basis on the intranet by over 3,400 employees, the results of which were analyzed by the Ecological Recycling Society (ERS). The average employee environmental performance, on a 1-10 scale, was 5.8 in 2007, rose to 6.3 in 2009, to 6.8 in 2011 while in 2013 it dropped to 6.3. It should be noted that during 2012-2013 the questionnaire was completed in for the first time also by employees from the acquired banks. 98 External Communication In February 2011, the “Think Green” platform started operation with presence in the most popular social networks (Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Flickr) which has created an online user community sensitized in environmental issues. The platform has received wide public acceptance in its third year of operation and has 32,686 friends on facebook. In addition, the website www.piraeusbankgroup.com informs about all its environmental work; the climabiz and LIFE-Stymphalia websites inform about the progress and deliverables of the corresponding LIFE projects. Group Subsidiaries Environment Greece ETVA Industrial Parks ETVA Industrial Parks, in collaboration with Piraeus Bank, promotes investments aiming to develop new, innovative actions in the framework of environmental economy, driven by social return. With concrete actions, ETVA aims at improving the environmental performance and compliance of all Industrial Parks and all businesses located in them. In 2013, ETVA conducted over 8,500 tests for environmental parameters. ETVA co-finances and participates in sustainable investments with characteristics that ensure social and environmental indicators. Consequently, in the framework of energy investments, five photovoltaic stations were completed in January 2013 in three Industrial Areas (Kavala, Preveza, Petraia), with a total capacity of 15.45MW, producing energy equal to the energy consumption of 6,400 households. From these investments the emission of 22,000 tonnes of CO2 are avoided per year. Subsidiaries abroad implement environmental actions as well, in the framework of Corporate Responsibility. In 2013, the actions per country were as follows: Romania  se of social media to disseminate and encourage environmental actions such as carpooling. Specifically, since 2001 Piraeus Bank Romania U in collaboration with Greenpeace has been promoting an environmentally-friendly application for carpooling. Actions for collection and recycling of paper and plastic. Actions to clean-up of Bucharest by means of social activation through social media. Bulgaria S ending e-statements for monthly credit card bills to reduce paper-consumption thus protecting the environment. Provision of the first “Green Loan”: consumer loan for energy-efficient home (EnergyEfficiencyHomeLoan). Cyprus  osting of “Green News” on intranet, with the aim of internally shaping an environmentally-friendly culture and action. P Placement of recycling bins in Municipalities and Schools in Cyprus. Serbia A  ctions of electronic appliance collection and recycling. Sending e-newsletter and greeting cards to reduce paper-consumption thus protecting the environment. Albania  ctions of volunteer clean-up of cities in one day. A Sponsorship of international conference on “the Future of Sustainable Development” organized by the University of Skhodra. 99 G R I G 4 AND I SO 2 6 0 0 0 R E P O R T I N G C ONT E NT G R I G 4 A N D I S O 26 0 0 0 REPORTING CONTENT The present Corporate Responsibility Report covers the calendar year 2013 and forms part of the Piraeus Bank Group Annual Report. It is structured with the aim of conforming to the Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 (GRI-G4) to determine its content (Materiality, Stakeholder Dialogue, Viability Sustainability Context, Completeness) and quality (Symmetry, Clarity, Accuracy, Actuality, Comparability, Reliability). Piraeus Bank Group has implemented the Global Reporting Initiative Guidelines for a seventh consecutive year, considering that this model is a comprehensible framework of principles that facilitates the disclosure and communication of Corporate Responsibility issues for both the Group and the stakeholders. The 2013 Annual Report pertains to the entire Group. The 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report covers almost all the activities of the Group; however, some of the data reporting and quantitative measurements are focused on specific areas of its activities. Wherever this applies, reference is made to the relevant Report sections. The objective is to gradually extend the Bank’s know-how and systematic approach of CSR issues to all the Group subsidiaries. Due to the acquisition and integration of selected assets of ATEbank by Piraeus Bank as of 27.07.12, GENIKI Bank as of 14.12.12 as well as the Greek banking operations of the Cypriot banks: Bank of Cyprus, Cyprus Popular Bank, Hellenic Bank as of 26.03.13 and Millennium Bank as of 19.06.13, it is not possible to provide comparable performance results of the Group for periods 2012 and before. 102 The content Piraeus Bank Group Report has been assured by Ernst & Young. The detailed Independent Assurance Statement is included in pages 116-119 of the present Corporate Responsibility Report. At the same time, Piraeus Bank Group voluntarily follows the directions for the publication of annual and progress reports as indicated by the UN Global Compact, and posts its Annual Report on the relevant website (www.unglobalcompact.org). Since 2013, the Group has also been abiding by the International Standard Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO 26000, with the aim of strengthening and optimally incorporating social responsibility into the Organisation’s values and principles. This international Standard contains guidelines for implementation and promotion of the basic principles of Corporate Responsibility in a company’s activities, in key issues such as: corporate governance, human rights, labor practices the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues and participation in and growth of society. For the collection of the 2013 data contained in the Report, the electronic database management systems were used, enabling data collection and processing. Moreover, internal processes have been adopted to ensure the validity and reliability of information. The Table of Global Reporting Initiative below contains all the information for the GRI G4 indices required for the basic level “In Accordance Core”. Additionally, the concise table below contains relevant references to policies, approaches and management aspects adopted by Piraeus Bank for each GRI index category. The present Corporate Responsibility Report aims to provide complete, symmetrical presentation of certain important non-financial aspects of the organisation’s work in relation to society, customers, employees and the environment. In the framework of promoting current issues, communication and dialogue with stakeholders constitutes a strong tool. At the same time by adopting this mechanism, one can distinguish those CSR issues that have a most substantial and timeless effect on society. These issues constitute the basis for the development and activation of mechanisms for sustainable improvement of an organisation’s operations. Towards this direction, in 2013, apart from the regular communication and collaboration framework that has been established with each group of stakeholders, as described in the present Report, Piraeus Bank has also adopted an evaluation process by means of a survey-questionnaire in which participants were asked to assess the materiality of an extensive range of corporate responsibility issues. The questionnaire was addressed to a sample of 100 participants, of which 87 participants both internally and externally responded (please refer to: materiality questionnaire http://www.piraeusbankgroup.com/el/investors/financials/annual-reports). 103 From the analysis of the survey results it was concluded that almost none of the issues were considered immaterial; however, the following 6 issues are distinguished and are presented in more detail in this Report: 1. Customer Service: The existence of a fair service/handling of customers which includes management of their personal data and promotion of products and services in an honest manner, as well as ensuring that all the products are safe, whatever their origin. 2. E nvironmental Protection: Protection of the natural environment through the development and support of the proper initiatives. 3. A doption of Recycling Programmes: Adoption of programmes for recycling of materials and monitoring of natural resource consumption, with the aim of reducing its environmental footprint. 4. S upport of local communities through PIOP’s Museum Network: Support of employment and of the economic activity of local communities through the operation of PIOP’s Museum Network. 5. Continuous enhancement of products/services: The Bank adopts ways of identifying possible risks of negative effects, which the products or services might entail for the customer and shapes practices to reduce these (ie systematic internal analysis, collaboration with external stakeholders to explain how this might happen as well as alteration of the products and services accordingly – or the provision of differentiated products or services for specific vulnerable groups). 6. C ontinuous Employee Training: Provision of continuous training to employees, adjusted according to the needs of their roles and with emphasis on issues of compliance and combating fraud/corruption. The issues incorporated in the survey’s questionnaire constitute aspects of corporate responsibility which may possibly have a positive or negative effect on stakeholders such as customers, employees, NGOs. These issues have emerged from the actuality, the current economic crisis situation, existing corporate responsibility practices, surveys, corporate responsibility indices. All material issues change over time, as does knowledge about them, and new issues may arise. Piraeus Bank will be re-evaluating their materiality once a year, in the context of compiling the Annual Report. The chart below depicts the results of the sample survey regarding the 2013 Corporate Responsibility Report. The horizontal axis represents how non-Group stakeholders perceive the materiality of each issue and the vertical axis represents how Piraeus Group respondents perceive the materiality of each issue. Questions/views on the report and/or its content may be submitted to: Investor_Relations@piraeusbank.gr. 104 MATERIALITY ANALYSIS 5,00 1 19 4,80 4,60 3 20 21 2 4,40 22 5 4 INTERNAL ASSESSMENT 25 26 6 4,20 23 24 7 11 12 8 4,00 13 14 10 9 3,80 3,60 15 16 18 3,40 17 3,20 3,40 3,60 3,80 4,00 4,20 4,40 4,60 4,80 5,00 EXTERNAL ASSESSMENT 1 Customer service in an honest and fair manner 11 Delegation of corporate responsibility issues 19 Supplier relations management 2 Business initiatives for protection of the natural to BoD member 20 Expansion of environmental policy and environment 12 Participation in corporate responsibility assessment management systems 3 Environmental management system environmental indices 21 Management of adverse consequences of products/ footprint reduction 13 Establishing of PIOP museums as centers of cultural services 4 Continuous improvement of products/services production in the local communities with PIOP 22 Climate change to benefit customers presence 23 Environmental education of Group employees 5 Continuous employee training 14 Employee support programmes 24 Preservation/promotion of cultural heritage with 6 Support of local economies through PIOP 15 Culture-promoting research programmes emphasis on crafts/industrial technology 7 Promotion of corporate responsibility principles 16 Administrative and executive committee 25 Integration of aspects of corporate responsibility 8 Institutional role in corporate responsibility issues responsibilities during business assessment 9 Customer satisfaction 17 Voluntary Retirement Scheme 26 Development and adoption of uniform 10 Training programmes for young generation 18 Operation of historical archive through PIOP Group culture ASPECT BOUNDARY WITHIN PIRAEUS BANK GROUP ASPECT BOUNDARY OUTSIDE OF PIRAEUS BANK GROUP ASPECT BOUNDARY INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF PIRAEUS BANK GROUP 105 GRI G4 REPORT EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE ASSURANCE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the 1. STRATEGY AND relevance of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for AFR 2-12 G4-1 ANALYSIS CRR 10-11 addressing sustainability. G4-3 Νame of the organisation. Piraeus Bank SA G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. www.piraeusbankgroup.com G4-5 Location of the organisation’s headquarters. 4, Amerikis St., 10564 Athens Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries where either the organisation has significant operations or that are specifically www.piraeusbankgroup.com > G4-6 Group Profile > Group Presence relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Nature of ownership and legal form. Investor Relations > Corporate G4-7 Governace > Articles of Association CRR 33-34 www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Investor Relations > Corporate G4-8 of customers and beneficiaries). Governace > Presentations > 2013 > Corporate Presentation 2. ORGANISationAL PROFILE CRR 56 AR 9, 40 AFR 3 www.piraeusbankgroup.com/ en/group-profile/at-a-glance G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation. www.piraeusbankgroup. com/~/media/Com/Downloads/ FY_2013_Results_Presentation_ updated_230514.pdf > slides 33, 52-53 CRR 56-57 www.piraeusbankgroup.com/~/ G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, region, gender etc. media/Com/Downloads/FY_2013_ Results_Presentation_ updated_230514.pdf > SLIDE 33 G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. CRR 57 G4-12 Organisation’s supply chain. CRR 50-51 106 GRI G4 REPORT EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE ASSURANCE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CRR 10-11 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organisation’s AFR 4-8 G4-13 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Group Profile Explanation whether and how the precautionary approach or principle AFR 10-11 G4-14 is addressed by the organisation. CRR 29-31 2. ORGANISationAL PROFILE Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, G4-15 or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or which it endorses. CRR 18-19 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: • Holds CRR 18-19, 72 Hellenic Banking Association G4-16 a position on the governance body • Participates in projects or committees (www.hba.gr) • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues • Views UN Global Compact membership as strategic. Α. Αll entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. AFR 75-78 ΝΟΤΕ 26 G4-17 Β. Report whether any entity included in the organisation’s consolidated CRR 104 financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. Α. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 Β. Explain how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles for CRR 104-107 Defining Report Content. CRR 104-107, please refer to G4-19 Αll the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. “Specific Standard Disclosures” 3. IDENTIFIED For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organisation, MATERIAL ASPECTS AND as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material or not within the BOUNDARIES CRR 104-107, please refer to G4-20 organisation • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary “Specific Standard Disclosures” within the organisation. For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation, as follows: • Report whether the Aspect is material or not outside of the CRR 104-107, please refer to G4-21 organisation • Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary “Specific Standard Disclosures” outside the organisation. Τhe effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and G4-22 the reasons for such restatements. CRR 104-107 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect G4-23 Boundaries. CRR 104-107 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. CRR 14-17 G4-25 Βasis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. CRR 14-17 4. STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Οrganisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether G4-26 any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report CRR 14-17 preparation process. 107 GRI G4 REPORT EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE ASSURANCE GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 4. STAKEHOLDER engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and G4-27 concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that CRR 14-17, 104-107 ENGAGEMENT raised each of the key topics and concerns. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. 01.01.2013-31.12.2013 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 20.06.2013 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). ΑΝΝUAL Business Planning & Investor G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Relations A. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. B. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. GRI Content Index for “In 5. REPORT PROFILE G4-32 C. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been accordance” Core externally assured. GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not CRR 108-114 a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. A. Τhe organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. B. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability G4-33 report, report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. CRR 118-121 C. Τhe relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers. D. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report. Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest 4. GOVERNANCE G4-34 governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on AFR 17 economic, environmental and social impacts. 5. ETHICS AND Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as G4-56 codes of conduct and codes of ethics. CRR 12-13 INTEGRITY 108 GRI G4 REPORT dentified EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE Omissions ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC Material Aspect: To support the employment and economic activity of local communities through the initiatives and Museum Network of Piraeus Bank Group Culutural Foundation PIOP. www.piop.gr G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. AFR 11-12 – INDIRECT ECONOMIC CRR 7, 72-83 IMPACT Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services G4-EC7 supported. CRR 78-79 – ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Implement programmes on recycling materials and monitoring the consumption of natural resources with the aim to reduce the Group’s environmental footprint. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 10-13, 86-87, 90 – MATERIALS G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. CRR 90, 94-95 – G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. CRR 94-95 – Material Aspect: Implement programmes on recycling materials and monitoring the consumption of natural resources with the aim to reduce the Group’s environmental footprint G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 10-13, 87-89 – G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organisation. CRR 87-89, 94-95 – ENERGY G4-EN5 Energy intensity. CRR 87-89, 94-95 – G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. CRR 87-89 – Material Aspect: Protect the natural environment through the development and support of sustainable business initiatives. CRR 10-13, 84-86, 96 www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Corporate Responsibility > Environment > Enviromental Policy Principles BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. www.lifestymfalia.gr > – Life-Stymfalia Project > Partners www.lifestymfalia.gr > Νews > 1st Visit to the LIFE-Stymfalia project by the External Monitoring Team 109 GRI G4 REPORT dentified EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE Omissions ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Protect the natural environment through the development and support of sustainable business initiatives. CRR 96 www.lifestymfalia.gr > Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services Life-Stymfalia Project > General G4-EN12 on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Information – outside protected areas. www.lifestymfalia.gr > Life-Stymfalia Project > Aim-Objectives CRR 96 BIODIVERSITY www.lifestymfalia.gr > Life-Stymfalia Project > Aim-Objectives www.lifestymfalia.gr > G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Life-Stymfalia Project > Partners – www.lifestymfalia.gr > The area of lake Stymfalia > Species www.lifestymfalia.gr > Actions > Preparatory Actions Material Aspect: Implement programmes on recycling materials and monitoring the consumption of natural resources with the aim to reduce the Group’s environmental footprint. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 10-13, 86-87, 92-93 – G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). CRR 92-93 – G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). CRR 92-93 – EMISSIONS G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). CRR 92-93 – G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. CRR 92-93 – G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. CRR 92-93 – G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions. CRR 92-93 – 110 GRI G4 REPORT dentified EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE Omissions ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ENVIRONMENTAL Material Aspect: Implement programmes on recycling materials and monitoring the consumption of natural resources with the aim to reduce the Group’s environmental footprint. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 10-13, 86-87, 90-91 – EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. CRR 86-87, 90-91, 95 – social LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Material Aspect: Provide continous training to employees customized on the basis of their roles’ needs and giving emphasis on the subjects of compliance and anti-fraud / anti-corruption. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 15, 55, 60-64 – Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by G4-LA9 employee category. CRR 61-63 – TRAINING Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support AND EDUCATION the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing G4-LA10 CRR 55-56, 60-64 – career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 development reviews, by gender and by employee category. CRR 61 – PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Material Aspect: Treating customers fairly involves handling their personal data in accordance with relevant laws, promoting products and services in an honest way and ensuring products are safe, wherever they are sold. Failure to do so risks misleading and disempowering customer. G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach. CRR 40-41, 45-49 – CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-PR1 health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. CRR 47-49 – Material Aspect: The Bank should report on ways it identifies potential risks of negative impact to customers and practices it adopts in order to reduce them ( i.e. systematic internal analysis, working with external stakeholders to understand of how it can occur, and amending products and services accordingly – or providing differentiated products or services for specific vulnerable groups). G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach CRR 40-41, 45-47 – Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s PRODUCT AND SERVICE procedures for product and service information and labeling, and LABELING G4-PR3 percentage of significant product and service categories subject to CRR 40-41 – such information requirements G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. CRR 45-47 – 111 GRI G4 REPORT dentified EXTERNAL ιndicator category description REFERENCE Omissions ASSURANCE SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES SOCIAL PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Protect the natural environment through the development and support of sustainable business initiatives. Former FS1: CRR 12-13, 38, 54, 70 www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Corporate Responsibility > Environment > a) Environmental Policy Principles, Policies with specific environmental and social components applied to b) Climate Change Strategy, business lines (former FS1). c) Sustainability Statement d) Green Entrepreneurship Procedures for assessing and screening environmental and social risks www.piraeusbankgroup.com > in business lines (former FS2). Corporate Governance > Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and compliance Relationship with Customers with environmental and social requirements included in agreements or and Suppliers > Relationship G4-DMA transactions (former FS3). with suppliers – Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement the Former FS2: environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to CRR 84-86, 96 business lines (former FS4). Former FS3: www.piraeusbankgroup.com > Interactions with clients/ investees/business partners regarding Investor Relations > Corporate PRODUCT PORTOFOLIO environmental and social risks and opportunities (former FS5). Governance > Articles of Association, ArTicle 2 CRR 50-51 Former FS4: CRR 58-59, 60-61, 98-99 Former FS5: CRR 14-17, 96-99 ΑR 44, 79 FY 2013 Results Presentation Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by specific region, size www.piraeusbankgroup.com > FS-6 (e.g. Micro/SME/Large) and by sector. Investor Relations > – Presentations > 2013 > Corporate Presentation Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific CRR 10-11, 43-44, 70 FS-7 social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. ΑR 10, 39, 59-60, 101 – Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific CRR 10-11, 98 FS-8 environmental benefit for each business line broken down by purpose. AR 10, 39, 58-65 – 112 Website CRR (number): Corporate Responsibility Report, 2013, page number AR (number): Annual Report, 2013, page number AFR (number): Annual Financial Report, 2013, page number It is noted that the table contains brief descriptions of GRI indices for reasons of presentation. For the complete description please refer to the following link https://www.globalreporting.org/resourcelibrary/GRIG4-Part1-Reporting-Principles-and-Standard-Disclosures.pdf. 113 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause 6: Social Responsibility Core Subjects Sub-clause Reference in the report Social Responsibility Core Subjects CRR 10-13 AFR 2-12, 17 Organisational Governance 6.2 CRR 6-7, 22-25 Human Rights 6.3 CRR 54-56 Due diligence 6.3.3 CRR 18, 54-56 Human rights risk situations 6.3.4 CRR 54-56 Avoidance of complicity 6.3.5 CRR 50-51, 54-56 Resolving grievances 6.3.6 CRR 45-49, 55-56, 66-67 Discrimination and vulnerable groups 6.3.7 CRR 12-13, 24-26, 54-59, 62 Civil and political rights 6.3.8 CRR 18, 54-55, 65-66 CRR 6-7, 18, 42-44, 54-55, 65-66, 70-72, 84-95 Economic, social and cultural rights 6.3.9 www.piop.gr AFR 11-12 Fundamental principles and rights at work 6.3.10 CRR 12-13, 18, 24-25, 54-55, 57-58, 60-63 Labour Practices Employment and employment relationships 6.4.3 CRR 14-17, 18, 24-25, 50-51, 56-57, 64-66, 78 Conditions of work and social protection 6.4.4 CRR 14-17, 56, 57-67 CRR 10-11, 14-17, 18-19, 50-51, 56-57, 60, 64-65, 108-109 (Organisation Profile) Social dialogue 6.4.5 AR 9-13, 15, 44-46, 80-82 AFR 3, 4-8, 10-11 Health and safety at work 6.4.6 CRR 64, 65-67 Human development and training in the workplace 6.4.7 CRR 14-17, 55-60, 60-64 The Environment Prevention of pollution 6.5.3 CRR 84-86, 90-91, 93-95 Sustainable resource use 6.5.4 CRR 84-95 CRR 84-86, 87-89, 93-95 Climate change mitigation and adaptation 6.5.5 www.climabiz.gr CRR 84-86, 96 Protection of the environment, biodiversity and restoration of www.lifestymfalia.gr > LIFE-Stymfalia project > 6.5.6 natural habitats a) Aim Objectives, b) Partners, c) The area of Lake Stymfalia > Species, d) Actions > Preparatory actions 114 ISO 26000 Table for Corporate Responsibility Reporting Clause 6: Social Responsibility Core Subjects Sub-clause Reference in the report Fair Operating Practices Anti-corruption 6.6.1 6.6.2 CRR 38-42, 45-49 Responsible political involvement 6.6.3 CRR 12-13, 60-63 Fair competition 6.6.5 CRR 38-42, 45-49 Promoting social responsibility in the value chain 6.6.6 CRR 54-55, 60-63, 70-83 CRR 10-11, 14-17, 54-55 Respect for property rights 6.6.7 www.piop.gr AFR 11-12 Consumer Issues Consumer Issues 6.7.1 6.7.2 CRR 38-42 Fair marketing, factual and unbiased information and fair 6.7.3 CRR 38-42, 42-43 contractual practices Protecting consumers’ health and safety 6.7.4 CRR 38-42, 45-47 Sustainable consumption 6.7.5 CRR 47-49, 84-86 Consumer service, support, and complaint and dispute 6.7.6 CRR 38-42, 47-49 resolution Consumer data protection and privacy 6.7.7 CRR 38-42, 47-49 Access to essential services 6.7.8 CRR 42-43, 47-49 Education and awareness 6.7.9 CRR 42-43, 47-49 Community Involvement and Development AR 9-13, 15, 16-21 Community involvement 6.8.1 6.8.2 CRR 10-11, 14-17, 70-83 Education and culture 6.8.3 CRR 14-17, 70-83 Employment creation and skills development 6.8.4 CRR 14-17, 70-83 AR 9-13, 15, 16-21 Τechnology development and access 6.8.5 CRR 10-11, 14-17, 44-45, 53-54, 72-83, 96 AFR 66 AR 9-13, 15, 16-21, Wealth and income creation 6.8.7 CRR 10-11, 14-17, 44-45, 60-64, 72-83, 96 AFR 67 Health 6.8.8 CRR 54-55, 70-71, 72-83 CRR 6-7, 70-71, 72-83, 96 Social investment 6.8.9 AR 9-13, 15, 16-21 115 ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Tel: +30 210 2886 000 Certified Auditors – Accountants S.A. Fax:+30 210 2886 905 11th Km National Road Athens-Lamia ey.com 144 51 Athens, Greece INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT TO THE MANAGEMENT OF PIRAEUS BANK S.A. The “2013 Corporate Responsibility Report” (“the Report”) of Piraeus Bank S.A. (“the Bank”) has been prepared by the Bank’s Management which is responsible for the collection and presentation of the information contained therein. Our responsibility is limited in carrying out a limited assurance engagement on specific scope on the Report, which is prepared in accordance with the “In accordance Core” option level of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our responsibility in performing our assurance engagement is solely to the management of the Bank and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed between us. We neither accept nor we assume any responsibility and for any other purpose to any other person or organization. Any reliance any third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. WORK SCOPE AND CRITERIA The assurance engagement has been planned and performed in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements Other Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE3000), in order to provide a limited level assurance opinion on: 1. The accuracy and completeness of quantitative data and the plausibility of qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures, required for the “In accordance-Core” option. 2. The accuracy and completeness of quantitative data (performance indicators) and plausibility of statements (GRI G4 Disclosures on Management Approach) related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures, which correspond to the six (6) most material issues, as presented in the Bank’s materiality analysis. 3. The Report’s “In accordance-Core” adherence against the related GRI G4 requirements. The GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement are indicated in the GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 108-114. 116 WHAT WE DID TO FORM OUR CONCLUSIONS In order to form our conclusions we performed (but were not limited to) the steps outlined below: ► Performed interviews with Management executives in order to understand the Bank’s corporate responsibility processes, policies and activities during the reporting period. ► Reviewed information in order to substantiate data and statements regarding the Bank’s sustainability performance in 2013, as these are presented in the Report. ► Reviewed the Bank’s processes for determining material issues to be included in the Report, as well as the coverage of these material issues within the Report, material issues covered by media, and sustainability reports of selected peers. ► Interviewed specialists responsible for managing, collating and reviewing data related to the GRI G4 General and Specific Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, for internal and public reporting purposes. ► Reviewed data reported to corporate level from the reporting entities (branches and management buildings) or from the Group’s subsidiaries, to test completeness of coverage (depending on assigned boundaries) of reporting entities and to examine for selected reporting entities the checks which have been applied at corporate level. ► Reviewed relevant documentation and reporting systems, including collation tools, templates used, and guidance documents. ► Reviewed the Report for the appropriate presentation of the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, which included discussions of limitations and assumptions relating to the way data are presented.. ► Reviewed the GRI G4 Content Index found on pages 108-114 and the references included therein, against the GRI G4 requirements for the “In accordance-Core” option. LEVEL OF ASSURANCE Our procedures were designed in order to obtain a limited level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) on which we formed our conclusions. The extent of these procedures is less than those designed to obtain a reasonable level of assurance and therefore a lower level of assurance is obtained. LIMITATIONS OF OUR REVIEW ► Our review was limited to the Greek version of the Report. In the event of any inconsistency in translation between the English and Greek versions, as far as our conclusions are concerned, the Greek version of the Report prevails. ► Our review was limited to information related to the GRI G4 General and Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, and did not include financial data nor the corresponding narrative text in the Report. 117 ► We do not provide any assurance relating to future information such as estimates, expectations or targets, or their achievability. ► The scope of our work did not include any review of third party activities or performance, nor attending any stakeholder engagement activities. ► Our review did not include testing of the Information Technology systems used or upon which the collection and aggregation of data was based by the Bank. CONCLUSIONS Based on our review and according to the terms of reference and the limitations of our work, we report the following conclusions. Our conclusions are based on the appropriate application of the selected criteria and should be read in conjunction with the “What we did to form our conclusions” section above. 1.  How complete and accurate are the quantitative data and how plausible is the qualitative information related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary and time period stated in the Report, is not included in the quantitative data of the Report related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the qualitative data related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report, that would materially affect the way they are presented. ► We have reviewed information and explanations on selected Management statements (qualitative information) related to the GRI G4 General Standard Disclosures, as these are presented in the Report and no misstatements came to our attention. ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Group’s materiality analysis, as found on page 107, is inaccurately presented based on the procedures followed by the Bank. Moreover, we believe that the process to prioritize material issues could be enhanced through a further allocation and assignment of weights to stakeholders. 118 2. How complete and accurate are the quantitative data (performance indicators) and how plausible are the statements (GRI G4 Disclosures on Management Approach) related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement? ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any reporting unit or Group subsidiary company, according to the set boundary per material issue and the time period stated in the Report, is not included into the quantitative data (performance indicators) of the Report related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement. ► Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that errors or inaccuracies exist in the collation of the data related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures under the scope of our engagement, or in the transposition of these data to the Report that would materially affect the way they are presented. ► We have reviewed information and explanations on selected Management statements (GRI G4 Disclosures on Management Approach) related to the GRI G4 Specific Standard Disclosures, as presented in the Report and no misstatements came to our attention. 3. Does the Report meet the GRI G4 requirements of the “In accordance-Core” option? ► Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Report does not meet the requirements of the “In accordance – Core” option, as presented in the GRI G4 Content Index, found on pages 108-114. INDEPENDENCE This is the third year that Ernst & Young (Hellas) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. provided independent assurance services in relation to the Bank’s Corporate Responsibility report. We conducted our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other requirements that the members of the engagement team, as well as the assurance Firm, are independent of the client, including not being involved in writing the subject under review. EY has systems and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent conflicts regarding independence. The Firm and all professional personnel involved in this engagement have met these independence requirements. ASSURANCE TEAM The professionals which participated in the engagement are members of and are supported by the EY Climate Change and Sustainability Services Global Network, which undertakes similar engagements in Greece and at a global level. Athens, 10 July 2014 For and on behalf of ERNST & YOUNG (HELLAS) Certified Auditors Accountants S.A. Vassilios Kaminaris Partner 119 Concept & Design: The Newtons Laboratory Actualisation & Production Management: ez-dot The 2013 Piraeus Bank Corporate Responsibility Report was printed on Munken Polar Rough paper, deriving from sustainably managed forests and obtained by environmentally-friendly processes. 120 121
