UN Global Compact Communication on Progress www.landsvirkjun.com U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Hálslón Reservoir in the northern highlands serves Landsvirkjun’s largest power station, the 690 MW Fljótsdalsstöd. One of the world’s longest tunnel systems connects the reservoir to the station 600 metres below the reservoir. 2 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Letter from the CEO Landsvirkjun signed the UN Global Compact in work at Landsvirkjun and our commitment to strong November, 2013 following the formal establishment ethics, integrity and responsible business practices. of the Company’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Policy. During the course of 2014 we have taken In the interest of clarity we chose to communicate steps to integrate the Global Compact’s principles this first Communication on Progress report (COP) into our CSR policy, covering our own operations as through this dedicated, stand-alone, report. This well as our value chain. first COP focuses on the implementation of our CSR Policy into our strategy and daily operations, with a Landsvirkjun’s CSR work builds on the Company’s key focus on areas concerning the Global Compact’s long history of socially and environmentally principles. This COP covers our activities since the responsible operations and I am pleased to confirm establishment of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy in early our continued support of the ten principles of the 2013 until the end of September 2014, excluding Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, the chapter on the environment, which only covers the environment and anti-corruption. activities in 2013. As we move forward, we aim to further align our COPs with our annual corporate Since joining the Global Compact we have become reporting process. involved with the initiative’s Nordic network. We were pleased to participate in the network’s meeting Your sincerely in Oslo in May 2014 and look forward to future exchanges with our fellow Nordic members. As part of the CSR Policy implementation, we published our Code of Conduct in 2013. The Code Dr. Hördur Arnarson, CEO formalises and outlines the foundations on which we 3 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S About Landsvirkjun Landsvirkjun, a state-owned company, is Iceland’s Landsvirkjun aspires to become a leader in the largest electricity generator. The Company processes sustainable use of renewable energy sources. The 75% of all electricity used in Iceland. The energy Company consistently strives to maximise the generated by Landsvirkjun is 100% renewable with potential yield and value of the natural resources it a key focus on hydroelectric and geothermal power. has been entrusted with in a sustainable, responsible Recently the Company also started exploring the and efficient manner. feasibility of wind power by erecting two wind turbines. Landsvirkjun’s operations are certified according to the following standards: In addition to serving the Icelandic market, ›› ISO 9001 (Quality Management System) Landsvirkjun is committed to offering the most ›› ISO 14001 (Environmental Management System) competitive renewable energy contracts in Europe. ›› ISO 27001 (Information Security Management The Company thereby contributes to sustainable System) business operations around the world. The Company’s ›› OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health and Safety) values, prudence, progressiveness and reliability are key elements in the development of new projects and in the operations of existing power stations. Deep inside the Mountain The power station at Fljótsdalur in NE-Iceland, is Landsvirkjun’s largest station, with an installed capacity of 690 MW. The station is buried 1000 metres inside the mountain whereas the office 4 buildings and reception area can be seen at the surface. U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy Building on years of socially and environmentally Each year Landsvirkjun sets new goals in these responsible operations, Landsvirkjun formalised its focus areas and reports on progress in its Annual CSR Policy in 2013. Report and on its website. The implementation of the policy has been further reinforced by Landsvirkjun’s The Policy builds on the following six focus areas: membership of the UN Global Compact in November ›› Corporate Governance 2013. A special focus has been put on integrating the ›› Responsible Value Chain UN Global Compact principles in Landsvirkjun’s CSR ›› The Environment Policy implementation during 2014 and this work ›› Health and Safety will be further advanced in 2015. ›› Society ›› Knowledge Dissemination The areas noted above are covered in this COP, which is organized through the focuses of the Global Compact’s 10 principles. Mývatn Nature Baths Landsvirkjun produces renewable energy from both hydro and geothermal sources. The Company gives deference to society, the environment and business matters. The cooperation with the Mývatn Nature Baths 5 is a prime example of how Landsvirkjun can work in collaboration with projects in its areas of operation. U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Human and Labour Rights Landsvirkjun‘s promotion of human and labour rights Relevant UN Global Compact Principles is in all matters in line with Iceland´s strong legal Businesses should: framework on those areas. The respect for human 1. Support and respect the protection of and labour rights is part of Iceland’s Constitution internationally proclaimed Human Rights. and is further reinforced by EU regulations which are 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in Human partly implemented via Iceland’s membership of the Rights abuses. European Economic Area (EEA) agreement. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Building on this solid legal ground, Landsvirkjun is bargaining. committed to promoting issues of gender equality, 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and employee development and promotion of human compulsory labour. and labour rights through the Company’s value 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour. chain (notably suppliers and business partners). 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in This chapter gives an overview of key policies and respect of employment and occupation. initiatives that concern human and labour rights at Landsvirkjun. Respect for Human Rights Landsvirkjun actively promotes gender equality, employee development and human and labour rights throughout the Company’s value chain. 6 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Human Resources strive to have a positive influence on our value chain, In 2013, HR procedures were formalised including through our contracts, policies and initiatives. We orientation procedures for new employees and are therefore in the process of strengthening our retirement procedures. In 2014, performance policies and processes to advance CSR work in the interviews were introduced for all employees. value chain with a key focus on our suppliers and Performance reviews are used to evaluate and assess business partners. the performance of individual employees on the job and to explore opportunities for further career Landsvirkjun is currently revising its Code of development. Performance reviews are an integral Conduct for the supply chain. The Code addresses part of Landsvirkjun’s employees’ development plan. the relationship with suppliers and service providers including aspects related to human and labour rights. Gender Equality and Employee Development In 2011, Landsvi rkju n signed the Women’s In a similar vein we are in the process of establishing Empowerment Principles (WEP)1, a joint initiative of a policy for business integrity in our operations as a the UN Global Compact and UN Women, to promote means to encourage all stakeholders to consider issues equality and the advancement of both sexes in the addressed by the UN Global Compact Principles. workplace, labour market and in society. Society Stakeholder Engagement In 2013, Landsvirkjun was awarded the PWC Gold One of the pillars of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy is Standard for its efforts in reducing the gender pay gap building strong collaborative alliances with society, from 12% in 2003 to 1.6% in 2012. with the aim of ensuring societal and environmental benefits from the Company’s operations. Landsvirkjun strives to achieve a better balance in gender distribution within the various operational In 2013, great efforts were made to develop an areas of the business. One of the goals set for 2014 effective communication plan for proposed power was achieving an increase in the proportion of female projects in the northeast of Iceland. The aim of the managers. However, the initial goal of 20% had not communication plan is to minimise uncertainty and been met by the end of September, 2015. Further prevent any breakdown in communication between effort will be made in 2015 towards achieving this Landsvirkjun and its stakeholders. goal. Three stakeholder engagement meetings had According to a 2013 employee survey, 91% of the been held in various parts of Iceland by the end of Company’s employees are satisfied or very satisfied September, 2014. At least two additional meetings at work. In order to further advance and formalise are planned in the last quarter of the year. This is in employee development, performance reviews were line with stakeholder engagement objectives set for introduced in 2014. 2014 and the goal of encouraging dialogue between Landsvirkjun and its stakeholders. The Value Chain Landsvirkjun acknowledges that its social and Health and Safety environmental impact extends beyond its own Health and safety is one of the core focuses operations. Enhancing responsibility in our value of Landsvirkjun’s CSR Policy. Landsvirkjun’s chain is one of the key focuses of our CSR Policy. We occupational health and safety (OHS) management system is certified in accordance with OHSAS 1 http://weprinciples.org/ 7 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S 18001.2 As part of its OHS management Landsvirkjun Landsvirkjun’s work processes are specifically sets strict conditions for its contractors and subdesigned to promote safety and prevent accidents, contractors, which are communicated through accident-free operations being one of Landsvirkjun’s a dedicated manual, ‘Requirements Towards key targets. The Company does everything in its Contractors and Service Providers with Regard to power to ensure that there are no accident related Environment and Health and Safety Matters’.3 absences. The Company’s working methods are designed to prevent accidents and the Company works An important part of Landsvirkjun’s OHS efforts is according to a zero tolerance policy. The Company the Company’s OHS Policy, which is included in the closely follows the accident rate and publishes figures aforementioned manual. The key aims of the policy of accidents on a regular basis. are the following (for the full version, please consult the manual): Landsvirkjun strives to achieve high standards and continuous improvements when it comes to health ›› Preventing incidents and accidents. and safety during project development. Health and ›› Ensuring compliance with all relevant laws and safety measures at the recently completed Búðarháls regulations in the area of OHS. Hydropower Station included the following: ›› Establishing action plans for hazard response and organizing their implementation when relevant. ›› Job specification (specific job description) as well ›› Maintaining employee knowledge and training in as a risk assessment shall be provided before the the area of OHS. start-up of the project. ›› Promoting good employee health, a pleasant ›› One safety manager shall be provided for every working environment and good working 100 on-site employees. However, a safety manager conditions. shall be provided once the total number of on-site ›› Promoting collaboration between managers and employees reaches 10. other employees responsible for OHS matters. ›› Daily, early morning meetings shall be held to ›› Ensuring effective management and continuous review risk assessments and shall be attended by improvement in the area of OHS. all employees. ›› Establishing measurable goals for OHS. ›› Risk registers shall be updated on a monthly basis. ›› Ensuring the commitment of Landsvirkjun’s ›› Fire services, ambulance services and on-site management in actively promoting and health care shall be regulated by qualified public implementing effective OHS practices. authorities. 2 OHSAS is an internationally applied British Standard for occupational health and safety management systems. 3 http://www.landsvirkjun.com/Media/Landsvirkjun_Krofur_Baeklingur_ English_vefur_OK.pdf 8 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Code of Conduct In 2013, Landsvirkjun published and implemented its Code of Conduct in order to formalise guidance on responsible business practices for employees and business associates. The document consists of nine categories as described below. Work ethic We conduct business in accordance with the highest ethical standards, advocating diligence, integrity and good judgement. Equality and respect Equality and human rights are core values in our business activities. We treat our coworkers and business associates with respect and professionalism. Safety We work in accordance with the highest safety standards in all our work activities and we comply with safety regulations at all times. Data preservation and accounts We ensure that all communication and documentation is recorded according to records management guidelines and regulations. Conflict of interest We operate with integrity and do not allow personal interests to affect our work for Landsvirkjun. We do not accept payments, gifts or benefits of any kind intended to influence or affect our judgement or business decisions. We actively oppose any form of corruption. Confidential information We handle all information and documentation carefully and protect the confidentiality of documents and data. Communication We engage in honest communication with our co-workers and stakeholders. We protect the reputation of Landsvirkjun in all outside communication. Associates We treat all our associates and stakeholders with respect and honesty. We require all our business associates to operate in accordance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. We ensure that Landsvirkjun is not indirectly involved in human rights violations. The use of Company facilities We advocate the responsible use of Company facilities and property. The personal use of Company assets requires a written agreement or the explicit permission of the appropriate party. We utilise IT in a responsible manner. 9 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S The Environment Landsvirkjun’s Environmental Policy Relevant UN Global Compact Principles Businesses should: Landsvirkjun is at the forefront of environmental 1. Support a precautionary approach to issues and supports sustainable development within environmental challenges. society. 2. Undertake initiatives to promote greater ›› Landsvirkjun is committed to increasing environmental responsibility. expertise and monitoring on the environmental 3. Encourage the development and diffusion of impact of its operations and purposefully seeks environmentally friendly technologies. out measures to reduce this. The Company strives to do better and therefore continually monitors Environmental matters are of key concern to certain environmental aspects with a view to Landsvirkjun, which is reflected in all of the consistently improving its efforts. Company’s operations. Landsvirkjun operates ›› Landsvirkjun ensures that every legal according to an ISO 14001 certified Environmental requirement relating to the environment is Management System. The Company is committed to fulfilled and sets more stringent requirements environmental leadership in all its business activities upon the Company, as appropriate. and to preventing any negative impact that might ›› Landsvirkjun ensures that its employees and all come as a direct result of its operations. Landsvirkjun contractors employed by the Company have the is committed to the responsible utilisation of the expertise and ability to adhere to the Company’s natural resources it has been entrusted with. Environmental Policy. ›› Landsvirkjun’s environmental objectives are This chapter provides an overview of the main areas open to the public. The Company outlines its of Landsvirkjun’s environmental management, progress in environmental matters and in doing in line with the Global Compact’s principles for so supports open and constructive dialogue on the environment. The chapter puts key focus on these matters. performance in 2013. For further information, Landsvirkjun’s full environmental report for 2013 can be consulted under http://environmentalreport2013. Significant Events 2013 landsvirkjun.com/. The environmental report Blanda meets ‘Proven Best Practice’ includes an annex with tables for key environmental In 2013, an assessment was carried out on the indicators and other relevant numerical data. operations of the Blanda Hydropower Station, in accordance with the Hydropower Sustainability The construction of new power stations causes Assessment Protocol (HSAP). The Protocol was first disruption to the environment and human launched in 2011 and is built on 20 clearly defined intervention in nature can have an effect on the topics assessing the sustainability of hydropower ecosystem and society. Landsvirkjun is acutely aware stations. It is to date the only specific protocol to of this and is therefore committed to sustainable assess the sustainability of hydropower. The Blanda energy generation in harmony with the environment Hydropower Station is located in the northwest and in consensus with society. Extensive research, of Iceland and came on-line in 1991. The installed better designs, effective mitigation measures, capacity is 150 MW and the generation capacity is 910 environmental monitoring and a clear environmental GWh per year. policy are all crucial factors in reducing the negative The assessment was comprehensive and took place at environmental impacts of our operations. the Blanda Hydropower Station and at Landsvirkjun’s headquarters in Reykjavík. The assessment was 10 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Spider-Diagram showing the results of the assessment at Blanda Hydropower Station In March 2014, Dr. Joerg Hartmann, the lead assessor from the Blanda assessment came to Iceland on behalf of Landsvirkjun. He took part in several meetings introducing the Protocol in general as well as the Blanda assessment for among others; Landsvirkjun’s employees, other energy companies in Iceland, relevant agencies and Ministries. 0-1 Communications and Consultation 0-19 Downstream Flow Regiment 0-2 Governance 0-18 Reservoir Management 0-3 Environmental & Social Issues Management 0-17 Water Quality 0-4 Hydrological Resources 0-16 Erosion & Sediment 0-5 Asset Reliability & Efficiency 0-15 Biodiversity & 0-6 Infrasturcture Invasive Species 1. Safety 2. 0-14 Public Health 0-7 Financial Viability 3. 0-13 Cultural Heritage 0-8 Project Benefits 4. 0-12 Labour and Working Conditions 0-9 Project-Affected Communities 5. and Livelihoods 1. More than one significant gap againts basic good practice 2. One significant gap against basic good practice 3. Meets basic good practice with more that one significant gap against proven best practice 4. Meets basic practice with one significant gap against proven good practice 5. Meets basic good practice and proven best practice carried out by three international experts who assessed using the Protocol. Blanda exceeds ‘Basic assessed detailed data on the operation of the Station. Good Practice’ on all 3 remaining topics, each of The team interviewed both Landsvirkjun employees these with only one significant gap against proven and over 30 individual representatives from the best practice. The assessment found Blanda to be various stakeholder groups: agencies, municipalities, outstanding in the sustainable use of hydropower companies and organizations. The protocol assessed and in some areas even considered the best standard 17 differing topics, pertaining to the operation found worldwide. The report on the assessment of Blanda, in order to assess the sustainability can be found on http://www.hydrosustainability. of the hydropower project when compared with org/IHAHydro4Life/media/ProtocolAssessments/ international standards on sustainable development. PDF%20Reports/Blanda-Assessment_Final-ReportTopics included: Communications and Consultation, Dec-10-2013_1.pdf?ext=.pdf Environmental and Social Issues Management, Hydrological resource, Labour and Working Completion of the Búðarháls Hydropower Station Conditions, Biodiversity and invasive species and A milestone was reached in Landsvirkjun’s history Erosion and Sedimentation. when construction was completed on the Búðarháls The results of the assessment showed that Blanda Hydropower Station. The Station is the sixth station meets ‘Proven Best Practice’ on 14 out of 17 topics to be constructed in the Company’s most extensive 11 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S operational area, the Þjórsá and Tungnaá area. On-site Wind energy safety and environmental issues have been exemplary In 2013, Landsvirkjun erected two wind turbines in at Búðarháls since the project began. Inspectors from the Hafið area, to the north of Búrfell, for research Landsvirkjun and the contractors closely supervised purposes. Their combined capacity is 5.5 GWh or the strict implementation of safety issues and the approx. 0.04% of Landsvirkjun’s total generation responsible treatment of the environment on-site. capacity. The Búðarháls area was constructed with minimal Emissions, Effluents and Waste disruption when compared with utilising new Sorting of Waste Materials areas. All concrete aggregates were sourced on-site, It is Landsvirkjun’s objective to increase the amount old quarries were reused and land disturbance was of recycling and thereby reduce general unsorted minimised by channeling the water through a tunnel. waste that is landfilled or incinerated. Landsvirkjun Materials extracted from the tunnel were used to sorts all of the waste at its operational sites. Sorting landscape the surrounding area and any submerged measures were implemented between 2004 and 2008 land was replaced by new re-vegetated land. and have since then been registered in the Company’s green accounts. Approximately 276 tonnes of waste Successful Operations of were sent away for recycling or reuse, approx. 35 Landsvirkjun’s First Wind Turbines tonnes were sent away for disposal (mostly landfilled) The first wind turbines erected by Landsvirkjun, and approx. 6 tonnes of hazardous materials were and the largest of their kind in Iceland, have been sent away for disposal. successfully operated since the end of January 2013. There are clear indications that Iceland is an Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions advantageous location for electricity generation Landsvirkjun utilises renewable energy resources to utilising wind power. generate electricity and the Company is committed to becoming carbon neutral. The total quantity of GHG Sustainable Use of Natural Resources emissions from Landsvirkjun’s operations in 2013 was Below is an overview of the sources for electricity approx. 49 thousand tonnes of CO2 equivalent. This generation including their share in total electricity is 12% less than in 2012 and 20% less than in 2009. generation. A ll the electricity generated by The largest source of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Landsvirkjun comes from renewable energy sources. can be traced to Landsvirkjun’s geothermal power stations, which account for 68% of emissions. The Electricity generation reservoirs at the Company’s hydropower stations Hydropower are the second largest source of GHG emissions, In 2013, 12,337 GWh of electricity was generated comprising 30% of the total emissions. The remaining utilising hydropower. Hydropower accounts for 2% are due to the burning of fossil fuels, air travel approx. 96% of Landsvirkjun’s total electricity and waste disposal. generation. Landsvirkjun has been involved in extensive Geothermal energy land reclamation and re-forestation of the areas In 2013, 500.5 GWh of electricity was generated surrounding its power stations for over forty years. from geothermal energy. Geothermal energy The aim of land reclamation was to reinstate land accounts for approx. 4% of Landsvirkjun’s total quality, reduce disturbance to vegetated areas and electricity generation. stop soil erosion and vegetation destruction. An effort aimed at neutralizing GHG emission via larger scale 12 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S carbon sequestration started in 2011 including soil energy utilisation, to further decrease the effects conservation and afforestation. of geothermal power stations on the environment. During 2013 monitoring was increased on hydrogen An objective for 2013 was the reduction of GHG sulphide levels. Hydrogen sulphide emissions are an emissions and carbon neutralisation via larger scale unavoidable factor in the utilisation of geothermal carbon capturing measures than those in current energy in Iceland. The concentration of hydrogen use. Important steps were taken during 2013 to sulphide, measured in Reykjahlíð, did not surpass reduce or neutralise GHG emissions, including soil public health limits in 2013. Measurements on the conservation and reforestation. An agreement was concentration of hydrogen sulphide in the air are reached with the Iceland Forest Service and Soil now accessible in real time on the Landsvirkjun Conservation Agency on two new areas of carbon website (http://www.landsvirkjun.com/researchsequestration. It is estimated that carbon binding development/env i ron ment a l mon itor i n g). I n will reach 2.5 T carbon / ha per year, within a decade. addition, Landsvirkjun took part in a number of In addition, CO2 emissions from transportation, air research projects in order to further expertise on travel and the disposal of waste (in total approx. 1,027 the environmental impact of geothermal utilisation. tonnes of CO2-eq) were offset through the Iceland Information on the various research projects can Carbon Fund (Kolviður). be found in Landsvirkjun’s Annual Report for 2013 (http://annualreport2013.landsvirkjun.com/). Another objective for 2013 was increasing expertise on the environmental impact of geothermal In 2014, a transport strategy was launched for Wind Turbines Landsvirkjun operates two 0.9 MW wind turbines for research purposes, the first of their kind in Iceland. Preliminary results suggest that over 40% efficiency can be obtained, well above the global average. 13 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Landsvirkjun: It is Landsvirkjun’s policy to reduce the Various universities, research institutes and effects of transportation on the environment and on i ndep endent exp er ts, i n coop erat ion w it h air quality by reducing the use of fossil fuels in vehicles L a nd sv i rkju n, c a r r y out t he re s e a rch. A owned by the Company and to compensate for any complete overview of results is published in unavoidable emissions via carbon binding measures Landsvirkjun’s environmental report (http:// in vegetation. Landvirkjun is also committed to being www.landsvirkjun.com/researchdevelopment/ an active participant in Iceland´s initiative towards environmentalmonitoring). energy conversion in transportation. Visual impact and landscape The focus in recent years has been on the efficient All construction work carried out by Landsvirkjun use of fossil fuels, in order to reduce GHG emissions and its operations are accompanied by unavoidable from Landsvirkjun’s car fleet. Recent technological disturbance to the natural environment and larger developments in the field of non-fossil fuel energy projects can have a significant visual impact. has enabled Landsvirkjun to take its first steps in replacing fossil fuels with more environmentally In order to minimise this visual disturbance friendly fuel options. Landsvirkjun employed a landscape architect in 2012. The work focuses on landscaping, the appearance of Effects on the Natural Environment the environment, the design of structures and work and Visual Aspects in connection with new projects and landscape Extensive monitoring on the ecosystem analysis. Disturbance to the surroundings is unavoidable in Landsvirkjun’s operations. The Company carries A number of projects, pertaining to visual aspects, out extensive monitoring and research on the were active in 2013. These included landscape analysis affected areas of its power stations with the objective of the waterway for the potential power project at of assessing any environmental impact from its Blanda, alongside research projects on landscaping operations. The most extensive research is carried out and the visual impact of construction work on power on the ecosystem including river biota and birdlife, projects at Bjarnarflag and Þeistareykir. alongside reindeer monitoring. 14 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S The Sustainability Initiative http://en.sjalfbaerni.is/ Alcoa and Landsvirkjun launched the Sustainability Initiative in 2004 during the early stages of construction at the Fljótsdalur Hydropower Station and the Fjarðaál smelter in Reyðarfjörður. These were large-scale projects and there was therefore some concern as to their impact on Icelandic society, the environment and the economy. The objective of the initiative is to support sustainable development with the aim of maximising the positive effects of the projects and minimising any negative impact. The initiative was in fact a pilot project both in Iceland and at the international level and no model could be found for a project of this kind. Icelandic and international contractors were hired to assist the companies with the design and outline of the project and indicators were developed to address the main concerns on the outcome of the projects. Furthermore, the companies requested participation from a wide range of stakeholders through an advisory group. While the Sustainability Initiative focuses on the local level, it also has a broader context that coincides with national, regional, and international sustainable development strategies such as Iceland’s Welfare for the Future, the Nordic Strategy, and the principles of Agenda 21. The Fljótsdalur Hydropower Station (which utilises water from the Kárahnjúkar Dam/Reservoir to generate electricity) and the Alcoa Fjarðaál smelter are now in full operation and the initiative is ongoing. The initiative is a wide collaboration between Landsvirkjun, Alcoa, municipalities, NGOs, research institutes and various universities. An open annual meeting is held to update the public on the initiative and the homepage is regularly updated as new data becomes available. Landsvirkjun and Alcoa are committed to monitoring the 45 sustainability indicators as well as publishing information on the development of the issues at stake. The companies are also committed to implementing procedures to mitigate any negative impact considered to be a direct consequence of their operations. The companies will periodically revise these indicators and implement any necessary changes. All changes need to be reviewed by the initiative’s stakeholder group. 15 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Anti-corruption Relevant UN Global Compact Principles Businesses should: 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. One of the focuses of Landsvirkjun´s Code of Conduct is the topic of conflict of interest. The Code states the following: ›› Conflict of interest We operate with integrity and do not allow personal interests to affect our work for Landsvirkjun. We do not accept payments, gifts or benefits of any kind intended to influence or affect our judgment or business decisions. At Landsvirkjun, we actively oppose any form of corruption. The Code of Conduct was implemented in early 2014. In addition, the ongoing projects described in the section on the value chain address this issue and provide a platform for Landsvirkjun to encourage the Company’s value chain to work in an ethical manner. Blöndulón The Blanda Reservoir is one of Iceland’s largest lakes by area, at 57 km2. It is located on a rocky and desolate plateau in the Northwestern part of the country. Landsvirkjun’s extensive land reclamation program aims to increase vegetation to counteract wind erosion around the largely man-made lake. 16 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Other Important CSR Work Knowledge Dissemination encourage the development of expertise within Investing in Innovation the field of renewable energy. As part of the In 2014, Landsvirkjun took part in setting up Startup cooperation Landsvirkjun has pledged 80 million Energy Reykjavík, an investment program for energy ISK to university education over a five year period related companies at seed stage, in order to show its to promote university education and research in active support for knowledge sharing and innovation. geochemistry, electric power engineering and other The program, which runs for 10 weeks once a year, relevant academic disciplines within the universities. offers participants the opportunity to be mentored by a group of 50 experts from the science and In October 2013 Landsvirkjun and the Institute of business world and the opportunity to present their Economic Studies joined forces in an effort to support ideas to potential investors. Seven companies were and encourage research within the field of business awarded $40,000, via the program, to assist them in and economics, pertaining to energy generation. The developing innovative ventures in the field of energy. collaboration aims at increasing public knowledge and awareness of the significance of these factors to Promoting Access to Landsvirkjun’s Research the economy. Landsvirkjun will contribute 24 million Every year Landsvirkjun initiates the development ISK to the Institute of Economic Studies over a three of a number of studies and research reports, the year period. majority of which is developed in collaboration with consultants and researchers. A decision was made in Community Fund 2013 to publish these reports via the electronic search Every year Landsvirkjun supports various social engine gegnir.is and therefore making them publicly projects and provides grants to causes with broad available. More than 300 reports have been published community relevance and potential to positively so far. impact Icelandic society. The Company has supported a number of causes, including various charities, Promoting Knowledge via the Energy Research Fund cultural and educational projects and sports and Landsvirkjun’s Energy Research Fund was founded leisure activities. In 2013 a total of 13.550.000 ISK was in 2008. The fund’s goal is to strengthen research granted.1 in the fields of environmental and energy affairs and to award grants to students, university research Promoting CSR in Iceland projects, institutions, companies and individuals Landsvirkjun is one of six founding members of Festa researching these areas. In 2014, the amount of – the Icelandic Center for CSR, as well as a member 56 million ISK was awarded to various projects. A of its board. Landsvirkjun plays an active role in similar amount was awarded in the previous year. Festa by sharing its experience of implementing its CSR policy with other Icelandic companies and by Promoting Cooperation encouraging other Icelandic companies to formalise with the University Environment and implement CSR policies. In line with its objective of promoting cooperation with the university environment, Landsvirkjun joined forces with Reykjavik University and the 1 http://www.landsvirkjun.com/societyenvironment/society/communityUniversity of Iceland in July 2013 to support and fund/ note that the overview of grants is in Icelandic only. 17 U N G L O B A L C O M PA C T C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S Electronically published by Landsvirkjun, 2014. Edited by Berglind Rán Ólafsdóttir, Landsvirkjun. Designed by Jónsson & Le’macks. Photography by Marino Thorlacius, Jónsson & Le’macks and Landsvirkjun. This document is free for distribution. Images are subject to copyright and may not be used for purposes unrelated to this document. 18 Landsvirkjun Háaleitisbraut 68 103 Reykjavík Iceland Tel: +354 515 90 00 landsvirkjun.com landsvirkjun@landsvirkjun.com
