Integrated report of activities 2013 G4 32 CONTENTS ICA OVERVIEW Mission, vision and values 5 Financial highlights 8 ICA at a glance 9 Lifecycle of a project 10 Message from the Chairman of the Board 11 Message from the Chief Executive Officer 13 1. ICA Spirit and Strategy ICA culture: modern talent 18 Communication: a key element of our human resources management 19 Characteristics and conditions of our work force 23 Health and safety on the job 27 ICA business strategy 33 Domestic and international environments 33 Innovation 34 Stakeholders 36 Growth of suppliers and subcontractors 37 Materiality 43 Sustainability strategy 47 G4 32 2. Leadership and Corporate Governance A history of leadership 55 Corporate governance 57 Institutionality, ethics and transparency 57 Management practices and systems 66 Full compliance with laws and regulations 76 3. Core Businesses ICA’s presence 80 Outstanding financial data 84 Life of our concessions 85 Markets and capacities 86 Construction 90 Protection and conservation of biodiversity 92 Community outreach 99 Supply chain 104 G4 32 Asset portfolio 106 Education and training 108 Operating eco-efficiency 112 Appendices Economic value distributed 128 Awards and recognitions 130 Participation in organizations and associations 133 Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 133 Parameters of this report 134 GRI G4 Content Index 136 Contacts 146 Throughout the report, we inform our stakeholders in a clear, objective and transparent way of the most relevant achievements in sustainability; those we have considered a priority based on our analysis of materiality. The sections CONCRETELY… provide examples of our commitment to sustainability. ICA OVERVIEW ICA 2013 4 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 42, EC7 For the past 67 years, ICA has been offering added value in infrastructure development, providing innovative, comprehensive solutions to our clients to meet their infrastructure design, financial structuring, construction, operation and administration needs. The projects we build are critical to the functioning of the economy and to improving people’s quality of life. MISSION Solving the most complex infrastructure problems through innovative, profitable and sustainable proposals, thus creating value for our people, our shareholders and the communities where we are present. VISION To be a global company that through its business model builds and operates by 2018 a solid, profitable and diversified portfolio of projects. ICA 2013 5 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 42, EC7 VALUES QUALITY EFFICIENCY ·· We deliver work on time and within budget. ·· We take advantage of the resources we have at ·· We meet the needs of our clients and exceed their hand. expectations. ·· We work safely as a team to resolve the challenges ·· We apply our best efforts to all our actions. that arise. ·· We seek to be an example of dedication and ·· We target our efforts toward achieving our goals. excellence. ·· We focus on multiplying ICA’s talent. Integrity SERVICE ·· We act professionally, based on our values and best ·· We strive to provide a level of service that adds practices. supportive value. ·· We make decisions objectively. ·· We are sensitive to the needs and requests of our ·· We adhere to established procedures in a co-workers and clients. transparent manner. ·· We see challenges as opportunities to provide ·· We treat our co-workers, clients and the community solutions. with respect. ·· We respond promptly to the requests we receive in order to achieve the desired impact. INNOVATION ·· We adapt to change by providing state-of-the-art responses. ·· We anticipate demand in our business. ·· We propose creative solutions to overcome difficulties. ·· We take advantage of needs to set new goals for ourselves. ICA 2013 6 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 3, 4, 5, 7 ICA has two core, complementary businesses: construction and operation of a portfolio of long-term infrastructure and other investments.* CIVIL INDUSTRIAL CONCESSIONS OPERATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE AND OTHER AIRPORTS CONSTRUCTION INVESTMENTS ICA was established in 1947 as Ingenieros Civiles Asociados, S.A. de C.V. to provide construction services for public sector infrastructure projects in Mexico. Today we are a publicly traded company incorporated as Empresas ICA, S.A.B de C.V. Our headquarters are located at Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, Miguel Hidalgo, 11000 Mexico City, Mexico. * Our housing operations, which include our horizontal housing assets, as well as our corporate operations, have been integrated into the Corporate and Other segment. In 2013, this segment accounted for only 3% of our total revenues. ICA 2013 7 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 9 financial highlights (Ps. Million) 11 34,259 TOTAL 12 38,122 REVENUES 13 29,556 11 2,867 12 1,679 OPERATING 13 3,133 INCOME 11 5,090 / 14.9% EBITDA/EBITDA 12 3,740 / 9.8% MARGIN 13 4,733 / 16.0% 11 2.28 12 1.58 EARNINGS PER 13 0.7 SHARE TOTAL REVENUES CONSOLIDATED EBITDA 21,744 / 74% 1,592 / 30% Civil Construction 3,965 / 14% 2,173 / 42% Concessions 3,420 / 12% 1,395 / 27% Airports ICA 2013 8 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 6, 8, 19 ICA AT A GLANCE Besides Mexico, ICA has operations in Colombia, Peru, Panama, Portugal, Spain and Costa Rica.This makes us one of the largest infrastructure companies in Latin America. PRESENCE Mexico Panama ENVIRONMENTAL Costa Rica • We reforested more than 200 hectares with 202,250 trees PERFORMANCE • More than 21,000 flora and fauna examples rescued Colombia Peru Portugal Spain • 1.8 million people benefited from SOCIAL community engagement programs PERFORMANCE CORPORATE • 55% of Board Members are independent GOVERNANCE • 18% of Board Members are women • 95% average attendance at Board • Approximately 32,000 employees meetings • 508,756 man-hours of employee technical training • More than 1.5 million man hours of occupational health and safety training STOCK STRUCTURE • 11 members on the Board of Directors • Whistleblowers’ hotline (001 877-4953215), available 24/7 Employee shareholders 63,186 10.4% FICA 8,336 1.4% BMV (open market) 335,218 55.0% Foreign investors (BMV)–CPOs 160,341 26.3% ADRs 42,927 7.0% Total outstanding 610,011 100.0% (Ps. million) Although the company name is Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. (EMICA), for the purpose of this report, we will use the initials ICA. ICA 2013 9 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 8 LIFECYCLE OF A PROJECT OUR BUSINESS MODEL 3. Construction 1. PROMOTION: We identify and assess potential Clients / Employees / Suppliers / Community projects together with our strategic allies, promoting expansion into new business areas and countries; we design civil and industrial engineering projects with state of the art technologies; we develop sustainable proposals that satisfy our clients and create safe working spaces. 2. STRUCTURING AND FINANCING: We have ample experience in long-term project financing and financial markets, which reduces costs and 2. Structuring and guarantees that resources are available when we financing need them to execute projects. Financial markets 4. Operation and Clients growth 3. CONSTRUCTION: We have proven experience in Strategic partners Clients executing projects, even under extreme conditions; with Strategic alliances a perpetual focus on innovation, we use techniques and Unions Government and materials that improve quality and reduce costs; we take regulatory authorities the measures necessary to reduce environmental and Opinion leaders social impacts in the regions where we operate. Community 4. OPERATION AND GROWTH: In operating infrastructure assets, we work toward absolute client 1. PROMOTION satisfaction, improving processes, adopting new Clients technologies, and optimizing our use of energy and Strategic partners Investors other inputs. 5. PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT: When a project is mature, its value grows, and through our portfolio management—refinancing, total or partial divestiture, among others. We monetize the value that has been created and free up resources for new projects. 5. Portfolio management Stockholders Financial markets ICA 2013 10 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 Message from the Chairman of the Board It is with great satisfaction that I present to you the report of our activities during 2013, a year in which we overcame daunting challenges for the construction industry and for our Company in Mexico, including a much more complex social climate. Evolving regulations on environmental protection and occupational safety, along with the increasing sophistication of the world’s financial markets, among other factors, are testing the capacity of infrastructure developers to meet the most pressing needs for transportation, energy, water and housing. ICA 2013 11 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 Today, just as we did 67 years ago, we at ICA continue to All the actions we have taken to promote sustainability support the country’s economic growth and industrial within and outside of the company have borne fruit. We progress with works that define our trajectory and shape are fully aware that today, pension funds—the biggest Mexico’s very history: water management works, land, air investors in infrastructure projects—require evidence of and maritime communications; oil, energy and companies’ sustainable development. This is why we are telecommunications, urban and industrial buildings. But we so satisfied to be recognized as a leading company in have evolved our business model to keep pace with today’s terms of sustainability, besides holding key positions in challenges and needs, and to continue offering innovative, important sustainability organizations and associations. high-quality solutions. The contents of this report, which are evidence of our In this, our first integrated report of activities, we want to unceasing commitment and transparency, confirm ICA’s demonstrate that achieving a balance between profitability role as an emblematic company in the field of advanced and operations in a manner respectful to all our stakeholders civil and industrial engineering, as well as of the best is an unquestionable priority at ICA. corporate governance and sustainability practices. We intend to continue developing creative, visionary solutions In this context, in 2013 we accelerated construction of new in order to help meet the future infrastructure challenges projects and increased the value of our portfolio of faced by Mexico and Latin America. concessions and airports. We kept our construction backlog at the same level, cashed in on some projects under concession and paid down debt. As Mexico’s largest infrastructure developer, one of the largest in Latin America, and with more than half a century of working with vision and commitment, we know Ing. Bernardo Quintana our leadership brings tremendous responsibility toward Chairman of the Board of Directors society and future generations of engineering Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. professionals in Mexico. Because of this, and in order to promote research, development and innovation in construction, we actively support education-oriented programs and maintain close ties with academe and related fields. ICA 2013 12 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 Message from the Chief Executive Officer I’m pleased to share with you our 2013 Integrated Report of Activities, which describes this year’s progress in creating economic, social and environmental value for all of our stakeholders. I can report that, in keeping with our mission, our technical capacity and quality project execution allowed us to solve the most complex infrastructure problems through innovative, profitable and sustainable proposals. ICA is today a solid company that builds and operates responsibly, strives to provide a safe and healthy workplace, facilitates the personal and professional advancement of its employees, and encourages community improvement and respect for the environment. ICA 2013 13 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 Our long-term vision, sustained throughout our many One of our key long-term strategic objectives is to years of contributing value to Mexico’s growth, has increase our international market operations to 30% of enabled us to demonstrate our strengths. Even this our backlog, as this will make us less vulnerable to the year, when the market for new projects was not up to volatility of the Mexican public works market. We are our expectations, we had the flexibility to adapt to a confident that the international market will provide a changing environment and generate positive results. valuable complement to our Mexican operations, as we saw this year in our results in Peru, Panama, Colombia In line with our business strategy, we sought to add and Costa Rica. Particularly noteworthy was the value to every phase of the infrastructure lifecycle: progress of our mining services subsidiary, San Martín, promotion and bidding, structuring and financing, which exceeded our projections for both operating construction, operation and growth, as well as the income and EBITDA. management of an asset portfolio, which included monetizing some long-term assets and recycling Meanwhile, our backlog remained within our target capital. The integration of our construction and asset range, enabling us to maintain a solid platform for portfolio activities allows us to use the proceeds from future growth and profitability, despite a lower volume asset monetization to support the ongoing growth and of new civil construction work in 2013. At the close of development of new projects. the year, ICA reported a backlog of Ps. 30,658 million, plus another Ps. 5,700 million in mining and other One of our biggest challenges this year was reassigning services at San Martín. Another Ps. 10,864 million our engineers, laborers and machinery to new projects corresponded to the backlog of our associate after having completed some major works in 2012. We companies, including, among others, new projects were able to do so because of the significant progress recently awarded to ICA Fluor: the expansion of made on the Mitla–Tehuantepec and Barranca Larga– Mexichem’s polyvinyl chloride plant in Veracruz, a gas Ventanilla tollroads in Oaxaca, the Riviera Maya branch of compression system in Dos Bocas, Tabasco, and the Mayab highway, the Palmillas–Apaseo El Grande reconfiguration of the Miguel Hidalgo refinery in Tula. tollroad in Querétaro, and the Acapulco 2 Tunnel. I am proud to inform you that, despite regulatory and operational issues and the impact of hurricanes Manuel and Ingrid in September, we were able to keep up with the schedule for all of our projects. ICA 2013 14 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 The strong growth in EBITDA over the year reflects the Three major transactions generated more than Ps. continuous growth of our Concessions and Airport 78,000 million in cash, which we used to reduce our net businesses, as well as capital recycling transactions, debt by 18% to Ps. 33,155 million: the sale of our 18.7% which made up for some of the downturn in the stake in the highway operator Red de Carreteras de construction segment. The EBITDA margin was 16%, Occidente (RCO) and a 17.25% position in the airport compared to 9.8% in 2012. operator OMA, as well as a joint venture with CGL Hunt to operate social infrastructure works, announced in Our airport operations, which are handled by our 2014. subsidiary OMA, had an excellent year. Passenger traffic rose to 13.3 million, almost 6% higher than the Convinced that at ICA we have talented, committed year before. We also continued to increase our nonpeople, we have strengthened the bases for their regulated revenues through commercial initiatives and professional and personal growth by pursuing a human project diversification. We began building a hotel at the capital strategy that is aligned with our business Monterrey airport, as well as the first phase of an strategy. This will enable us to ensure the continuity industrial park within its premises. With this, we are and sustainability of our company. helping to make Monterrey a center for transportation and logistics, with better connectivity. Our sustainability strategy also saw significant progress during the year. Sustainability continues to play a central Our growing portfolio of concessions has contributed role in our business strategy, because we know that our greatly to our solid results. We have nine concessions future success depends on our current performance in currently operating and another nine under terms of innovation and resource administration. With this construction—eleven highways, four water projects, in mind, we have Improvement Centers that promote two infrastructure works and a port. innovation and the incorporation of information technology and engineering that contribute added value. ICA 2013 15 G4 ICA OVERVIEW 1 as of the Mexican Stock Exchange’s IPC Sustainability In addition, aware that our operations have a Index for the third year in a row, confirm that we are significant social and environmental impact, we on the right track, and that our efforts will bring us continued to build and strengthen relations with our greater prestige, efficiency and competitiveness. communities, mainly through educational and training programs that improve their quality of life. We are confident about the years to come, and we see many new opportunities ahead for ICA, convinced that In pursuit of our unwavering commitment to reducing with the dedication and focus of our management team our environmental footprint, we promoted programs and employees in each of the five phases of our value for the responsible management of natural and energy circle, we can continue taking firm steps toward the resources and the protection of biodiversity. In addition future. to specific efforts to rescue flora and fauna and reforest woodlands, we began a dialogue with the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) with the aim of participating in their reporting platform. The results of this collaboration will be reflected in next year’s report. We are a company grounded in the values of integrity, efficiency, service and innovation, and we Ing. Alonso Quintana are constantly seeking to generate value for all our Chief Executive Officer stakeholders. This is why we are proud to announce Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. that, in September 2014, we were selected to be a part of the Dow Jones Emerging Markets Sustainability Index, as one of the world’s 450 top sustainability firms. Being a part of this index, as well ICA 2013 16 1 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY OUR ABILITY TO TRANSMIT THE ICA SPIRIT TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS, AND TO DEFINE AND EXECUTE KEY STRATEGIES AS NEEDED, HAVE SERVED AS A VALUABLE PLATFORM FOR REMAINING AT THE FOREFRONT OF OUR INDUSTRY. AWARE OF THE CHALLENGES POSED BY TODAY’S WORLD AND TO KEEP OUR ORGANIZATION IN A KEY MARKET POSITION AGAINST OUR COMPETITORS, WE HAVE FOCUSED ON MAINTAINING A TEAM OF WELL-TRAINED, COMMITTED EMPLOYEES —BOTH TECHNICAL AND PROFESSIONAL— WHOSE PRODUCTIVITY IS SUSTAINED BY A CULTURE OF HIGH PERFORMANCE. TO THIS END, WE HAVE LAID THE GROUNDWORK FOR CAREFULLY PLANNING THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR WORKFORCE, MADE UP OF APPROXIMATELY 32,000 INDIVIDUALS, IN KEEPING WITH A HUMAN CAPITAL STRATEGY THAT IS ALIGNED WITH OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY. WITH THIS, WE INTEND TO ENSURE THE CONTINUITY AND SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR COMPANY. ICA 2013 17 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY ICA CULTURE: MODERN TALENT We are convinced that the success of this company 2. Performance. Leaders play a key role in determining depends on having people with the necessary abilities, the scope and achievement of work team goals, competencies and know-how, because we can only because they can influence the level of commitment attain the goals that we have set for ourselves as an of the people who report to them. That is why our organization if we have talented people aligned with human capital strategy involves the development of our business strategy. Our human capital strategy is technical and managerial skills needed for building based on three pillars: a high-performance organization with a high level of attraction, retention, commitment and productivity, all of which means higher profits for this company. 1. Opportunities.We promote the development of the professional and institutional careers and the 3. Efficiency. We promote and support the application of talent of our people by designing career maps and processes that standardize, automate and expedite the defining a competencies model. We have succession way we work, while generating savings for the company plans appropriate to a comprehensive organizational and remaining a cutting-edge organization. framework, and labor objectives aligned with our business strategy, through which we can offer our employees a well consolidated planning and growth process. ICA 2013 18 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY COMMUNICATION: A KEY ELEMENT IN OUR HUMAN Although every project defined its own plans of action to RESOURCE MANAGEMENT tackle areas where we detected opportunities for improvement, three strategic objectives were defined at the At ICA, we believe it is fundamental to promote fluid company level: communication with all of our employees, because this enables us to obtain the feedback we need to fine-tune our policies and strategies, and define the best way to transmit them through actions that strengthen our 1 Improve performance people’s culture and engagement toward the company. UNOxUNO engagement SURVEY: AN EXERCISE IN PERMANENT IMPROVEMENT 2 Operate efficiently 3 Aware that an employee who is committed to the Generate greater opportunities company is decisive for reaching a high level of for ICA and its people performance, in August 2011, we conducted the ICA Engagement Survey UNOxUNO for the first time. This is an independent survey based on a model that In keeping with these objectives, we designed a number encompasses three fundamental aspects: the rational, of initiatives, among which were: the emotional and the motivational. ·· Aligning objectives around a single focal point to attain ICA saw a significant participation of employees the business results. from all levels and areas of the company in Mexico, ·· Introducing differentiated payment for performance, evidencing their desire to express themselves and expanding performance evaluation to 3,000 employees. communicate their concerns on various topics. The ·· Promoting the mobility of our employees to other results showed that we have a work force that will internal job opportunities through the Job Posting enable us to bring ICA to the next level of success and program. face new challenges. Nevertheless, they also revealed ·· Restructuring the compensation scheme, increasing the areas of opportunity in aspects as important to the mandatory year-end bonus, vacation bonus and vacation company as the values of our people and the quality, days. efficiency and safety of their jobs. ·· Creating an online educational platform to expand our employees’ knowledge and possibilities for development; this platform is called AcademICA. ICA 2013 19 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY We made the decision to make the UNOxUNO survey a This time we expanded the survey to our employees in permanent fixture through which we can learn about Colombia, Costa Rica, Panama and Peru, and obtained our employees’ opinions and make this organization an opinions about the strengths we should maintain as a increasingly attractive employer, which continues to company, as well as the areas of opportunity that merit offer labor stability and possibilities for growth. special attention, for the benefit of all. In 2013, we conducted the second UNOxUNO survey, with By the end of March 2014 we plan to have the informathe participation of approximately 85% of our staff and tion on all of our plans of action assembled and focused a engagement index of 91%. The survey consisted of 63 on: questions in 13 categories: responsibility and performance; competitiveness and focus on the client; empowerment ·· Strengthening our communication abilities. and decision-making; commitment; public relations and ·· Retaining key talent. integrity; leadership; organizational change; wages and ·· Strengthening the integral development of our people. benefits; quality and efficiency; retention; safety; supervision; training and career development. We are also working to communicate the results of the survey to all levels of the organization. Two years from the time it was first applied, the survey provided the following overview: A • Both the categories and questions have been improved since 2011. Strong • The areas of opportunity where the greatest progress was identified were those on which ICA focused as a result of improvement the last survey: Recognition, Performance and Efficiency. • The perceptions of Management were also above standards in all areas. B Strong • ICA employees are very proud of their company and believe it has a strong external image. image • One of ICA’s most important commitments is to the environment, where point scores were between 10 and 16 points above the external benchmark. C • More than 90% of ICA employees believe the company is placing appropriate emphasis on the quality and efficienBelief in cy of the business. quality • More than 90% say that ICA continues to work to ensure that processes are as efficient as possible, and the company’s commitment to quality is evident in its day-to-day activities. ICA 2013 20 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY In addition, we are working on various plans of action that will have an impact on both our functional areas and on our various projects, which will enable us to continue promoting improvements to support efficiency and profitability initiatives and growth opportunities. Performance Evaluation and Measurement Program Total Compensation Program: annual review of the (MED): aimed at 3,000 employees, including top compensation package to ensure that we provide an UNOxUNO SURVEY executives, managers, middle management and operating appropriate and competitive compensation to our employees. personnel. Employee Value Proposition (EVP): a strong Talent Wanted: internal vacancy program consisting of distinguishing advantage over the competition, intranet posting of positions available for relocation of which enables us to retain key talent and improve personnel. our financial performance. Personal Information Network (WiPi): a system that is Shared Human Capital Service Center (Serch!): continuously being updated and consolidates our human standardized services for the processes of talent capital programs into a single technological tool available attraction and selection, personnel administration and for lookup by all employees. training. AcademICA: an online learning platform available 24/7/365, On Boarding: a program that facilitates the with both in-person and remote courses, to support incorporation of recently hired employees, involving professional preparation, with an emphasis on workplace them more rapidly in the organization. safety and health and environmental management. ICA Pride Award: an annual call for entries to publicly recognize employees who have made an exceptional contribution to the company through their daily work; in 2013, a total of 10 winners were selected from 184 nominees. ICA 2013 21 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY CONCRETELY... La Yesca: an experience that changed my professional life In June 2007, I was a lawyer in the corporate Experiencing the work and its problems on legal area with experience in contract a daily basis, witnessing the progress and management. I was living in Mexico City, where satisfaction, is something unforgettable; you I was born and studied through college, and never get used to the constant astonishment unfamiliar with construction work. One day I of seeing a project grow until its structures are just got off a plane and found myself standing complete, when it becomes a functional power in the middle of a field planted with corn and plant, with a harmonious architecture, that watermelons, with the mission of negotiating, produces electrical energy while respecting the together with a group of engineers, the lands environment, neighboring communities and the where a camp, offices, dining room and authorities. warehouses of the La Yesca hydroelectric project would be built. This trip changed my life and my Thank you Yesca, thank you ICA, for the profession, because it enabled me to understand opportunity to experience these wonderful years, and assimilate the tremendous importance helping me to apply my profession in all areas of it all, and to discover the true meaning of of the legal field. Today, in every wall, tunnel, teamwork and the principles of planning and gallery, gate or generator, and every road, I feel order that engineers live by. there is a very small part of me, joined with the efforts of the work team. For me, La Yesca was my graduate education in the issues and concepts of public works Guillermo Salas López, in contract management. Today, I feel that I January 2014 am a more complete and well trained lawyer. ICA 2013 22 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 11, HR4, HR5, HR6, EC5, LA2, LA3, LA13 CHARACTERISTICS AND CONDITIONS OF OUR According to our policies, at ICA the average salary in WORKFORCE all areas where we have projects is above the current minimum wage. The starting salary is the same for all ICA’s workforce consists of approximately 32,000 employees, regardless of sex, and all employees across employees, divided into technical-administrative and the country, whether full-time, part-time or temporary, unionized personnel. The first group is made up of enjoy benefits such as annual bonus, vacation bonus, people whose activities are directly or indirectly Social Security and life insurance. Among the Social related to projects, so these are not exclusively Security benefits are the maternity or paternity leave operating personnel. The structure of this type of allowed for by law. In the case of ICA, the proportion position is administered solely by the company through of workers who return to work and stay on with the an established wage scale. Technical-administrative Company after their leave is fairly high: 86%. personnel —including employees, managers and directors— account for approximately 40% of our staff. The differences between women’s and men’s base salary and compensation tends to diminish depending Additionally, in 2013, all of the Company’s plant workers on the level. The table below shows these percentages, were affiliated with some union and have a collective both for Mexico City and for other locations where we bargaining agreement in accordance with the applicable operate. laws. Due to the characteristics of the personnel hired for projects, there is a greater percentage — MEN’S VS. WOMEN’S SALARIES BY LEVEL approximately 60%— of unionized personnel. % WOMEN MEN 72 100 In accordance with international laws, the Company 84 100 stresses its commitment with the rights of children. 95 100 Therefore, it does not admit forced or involuntary labor 82 100 neither from adults nor children. All ICA workers have a labor contract that includes the provisions mandated Support Middle Managers Directors by law. management ICA 2013 23 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA12 MEN’S VS. WOMEN’S SALARIES BY LEVEL MEN’S VS. WOMEN’S SALARIES BY LEVEL MEXICO CITY STATE OF MEXICO % WOMEN MEN % WOMEN MEN 72 100 78 100 86 100 79 100 99 100 0 100 80 100 0 100 Support Middle Managers Directors Support Middle Managers Directors management management MEN’S VS. WOMEN’S SALARIES BY LEVEL MEN’S VS. WOMEN’S SALARIES BY LEVEL JALISCO OAXACA % WOMEN MEN % WOMEN MEN 73 100 68 100 86 100 97 100 0 100 82 100 0 100 0 100 Support Middle Managers Directors Support Middle Managers Directors management management In the breakdown of jobs by gender in this Company, we can see that a much greater proportion of jobs are held by men, due to the inherent nature of this industry. ICA 2013 24 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 10, EC6 Although the National Council to Prevent Discrimination WOMEN MEN AGE (Conapred) indicates that the groups most vulnerable to job discrimination are young people, women, older 36 64 Less than 30 adults, the handicapped and others by reason of their 50 50 sexual orientation, ethnic origin or migratory condition, 0 0 at ICA we do not accept any form of discrimination 26 74 30 – 50 and we have a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct which reads: “The Company is committed to providing 15 85 a workplace environment free of any form of 7 93 discrimination based on race, ethnic origin, sex, beliefs, Over 50 11 89 religion, age, physical disability or sexual preference. It is the Company’s policy to provide equal opportunities 16 94 to employees in terms of their hiring, salary level, 4 96 training and development, promotion and other working 27 73 TOTAL terms. Employment decisions are made in keeping with Employees Managers Directors all the applicable labor laws.” (http://www.ica.com.mx/ codigo_etica.html)* Another important aspect, given the international nature of our operations, is that in general, ICA managers and TOTAL TECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES BY directors come from diverse countries and regions, because LEVEL, AGE AND SEX we identify local talent that has the potential for growing WOMAN MAN TOTAL AGE GROUP within the organization. 1,459 2,642 4,098 LESS THAN 30 As a result of our alliances with various partners in 3 3 6 0 0 0 the Americas, many of our top executives have local 1,459 2,645 4,104 backgrounds, such as the case of San Martín in Peru, 1,806 5,085 6,891 where there is only one expatriate on the management 30 – 50 51 293 344 team. This encourages a culture of diversity in the 4 56 60 regions and countries where we operate, and supports 1,861 5,434 7,295 our conviction that local partners can contribute 156 1,313 1,469 OVER 50 important know-how to the company. 10 170 180 2 45 47 68 1,528 1,696 3,488 9,607 13,095 TOTAL Employees Managers Directors * Our Code of Ethics comprises our human rights policies. ICA 2013 25 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA1, LA4, LA9, LA10, LA11, HR1, HR2 TOTAL TECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE EMPLOYEES BY ICA offers its employees a working environment in which TYPE OF CONTRACT they can develop both personally and professionally. In % WOMEN MEN 2013 we provided around 508,756 man-hours of training, an average of 24 hours for every technical-administrative 10 25 employee and 10 hours for every unionized employee. 16 49 The above meant an investment of Ps. 38.2 million, 23% more than last year. Additionally, to complement the Temporary Permanent company’s polices regarding opportunities for training and internal promotion, during the year 37% of technicaladministrative employees received performance and Our rates of new hires and average annual turnover of professional development evaluations (21% women and employees are consistent with the industry average, 79% men). because, given the nature of our business, we hire personnel according to the needs of each phase of the TRAINING HOURS BY TYPE OF EMPLOYEE projects. This is why most of our labor contracts are temporary. TOTAL TTECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE (HR) 318,064 ANNUAL RATE OF NEW HIRING TECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE (No) 13,336 % WOMEN MEN TECHNICAL-ADMINISTRATIVE (HR/EMP) 24 UNIONIZED (HR) 195,958 5 10 UNIONIZED (No) 19,920 4 14 UNIONIZED (HR/EMP) 10 0 4 TOTAL TRAINING HOURS 514,022 Less than 30 30 to 50 Over 50 We transmit our commitment to all subcontractors. That is why in the contracts that the company signs AVERAGE ANNUAL EMPLOYEE TURNOVER with third parties we include an annex with ICA’s Code % WOMEN MEN of Ethics (http://www.ica.com.mx/codigo_etica.html), 4 7 which incorporates provisions regarding human rights 4 9 protection. Although no breach of this code has been 0 2 reported to date, we continuously encourage employees to consult and apply it internally, and we provide Less than 30 30 to 50 Over 50 ongoing training on this matter. ICA 2013 26 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA7 HEALTH AND SAFETY ON THE JOB Because this company is engaged in activities that involve workplace hazards, ICA considers occupational health and safety to be strategic priorities. In fact, according to a study by the Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS), the Building and Civil Engineering industry has the third highest level of labor risk in Mexico. That is why we place special emphasis on offering our employees a workplace environment that encourages safety, health, prevention and shared responsibility. One of the measures we have taken to attain this is to provide more than 1.5 million man-hours of training in occupational health and safety. We also provided 74,540 checkups and 34,699 medical visits. The breakdown of these activities is shown in detail in the following tables: OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY Safety and hygiene commissions 103 Other formal occupational health and safety committees 67 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH Man-hours of training Vaccination (doses administered) 5-minute talks 669,287 Diphtheria 17,398 Courses 30 minutes or longer 887,764 Hepatitis 5,842 Number of drills Flue 10,370 Fire 153 Measles 2,427 Evacuation 143 Pneumococcus 2,514 Rescue 121 Medical checkups Number of recognitions 123 Initial 67,523 Security campaigns 170 Regular 2,728 Occupational health and safety audits Special 4,289 External 63 Medical visits Internal 747 Men 29,735 Women 4,964 ICA 2013 27 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY CONCRETELY... Statement by Top Management We are aware that ICA has not yet attained its We are redoubling our efforts to preserve primary objective in the area of health and health and safety on the job in order to reflect safety: zero workplace accidents. Although our our unflagging commitment to the more than efforts have been reflected in a substantial 32,000 families who depend on our company. reduction in the frequency of accidents in our And it is to these families that we, the Board of workplaces, this year eleven ICA workers and Directors, CEO, Vice Presidents and five subcontractors lost their lives on the job. Department Directors of ICA pledge to do our utmost to provide our employees with a healthy We are deeply saddened by the deaths of these and safe place to work. individuals and we have offered our sympathies and above all our support to their families. No project in which ICA participates will tolerate situations that jeopardize the lives or safety of We know that this is a serious situation, and that our workers. In all of our projects and offices, we no achievement in the area of sustainability will comply fully with all established operating could ever make up for the lost lives of our and safety procedures and protocols. workers. At ICA we will never cease in our efforts to achieve a rate of zero fatal accidents. Sustainability Committee, March 2014 ICA 2013 28 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA6 Also according to the IMSS, the Construction industry had both the greatest number of paid working days INJURY RATE (INJURIES PER 200,000 hw) for absenteeism and the most fatalities in 2012. ICA Persons affected 2010 2011 2012 2013 has succeeded in reducing the frequency of workplace ICA employees 3.42 2.62 1.83 1.01 accidents (in 2013 we reduced the number of accidents Contractors 1.06 0.71 0.44 0.23 per 100 workers by 38% from the preceding year). But TOTAL 2.88 1.95 1.27 0.79 we have not reduced the number of fatalities, which reached 16 in 2013, two more than the year before. TOTAL HOURS WORKED We have conducted an analysis of the causes that 2010 2011 2012 2013 led to these incidents and have taken the necessary ICA employees 90,480,529 104,280,400 93,390,919 86,241,569 measures to avoid them in the future. Contractors 26,936,115 42,193,598 67,151,377 41,686,728 TOTAL 117,416,644 146,473,998 160,542,296 126,928,297 FATALITIES, INJURIES AND LOST TIME FATALITIES LOST TIME Persons affected 2010 2011 2012 2013 Persons affected 2010 2011 2012 2013 ICA employees 18 14 8 11 ICA employees 12,958 13,973 12,129 9,097 Contractors 4 1 6 5 Contractors 908 1,039 2,472 850 TOTAL 22 15 14 16 TOTAL 13,866 15,012 14,601 9,947 INJURIES ACCIDENT SEVERITY RATE (LOST TIME PER 200,000 hw) Persons affected 2010 2011 2012 2013 Persons affected 2010 2011 2012 2013 ICA employees 1,532 1258 858 437 ICA employees 28.64 26.79 25.97 21.1 Contractors 139 149 148 48 Contractors 6.74 4.92 7.36 4.08 TOTAL 1,671 1407 1006 485 TOTAL 23.62 20.49 18.19 15.67 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY FREQUENCY RATE 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 3.7 2.8 2.2 1.7 0.9 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.9 0.7 1.2 1.1 1.1 0.8 1.5 1.95 1.27 0.79 ICA 2013 29 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA5 Because we regard safety as a permanent focal point, This log has helped reduce the number of accidents we have developed various projects to strengthen it. One while increasing the number of follow-up actions to of these was an electronic application called “Electronic generated reports: from 19 accidents with days lost for Log of Unsafe Acts and Conditions,” developed by the absenteeism in 2012, the number was reduced to 10 in Red de Carreteras de Occidente (RCO) project within our 2013 (a 52% decline) for the RCO project. The application ICA Infrastructure business unit. With this tool, anyone is currently being extended to the entire business unit working at any of our work centers can report conditions so that it can cover all ICA Infrastructure projects, or conduct they believe pose a danger to personnel. and we continue to work on furtherer broadening its This encourages all employees to get involved, because benefits to other ICA projects. anyone with an internet work station can make use of this electronic tool. Furthermore, each of the company’s work centers has formed an Internal Safety and Hygiene Committee, The reports produced by this system are sent in real made up of an equal number of workers and time to the Safety, Quality, Security and Environmental management, with personnel trained in safety matters. area via e-mail so that they can look into the facts. All These commissions represent all of the workers reports that are received and confirmed are forwarded in the work center and they serve as a channel for to the heads of the corresponding areas for application supervising and verifying compliance with applicable of corrective and preventive measures, and cases are official standards in the area of safety. closed once they have been checked on-site. These Committees conducted a number of investigations to mitigate and prevent workplace accidents, identify their root causes and adopt corrective and preventive measures to raise awareness of the importance of on-the-job safety. ICA 2013 30 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA8, HR7 In order to guarantee all workers access to health At ICA, through the Corporate Safety Department, and social security, as established in articles 4 and 125 we have 276 people in charge of security under the of the Mexican Constitution, all collective bargaining administration of specialized independent firms. In most agreements signed by the company include a clause cases (67%), individuals are trained in human rights issues regarding compliance with social security laws, which before being assigned to various projects within the embodies in a legal document our commitment to company. abiding by all the laws of this nation. The individuals who carry out these duties must On October 16, 2012, the company signed an Occupational abide by the Projects and Works Safety Regulations Health and Safety Agreement with the National Union of governing them, when working for ICA or on its Federal State and Municipal Irrigation, Construction and premises. Concessions and Related Activity Workers (the union) under which the union would provide 8,000 man-hours of training in November and December 2012 and throughout 2013 in the company’s various work centers. Pursuant to this agreement, in the period mentioned, the union gave a total of 8,198 man-hours of training, above the committed target, benefiting all of the company’s unionized workers. ICA 2013 31 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY CONCRETELY... The Cowboy Book of Safety One of the biggest challenges for campaigns Some 90,000 books have been distributed to the with our unionized workers is that, because of people involved in ICA projects, using friendlier and Prudencio Segura is an ICA employee, a man the nature of construction projects, workforce more accessible media for promoting safety aware that his decisions affect the safety of his turnover is very high and it is hard to monitor awareness among all our workers and projects. coworkers, who takes the necessary how much our efforts are permeating individual precautionary measures and precisely follows habits and attitudes. Another frequent barrier to Additionally, and aware that this is an effort that the safety instructions of the projects he works the proper understanding of safety rules and should involve the entire industry, the project on. He also sets an example for his fellow procedures is the level of education among our has the support of related organizations and workers and gives them advice on how to work workers. With this in mind, the target audience companies, like the Mexican Construction together to improve safety conditions on the job. for the commercial Libro Vaquero publications Industry Chamber (CMIC), the Ministry of Labor Prudencio has been the emblem for the Health coincides with the profile of most of our (STPS), the Confederation of Mexican Workers and Safety Committee since 2010, and is a unionized employees. (CTM) and suppliers like Cemex. well-known character on all ICA projects and works. In 2013 we published two issues, with the participation of members of the Corporate Health His adventures are told in an informative comic and Safety Committee, who helped define the book called Libro vaquero de la seguridad (The content and dialogue, and various of the Cowboy Book of Safety), a project we began at ICA characters, like “Engineer Gaby,” are based on real in 2013 as part of our “Zero Accidents” campaign, people working at ICA. as a way to create attractive, accessible media for publicizing safety guidelines and practices for the construction industry. El libro vaquero is a popular Mexican pocket comic book set in the Old West and published since the late 1970s. The project counted on the graphic support of Hevi Editores. ICA 2013 32 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY DMA ICA BUSINESS STRATEGY Over the years, ICA has modified its business DOMESTIC AND INTERNATIONAL ENVIRONMENTS strategy to adapt to the changes and realities of an increasingly complex and competitive environment. In Mexico, as in the rest of the world, the construction As a company that builds and operates long-term industry is a strong economic driver. In Mexico’s case, infrastructure assets, we seek to create value in this industry accounts for more than 5% of the nation’s every phase of our value cycle. To this end, we have GDP and is the sixth leading source of the aggregate developed specific initiatives for each of these value generated in Mexican production.1 phases. In addition, because we are a company committed to growth, we try to recycle the resources We are a Mexican company principally engaged in generated from mature assets in new infrastructure construction and the operation of infrastructure projects. projects under long-term concession or service agreements. Approximately 74% of our revenue in 2013 was generated in Mexico; therefore, our results of operations are substantially affected by developments in Mexico and Mexican public spending on large infrastructure projects. Results also vary based on the mix of projects under construction, the contract terms, and the volume of traffic on our highway concessions and in our airports, among other factors. Fortunately, 1 Los Retos de la Infraestructura en México 2013-2018 Cámara Mexicana de la Industria de la Construcción. ICA 2013 33 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY EC2 the continuing growth of our concessions business —several concessions entered operations in 2013— Furthermore, both domestic and international trends partially offset the reduction of activity in the Mexican confirm that planning with an eye to the long term construction sector during the year. requires applying social and environmental criteria to infrastructure works. The Mexican President Enrique Peña Nieto announced in June 2013, the National Development Plan for the Experts estimate that by the year 2020 there will be more period 2013–2018. The new program is expected to than 9,000 million inhabitants on the planet, more than invest approximately US$ 415,000 million, representing 3,000 million of which will make up the middle class. They 5.7% of Mexico’s GDP in over 1,000 projects in the will need infrastructure for building and obtaining energy, transportation, water management, energy and urban water, food, transportation and other services for the development sectors. The majority of the budget megacities of the future. (approximately 64%) is expected to be allocated in the energy sector, and US$ 17,000 million in highways, In the short term, the World Economic Forum considers or 4.1% of the proposed new program’s investment that the greatest global risks today are unemployment commitment. and under-employment, water shortage, income inequality, mitigation and adaptation to climate change, The program proposes to generate 3.9 million jobs the increasing frequency of extreme weather events, and to contribute to Mexico’s economic development. the food crisis, and the associated political and social Mexico entered into a recession beginning in the fourth instability. It is no coincidence, therefore, that among quarter of 2008, and in 2009 GDP fell by approximately the main risks ICA identifies to its business, in addition 6.5%. Due to the impact of the turmoil in the global to financial risks, are those relating to weather condifinancial system and the recession in Mexico, the rate tions (heavy rains, hurricanes, high winds), political risk, of awards of infrastructure projects in Mexico was union relations, demonstrations and social protests. slower in 2009 than we anticipated, particularly in the areas of energy, ports and railways. Mexico’s economy INNOVATION has since expanded, with GDP posting positive growth of 5.5% in 2010, 3.9% in 2011, 3.9% in 2012 and, to a As leaders of Mexican industry, we at ICA continue lesser extent ,1.1% in 2013. The Mexican government working to remain at the forefront in terms of has also extended the time period for certain bidding sustainability, and to make it a part of the entire processes for the awards, in part because of the need organizational culture. We maintain our goal of being to reevaluate the corresponding projects’ feasibility in the benchmark in sustainability for the construction the current economic environment. and infrastructure operation industries. ICA 2013 34 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY CRE8 In our engineering projects, we employ state-of-the·· IMSS: Construction of the 250-bed Sustainable art technology to develop sustainable value solutions. Regional General Hospital in León, Guanajuato. We use tools that optimize analysis time starting from Technological innovations in the field of digitalization the design phase, in the various specialties (water, and IT. transportation, geotechnical structures, installations, ·· IICA Desarrollo Inmobiliario – Esmeralda Corporate architecture). We also create proposals for the use of Center: LEED Reserva Escondida in Atizapán, State of environmentally-friendly materials and construction Mexico. BIM studies of natural lighting and sunshine. procedures that cut down on execution times, all ·· ICA: Campus ICA, corporate offices, Mexico City. BIM through research and collaboration with universities studies of sunlight and shadow and prevailing winds. and research institutions. ·· Coppel: BIM study of siding and its optimization. ·· Monterrey Hilton Hotel: BIM studies of natural lighting Because we are part of an industry where projects and sunlight. are increasingly complex, competition is growing and ·· Acapulco Airport: BIM analysis of energy, solar resources are increasingly scarce, we know that radiation, interior temperatures and solar study. innovation can mean the difference between growth and stagnation. ICA’s Building Information Modeling During project development, engineers keep track of ex(BIM) is a specialized area of the company distinguished ternal building checks to obtain optimum performance in by its innovative concepts and use of information the highest-impact metrics, such as • design innovation • technology tools like BIM, a software with threeenvironmental impact • efficient use of fresh water • mandimensional models and administrative applications agement of rainwater and wastewater • energy perforthat enables users to create, build and coordinate all mance and savings • preferably environmental materials • the information needed for construction of any project. quality of interior atmosphere • reduction of contaminatWe have a BIM Innovation Committee, a forum for ing sources • landscaping with native/adapted vegetation. generating new ideas. The Committee was created in mid-2013 with the goal of contributing and sharing innovative ideas as part of the creative process, identifying technological trends in the industry, and mapping and tracking original proposals. Also, for some years now, we have sought to integrate clean energy sources, sustainable infrastructure and social concerns into our projects. We seek LEED certification for our buildings, which is a sustainable building method chosen by some of our clients, based on the following analyses and studies: ICA 2013 35 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY A PERMANENTLY VALID STRATEGY We intend to attain these goals by creating a value offering for our clients, centered around the provision In keeping with our spirit of evolution, in 2013 the of integral solutions, becoming a part of their success company focused on reorganizing its strategy to face and giving them a positive experience in working with a changing environment, including the adoption of best ICA. asset portfolio transaction practices which attest to the profitability of our business model. To follow through with the value proposal we offer, ICA places a priority on critical processes, ensuring The result was a map of ICA’s strategy, which defines operating efficiency, developing solutions with our primary goal of increasing the economic value of excellence, applying processes that drive expansion and the company in a sustainable manner. Toward this growth in our business, and ensuring sustainability in end, we defined two main lines of action: the first everything we do. Last but not least, in executing these is productivity, focused on optimizing our use of processes we require a solid platform, made up of resources, and the second is sustained and profitable people, technology and culture. growth, not just in the local market but in international markets as well, so we can offset some of the volatility of our local market. ICA STRATEGY SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC VALUE Financial Productivity Global growth GOVERNMENT, PRIVATE SECTOR AND GENERAL PUBLIC Clients Integral solutions Partner of choice ICA experience Operating Excellence in Diversified expansion and Sustainable Processes efficiency solutions growth focus Reliable information and Learning and Attraction and development Culture, values and aligned improved technological growth of talent strategy platform ICA 2013 36 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 24, 25, 26 To manage and successfully execute this strategy, STAKEHOLDERS ICA chose the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) methodology, which offers tremendous advantages in preparing, For ICA, acting in a sustainable manner means updating, executing and evaluating it. Among its main building our business every day according to a longbenefits are the ability to link strategic objectives to term vision, valuing our relations with stakeholders long-term goals, and strategic initiatives to annual and always fulfilling our responsibilities to them. We budgets; align the targets of areas/business units and define stakeholders as those individuals or groups employees with institutional strategy; monitor, evaluate that may be affected positively or negatively by the and exploit intangible assets; facilitate communication financial, environmental, health and safety, and social and understanding of the targets; and regularly repercussions of our operations, as well as those who evaluate performance. show an interest in or influence our activities. The achievements that resulted from this strategy in Based on an analysis of materiality that encompassed 2013 included: the key social, environmental and ethical aspects of our sustainability vision, we identified nine groups ·· Increased revenues from operations in international of stakeholders with whom we have direct, highoperations. impact relations: shareholders and financial markets ·· Operating improvements and greater control of • clients • employees • government and authorities • project risks. communities • suppliers • chambers and institutions • ·· Recycling of assets in mature investments whose partners and competition • opinion leaders. profitability exceeded the cost of invested capital ·· Reduction in leverage. To relate to these stakeholders, ICA has focused ·· Significant savings on direct materials because of on maintaining a constant, effective flow of more efficient construction. communication, because we believe that providing ·· More precise communication with investors and each group with transparent, responsible, prompt and stakeholders. sufficient information is a priority. This enables us to ·· Improvements to the performance-based obtain feedback as well, which we can use to identify, compensation system and its extension to include monitor and attend to issues of vital importance. To do middle-level managers, who are critical to execution. so, we have various channels for communication and ·· Inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. feedback, which are illustrated in the following chart. ·· Design of a strategy and financial planning process in keeping with best practices. ICA 2013 37 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 8 COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS 1. Promotion • Negotiation with strategic partners, governments and investors 3. Construction 2. Structuring and financing • Dialogue and negotiation with shareholders and financial markets 3. Construction • Communication with employees and safe working Employees / Suppliers / Community conditions • Communication and negotiation with suppliers; training and development • Employees, community relations, education and management of biodiversity 4. Growth and operation • Negotiation with strategic alliances • Dialogue with unions and government authorities • Making a lasting mark on communities through jobs and local consumption 2. Structuring and • Society: education, training and development financing 4. Operation and Shareholders growth 5. Portfolio management Financial markets • Dialogue and negotiation with shareholders and Strategic alliances Unions financial markets Government and authorities Opinion leaders Community 1. Promotion Strategic partners Governments Shareholders 5. Portfolio management Shareholders Financial markets ICA 2013 38 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 24,26 STAKEHOLDER GROUP COMMUNICATION EXPECTATIONS ACTIONS FREQUENCY Shareholders/ Financial Stockholders’ Meeting Financial and Maximize Ongoing markets Annual Report non-financial economic Reports to BMV and NYSE results value Quarterly reports IR webpage Investor relations office Meetings with analysts, shareholders, investors, bondholders and banks Clients Service request Responsible Integral Ongoing Bidding and offers management solutions Direct meetings and ethics Satisfaction surveys Whistle-blowers hotline Government / Authorities Attendance at government events important to the industry Legal Legal Ongoing Regular contact with government officials compliance compliance Outreach meetings Technological Whistle-blowers hotline innovation Chambers/ Institutions Institutional dialogue Best industry Share and Ongoing Active participation in industry chambers practices encourage Presentations on sustainability and industry topics adoption of best practices Suppliers Service request Development Win-win Ongoing Direct meetings and situations Development programs empowerment Evaluations and feedback of suppliers and Internet sub-site subcontractors Whistle-blowers hotline ICA 2013 39 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 24,26 STAKEHOLDER GROUP COMMUNICATION EXPECTATIONS ACTIONS FREQUENCY Communities Web page Efficient social Distributed loRegular Sustainability office management cal value and ICA Foundation and optimum engagement Whistle-blowers hotline use of Project meetings resources Employees Internal e-newsletter Talent and Talent develOngoing Printed newsletter organizational opment and Technological platform culture compensation Office of the General Counsel Evaluations and feedback Intranet Assemblies and meetings with directors Annual reports Whistle-blowers hotline Partners / Competition Annual report Free Mutual Ongoing Quarterly reports competition development Office of the General Counsel and best Investor Relations office practices Sustainability office Whistle-blowers hotline Opinion leaders Direct meetings Timely and Participation Ongoing Presentation of success stories transparent in various Press releases information forums and media ICA 2013 40 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 27 Through all of these paths of communication that we have established with our stakeholders, we are continuously kept abreast of their concerns and interests. Each of these is channeled and solved as exemplified in the following table: MAIN ISSUES SOLUTION Offers to sell/rent land Forwarded to the corresponding business unit or area Offers to rent/service machinery Forwarded to machinery area Offers of services for employee training Forwarded to Human Capital area Provision of multiple services Forwarded to corresponding area Job requests Forwarded to Human Capital area Complaints Depending on type and classification of the complaint, forwarded to the Legal Area or directly to the General Counsel Anonymous complaints Resolved through independent third party, following up with the General Counsel and Director of Internal Auditing Request for information Depending on type of request, resolved through the Investor Relations or Sustainability area Questions from university students regarding sustainability Immediate response through Sustainability area ICA 2013 41 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY LA14, EN32, EN33, HR10, HR11, SO9, SO10 GROWTH OF SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS subcontractors, a result that would not have been possible without their constant cooperation and desire One of ICA’s important stakeholder groups are our for improvement. suppliers and subcontractors, because they are our allies. For this reason, we worked toward the goal of Additionally, to prevent problems arising from a lack of aligning them with our sustainability strategies in 2013. awareness of the environmental criteria required for a As part of this effort, we introduced a Training Program given project, online courses were provided for both on Management Systems, which places special emphasis contractors and suppliers. on environmental aspects and is focused particularly on compliance with the corresponding rules, laws and We also included our contractors and suppliers in a regulations. During the year, 154 companies received training program offered by the United Nations Global training. Compact in an online seminar, in which they are given information about the importance of the activities Supplier evaluation is conducted through an Internet promoted by this organization, as well as the portal and includes key points like planning, commitments ICA has assumed as a signatory of that infrastructure and quality control of the work, as well agreement. as their appropriate and timely development. We also evaluate prompt procurement of materials, financial With these actions, we not only create closer channels programming and recording of contract changes. of communication with our suppliers and Finally, we supervise compliance with the safety and subcontractors, but we encourage their business hygiene regulations, which are closely linked to growth and align them with international standards, environmental management policies. which are often stricter than the local ones. This helps them provide quality service to a society that is in The leader of each project—integrated by lead constant need of them. subcontractor, ICA personnel and service coordinator— regularly evaluates subcontractors on the Internet portal to obtain a final weighted rating. There are three types of evaluations: at the start of the work, during its development and at the end. In 2013, we found a 91% evaluation compliance rating among our ICA 2013 42 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 19 MATERIALITY Knowing what material impact an event may have on To determine the material aspects and their most stakeholders is crucial for establishing an open and significant impacts, we had a study performed by an lasting relationship. It enables our stakeholders to independent firm four years ago. In 2013, this study was evaluate our degree of commitment to sustainability, updated internally taking into account the essential and we can focus our efforts on responding in a aspects of our business strategy, the issues specific to manner consistent with their needs, based on our our industry, the markets in which we participate, laws business strategies, mission and values. and regulations that affect us, the possible risks, social expectations and issues stressed by our stakeholders. ICA 2013 43 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 15 Materiality: All aspects that reflect the significant economic, environmental and social impacts of the organization, as well as aspects that significantly influence the perceptions and decisions of our stakeholders. Stakeholders Risks and Markets opportunities Business strategy Global Materiality environment GRI Markets: Competition in our industry and in the markets where we participate, Global environment: International trends demanding the integration of social and opportunities for innovation and economic growth (page 86). environmental criteria into infrastructure projects (page 33). Risks and opportunities: Environmental, economic and social impacts, risks and GRI: Abiding by GRI indicators, the Dow Jones and BMV Sustainability Indices, opportunities (page 34). and the Global Compact, have enabled us to focus our information on the most Business strategy: Constant adaptation to changes in a complex environment in order relevant aspects of our activities in the pursuit of sustainability, and disclose to ensure the viability and long-term sustainability of the company, innovation, and the information consistently with internationally supported standards (pages 77, 96). social value of our services (page 33). Stakeholders: Social expectations and issues stressed by our stakeholders (page 37). ICA 2013 44 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY Based on our materiality analysis, we identified those issues that have the greatest impact on our stakeholders and on our operations, which are presented in the chart below. 1. Economic impact and market presence 2. Strategy and analysis 3. Transparency and legal compliance 4. Occupational health & safety 5. Unions / Collective bargaining 6. Job generation 7. Local communities 8. Training/education/development 9. Environmental remediation and biodiversity 10. Supply chain management 11. Dialogue with stakeholders 12. Innovation + Impact on stakeholders In addition to the 12 points outlined above, in this report we will comment on other issues that are not material for all of our stakeholders but do represent a significant interest for one or more groups in particular. Impact on business + ICA 2013 45 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY Seeking healthy financial performance for our Monitoring the positive and negative impacts, business, taking into account factors such whether real or potential, of our operations; as the need for infrastructure in the nation creating economic opportunities for communities and around the world, growth, construction by hiring local personnel and suppliers, therefore Economic impact and system efficiency and quality. Local improving their quality of life. market presence communities Having appropriate strategic planning, risk Developing human capital programs for our management and management systems. employees, and social responsibility programs for the communities surrounding our projects Training, and society at large, through alliances with local Strategy education and communities schools, government organizations and analysis development and higher educational institutions. Guaranteeing ethical business practices Identifying and respecting areas of high through good corporate governance, with biodiversity and integrating biodiversity accountability that includes issues such considerations into our activities; protecting Transparency as transparency, money laundering and Environmental and restoring habitats that support and legal corruption. remediation and endangered species in the zones where we compliance biodiversity operate. Developing a security system that promotes Relations with suppliers; environmental each employee’s commitment to leadership sustainability of the supply chain; sustainable in the area of safety, and programs that materials; human rights in the supply chain. continually improve our safety performance. Occupational Supply chain Health & Safety management Unionism in Mexico has been transformed Building strong relations with stakeholders to involve social, economic and governability based on mutual trust and respect. aspects in the country as a whole, obliging our company to modify past paradigmatic Union relations, freedom of practices in labor and transport. Dialogue with association and collective stakeholders bargaining agreements Linked with project generation; since new Innovation management. projects generate jobs and support the goal of employability, a virtuous and mutually beneficial circle is created. Innovation Job generation ICA 2013 46 G4 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY 2 SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY At ICA, we consider sustainability as a target to be reached, as a part of our strategy. Although the issue At ICA, the pursuit of sustainability occupies an is constantly evolving, the current situation is summed important place in the fundamental values that up in the following table, broken down into the general determine our business focus, because our future topics of corporate governance, environment, social success depends on our current performance in terms and economic, indicating in each case our level of of innovation and the efficient administration of our performance and strengths, as well as the risks and resources. ICA’s sustainability strategy is based on the areas of opportunity. company’s strategic plan, which in turn stems from a view of our current situation and the long-range outlook. This not only provides a real diagnosis of sustainability in the company, but helps us define our future vision and the way we will attain our strategic goals. TOPIC PERFORMANCE STRENGTHS RISKS AREAS OF OPPORTUNITY Corporate ·· Board of Directors ·· Structure of Board of Directors ·· Political, social and ·· Diversity of Board of Directors Governance ·· 11 members ·· Code of Ethics environmental risks in ·· 55% independent international projects Environment ·· Environmental investment: ·· Environmental policy ·· Partner obligations ·· Construction materials Ps.30.37 million ·· Environmental management ·· Climate change strategy systems Social ·· Approximately 32,000 ·· Safety and health management ·· Sociopolitical factors ·· Fatalities employees systems ·· Hiring and retention of talent ·· Development of talent ·· 1,772,349 people benefited ·· Strategy for managing social ·· Corruption climate Economic ·· Over 80 projects ·· Risk management ·· Reputation ·· Customer relationship ·· 9 countries with operations ·· Economic value distributed ·· Interest rate and exchange rate management volatility ·· Supply chain management ICA 2013 47 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY Furthermore, taking into account sustainability trends in Once we identify the issues, we proceeded to design Mexico and around the world, we defined the climate these strategic sustainability planning process, with where ICA operates in terms of sustainability. Plus, when specific goals and initiatives for each issue. updating our strategic plan, we identify the strategic sustainability issues to operate, survive and continue growing as a sustainable company: ISSUE IN THIS REPORT PAGE STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY PLANNING PROCESS Sustainable focus and ICA business strategy 36-53 strategic orientation Relation with stakeholders Stakeholders 37-41 Leadership and corporate Leadership and corporate 54-77 governance governance Social commitment and management Community outreach 99-103 3 We establish strategic Education and training 108-111 objectives for each capacity 2015-2017-2020 Innovation and environmental Protection and conservation of management biodiversity 92-98 2 We identify 4 We identify factors Innovation 34-35 capacities that must critical to achieving develop based on these objectives and Operational eco-efficiency 112-126 ICA BSC design initiatives to address them Supply chain and customer Growth of our suppliers and 42, 104-105 service contractors Health and safety Occupational health & safety 27-32 Organizational culture ICA culture: modern talent 18-26 1 We design a 5 We establish sustainability key performance maturity model indicators (KPIs) ICA 2013 48 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY SUSTAINABILITY MATURITY MODEL 06 INTEGRATED • Part of the company’s daily life • No longer discussed or COMMITTED • Fundamental element of the strategy 05 questioned • Aligned initiatives • Clear processes 04 INVOLVED • Considered critical • Highly involved executives INVESTMENT 03 • Asset to be administered • Basic processes • Some formal initiatives 02 • Awareness INTERESTED • No goals • Random programs NONEXISTENT 01 • No budget • Unimportant • Uncontrolled • Lack of awareness According to the maturity level diagram, ICA is currently toward the end of phase 3. We now have a sustainability management model and formal initiatives for attaining the proposed objectives, and we have established goals and initiatives for 2015, 2017 and 2020. In an exercise to assign priorities to our sustainability actions, we were able to identify the gaps between the levels where we currently stand and where we want to be in the short, medium and long terms. ICA 2013 49 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES MEDIUMSHORT-TERM TERM ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE SUSTAINABLE FOCUS AND STRATEGY ORIENTATION “Integrate the best sustainability practices (GRI, DJSI) in all business units and show evidence of the financial contribution of sustainability.” Processes for ·· The project was completed in ·· Unify the management system ·· We are in the process of unifying complying with collaboration with a specialized our sustainability management sustainability independent firm to facilitate the system to obtain sustainability indicators. consolidation and traceabiltiy data. of the information requested ·· Risk management (p. 66) from the various areas and ICA ·· Unifica project (p. 68) sustainability committees to prepare the Sustainability Report. Strengthen culture ·· We updated strategic ·· Expand the scope of ·· CONCRETELY… of sustainability to sustainability planning. (p. 48) sustainability initiatives. ·· Turn it off or pay increase profitability. ·· Libro vaquero de la seguridad ·· (p. 32) RELATIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS “To be business partners with all our stakeholders, building the best reputation in the industry and measuring the performance of key indicators.” Create an area for ·· We are strengthening our ·· Continue strengthening various ·· With the support of a specialized institutional relations organizational structure in order communication channels within outside firm, take specific actions with our stakeholders. to increase dialogue with our the company. to improve dialogue with our stakeholders. stakeholders. MANAGERIAL LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE “Develop a unified management system with environment, quality, and health and safety sub-systems under a technological platform compatible with Unifica.” Expand the scope of ·· In 2013 the Hotline was ·· Create a website for online ·· Website was introduced the Whistleblowers introduced in the Latin American reporting of complaints. to give users the option of Hotline in international countries where we are present: making complaints, expanding projects. Peru, Panama, Costa Rica and communications with our Colombia. stakeholders. Expand the scope of ·· We published a Code of Ethics ·· Broader dissemination of our ·· Growth of suppliers and our Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct for Code of Ethics and Rules of subcontractors. to suppliers and Suppliers and Subcontractors, Conduct for Suppliers and ·· (p. 42) subcontractors. which is mandatory for all our Subcontractors. business partners. VERY LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH COMPLETE ICA 2013 50 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY MEDIUMSHORT-TERM TERM ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE SOCIAL COMMITMENT AND MANAGEMENT “Having strategic social programs deployed throughout 100% of the organization, to generate measurable benefits for local development”. Mitigate social impact ·· All the actions taken by the ·· Prepare plans and measure ·· The Social Committee is of our projects. Social Committee are intended to impacts of community relations currently working on a manual mitigate our social impact on the (before, during and after) in for identifying social risks and communities where we operate. projects where ICA is present. stakeholders, applicable to all ICA projects. The Social Committee ·· To strengthen the Social ·· Having strategic social programs ·· Strategic topics were defined for is currently working Committee, in 2013 members of deployed throughout 100% of Social Environment Management: on a manual for top management and managerial the organization, to generate education, employability and identifying social risks posts at the project level were measurable benefits for local volunteer work. and stakeholders, involved in implementing the development. applicable to all ICA Social Environment Management projects. strategy. INNOVATION AND ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT “Develop a unified environmental management system that can be applied across the entire organization, based on legal compliance and best global practices, with a focus on contractual performance and project profitability. Identify, develop and implement best practices in techiques and processes and apply them for the benefit of the projects and support areas.” Begin the process of ·· We started an exhaustive inventory ·· Optimize energy and water use. ·· CONCRETELY… measuring our carbon to report on of the Carbon ·· Turn it off or pay (pp. 118) footprint. Disclosure Project Climate Change ·· Innovative rainwater capture questionnaire. (p. 123) system. (pp. 120) Strengthen programs ·· CONCRETELY... ·· Improve productivity in the use of ·· CONCRETELY... to protect and ·· Mangroves of Aak-Bal p. 97) materials. ·· Concrete recycling. (p. 114) conserve biodiversity. Analyze environmental ·· CONCRETELY... ·· Develop environmental ·· Identified business objectives business ·· Preserving identity: Cuaxicala businesses. through an analysis in opportunities. and the jícaro tree. (pp. 97) collaboration with a specialized outside firm. (pp. 114) VERY LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH COMPLETE ICA 2013 51 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY MEDIUMSHORT-TERM TERM ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE Introduce effective ·· CONCRETELY... ·· Strengthen culture focused ·· ICA BIM (p. 35) I+D+I programs. ·· Infrastructure Management on innovation, research and System (p. 69) development. Strengthen ties ·· CONCRETELY... ·· Share knowledge ·· We share knowledge through with educational ·· Bernardo Quintana Arrioja medal: strategic alliances with various institutions. A way to recognize youth (p. 109) institutions (UNAM, Colegio de Ingenieros Civiles de México, FIIDEM.) SUPPLY CHAIN AND CUSTOMER SERVICE “Ensure compliance with procurement plans, using the risk management tool to verify compliance of the supply chain, evaluating the performance of strategic suppliers and subcontractors that account for 80% of purchases and their development, supporting ICA’s current business model.” Strengthen supplier ·· Growth of suppliers and ·· Give greater depth to supplier ·· Growth of suppliers and and subcontractor subcontractors. (p. 42) and subcontractor training subcontractors. (p. 42) training and sessions. development actions. HEALTH AND SAFETY “Establish strategies and initiatives to improve and strengthen occupational health and safety (OHS) awareness in 2014-2020, aimed at improving ICA’s operating performance and grounded in the correct administration of resources, safeguarding the integrity of the company’s people and property.” Zero fatalities ·· Occupational health and safety. ·· Zero fatalities ·· Occupational health and safety. (pp. 27–31) (pp. 27–31) Improve frequency ·· We reduced the frequency rate to ·· Improve indicators vs. 2013: ·· Occupational health and safety. rate (reduce the 0.79. (p. 29) ·· Group FR goal: 1 (pp. 27–31) Group FR to 1.30, ·· Group SR goal: 14 compared to 2012.) ·· Reduce accidents by 50% VERY LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH COMPLETE ICA 2013 52 ICA SPIRIT AND STRATEGY MEDIUMSHORT-TERM TERM ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE ACTIVITIES PROGRESS EVIDENCE Unify health and ·· We made progress in unifying ·· Strengthen health and safety ·· Introduce the concept of safety regulations. health and safety regulations for awareness in decision making. operating discipline in all our all the business units. construction projects, with the following objectives: ·· Reduce fatalities by 50%. ·· Provide greater process safety. ·· Reduce the lost time rate. Create policies on ·· We published the Occupational ·· Disseminate the Occupational ·· Libro vaquero de la seguridad disciplinary measures. Health and Safety Policy Health and Safety policy in our (p. 32) applicable to all the business projects. units. Increase health and ·· Libro vaquero de la seguridad, ·· Contribute to health and safety ·· We generate tools to raise safety training at all Safety Day, man-hours awareness for the construction awareness among our employees levels. of training, supplier and industry as a whole. and the construction industry at subcontractor training through large on matters of on-the-job AcademICA. health and safety. Libro vaquero de la seguridad (p. 32) ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE “Strengthen organizational culture in order to ensure a high level of commitment from all employees.” Strengthen ·· We conducted for the second ·· Introduce re-induction program ·· We worked on the design of organizational culture time the ICA Commitment Survey for all employees. the On Boarding program, to be in order to ensure UNOxUNO (p. 19) implemented in 2014 to facilitate a high level of the incorporation of newly-hired commitment from all employees to the company (p.21) employees. VERY LOW LOW MEDIUM HIGH COMPLETE ICA 2013 53 2 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We have been a catalyst for Mexico’s progress for more than six decades, earning ourselves a leadership position sustained by the solidity of our experience, responsibility and corporate structure. ICA 2013 54 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A HISTORY OF LEADERSHIP Sixty-seven years of building the infrastructure for today’s Together with our partners, we have created successful Mexico stands behind our leadership, not only in the companies like OMA, ICA Fluor, Los Portales, Proactiva, construction industry but in the entire business world. Actica and Grupo Rodio Kronsa, among others. Through this history, we have acquired extensive experience These associations represent an extensive array of and practice, which today places us at the forefront of the opportunities and a solid source of specialized knowledge. industry. Each of our alliances has a specific strategic plan, We are aware that this leadership means we must not although in general all of them focus on maximizing only benefit from this accumulated experience, but that our company’s value and our shareholders’ profitability, we have the great responsibility of sharing it with our maintaining a steady pace of economic growth, a stakeholders by responding to their needs with increasing diversified portfolio of clients and countries, and an precision. During these years, we have also forged and efficient handling of costs and expenses. strengthened strategic alliances with outstanding companies in order to acquire technology, specific One example of our successful alliances is our ongoing knowledge or volumes of work. This extensive network of relationship with Fluor Corporation, an internationally relations has helped cement our key role in society, where renowned American company with proven capacity for we not only influence the development of technical administering complex and integral projects, which we research and technological intelligence, but also established in 1993. participate in key issues such as sustainable infrastructure, the responsible use of resources, and full compliance with the highest standards of ethics and sustainability, all of which confirms our stance as an excellent corporate citizen. ICA 2013 55 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 67 years of solid history stand Mexico’s top builder and one behind our of the leading construction leadership. Ps. 29,556 firms in Latin America. million in sales in 2013. COMCE THE Approximately 32,000 GLOBAL employees, making CESPEDES* COMPACT LEADERSHIP us the largest employer in the + 40 awards industry. MÉXICO CEMEFI CENTRO MEXICANO obtained INTERNATIONAL PARA LA FILANTROPÍA CHAMBER during the ALIANZA OF COMMERCE year. WORLD BOLSA INSTITUTO CMHN FIIDEM AC ECONOMIC MEXICANA DE DE INGENIERÍA FORUM** UNAM INNOVACIÓN EN VALORES*** INFRAESTRUCTURA + 80 projects FIDE Complementary businesses CONSEJO carried out and of construction and FIDEICOMISO CONSULTIVO PARA EL AHORRO underway management of a portfolio MEXICANA CÁMARA DEL AGUA DE ENERGÍA this year. COTIZA ECRI A.C. ELÉCTRICA EN BOLSA of assets. Outstanding DE LA INDUSTRIA ENGINEERING & MEXICANA competitiveness in our DE LA CONSTRUCTION industry and in the CONSTRUCIÓN**** RISK INSTITUTE markets where we operate. * CESPEDES is the Mexican chapter of the World Business Council for Sustainable Development *** Aware of the current financial market trend toward investing in sustainable companies, the (WBCSD), part of the Business Coordinating Council (CCE). Its mission is to promote the principles Mexican stock exchange encourages the incorporation of sustainable and socially responsible of sustainable development in business, government and society. It is currently developing processes by publicly traded Mexican firms, creating indices that can be used as underlying proposed regulations for the General Law on Climate Change. ICA heads the cross-industry assets for ETFs, and which include only companies that have obtained global recognition in the group Sustainable Infrastructure, is part of the Sustainable Cities work group, and is working on area of sustainability. ICA is part of the IPC Sustainable Index, and we head the Sub-Committee of the Sustainable Water Use and Sustainable Food initiative, by providing efficient infrastructure Issuers for Sustainability. solutions. **** ICA participates actively in all environmental and social responsibility initiatives of the CMIC, ** ICA is a member of the Board, the Executive Committee and the Vice Chairmanship. As an seeking to share and replicate best practices. associate of ICC Mexico, ICA shares its best sustainability practices. ICA 2013 56 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 34,38,39 CORPORATE INSTITUTIONALITY, ETHICS AND TRANSPARENCY GOVERNANCE Highest Governance Body For several years now, ICA has placed considerable The Board of Directors is the highest governance body importance on having a strong corporate governance, of ICA and, as of December 31, 2013, it was made up of one which is up to the challenges the company eleven board members, six of them independent currently faces. For this reason, we have worked members, in keeping with the Securities Market Law. unceasingly to guarantee that our corporate The company constantly seeks independent candidates governance standards meet the highest standards of for its Board in order to guarantee an innovative and compliance at all times. balanced view of the company. This guarantees that ICA remains an institutional, The table below profiles the board members that orderly and transparent company, founded on integrity currently make up the Board of Directors. Note that and the highest ethical standards, and generating value Bernardo Quintana Isaac, who serves as Chairman of for all our stakeholders, while ensuring a sustainable the Board, does not hold any position in company management of the business. management. ICA 2013 57 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 34,36 BOARD STATUS SEX SENIORITY COMPETENCIES KEY POSITIONS Bernardo Non-Executive NonMale Since 1978 Civil Engineer Member of the Board of Directors of Banamex in the Quintana Isaac Independent United States; Member of the Board of Directors of Culver Educational Foundation in Indiana and Member of the Board of Visitors of the Anderson School of Management at the University of California (UCLA), CEO of ICA until 2006. Alonso Quintana Executive NonMale Since 2008 Civil Engineer CEO since July 1, 2012; Head of the Executive Kawage Independent Committee, Board Member of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A. de C.V. (OMA) Diego Quintana Executive NonMale Since 2008 Economist Executive Vice Chairman, Chairman of the Board of Kawage Independent Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) Eduardo Revilla Non-Executive NonMale Since 2013 Lawyer Partner in the law firm Revilla y Álvarez Alcalá, S.C., Martínez Independent member of the International Fiscal Federation and independent member of the Steering Committee of the Mexican Federal Consumer Protection Agency. José Luis Non-Executive NonMale Since 1990 Mechanical Former CEO and Chairman of the Board of Grupo Guerrero Álvarez Independent Engineer Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V., (OMA), independent member of the Board of Directors of Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, S.A.B. de C.V. and Chairman of the Supervisory Committee; Board Member of Enova Endeavor, CEO of ICA until 2012. Fernando Flores Non-Executive Independent Male Since 2008 Lawyer Chairman of the Corporate Practices Committee, y Pérez (1) (2) Chairman of the Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee; member of the Audit Committee, founding partner of EFE Consultores, S.C.; member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) Elsa Beatriz Non-Executive Independent Female Since 2009 Accountant Chairwoman of the Audit Committee, researcher García Bojorges (1)(2)(3) and member of the Mexican Council for Financial Information Standards (CINIF); member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) ICA 2013 58 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 34,36 BOARD STATUS Sex SENIORITY COMPETENCIES KEY POSITIONS Salvador Alva Non-Executive Independent Male Since 2010 Chemical Member of the Corporate Practices Committee; member Gómez (1)(2) Engineer of the Finance, Planning and Sustainable Development Committee; President of Sistema Tecnológico de Monterrey since 2011; member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) Margarita Non-Executive Independent Female Since 2010 Lawyer Member of the Corporate Practices Committee and Hugues Vélez (1)(2) member of the Audit Committee; Vice President for Legal and Administrative Affairs and Secretary of the Board of Directors of Grupo Modelo, S.A.B. de C.V. Ricardo Non-Executive Independent Male Since 2013 Public Member of the Finance, Planning and Sustainable Gutiérrez Muñoz (1)(2) Accountant Development Committee; Chairman of the Executive Committee of Mexichem, S.A.B. de C.V.; Member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA); Banco Ve por Más, S.A. Carlos Guzmán Non-Executive Independent Male Since 2013 Chemical Member of the Corporate Practices Committee; member Bofill (1)(2) Engineer of the Finance, Planning and Sustainable Development Committee; member of the Board of Directors of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) (1) Independent Directors in accordance with the definition in Rule 10A-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as amended. (2) Independent directors in accordance with the definition of Mexican Securities Market Law. (3) Audit committee financial expert, in accordance with the requirement of Section 407 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. ICA 2013 59 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 40,41 The Board of Directors and its members are approved 1. Corporate Practices Committee, in charge of matters by the Shareholders’ Meeting based on their experience of succession, nomination, compensation, evaluation and training. The board currently includes two female and policy proposals, with the ability to lead the design members. and structure of the Company’s corporate governance system, in compliance with applicable laws, corporate Once approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, the best practices and the standards and policies approved Independent Members sign a statement of by the Board of Directors. independence while the equity board members are obliged to fill out a quarterly questionnaire in which CHAIR they must declare any type of conflict of interest or Fernando Flores y Pérez transaction that they may be aware of with a related party. Related party transactions by Board Members, MEMBERS depending on their size, must be authorized by the Margarita Hugues Vélez Chief Executive Officer, the Corporate Practices Salvador Alva Gómez Committee and/or the Board of Directors. These transactions are reported on an annual basis to the 2. Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee, which Shareholders’ Meeting. The company’s General Counsel is in charge of dealing with matters relating to finance, is responsible for keeping a record of all matters strategic planning, risk management and sustainability relating to corporate governance. in compliance with applicable laws, corporate best practices and the standards and policies adopted by As a support in the performance of its duties, the the Board of Directors. Board of Directors has created three special committees which are described below. Note that, in 2013, meetings of both the Board of Directors and the various special support committees were attended by approximately 95% of the members that make up those bodies of governance. ICA 2013 60 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 35, 42,45 This committee is in charge of monitoring compliance The Audit Committee is made up of three with our policies, international sustainability standards independent members of the Board of Directors. and our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, in addition to identifying the risks to which the Company CHAIR is subject in these areas. It also analyzes our actions Elsa Beatriz García Bojorges and sees that the company’s mission is fulfilled in the area of sustainability. MEMBERS Margarita Hugues Vélez CHAIR Fernando Flores y Pérez Fernando Flores y Pérez The Board of Directors approves the work reports of MEMBERS its three support committees. These committees plan, Margarita Hugues Vélez manage and execute issues relating to their respective Salvador Alva Gómez areas of responsibility and delegate the corresponding Ricardo Gutiérrez Muñoz responsibilities to various executives and employees of Carlos Guzmán Bofill the company. The Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee, for 3. Audit Committee, responsible for the duties set its part, presents a work program at the start of the forth in section II of article 42 and other applicable year for all the areas it is involved in, as well as the provisions of the Securities Market Law. Among progress towards goals established in previous periods. these is to review and evaluate the independent Every year, this committee, together with the CEO and auditor and to report to the Board of Directors on company officers, prepare the strategy and objectives the company’s internal audits and the quality or in the areas for which the committee is responsible, deficiency of its internal control mechanisms. and these propose their approval by the Board of Directors. These will serve as the basis for policies that will govern the company in those areas. ICA 2013 61 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36, 46, 47, 49, 50 In each meeting of the Finance, Planning and Audit Committee Sustainability Committee, all the Company’s risks are January 14 100% identified, measured, managed and reported. In every February 20 100% meeting of the Board of Directors, and on an annual March 19 100% basis, the environmental, economic and social impacts, risks and opportunities are analyzed, along with the April 17 100% solutions or strategies proposed by that committee. April 22 80% July 22 100% DATES OF BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS 2013 October 14 100% BOARD OF DIRECTOS % APPROXIMATE October 22 100% PARTICIPATION December 2 100% March 20 95% May 6 90% In our organization, there are a number of positions June 6 90% that entail a direct responsibility for matters relating to August 5 90% social, environmental and economic aspects, and for October 14 95% ensuring compliance of this Company’s obligations in areas related to sustainability. November 4 95% Corporate Practices, Finance Planning and ·· Corporate Director of Sustainability, who reports Sustainability Committee directly to the highest governance body, through the May 6 80% Company’s CEO. June 3 100% July 15 100% ·· Project Directors: Ultimately responsible for the Corporate Practices Committee results of each project, as well as compliance with social, environmental and safety provisions for the September 30 95% project they head. November 4 100% Finance, Planning and Sustainability ·· Managers of Quality Assurance, Safety and Committee Environment of the business units: Responsible October 14 (joint session) 100% for implementing strategic actions relating to December 2 100% sustainability, and establishing concrete initiatives in the areas of safety, the environment and quality in the various projects of their Business Units. ICA 2013 62 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 43, 44, 51, 53 The individuals who hold these positions are highly ·· Annual Meeting: An event for shareholders, ranked within the organization, to ensure they have executives and Associates of ICA, held every year the authority and the mechanisms necessary for to report on the Company’s results, the status making decisions, and reporting directly or indirectly of its projects and other key issues for the to the Company’s highest governance body. organization, including social, environmental and economic aspects. Over the course of the year, and at various levels of the organization, including the Board of Directors, ·· Review of Business Units results: Quarterly meetings programs and initiatives are introduced whose in which the heads of the various Business Units purpose, besides reporting on the challenges and present their results to members of the Executive progress that our Company has made in the area of Committee. The results and the social, environmental, sustainability, is to develop the capacities and economic and safety lessons are always an integral knowledge required for various social, environmental, part of the agenda for these meetings. economic and on-the-job safety aspects. Some of the most important of these initiatives are the following: Every year, Board Members conduct a self-evaluation, coordinated by a third party, then transmits the results ·· Sustainability Committee: Meetings are chaired by of that evaluation to all members of the Board of the Director of Sustainability, with the participation Directors. of various Corporate Directors and Business Units, where strategies, programs and activities in this Based on this evaluation, and in keeping with our area are reviewed, along with the results of their internal regulations, the compensation paid to our top implementation. executives depends on their performance. Compensation for members of the Board of Directors ·· Update Week: Development program on a variety is approved by the Shareholders’ Meeting, according of topics for associates at various organizational to proposals analyzed by the Corporate Practices levels of ICA. The themes of sustainability and social, Committee. environmental and safety management play a key role, and members of the Board are invited directly to participate and bring their knowledge on these issues up to date. ICA 2013 63 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 37, 52, 54, 55 The Company’s policy for calculating performance In ICA’s case, the highest salary is 19 times the average bonuses is the following: for the bulk of the work force. In 2013, the average percentage raise given to all employees was 4.5%. The ·· In years in which total revenues amount to 4% or less same percentage was applied to the highest salary in of net assets, no bonus will be paid. the organization. One point that merits particular mention is that both shareholders and employees of ·· In years in which total revenues are more than 4% of the Company have a number of channels for net assets, a bonus of up to 20% of the amount that communicating their opinions, questions or concerns to exceeds 4% of net assets may be paid. the Board of Directors: Furthermore, in order to ensure that our ·· Shareholders: (i) Shareholders’ meeting; (ii) investor compensation package, pension plan and benefits are relations office; (iii) conferences; iv) meetings with competitive according to policies applied to all financial analysts, shareholders, investors, banks, positions in the organization, ICA conducts annual rating agencies and other participants in the financial market compensation studies through leading markets. consulting firms. More than 300 companies of all areas of business participate in these studies, which ·· Employees: (i) Informative actions of the business are carried out by the firms independently and unit and/or area; (ii) whistleblowers hotline; (iii) direct confidentially. access to the office of the General Counsel through email; (iv) escalation of concerns through hierarchical superiors. As we mentioned earlier, at ICA we are guided by a clear mission, vision and values. Additionally, we have a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, as well as a Code of Ethics and Rules of Conduct for Suppliers, Subcontractors and Business Partners, both of which were approved by the Board of Directors on May 3, 2004 and ratified by the Board on January 20, 2014. ICA 2013 64 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 56 All employees and members of the Board of Directors Through an internal auditor, the Company will carry out of the Company must read and sign the Code of Ethics regular evaluation audits on compliance with this code. and Business Conduct. This code is available to Reports of alleged misconduct will be investigated by employees on ICA’s webpage. Newly hired employees the appropriate personnel at the corporate level or in also receive an orientation course on this area. the corresponding operating unit, having notified the office of the General Counsel, and will be reported, if At the time it was first drafted, the previous Code of necessary, to the Board of Directors or the Audit Ethics was translated in English and published in the Committee and the corresponding authorities. 20-F report filed with the Securities Exchange Commission. Employees who have questions about the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct should first consult their immediate superior. Our “open door” policy gives employees the freedom to approach any member of management with questions or ethical concerns, without fear of reprisal. All inquiries by employees made in good faith will be dealt with as promptly as possible, professionally and without the risk of any type of sanction. ICA 2013 65 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14, 50 MANAGEMENT PRACTICES AND SYSTEMS ·· Redesigning the model of governance and compliance RISK MANAGEMENT for the purpose of aligning management systems— processes and procedures—with corporate policies and, In 2013, ICA furthered its efforts to introduce good in addition, ensuring that these meet the requirements practices of Governance, Risks and Compliance (GRC) contained in laws, regulations, contractual obligations in its operations in Mexico and Latin America by and voluntary standards. introducing various measures, which included: ·· Updating the risk catalog (Risk Breakdown Structure, or RBS), to specify the requirements, concerns and ·· Formalization of risk reviews—and response actions— experiences of the various ICA stakeholders, and then by the Board of Directors and its committees. apply them in the respective risk evaluations. ·· The creation of a corporate office of risk ·· Training and awareness raising in matters of risk management, which coordinates all of the GRC management, through on-site, in-person training improvement actions, begun in 2012, and promotes sessions held at the construction projects and new initiatives to keep ICA at the forefront of risk participation in courses given by the Engineering & management practices. Construction Risk Institute (ECRI), among others. ·· The adoption of international standards like the OCEG– GRC Capability Model, ISO 31000:2009, COSO – Enterprise Risk Management Integrated Framework, and others. ICA 2013 66 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 14, 50 ·· Closer integration and coordination between areas As of December 31, 2013, the most relevant risks for that are experts in the various categories of risk ICA discussed in its support committees included the (occupational safety, environmental management, following matters: legal, information technologies, and others), according to standardized and unified methodologies and ·· Sociopolitical factors that affect bids and projects. processes. ·· Analysis of specific risks to international operations ·· Systematically and consistently applying risk (country risk, culture, legislation). evaluations to key construction and infrastructure ·· Effectiveness of the process of approving work projects (throughout their lifecycle). outside of estimates. ·· Monitoring of emerging risks, especially those related ·· Integrity of financial, operating and administrative to social, safety and environmental problems. information. ·· Ongoing learning from the record of risks that have ·· Reliability of cost information in bidding processes. materialized and the lessons learned. ·· Partners’ compliance with obligations that may effect ·· Application of continuous improvement actions in all ICA’s reputation and costs. of the GRC initiatives, begun at the end of 2012. ·· Fulfillment of requirements to bid on major projects. ·· Hiring and retention of qualified personnel. Furthermore, ICA’s Board of Directors, supported ·· Compliance with anti-corruption laws. by its committees, took a more active role in the ·· Interest rate and exchange rate volatility. process of identifying, evaluating and dealing with the ·· Price volatility for strategic commodities. most relevant risks faced by the Company and its ·· Availability of capital/financing to participate in subsidiaries. The order of business for Board meetings projects. includes the following points at least twice a year: the most relevant risks for ICA (including follow-up on To complement the ongoing improvement actions, ICA actions taken); new risks identified; materialized risks has decided to substantially modify the technological (incidents and lessons learned); and emerging risks. support provided for its corporate responsibility functions by acquiring a leading application in the market that will integrate the activities of policy, regulatory change, and risk management, incidents and lessons learned, compliance management, thirdparty evaluation (suppliers, subcontractors), business continuity and internal audits, among others. ICA 2013 67 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CRE6 In 2014, ICA will continue to take actions to improve All our Business Units have ISO 9001, ISO 18001, and ISO its corporate governance and responsibility capacities, 14001 certifications in matters of quality, safety and which should help to enhance the maturity of its health, and environmental protection, respectively. Also, sustainability pillars. for the sixth consecutive year, we were recognized by CEMEFI with the Social Responsibility Award. VERIFIED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS Unifica In designing and developing its projects, ICA identifies and oversees application of federal, state In 2013, we launched a project called Unifica, and municipal legislation, Official Mexican Standards an integrating business model backed by SAP® (NOM) in technical, environmental protection, safety methodology and consisting of best construction and health aspects, as well as the bases for design industry practices. The adoption of this technological and the standards our clients have predetermined. platform will enable us to standardize, integrate, replicate and measure the processes that are the For project design, construction, facilities, testing pillars of our operations. With this transformative and startup, ICA identifies, controls and oversees project and the backing of a professional work team application of the quality guidelines and requirements committed to change, we will create a solid business established by federal laws and regulations, as well model, and a unified, innovative and sustainable ICA. as any local, state, municipal and/or delegation-level ordinances, rules and regulations governing project execution. It also applies Mexican Official Standards (NOM) as well as international standards, as determined by our clients. ICA 2013 68 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONCRETELY... Infrastructure Management System While developing the IMS, best industry practices in the areas of safety and information technologies, procedures and up-to-date specifications ACTICA has developed an Infrastructure Management System (IMS) for according to the certifying organizations in the industry, world-class use in social projects like hospitals and concessions, which integrates criteria for material and human resource management, and the most various tools for operating this type of facility into a single information recent advances in the services and concessions sector were taken into technology platform. IMS consists of three basic components: account. • Integration of elements with different origins and functionalities. Because of its modular structure, the IMS can be used in direct operating • Taking preventive and corrective actions, both administrative and environments or concession schemes. This modular segmentation enables operating. users to choose which parts they wish to control, depending on the work • Use of supervised systems to guarantee attention to events and, with it, scheme of each institution and the operating model to be used. the system’s efficacy. One currently successful application of this system handles 8,000 rations of food a day, 2.3 metric tons of clothing a week, 12,000 continuously supervised devices, physical maintenance of 120 constructions, and 31 metric tons of raw materials and equipment. All in one integral solution, controlled by a limited staff. Objectives/Strategy ACTICA is an innovative, efficient system that uses the most advanced technology and places the Company at the forefront in the field of safety and institutional management. Safety Human Resources Infrastructure (Technologies) Processes and Procedures ICA 2013 69 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PR5 Client satisfaction Measuring client satisfaction is another highly important issue for a sustainable company. To this end, we conducted various surveys, with the following results: MECHANISMS TO RECEIVE STRENGTHS IDENTIFIED BY AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT FREQUENCY OPINIONS MOST RECENT RESULTS CLIENTS IDENTIFIED BY CLIENTS CIVIL Semiannual Written surveys Opinion of services 88.28%. 1. Knowledge, experience and 1. ICA-Client communication or Project execution 82.61%. technical capacity of personnel. supervision in order to improve General opinion 82.39% 2. Management as per agreements project. execution. and compliance with laws and 2. Reconciliation of estimates with regulations associated with client representative. project. 3. Actions for adherence to 3. Personnel honesty and execution schedule. commitment. 4. Hiring of more highly trained 4. Effective management and personnel. prompt reconciliation of scope 5. Specialized training for personnel changes. participating in projects. 5. Quality focus. 6. Better communication with 6. Customer service attitude. project managers. Annual Customer satisfaction survey 86.5% 1. Response capacity. 1. Adherence to contractual plan. 2. Very capable technical staff and 2. Maintain top-level staff during high-quality construction team. project. 3. Involvement in safety issues. 3. Suggestion of a less centralized 4. Compliance with laws and management and give greater regulations related to project. authority to project directors. 5. Quality in execution of delivered work. ICA 2013 70 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PR5 MECHANISMS TO RECEIVE STRENGTHS IDENTIFIED BY AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT FREQUENCY OPINIONS MOST RECENT RESULTS CLIENTS IDENTIFIED BY CLIENTS CIVIL Annual Customer satisfaction survey 62.5% 1. Supervision and control of all 1. Technical capacity of ICA Work minutes/and or logs with fronts. services. client 2. Application of safety regulations 2. Defined contractual framework and processes. for project. 3. Effective application of 3. Planning and fulfillment of activity quality assurance, safety and schedule. environmental systems during project execution. 4. Compliance with procedures, laws and regulations associated with project. 5. Quality fulfillment in construction/ and/or ICA service processes. 6. Adherence to specifications and plans. 7. Qualified design staff and personnel. 8. Response to observations. Monthly, Official notices There is currently no quantification Rapid adaptation to changes and Cut back on red tape to expedite annual and or value scale for this aspect; we response to procedures. processes. semiannual held an initial interaction with the client followed by setting of targets and goals for key processes. ICA 2013 71 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PR5 MECHANISMS TO RECEIVE STRENGTHS IDENTIFIED BY AREAS OF IMPROVEMENT FREQUENCY OPINIONS MOST RECENT RESULTS CLIENTS IDENTIFIED BY CLIENTS Semiannual Customer satisfaction survey 91% PRET’s strengths were detected Institutional communication and as recognition of competencies operating areas (service). or capacities to provide service to customer across the entire process spectrum. Considered a leading company in its field, with a costbenefit ratio that offers added value to customers. Housing Annual/ Customer satisfaction survey 79.1% 1. Design, home style. 1. Close-by services. quarterly (Customer Satisfaction Index, or 2. Infrastructure for housing 2. Personnel in charge of post-sale CSI) development. problems. Customer satisfaction survey 3. Sales personnel. 3. Quality of labor. (Borrower satisfaction index / 4. Condition of home upon moving INFONAVIT) in. Operation At the Customer satisfaction survey 9.1 on a scale of 0 to 10 Proactive approach and disposition. Project planning and scheduling. conclusion of works Industrial Annual “Voice of the customer” survey 8.7 on a scale of 0 to 10 1. Loyalty and honesty. 1. Selection and supervision of (written and in-person interviews) 2. Quality procurement. subcontracts. 3. Functional construction tools. 2. Adherence to programs. 4. Technical capacity. 3. Problem solving. 5. Safety. 4. Rapid response. 5. Prices. ICA 2013 72 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 57, 58, HR3, HR8, HR9, HR11, HR12, LA5, LA15, LA16, SO3, SO5 The Company has a mechanism through which There were also no reported negative impacts in clients can freely and anonymously communicate the area of human rights. The complaints filed were their concerns regarding possible illegal or unethical resolved through the formal hotline report system. practices. The ICA toll-free whistleblowers hotline (001Another indicator analyzed in 2013 was the number 877-495-3315), available 24 hours a day every day the of significant negative impacts resulting from labor year, is open to anyone who wants to make a complaint practices in the supply chain, where there were also no or report. In addition, the General Counsel has an email complaints. address available for receiving all types of reports (abogadogral@ica.mx), and a number of independent law At the start of 2013 there were 400 labor lawsuits open firms help the Company to resolve the questions raised against the Company; by the end of that year, another by these communications. 477 lawsuits were filed, making a total of 877 active lawsuits during the year. Of these, 386 were settled In 2013, there were no complaints of workplace during the year, leaving 491 still open. discrimination or human rights violations. As we have already mentioned, ICA has a Code of Ethics with clear During the year, the Company received 277 complaints principles against discrimination of any kind. There have through its hotline, 17 of which (6%) were in regard to been no reports or records of incidents relating to alleged acts of corruption. Of these, 14 were found to violations of indigenous rights. be without grounds, one was accepted and two are in the process of investigation. Of the four cases open at the end of 2012, none were found to have legal basis. In the event a case is found to merit legal action, the person responsible is dismissed from the Company. During the year, the hotline was introduced to all the Latin American countries where we have operations. We also opened a website through which users can file complaints online, expanding the possibilities of communication with our stakeholders. ICA 2013 73 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 48, SO4 Our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct includes In 2013, the Committee on Sustainability met every two various anti-corruption measures. The Code is months to review strategic sustainability issues. During communicated to both employees and clients and is the year, its sessions were attended by directors available on the ICA website and corporate intranet. from the Finance, Administration, Sustainability, Legal, Furthermore, in the Company’s annual Updates Week, Human Capital and IT areas, as well as invited experts an expert in the field gives a presentation on “Antifrom outside the Company, specialists on the issues corruption in the national and international framework.” discussed in each meeting. This enabled participants to share experiences and best practices relating to SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PRACTICES sustainability in the business. The following are the topics discussed in each of the bimonthly meetings: Because sustainability is an issue crucial to this Company, in 2010 we created a Committee on Sustainability (COS), which is an internal body reporting directly to the Executive Committee in charge of overseeing, standardizing and defining sustainability actions and strategies. It also participates in drafting the sustainability report, which is submitted for the approval of the Finance, Planning and Sustainability Committee, and this in turn submits it to the Board of Directors for its approval, through its activities report. ICA 2013 74 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 48, 1/6 COS 2/6 COS 3/6 COS 4/6 COS 5/6 COS 6/6 COS 2013 Sustainability Strategic sustainability Special guest: Juan Balanced Scorecard Sustainability Indices Dow Jones Sustainability objectives issues (environment, Pardinas, IMCO, (Dow Jones Sustainability Index – environment, health and safety, Mexican Institute for Index and IPC Sustainable corporate governance and innovation and social) Competitiveness Index) attraction and retention of talent. ICA reputation Innovation documentation Balanced Scorecard Markets and financial Sustainability strategic 2013 Sustainability analysts planning Report ICA evaluation by rating ICA reputation Implications of Dow Jones Key social issues Suppliers and Management and agencies Sustainability Index for subcontractors performance of COS ICA Structure of Sustainability Value trees – Human Safety and health Suppliers and Special guest: Andreas Committee resources subcontractors Georgoulias, Zofnass Program Progress of Sustainability Health and safety Health and Safety commissions Whistleblowers hotline and ethics ICA 2013 75 G4 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EC4, SO6, SO7, SO8, PR8, PR9 FULL COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS Because ICA makes a practice to comply fully with the prevailing laws in all the countries in which it operates, No significant fines were levied against any project at it received no significant sanctions or fines for breach ICA’s business units related to products and services of those laws. provided, nor concerning privacy or leaks of customer data. To ensure this remains the case, our contracts In 2013, we continued conducting cross audits of 16 include contractor confidentiality clauses. Also, in cases projects. where we are required to protect data in accordance with the Federal Law on Protection of Personal Data SUSTAINABILITY INDICES Held by Private Parties, corresponding privacy notices have been circulated to protect personal data against Today, it is increasingly common for investors to any type of usage prohibited by the Law. diversify their portfolios by investing in companies that apply best industry practices in the area of In 2013, the Company did not receive any economic sustainability. assistance from the government of any kind. It also made no financial or in-kind contribution to political parties, nor has it been subject to any legal action for commercial practices that violate the principles of free competition, fair trade and/or monopolistic conduct. ICA 2013 76 LEADERSHIP AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Dow Jones Sustainability Index was created in Through the sustainability indices, investors can 1999 as the first global sustainability guideline. The measure performance of portfolios made up of a group Dow Jones index family (DGSI) is offered jointly by of sustainability leaders, meaning the ideal companies RobecoSAM Indices and S&P Dow Jones Indices, in which to invest. They can also see what aspects which track the market performance of the world’s should be paid more attention and the areas in which leading companies in economic, environmental and each company excels. We therefore believe ICA is a social terms. These indices serve as a parameter better investment option than companies not included for investors who wish to integrate sustainability in the above-mentioned sustainability indexes. considerations into their portfolios, providing them a platform of real commitment to companies who wish Holding this leadership role in sustainability indices to adopt best sustainability practices. ICA joined the poses tremendous challenges in terms of transparency, Dow Jones Sustainability Index in 2013, which means accountability and performance, but it opens many we comply better with sustainability criteria than most doors to new markets, to responsible investors and other companies in our industry who do not have this to mutual funds, and gives us additional international distinction. visibility. ICA was also included in the Mexican Stock Exchange’s Sustainability Index (IPC Sustentable) for the third year in a row, and was chosen to head, through its representative, the BMV Sustainability Committee, representing the interests of all the companies included in that index. ICA 2013 77 3 CORE BUSINESSES A clear longand short-term vision of our business has inspired us to adopt innovative technological solutions to improve our financial viability and sustainability, and form lasting ties with the communities where we operate. Supported by our value circle, at ICA we provide a wide range of services, from transportation infrastructure and water projects to energy plants and hospitals, as well as investment in productive assets. Our extensive experience encompasses project design engineering, financial structuring, construction, operation and administration of mature assets. ICA 2013 78 CORE BUSINESSES ICA has two core and complementary businesses: construction and operation of a portfolio of long-term infrastructure and other investments.* Large infrastructure projects for the public and private sectors (dams, and hydroelectric projects; CIVIL highways; tunnels and bridges; drainage systems; aqueducts and water treatment plants; stadiums, hospitals and airports, as well as underground and railway transportation systems. Our specialized construction subsidiaries give us additional expertise in geotechnology, subsoil engineering and prefabricated component manufacturing. Through ICA Fluor, a joint venture between ICA and Fluor Corporation, we carry out engineering, INDUSTRIAL procurement, construction, commissioning and start-up services for complex industrial facilities, including oil and gas processing plants, LNG plants, steel mills, mining facilities and other manufacturing plants. We have the largest and most experienced design engineering group in Mexico, integrated by more than 1,000 specialists. ICA develops and operates long-term concessions and public-private partnerships for highways, water CONCESSIONS projects, ports and public services. We have more than 900 km of roads under management and, at the end of 2013, our portfolio included 18 concessions, 9 operational and 9 under construction. INFRASTRUCTURE We operate 13 airports through our publicly-listed subsidiary OMA. The airports include AIRPORTS OPERATION AND Monterrey, Mexico’s industrial capital, as well as key regional cities in the northern and central areas of the country. We also operate a hotel in Terminal 2 of Mexico City’s International Airport, OTHER INVESTMENTS provide other commercial services and develop the real estate in and around our airports. CONSTRUCTION * Our housing operations, which include horizontal housing assets, as well as our corporate operations, have now been integrated into the Corporate and Other segment. In 2013, this segments represented only 3% of our total revenues. ICA 2013 79 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 ICA’S PRESENCE 59 82 82 60 45 77 78 51 28 81 32 67 56 55 37 34 3 2 48 12 50 75 29 38 35 4 82 1 49 52 5 61 26 76 46 47 72 43 14 80 13 13 13 79 7 13 8 25 9 73 74 82 10 24 19 40 44 66 82 81 11 27 57 6 15 20 18 22 21 82 16 30 17 82 58 68 53 82 23 36 31 33 69 54 63 62 70 39 64 82 81 71 41 65 42 72 Civil Construction 82 Industrial Construction Airports Concessions Housing ICA 2013 80 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 CIVIL STATE 1 Navojoa Ciudad Obregón Highway Sonora 2 Sonora State Highway Maintenance Sonora 3 Marina Atasta Shore Protection Campeche 4 Boqueron del Palmar Bypass Campeche 5 Los Panales Reservoir Dam Jalisco 6 Tepic Bypass Nayarit 7 Corredor Norte Highway Panama 8 Avenida Domingo Díaz Panama 9 Panama Canal, PAC-4 Panama 10 Florencia-Altamira Highway Colombia 11 San Martin Contratistas Generales Peru 12 Zapotlanejo-El Desperdicio Highway Jalisco 13 Rodio Kronsa Spain, Portugal, Morocco, Central America 14 Ciudad del Carmen Maternity Hospital Campeche 15 Dr. Miguel Silva General Hospital Michoacán 16 Oaxaca Western Zone Sports Facility Oaxaca 17 Tuxtla Gutierrez General Hospital Chiapas 18 Leon, Guanajuato General Hospital Guanajuato 19 Casaflex Production Plant Hidalgo 20 Hotel Mundo Imperial Acapulco Guerrero 21 Wind Tunnel Laboratory Mexico City 22 Eastern Discharge Tunnel State of Mexico 23 Canal de la Compañía State of Mexico 24 Northern Interceptor Tunnel, Río Medellín Colombia 25 Atlantic Petroleum Terminal Expansion Costa Rica 26 Maintenance Ecopetrol Zone 5 Colombia INDUSTRIAL STATE 27 AHMSA Phase 2 Coahuila 28 El Boleo Copper Mine Southern Baja California 29 Madero Clean Fuels Plant Tamaulipas 30 Cadereyta Clean Fuels Plant Nuevo León 31 Minatitlán Clean Fuels Plant Veracruz ICA 2013 81 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 INDUSTRIAL STATE 32 Salina Cruz Clean Fuels Plant Oaxaca 33 Cananea SX/EW III Plant Sonora 34 Etileno XXI Petrochemical Complex Veracruz 35 Dos Bocas II Dewatering Plant Tabasco 36 Ethane Recovery, Ciudad Pemex Tabasco 37 Pemex Building Mexico City 38 Reynosa Refinery Rehabilitation Tamaulipas 39 Dupont Altamira L2 Tamaulipas 40 Etileno XXI Pipeline Modules Veracruz 41 Tula Refinery Residuals Reprocessing Hidalgo 42 Gas Compression System Dos Bocas Veracruz 43 Vinyl Chloride Monomer Plant Veracruz 44 Ciudad Pemex Ethane Recovery, Phase 2 Tabasco 45 Tula Refinery Hidalgo 46 Ayatsil-C Platform Campeche 47 Cadereyta Clean Fuels Plant Nuevo León 48 Dupont Modules, Altamira Tamaulipas Airports STATE 49 Ciudad Juárez Airport Chihuahua 50 Chihuahua Airport Chihuahua 51 Torreón Airport Coahuila 52 Hotel Hilton Garden Inn MTY Nuevo León 53 Durango Airport Durango 54 Acapulco Airport Guerrero 55 Zihuatanejo Airport Guerrero 56 Monterrey Airport Nuevo León 57 San Luis Potosí Airport San Luis Potosí 58 Culiacán Airport Sinaloa 59 Mazatlán Airport Sinaloa 60 Reynosa Airport Tamaulipas 61 Tampico Airport Tamaulipas 62 Zacatecas Airport Zacatecas ICA 2013 82 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 Concessions STATE 63 Autovía Urbana Sur Highway Mexico City 64 Río de los Remedios Highway State of Mexico 65 Acapulco Tunnel Guerrero 66 Acapulco Scenic Bypass Guerrero 67 Atotonilco Water Treatment Plant Hidalgo 68 Agua Prieta Water Treatment Plant Jalisco 69 La Piedad Bypass Michoacán 70 Lazaro Cardenas TEC II Container Terminal Michoacán 71 Barranca LargaVentanilla Highway Oaxaca 72 Mitla Tehuantepec Highway Oaxaca 73 Nuevo Necaxa Tihuatlán Highway Puebla–Veracruz 74 Aqueduct II Queretaro Querétaro 75 Palmillas – Apaseo El Grande Tollroad Querétaro 76 Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles Highway San Luis Potosí 77 El Realito Aqueduct San Luis Potosí 78 SPC Sonora Sonora 79 SPC Jalisco Jalisco 80 Corredor Norte Highway (Operation only) Panama 81 Playa del Carmen ExpansionMayab Highway Yucatán Housing STATE 82 Residential Mexico City, Campeche, Peru 83 Horizontal Housing Aguascalientes, Guanajuato, Hidalgo, Jalisco, Northern Baja California, Nuevo León, Querétaro, Quintana Roo, State of Mexico, Veracruz * Our housing operations, which include our horizontal housing assets, as well as our corporate operations, have been integrated into the Corporate and Other segment. In 2013, this segment accounted for only 3% of our total revenues. ICA 2013 83 CORE BUSINESSES KEY FIGURES (Ps. Million) 11 34,259 TOTAL 12 38,122 REVENUES 13 29,556 11 2,867 12 1,679 OPERATING 13 3,133 INCOME 11 5,090 / 14.9% EBITDA / EBITDA 12 3,740 / 9.8% MARGIN 13 4,733 / 16.0% 11 2.28 12 1.58 NET EARNINGS 13 0.7 POR SHARE TOTAL REVENUES TOTAL REVENUES TOTAL REVENUES Construction 21,744 Concessions 3,965 Airports 3,420 OPERATING INCOME OPERATING INCOME OPERATING INCOME 890 1,577 1,145 EBITDA / EBITDA MARGIN EBITDA / EBITDA MARGIN EBITDA / EBITDA MARGIN 1,592 / 7.3% 2,173 / 54.8% 1,395/ 40.8% ICA 2013 84 CORE BUSINESSES LIFE OF OUR CONCESSIONS Our young asset portfolio has an average lifespan of 24 years. 2000 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 HIGHWAYS IN OPERATION TUCA Acapulco Tunnel Highway (20) 20 MAYAB Consorcio del Mayab Highway (6) 36 ANESA Río de los Remedios Highway (10) NA LIPSA La Piedad Bypass Highway (5) 40 AUSUR* Autovía Urbana Sur Highway (3) 27 ICASAL Río Verde–Ciudad Valles Highway (7) 13 HIGHWAYS UNDER CONSTRUCTION AUNETI Nuevo Necaxa–Tihuatlán Highway (6) 24 MITLA Mitla–Tehuantepec Highway (4) 16 DIPESA Barranca Larga–Ventanilla Highway (5) 25 TUCA2 Acapulco Scenic Bypass Highway (1) 29 PALMILLAS Palmillas–Apaseo El Grande Highway (1) 29 OTHER PROJECTS IN OPERATION SAQSA Aqueduct II Aqueduct (7) 13 PÁPAGOS SPC Sonora Social (3) 22 Infrastructure (5) 15 SARRE SPC Jalisco Social Infrastructure (4) 21 OTHER PROJECTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION (4) 18 ACQUOS El Realito Aqueduct (4) 18 RENOVA Agua Prieta WTP (2) 28 ATVM Atotonilco WTP TEC2 Lázaro Cárdenas Port * As of December, 2013 ICA 2013 85 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 MARKETS AND CAPACITIES ICA creates value across the infrastructure lifecycle, providing a broad range of services and investing in productive assets. From transportation and water infrastructure to energy projects to hospitals, ICA’s expertise includes design and engineering, financial and partnership structuring, construction, operation, and management of mature assets. CAPACITIES MARKETS DESIGN & FINANCIAL STRATEGIC CONSTRUCTION OPERATION MATURE ASSETS ENGINEERING STRUCTURING ALLIANCES 1 Roads Highways, bridges, tunnels and city streets 2 Ports Ports and marine facilities 3 Airports Integral airports, runways, terminal buildings, systems, logistical and commercial spaces 4 Water Aqueducts, canals, deep draining, wastewater treatment plants, fresh water and sewage systems, reservoirs 5 Energy Hydroelectric, combined cycle and alternative energy plants: wind, geothermal, mini-hydroelectric plants 6 Underground work Tunnels (city, highways, sewage), foundations and specialized soil treatments 7 Mass transit Metros, light trains, metro-buses ICA 2013 86 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 CAPACITIES MARKETS DESIGN & FINANCIAL STRATEGIC CONSTRUCTION OPERATION MATURE ASSETS ENGINEERING STRUCTURING ALLIANCES 8 Public buildings Hospitals, penitentiaries, schools and universities, stadiums and other public works 9 Oil and gas Refineries, chemical and petrochemical plants, natural gas processing, ocean platforms, gas pipelines, oil pipelines and oilfield services 10 Mining Construction services for mining and mining facilities 11 Industry Steel and cement industry plants, industrial and municipal waste management and other industrial plants 12 Real-estate development Hotels and tourist developments, industrial parks, horizontal and upper-income housing, mixed-use developments, offices and parking areas 13 Prefabrication Structural elements, floor and wall tiles, facades, housing and prefabricated housing structures 14 Industrial automation Security control and other automation and control systems; project modeling and control ICA 2013 87 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 ICA CAPACITIES AND EXAMPLES OF ACTIVITIES CONDUCTED IN 2013 DESIGN & ENGINEERING FINANCIAL STRUCTURING We provide a full range of basic and design We are experts in arranging long-term project engineering in both the civil and industrial financings in the international and domestic financial construction areas. Using the latest technology tools, markets. These lower costs and ensure the timely we can develop proposals that meet client needs availability of resources for executing projects. and create works and facilities that adhere to all specified standards, foresee and avoid potential Agreement for the 10-year, Ps. 5,450 million financing problems. of the Palmillas – Apaseo El Grande tollroad with Banco Santander, providing a payment structure that will be ICA Fluor is carrying out engineering, procurement, met by the cash flows of the tollroad, and ensuring an construction, maintenance and commissioning services to attractive rate of return. bring the vinyl chloride monomer plant located within the Pajaritos petrochemical complex, in Veracruz, up to its STRATEGIC ALLIANCES nameplate capacity of 405,000 metric tons per year from By forming strategic alliances with partners, we can the current 200,000 metric tons per year. The project’s mobilize additional skills or technologies needed engineering component includes the basic engineering – for complex projects, and also reduce our capital defining the technical solution and the general and basic requirements and share risk. guidelines for the execution of the detailed engineering – the supervision of the basic engineering for technology, Agreement with CGL, a subsidiary of Hunt Companies, and the detailed design engineering of all the components Inc., to form a joint venture for providing out nonrequired for the works to be developed as part of the correctional services at two federal penitentiaries basic engineering. Petroquimica Mexicana de Vinilo is a under existing services provider contracts and to flagship joint venture between Pemex and Mexichem. develop additional justice facilities in Mexico. The strategic alliance will enable ICA to deepen its involvement in this critical infrastructure area. ICA 2013 88 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 8 CONSTRUCTION Increasing highway traffic volumes 54%, principally We execute our projects, often working in the because of growth on the Naucalpan-Ecatepec highway, most challenging environments, mobilizing men, after completing the final section, and the newly materials, and machinery where and when they are operational Rio Verde-Ciudad Valles and La Piedad needed. We are innovators in using new techniques Bypass highways. These highways are making major and materials to improve quality and reduce costs. contributions to improving traffic in the northern As we carry out our projects, we act to minimize suburbs of Mexico City, and long-distance traffic from disruptions or effects on environmentally sensitive San Luis Potosi to Tampico across the Sierra Madre zones, neighboring populations, or ongoing industrial Oriental, and between Guanajuato and western Mexico. activities. MATURE ASSETS Major progress on the Barranca Larga-Ventanilla in As projects mature, their value increases. Through Oaxaca, executing more than Ps. 1,300 million in work, our portfolio management activities – refinancing, or more than 23% of the project in 2013. This 104 km, sale, spin-offs, etc. – we can realize the value that 4-lane highway road project will provide a high-speed has been created, and free up resources for new communication link between the Pacific coast resorts projects. of Huatulco and Puerto Escondido and the capital city of Oaxaca. The highway is expected to support Sale of the minority participation in highway operator additional development of the tourist zones and help RCO for Ps. 5,073 million, for a gain of approximately the economic integration of the inland communities Ps. 498 million, six years after the acquisition. The along the route. resources were used principally to repay debt and strengthen ICA’s financial position, in order to be able OPERATION to undertake new infrastructure projects. In operation of infrastructure assets, we strive for increased customer satisfaction. Our tools are efficiency, continuous process improvement, adoption of new technologies, and reduction in use of energy and other inputs. ICA 2013 89 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EC7 CONSTRUCTION CIVIL CONSTRUCTION Our Civil Construction segment focuses on structural concrete construction, concrete and asphalt infrastructure projects in Mexico, including the paving, mining services and tunneling. In 2013, our Civil construction of roads, highways, transportation Construction segment accounted for approximately facilities, bridges, dams, ports, hydroelectric plants, 74% of our total revenues. prisons, tunnels, canals and airports, as well as on the construction, development and remodeling of The Civil Construction segment’s projects are usually large multi-storied urban buildings, including office large and complex and require the use of large buildings, multiple-dwelling housing developments construction equipment and sophisticated managerial shopping centers. Our Civil Construction segment has and engineering techniques. Although our Civil also pursued opportunities in other parts of Latin Construction segment is engaged in a wide variety of America, the Caribbean, Asia and the United States, projects, our projects generally involve contracts whose and is currently pursuing select opportunities outside terms range from two to five years. of Mexico and performing three construction projects in Panama, three in Colombia, one in Costa Rica, one in The Civil Construction segment’s contract awards Chile and, through our San Martin subsidiary, certain and additions in 2013 totaled approximately Ps. 22,095 projects in Peru. Our Civil Construction segment million (approximately US$ 1,691 million), of which performs activities such as demolition, clearing, Ps. 2,570 million were awarded outside Mexico. excavation, de-watering, drainage, embankment fill, ICA 2013 90 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EC7 MINING INDUSTRY INDUSTRIAL CONSTRUCTION Additionally, in our Civil Construction segment we report As of 2013, our industrial construction business is no our mining services contracts which have a backlog of longer a reportable segment. Previously, we accounted Ps. 5,700 million. These projects principally reflect the for the entities within this segment using proportionate contracts held by our San Martín subsidiary in Peru. consolidation; upon adoption of IFRS 11, we retrospectively account for the entities that comprise this business using the equity method. ICA Fluor, one of the most significant entities within this business, is reported within our Civil Construction segment and the other investments are presented within Corporate and Other. Industrial construction projects focus on the engineering, procurement, construction, design and commissioning of large manufacturing facilities such as power plants, chemical plants, petrochemical plants, fertilizer plants, pharmaceutical plants, steel mills, paper mills, drilling platforms and automobile and cement factories. Projects in our industrial construction business typically involve sophisticated engineering techniques and require us to fulfill complicated technical and quality specifications. Our industrial construction backlog, as of December 31, 2013, was 57% peso-denominated and 43% dollar-denominated. 18% was unit-price, 8% was fixed price, 45% was mixed price and 30% was cost reimbursements. ICA 2013 91 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN11 PROTECTION AND CONSERVATION OF During the course of our projects, through external BIODIVERSITY audits, environmental authorities and clients, we verify compliance with the agreed-upon environmental At ICA we are well aware that population growth protection activities, placing special emphasis on and economic development require that this country those relating to biodiversity through the flora and continuously expand its infrastructure, and that this fauna rescue programs, reforestation, environmental can often have an impact on the environment. Faced monitoring, soil protection and land slope stabilization, with this dilemma, we are convinced that modern waste management, and other aspects. With this, we engineering has the responsibility of encouraging avoid damage to the landscape and biodiversity, as well sustainable development that can balance the need as the fragmentation of habitats in the communities, for the appropriate infrastructure while keeping the regions or territories in which we work, to the extent environmental impact to a minimum. possible. With this in mind, through our Environmental At ICA, we promote a socio-environmental balance that Management Systems—which have ISO 14001:2004 allows for both the development of infrastructure and the certification—and our material and human resources, quality of life in society. To achieve this, we comply with we manage projects from the bidding phase through all laws in this regard, promote good environmental completion of construction. In the case of concessions, practices and the use of methods and technologies that we manage the remediation of our projects, ensuring will allow future generations to continue enjoying fresh that the necessary studies are conducted (among air and clean water. them identification of species of flora and fauna listed in NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 “Environment protection We use a quantitative indicator to identify projects and – Native Mexican species of animal and plant wildlifefacilities that are located in zones of high biodiversity categories of risk and specifications for inclusion, or in zones considered protected natural areas exclusion or change – List of endangered species,” according to Mexican laws; in the case of international 2013 version) and that environmental impact mitigation projects, we abide by the criteria of the country in activities have been proposed before projects begin. question. ICA 2013 92 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN12 During the year covered by this report, we had no In the following graph, which includes both positive active projects in protected natural areas, although and adverse impacts on the environment, we show the facilities adjoining zones of high biodiversity were primary environmental elements that are affected by identified and accounted for. our presence: NUMBER OF FACILITIES LOCATED IN BREAKDOWN OF ENVIRONMENTAL ELEMENTS IMPACTED ZONES OF HIGH BIOLOGICAL DIVERSITY (POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE) 64 Spoil banks 49% Flora 55 Work fronts 26% Fauna 18 Banks of material 15% Soil 14 Warehouses 5% Water 6 Offices and camps 5% Society 6 Shops 5 Manufacturing ￼￼￼￼ Because these facilities are located close to zones As this chart shows, the environmental factors most of high biodiversity, they pose the risk of significant affected by our presence are flora and fauna, due to impacts, so we monitor them closely. Identifying and changes in land use in some projects. The negative evaluating the environmental impact of a project is an impacts were mitigated by a variety of environmental integral part of project management. Upon conducting protection programs. For example, during the year, an environmental impact analysis of our activities, ICA reforested approximately 200 hectares of land by we found 33 adverse environmental impacts and six planting 202,250 trees. impacts that can be considered positive. Accordingly, we introduced preventive controls like emergency We conducted remediation programs over a total response teams (spills) and special waste management. surface area of 22.26 km2, primarily at waste dumping We also increased the amount of surface area marked zones, followed by seawater usage and restoration of for reforestation and stepped up environmental spoil banks where we dump excavated soil. training and awareness raising campaigns among our workers and in surrounding communities. 2 The number of trees planted varies from year to year, depending on the volume of work in our construction activities and the duration of the project. ICA 2013 93 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN14 NUMBER AND TYPE OF AREA/FACILITIES REMEDIATED Since flora and fauna are the environmental factors most heavily affected by our activities, we have 28 Reforested lands identification, rescue, relocation and protection 24 Temporary roads measures in place, with special attention paid to 23 Spoil banks species mentioned in Official Mexican Standard 9 Cuts and slopes 6 Temporary work areas NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010 “Environment protection 6 Green areas – Native Mexican species of animal and plant wildlife 5 Quarries – categories of risk and specifications for inclusion, 5 Camps exclusion or change – List of endangered species,” 2013 2 Dumping areas version, and in international listings. 1 Ecological reserve 1 Water use areas SPECIES UNDER SOME CONSERVATION STATUS (NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010) Out of a total of 110 protected or restored areas, 105 are in the process of verification or supervision by external and internal personnel and/or the authorities; 42% / 57 Threatened the remaining five are being monitored by our own 39% / 53 Subject to special protection 14% / 20 Endemic staff. To obtain the data, we have taken into account 5% / 7 Endangered the surface areas reported by the different sites and the evaluation and authorization criteria of the competent authorities. Of the 137 species detected, 115 are fauna, 19 are flora All restored or protected areas have systems for and three are corals. In 2013, we helped rescue or following up afterwards with owners or users of the preserve more than 21,000 examples of flora and fauna land. As of the date of this report, all of the reported wildlife important to the biodiversity of the regions they areas were active. During the course of our activities inhabit.3.All projects where the presence of protected last year, we affected a total of 137 species under some species has been detected include species rescue and protected status in territories distributed throughout relocation programs, in addition to programs for the Mexico and international projects in Colombia, Peru and propagation of vegetable species. Panama. 3 The number of individual examples rescued varies from year to year depending on our volume of work in construction activities and the duration of the projects. ICA 2013 94 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN13 CONCRETELY... Satellite monitoring of big cats: The jaguar and the puma were paid special attention, because the project affects one of an example of environmental their roaming areas in the Yucatán Peninsula. By awareness capturing and identifying some examples, we obtained 1,570 locations that enable us to Among the programs we carry out to rescue determine their habitat preferences and the protected species, the one around the Cedral– routes they use to cross the area covered by the Tintal and Tintal–Playa del Carmen branch road project. project in Quintana Roo was outstanding. This project has affected the habitat of four species The up-to-date localization of animal crossings, of endangered mammals, among them the determined by the biological and ecological jaguar and the ocelot. characteristics of the species, means a reduction in the number of wildlife road kills— This is an innovative project in Mexico and Latin which surpasses even hunting as a cause of America because, for the first time, wildlife mortality—and also reduces risks to infrastructure is being developed for animal users. It will help avoid the extinction of species crossings based on intensive work with the caused by a reduction in their area of movement species themselves, so that the location and and their access to resources, or by the characteristics of the work mitigate the negative impossibility of genetic interchange due to the effects based on biological realities. fragmentation and isolation of populations. ICA 2013 95 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN26, EN31, EN33, EN34, CRE5 ICA’s Environmental Commission is working The company will not be providing figures on the on preparing a reporting system made up of negative environmental impact of our supply chain in environmental indicators, consistent with GRL this report, because we are in the process of improving guidelines and updated on a quarterly basis by each and standardizing evaluation criteria for all our project head. divisions, which will help us to report figures consistent with the guidelines established by the G4. Responsibility According to the record of pro forma data and billing of for this initiative will lie with the Environmental each of our business units, during the year we invested Commission. more than Ps. 30 million in environmental issues. These investments were the result of contractual and During the period covered by this report, we received legal requirements or actions that we carried out 10 complaints from the authorities regarding our voluntarily. construction processes, involving environmental impacts at our worksites. All claims were resolved in 42% Environmental management the course of the year. Note, however, that there was 28% External management services no report of significant spills, so no land remediation 11% Waste management works were necessary. 9% Prevention 6% Environmentally focused personnel 4% Other voluntary expenses 0% Treatment of emissions 0% Restoration ICA 2013 96 CORE BUSINESSES CONCRETELY... Three biodiversity conservation Cuaxicala means “place of the jícaro tree,” a Mangroves: a natural fortress for species that had practically disappeared projects in which ICA has made a Aak-Bal because of deforestation. The final blow was a mark frost that finished off the last remaining species in the area, revealing how important to the local Aak-Bal Marina Village Golf & Beach Resort is a Reviving identity: Cuaxicala and environment and economy it had been, tourist complex in the state of Campeche, especially its enormous rounded fruit which, designed in harmony with the environment. The the jícaro tree project will be surrounded by a fortress—not of when dried, can be used to make crafts and receptacles, as well as animal feed and, as it concrete or steel, but a natural barrier of three In the area of the Nuevo Necaxa–Tihuatlán decomposes, attracts various species of fauna species of mangrove trees, all of them subject to highway project, ICA introduced a sustainable that had also been lost. special protection, creating one of the most project in Cuaxicala, a community located in the authentic ecotourism experiences in the country. mountainous region of Puebla, surrounded by ICA created a project that was enthusiastically The mangrove has a number of qualities that forests and inaccessible to automobiles or welcomed by local residents: besides replanting make it ideal for environmental preservation. machinery. Because of ICA’s relationship of open a well-defined area with jícaro trees, it dialogue with its communities, we were able to encouraged the use of the jícaro fruit for making Repopulating the zone with mangroves required establish a productive interaction with residents crafts and obtaining an economic income. As a a number of activities, the first of which was to and authorities of Cuaxicala, promoting first step, each child was given a tree to plant at create a nursery with collected seeds. By environmental education which, through our home, and instructions on how to care for it. To December, there were already 50,255 trees highway projects, was brought to 13 date, ICA has planted 8,000 trees and forged a from the three species. Tree planting sites were municipalities in Puebla and Hidalgo. closer relationship with the community. Through then identified, first those most heavily affected unity, work, effort and dialogue, this project has by meteorological events and then those where been advancing at a steady pace, while building mangroves would improve the landscaping. a more promising future for the community of Some 5.28 hectares were reforested during the Cuaxicala, a place whose cold climes contrast rainy months. with the warmth of its people. ICA 2013 97 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN27 CONCRETELY... The environmental benefits will be significant: Mexican cacti: a commitment to To care for and follow up on the cacti we the mangrove provides a habitat for various planted, we created a series of geo-referenced, local flora species of aquatic, amphibious and land inventoried and defined polygons. A GPS system animals. It also helps protect the beaches by gives us the exact location of each of the The El Realito aqueduct project has given us a serving as a natural barrier against hurricanes 130,356 cacti that we relocated in rural and chance to work with one of Mexico’s most and floods. urban zones, belonging to some 33 species. A emblematic plant species: cacti. In relocating total of 153 polygons were formed, 109 in the some of these to make way for the project and Our work there is not over. As the mangroves state of Guanajuato and 44 in San Luis Potosí. replanting the surrounding area, we overcame grow, we will monitor their progress, making some unforeseen challenges in ensuring that sure they are free of plagues and excess ICA is a company that builds for the benefit of they would survive when the project was humidity. But from now on, as guests stroll from society, and we know that this aqueduct will complete. the hotel to the beach, they will enjoy the mitigate future water supply problems for people hundreds of mangroves that beautify the living in central San Luis Potosí. With this effort Through soil analysis, we detected zones of landscape of this project, unique in Mexico. to preserve local biodiversity, it also severe water erosion that had been stripped of demonstrates our commitment to nature. their layer of vegetation and deep holes had opened up. The solution was to create dams to retain the vegetation and keep it from being washed away by the rain. We also collected 12.07 kg of germplasm from 20 species, which were used to grow 7,083 plants in our nurseries that were replanted over 150 hectares. ICA 2013 98 G4 CORE BUSINESSES SO1, SO2, CRE7 COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Just as we are aware that our operations affect ·· Planting 16,600 trees in our tree planting days biodiversity, we also know that they have an impact during the months of July and August with farming on society. Even though communities may sometimes cooperative residents of San Miguel Topilejo. have to move or relocate due to our work, at ICA we ·· Bringing 4,000 participants together for our Athletic try to leave a positive mark with all our activities. We Race, with which we promote sports, camaraderie, also know that our projects bring clear benefits to the and healthy togetherness. surrounding communities, which range from jobs and economic income to actions and initiatives in the area “For me and my classmates, it wasn’t just the books, of health, education and the environment. it was a chance to enrich our education. ICA’s contribution opens the doors for us to experience ICA’s strength goes beyond the sum of our employees. a deeper vision of school life. Thank you, ICA, for The value we contribute to society is multiplied supporting Mexican students.” Emmanuel Martínez, thanks to the more than 30,000 families that are part Conalep student. of the larger ICA community. By combining these many efforts, we had the chance to prove our social The contracts ICA signs with its clients stipulate responsibility and solidarity through actions such as: prevention and mitigation measures to contend with the potential or real negative or positive impacts of the ·· Collecting 6.3 metric tons of basic food supplies for operations. It is clearly mentioned that these activities families affected by hurricanes Manuel and Ingrid in the are the responsibility of the client, not ICA’s. The states of Guerrero, Veracruz and Oaxaca. same applies when people must be displaced and/or ·· Collecting close to 16,000 books in our annual book drive relocated because of some development. to donate to the Mexican Senate Library and Editorial Affairs Commission. 10,000 of these books were donated to the National Technical School (Conalep) and the rest were taken to schools in Chiapas and Oaxaca. ICA 2013 99 CORE BUSINESSES Nevertheless, at ICA we seek to go beyond our contractual obligations, and we carry out social and environmental programs in the communities neighboring our projects. The following table sums up our results in 2013: Persons Man Program Actions taken benefited Cost ($) hours Adopt a School 58 25,014 192,701 83,850 Bring a School 3 57 9,790 27 closer ICA Helps 101 1,626,233 340,438 27,049 ICA Health 10 8,545 201,443 3,080 Institute of Adult 12 94 42,430 32,272 Education (INEA) Environment 14 5,095 31,215 2,537 Volunteers 17 31,734 66,026 45,992 Reforestation 5 75,577 15,047 1,000 Total 220 1,772,349 899,090 195,807 As the table shows, during the year we benefited more than 1.7 million people, 419,922 more than in 2012, through our social responsibility initiatives. ICA 2013 100 CORE BUSINESSES CONCRETELY... Oaxaca: Looking ahead to the to improve people’s quality of life. With the The gift of a smile: cleft palate and help of authorities and translators, we began future with a smile harelip a campaign called “Seeing better to live better,” in which we signed up candidates, Traveling from a community like Santo Domingo conducted eye exams, and finally, provided Another challenge was found among people Narro to the state capital of Oaxaca takes about free eyeglasses. suffering from harelip and cleft palate. It’s one six and a half hours and costs Ps. 500 in thing to accept a pair of glasses, and quite transportation alone, enough money to eat for The campaign was even more successful than another to agree to an operation, which two weeks. This is one reason why the people we had hoped. Over the course of the week, requires patients to leave their homes and from these communities cannot receive medical optometrists undertook the grueling walk to community. The project was designed with services, much less optometrist’s care. At ICA, the communities over the course of a week tremendous seriousness and commitment: we we decided to make an investment in these and conducted the eye exams; a few days offered them totally free surgery for this communities neighboring our projects and give later they delivered free glasses to the congenital defect, which was performed by a them the opportunity for a better future. inhabitants of various neighboring renowned plastic surgeon, an expert in populations, benefiting 555 people. It was aesthetic and reconstructive surgery with The project involved various challenges: first, impressive to see how many elderly people more than 26 years of experience. language, because the inhabitants of these who had suffered from blurry vision their communities speak different variants of the entire lives, could now, literally, not believe There were five final candidates: three children dialect; second, improve academic their eyes. whose parents authorized their operations, a performance, employability and productivity, young man 18 years old and a 38 year old man. The patients were accompanied at all times until they returned to their community and medical personnel followed up with them after the operation. All five operations were a success and their brilliant smiles were the best thanks we could have received. This campaign of solidarity with local people and their development has yielded valuable fruit, including greater trust on the part of communities who opened their doors to us. ICA 2013 101 CORE BUSINESSES CONCRETELY... Mayab Highway: Two initiatives that exemplify our commitment ·· The Second Annual Mayab Craft Expo, a ·· The Mayab Highway contributes to the forum for the exhibition, promotion and sale welfare of the communities of the Yucatán of products originating from the Yucatán Peninsula, promoting exports, camaraderie, Peninsula, is part of our ongoing program to and togetherness in the fourth annual support these communities. Craftsmen from Cancún-Chichén Challenge, a 212 km bike the municipalities of Valladolid and Carrillo race for the whole family, which has Puerto, with a total population of 150,000 become the region’s biggest sporting event. inhabitants who depend directly or indirectly This past year, more than 200 cyclists on tourism, have found the Mayab highway attended from 17 states of Mexico and project an excellent way to stand out in a other countries, accompanied by their highly competitive market, taking advantage family and friends. of traffic on the highway and the publicity we gave this Expo. This also helped build a strong, long-term relationship with them. ICA 2013 102 CORE BUSINESSES CONCRETELY... Solidarity with Mexican communities facing natural disasters In September 2013, hurricane Ingrid and At the same time, we restored two wells in the Through these actions, we reaffirm our solidarity tropical storm Manuel devastated various Lomas de Chapultepec neighborhood and with Mexican families facing hard times, and components of the infrastructure serving the worked for two months to restore conduit lines back up this support by calling on all of our port of Acapulco and other cities in the state of from the El Quemado Well number 7, where the colleagues and friends to donate basic supplies Guerrero. ICA had the opportunity to support pipes had been broken in various spots. to those left homeless. In the wake of these two these communities in the days immediately disasters we helped collect 6.3 metric tons of following the disaster. The most urgent task was Finally, we repaired and restored freshwater goods. restoring communication by land between service to the town of Tixtlancingo, first Mexico City and the port of Acapulco, and provisionally and then permanently. By the removing sludge and collapsed masonry from month of May, we plan to have repaired the the Agua de Obispo tunnel. Papagayo River from kilometer 2,.500 to 7500. We also conducted cleanup work in the Luis For this work, we used around 22 heavy duty Donaldo Colosio neighborhood and La Ceiba vehicles and 30 lighter vehicles and equipment, district, which were among the most heavily in addition to technical, operating and field affected areas in the zone, with communications personnel. cut off by the disaster, this work took two weeks. ICA 2013 103 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 12 SUPPLY CHAIN With a professional, proactive and cordial work In 2013, we shared a series of guidelines with 267 of our team, whose aim was to maximize the use of ICA’s top suppliers and contractors, designated “strategic resources while prioritizing safety and respect partners,” to strengthen each of the links in the ICA for the environment, we go beyond the traditional Supply Chain. These guidelines have to do with the vision of effectively and competitively buying profile of the company; economic, legal, financial and goods and services, and find greater meaning in operating aspects; environmental aspects; observance the ability to bring about transcendental changes of human rights and ethical labor practices. by serving as a conduit for carrying the company’s values of ethics, service, commitment, efficiency We thus strengthened our internal processes, made and teamwork far beyond the sphere of its own our commercial relations more transparent, opened operations. a direct channel of communication with our strategic partners and increased confidence in and compliance Because we know how important a top-quality with our internal policies. supply chain is for preserving ICA’s leadership in the construction industry, we have blazed new trails in procurement management, strengthening relationships with our commercial partners, reducing potential risks and expanding our sphere of influence. ICA 2013 104 G4 CORE BUSINESSES 12 02 PROCUREMENT PLAN Planning the requirements for materials and services that will be used during project execution; 01 MASTER PLAN this plan is subject to update during the project’s development. A package of documents, plans, standards, permits, etc. that ICA obtains upon winning a competitive bidding or project assignment. 04 Planning begins based on this information. SELECTION AND ASSIGNMENT OF SUPPLIERS AND SUBCONTRACTORS Process of selecting the companies that will strengthen the supply chain and who will share the risks to ensure compliance with internal policies on meeting clients needs, and taking maximum advantage of their 03 DETAILED REQUIREMENTS capacities and strengths. Defining the scope of the clients needs, such as manufacturing and supply programs, compliance and specifications; the technical team, suppliers and specialists 06 participate in defining in detail the materials and services COMMERCIAL OPERATION to be requested. MANAGEMENT Ensures adherence to administrative and financial CONSOLIDATION OF processes based on agreements established in the 05 THE PURCHASE OR SUBCONTRACT formalization of the purchase or service contract. Formalization of the purchase or contract for services based on the plan, assembling the documents, supports and authorizations required, in addition to the payment plan or financial scheme. 07 PROJECT CLOSURE Full execution of all the processes involved in the supply chain. ICA 2013 105 CORE BUSINESSES ASSET PORTFOLIO At ICA, we have a diversified portfolio with different types of revenues and areas of operation. It is a young portfolio of assets, with an average life of 24 years. CONCESSIONS Our Concessions segment focuses on the • Highway and Tunnel Concessions construction, development, maintenance and We currently participate in 9 highway and 2 operation of long-term concessions of tollroads, tunnels concessions, either through subsidiaries or tunnels, social infrastructure and water projects affiliates. and accounted for 14% of our total revenues in 2013. • Port Concessions Lázaro Cárdenas Port Terminal. • Water Distribution and Water Treatment Concessions During 2013, we participated in two water treatment plants, one currently under construction We also participated in one water supply system under construction. We also have two aqueducts, one in construction and the other in operation. ICA 2013 106 CORE BUSINESSES AIRPORTS Our Airports segment accounted for 12% of our total Through GACN, we operate 13 airports in the Central revenues. As of December 31, 2013, we controlled North region of Mexico pursuant to concessions an aggregate of 165,502,700 shares of our airport granted by the Mexican government, including the subsidiary GACN, representing 41.53% of GACN’s Monterrey airport, which accounted for approximately capital stock. 42% of GACN’s revenues in 2013 and 43% in 2012. The airports serve a major metropolitan area (Monterrey), three tourist destinations (Acapulco, Mazatlán and Zihuatanejo), two border cities (Ciudad Juárez and Reynosa) and seven regional centers (Chihuahua, Culiacán, Durango, San Luis Potosí, Tampico, Torreón and Zacatecas.) All of the airports are designated as international airports under Mexican law, meaning that they are all equipped to receive international flights and maintain customs, refueling and immigration services managed by the Mexican government. ICA 2013 107 G4 CORE BUSINESSES SO1 EDUCATION AND TRAINING As a matter of principle, community and education Also, aware of the constant demand for well-trained, are an integral part of every one of ICA’s construction efficient professionals to support this country’s most projects. In this type of work, however, our presence pressing infrastructure needs, one of ICA’s fundamental is relatively brief, and we can’t always make sure our concerns has been to promote the training of young efforts are continued over time, although we try to people, particularly from disadvantaged backgrounds, make a lasting mark on the lives of those surrounding in the various fields of engineering, through a variety of us. Our concession portfolio, on the other hand, is a initiatives. long-term endeavor, and this means in these cases we can positively impact society with an eye to the future. ICA 2013 108 G4 CORE BUSINESSES SO1 CONCRETELY... Bernardo Quintana Arrioja Prize: A Thus was born an award that would recognize Besides enabling us to recognize young people, these merits. After conducting a survey in this award has proven the potential of youth that way to recognize youth Mexico’s business world to find the right receive stimulus, motivation and spaces to pursue name—one that would describe the most their goals. Some young people who received the More than twenty years ago, a group of outstanding businessperson of his time, who award not only study and earn brilliant grades but Mexican entrepreneurs had the idea of creating would serve as an example and an inspiration support their families by working and studying at some way to recognize Mexican youth with because of his career—all agreed unanimously the same time. Others have traveled the world a permanent stimulus that would have a on engineer Bernardo Quintana Arrioja. His representing Mexico in academic and sporting transcendent impact on their lives. Through the own family added a scholarship. The Bernardo competitions. They are worthy examples not only Fundación de Apoyo a la Juventud, this group— Quintana Arrioja Prize was first awarded in for other young people, but for all of Mexican which included ICA—approached public 1988, recognizing five preparatory school society. educational institutions to propose five qualities students from UNAM, the IPN and Conalep. that we thought should be inculcated among ICA is proud to participate in this influential young people: academic excellence, leadership, For the past 25 years, three ceremonies business award. service, value and patriotism. have been held each year, one per institution, attended by all of those who apply for the prize, the institution’s director or rector, and representatives of ICA, the Quintana family, and the Fundación de Apoyo a la Juventud. Hundreds of young people respond to the call for entries, proof of the Prize’s renown. To date, 104 awards have been given at UNAM, 108 at the IPN and 111 at Conalep. ICA 2013 109 G4 CORE BUSINESSES SO1 ICA FOUNDATION Twenty-eight years after it was created, ICA Foundation Management.” Another 25 proposals addressed the issue has become a repository of images, not only at ICA but of “Economy of Water, Socio-Political and Legal Aspects throughout the country, that testify to the ways we have and Institutional Regulation.” Fifty-three proposals from been transforming Mexico for 67 years. In 2013, as in the past, the first phase were accepted, and 18 in the second our archive of books, periodicals, photography and aerial phase; the winners have not yet been announced. imagery—catalogued into oblique and vertical shots—has proven useful to dozens of researchers. Thus, as part of the experience we acquire in our projects, we continue to provide specialists and the Furthermore, in order to continue opening community with information about the problem of communication channels with universities, technical water and its possible solutions. schools and engineering-related institutions, and promoting the research and development of innovative ICA Foundation’s archives consist of six separate solutions to the world’s water management problems, collections: The Archive of Oblique Aerial Photography, ICA Foundation created a contest called “University the ICA Collection , the Mosaics Collection, the Archive Perspectives on Sustainable Water Management: of Vertical Aerial Photography, Geomatics and the FICA Solutions for the Yucatán Peninsula.” Geographic System. Over the course of the year, staff worked hard to digitalize and edit the images, and The contest was aimed at undergraduate and record and publish them in the online platform, while postgraduate students. In the first phase, it accepted stabilizing the negatives. A total of 243,250 images were projects from 37 institutions in 19 states of Mexico, and processed during the year. a total of 67 proposals in the category of “Development of Engineering, Technology and Infrastructure for Water Archive of ICA Archive of FICA Geographic Mosaics Oblique Aerial Collection Vertical Aerial Geomatics System Collection Photography Photography ICA 2013 110 G4 CORE BUSINESSES SO1 FICA-FUNAM SCHOLARSHIP AGREEMENT FICA-FUNAM scholarships were created to promote the international mobility of underprivileged students who excel academically, in order to expand their horizons and improve their possibilities for development within the global labor market. The agreement, which provides for a semester of exchange study to revalidate credits in the Civil Engineering course plan, was signed in 2012 and, since then, 10 academically outstanding students have benefited. ICA 2013 111 CORE BUSINESSES OPERATING ECO-EFFICIENCY Mexico has a solar exposure potential of 70%, high Another area of concern to ICA, particularly in wind intensity, capacity to install mini-hydroelectric relation to its asset portfolio, is finding the right plants, and ranks fourth in the world for installation measures for promoting sustainable operating of geothermal fields. The secondary legislation for efficiency, which clearly includes the environmental the recently-approved Energy Reform is expected to component. include obligations on the use of clean energy and reduction of contaminating emissions, an opportunity The Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) estimates for which we must be prepared. that approximately US$ 30,000 million must be invested every year in infrastructure for Latin America and In 2010, in the Conference of the Parties to the United the Caribbean, in mitigation and adaptation projects, Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change like the gradual replacement of energy generating (UNFCCC) at Cancún, and later through the General sources, water treatment and savings, recycling of Law on Climate Change, Mexico pledged to reduce materials, vehicles with lower CO2 emissions, resilient emissions of greenhouse gases by 30% by 2020, and infrastructure for communities vulnerable to water 50% by 2050. The Law provides for the introduction of shortages and other disasters such as floods, droughts climate-focused fiscal and financial instruments, which and severe hurricanes. means we must become more efficient in our use of combustible fossil fuels and CO2 emissions. ICA 2013 112 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN1, EN2 MANAGEMENT OF MATERIALS are raw materials and 6% are Since our production is not linear, the volume of materials we use varies depending on the backlog and 94 % secondary materials * type of work we are carrying out. During the year, the breakdown of strategic materials used in ICA operations was as follows: come from non-renewable sources Product Landfill Amount (metric tons) 9,549,594 99.8% and 0.16% from renewable sources ** Steel 4,622,319 Ready-mix 3,278,988 * Secondary materials include oil, steel, agglutinants, cement, ready-mix, gases, tires, Chemicals 1,152,698 wood, paper, plastic, chemicals and hazardous substances. ** The total amount of material from renewable sources was 12,535.74 metric tons; Aggregates 428,359 the amount of material from non-renewable sources totaled 19,525,199 metric tons. Agglutinants 211,801 Asphalt 178,635 Most of our efforts in the area of recycling and the use Cement 79,665 of secondary materials were in the areas of landfill, Lumber 29,100 wood, paper and plastics, which accounted for 19.3% of the materials used. 94% are raw materials and 6% are secondary materials * 99.84% come from non-renewable sources and 0.16% from renewable sources ** ICA 2013 113 CORE BUSINESSES CONCRETELY... Reducing our use of concrete Bubbledeck slabs Sustainable paving Concrete is the second most widely used The more progress we make in technical Another recycled material we have incorporated studies, the more we can innovate by adding recently is reclaimed asphalt pavement (RAP), product on earth after water. It seems evident new materials to our constructions and which we decided to use in the Multiannual that official organizations will soon be turning Highway Conservation Contract for the State of their attention to the recycling of rubble from reduce the amount of concrete we use. The Sonora. Our incorporation of this product enabled demolition. At ICA, we believe it is time to Reserva Escondida real estate development, us to present an economic proposal that was the begin researching this possibility in order which will seek LEED certification, has given most competitive among various international, to determine the cost and benefits of using us an opportunity to use Bubbledeck slabs, a national and local companies. this type of aggregate to prepare concrete. construction system based on prefabricated The main purpose of the research would be concrete slabs which are lightened by the This recycled material has a number of to create processes that would be easier on incorporation of hollow plastic balls. Disabled economic benefits, reducing consumption the environment and lighter on costs. The people are employed in the making of these of asphalt and the grinding of rock, and also environmental benefits are many: prolonging balls, creating opportunities for work and social saving on fuel consumption. Environmentally, the useful life of sanitary landfills by dumping inclusion for individuals who might otherwise be it is less of a drain on quarries and saves on less construction waste, and incorporating them left out of the workforce. They also use recycled transportation of asphalt to the highways, instead into the industry cycle, which would in materials, which has technical advantages like a reducing contaminating emissions; finally, turn reduce the use of new banks of materials, reduction in the amount of field labor, the ability we avoid generating asphalt waste. From a preserving natural spaces by reducing the to begin constructing prefabricated elements technical standpoint, we also reduced asphalt exploitation of mineral resources. in advance, quicker assembly, a smaller oxidation, extended its useful life and improved environmental footprint and a 35% saving on performance indicators. International studies have shown that the recycling the consumption of concrete over the traditional of construction rubble would reduce CO2 emissions system. by around 229.4 metric tons a year from savings on material and another 10.5 metric tons per year For every 5,000 m² of Bubbledeck slab, we from transportation. save 1,000 m³ of concrete, 1,798 metric tons of foundation weight, 1,745 Gj of energy used for producing the concrete and 278 metric tons of CO2 emissions. ICA 2013 114 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN3 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Looking at our internal consumption of energy broken FUELS ELECTRICAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION down by primary sources, the main fuels used at ICA (GASOLINE, DIESEL, BIODIESEL AND LNG) are diesel, LNG, gasoline, oil and biodiesel—in other words, most of them are derived from non-renewable sources. 73% 99.6% 27% 0.4% CONSUMPTION TYPE UNITS SOURCE SOURCE Total Diesel GJ Acquired Non-renewable 2,325,385 LNG GJ Acquired Non-renewable 11,397 Gasoline GJ Acquired Non-renewable 341,652 Oil GJ Acquired Non-renewable 139,606 Renewable Non-renewable Biodiesel GJ Acquired Renewable 1,040,764 Total 3,858,804 To prepare our report on energy consumption, we used fuel consumption logs for our projects, obtained from CONSUMPTION ERP and payment invoices (primarily in the electrical TYPE UNITS SOURCE SOURCE Total energy consumption report). To calculate the density Electrical KWh Acquired Non-renewable 38,560,153 and calorific value of the fuels, we used the 2012 energy Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion Factors Electrical KWh Acquired Renewable 33,609 for Company Reporting. energy Electrical KWh Generated Renewable 112,809 energy Total 38,706,571 ICA 2013 115 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN4, EN5, CRE1 As for our external consumption of energy, the company ENERGY INTENSITY IN BUILDINGS is in the process of improving and standardizing OFFICE BUILDING KWh/person operating controls for the entire supply chain. Torre Esmeralda II 169 Edificio del Parque 308 The energy intensity report includes information on Dakota 1,211 energy consumption within the company. Insurgentes 1,494 ITEM INDICATOR UNITS Fuel consumption 0.067 Gj/person* efficiency (gasoline, diesel, biodiesel and LNG) Electrical energy 2,255.69 Persons* consumption efficiency (KWh/person) * The measure used to calculate energy intensity is the number of unionized personnel with subcontractors plus administrative personnel. ICA 2013 116 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN6 During the year in question, four initiatives were documented to reduce energy consumption, as shown in the following table: DESCRIPTION OF BACKGROUND/ BASELINE ENERGY UNITS CONSUMPConsump% Savings Amt. IMPROVEMENT JUSTIFICATION FOR TYPE TION IN tion in Saved IMPROVEMENT 2012 2013 Fluor 1 Change of building and Improvement to premises. 2012 Electricity kWh 1,412,918 969,341 31 443,577 handling of controllers for 176.614 kWh 123.170 energy saving. CP 2 Office lighting changed to Lights were left on In 2012 and 2013 we Electricity kWh 281,644 99,360 65 182,284 energy-saving bulbs; in unnecessarily. tried to make sure no light factory areas, installation was left on unnecessarily. of photoelectric cells to turn on and off automatically. ICAi 3 LED energy-saving solar High consumption of Electricity kWh 113,686 108,555 5 5,131 lamps. electrical energy. CP 4 Reduction in asphalt Normally received from In 2012 and 2013 the LNG kg 505,071.3 121,302.3 76 383,769 cement storage time Pemex and stored at product was sent the the plant for subsequent moment it was received; shipping to the project, unasked for product was which required the not accepted. consumption of LNG to maintain shipping temperature Con lo anterior, se lograron los ahorros siguientes: TYPE SAVINGS UNITS % Electricity 630,992 kWh 35 LNG 17,615 GJ 76 To calculate the savings, we used the consumption reported for 2012 in 2013 as a basis. There are other initiatives currently in the process of implementation, which will be included in the 2014 report. ICA 2013 117 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN6, EN7 CONCRETELY... Turn it off or pay: Electrical energy savings campaign In keeping with our values of efficiency and Only six months after the campaign was launched, innovation, we are always looking for ways we met the goal, with a 13% savings reported at to cut costs in our operations, reducing our the Torre Esmeralda II offices and 2.25% at the environmental footprint and promoting a culture Edificio del Parque. All in all, the campaign led to of shared social responsibility. To this end, on a global reduction of close to 200,000 KWh of July 4, 2013 the Environmental Commission electrical energy, which is equivalent to avoiding and Energy Department presented an electrical the emission of around 100 metric tons of CO2 energy savings campaign called “Turn it off or equivalent, 48% of our annual goal. pay,” whose purpose is to reduce the electrical bill for ICA’s Mexico City offices by 11% and We are well on the way to achieving our annual raise awareness among our employees about the goal this year, as a company aligned with the sustainable use of resources. National Development Plan and committed to caring for the environment. Savings are calculated based on the consumption reported in 2012 and 2013. ICA 2013 118 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN8 WATER MANAGEMENT The report on water consumption at ICA’s facilities Information about water consumption volume has includes consumption at the worksite and in our offices, been obtained from the control logs of various ICA used in both construction processes and in services. One worksites. Note that both ICA and its companies and of the main sources of water we use is treated water, affiliates have all the appropriate licenses from the which reduces negative impact on the environment water management authorities. by limiting the consumption of natural surface and underground water. PERCENTAGE OF WATER CONSUMPTION FROM MAIN SOURCES SOURCE CONSUMPTION (M3) Treated water 2,699,135 Seawater 1,739,579 42.87% Treated water Tanker truck 1,563,397 27.63% Seawater River 92,831 24.83% Tanker truck 1.47% River Rainwater 61,988 0.98% Rainwater Municipal supply 55,624 0.88% Municipal supply Lake 49,693 0.54% Lake Well 34,221 0.01% Well Grand total 6,296,470 ICA 2013 119 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN10 CONCRETELY... Innovative rainwater capture system To capture rainwater, we would have to build a new structure that would only receive water during the five months of rainy season. This is where Preserving natural resources like water requires constant innovation, a we came up with the idea of using the tollbooth roofs to catch the rainfall. requirement that we at ICA associate with quality, efficiency and practice. This target is embodied in a small but very important project at one of The result was surprising. The rainy season was long, and from June until our concessions, the Red de Carreteras de Occidente. We introduced a early December there was no need to open the municipal water network rainwater capture system in response to an inconvenient situation: many supply connection. Saving this amount of water has had other nontollbooths, even though they are connected to a nearby municipal water economic advantages that benefit both ourselves and our clients. The network, were often without water, forcing them to continuously bring rainwater is used for the bathrooms and general services at the tollbooth water in tanker trucks. and maintenance base, and we also had a positive impact on neighboring communities because we use less of the water that serves local residents and farmers, in a region that is the largest producer of eggs in Mexico. This innovation is fully profitable. In an estimated 2.3 years, we will have recouped all of our investment. We also strengthened the environmental balance and replicated these actions at other tollbooths, and we intend to bring them to other projects as well. We have made ourselves available to employees who wish to have systems such as these at their own homes, as well as to the local government and community residents. Rainwater captured during rainy season Contact chlorine application and solids trap Filters Existing cistern with a 60,000 liter capacity Supply to main building ICA 2013 120 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN9 WATER PLAN AVAILABILITY ZONES AFFECTED AMOUNT 1‑4 18 Based on the map of Mexico issued by the National 5‑8 27 Water Commission (Conagua, 2011), each worksite reported the location of their source. Of the sources registered, 60% are located in areas with medium to high availability; the remaining 40% are located in areas with low water availability. Using water efficiently is a strategic topic for ICA, therefore we support projects aimed at capturing rain water in highway projects, mostly in operation. 1 6 2 7 3 8 4 9 5 States Source: Conagua, Map 37. ICA 2013 121 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN10, EN22, A total of 336,965.27 m³ of water was recycled, MANAGEMENT OF EMISSIONS equivalent to 0.4% of the total used in our processes, as reported for the EN8 indicator. The construction Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) process by nature uses the most water, particularly for dampening the road beds. But the water that is used in The Scope 1 emission sources included in the carbon this part of the process goes back into the ecosystem. inventory comprise: ·· Consumption of fuel reported in indicator EN3, which The data for reporting this indicator come from includes gasoline, diesel and LNG. worksite logs and records and have been analyzed ·· Emissions resulting from changes in the use of land. by the Environmental Commission for inclusion in the ·· Emissions generated during welding and oxy-cutting report. procedures. ·· Emissions generated during asphalt laying. As for wastewater management, the table below shows ·· Emissions generated during the process of painting the destination of the wastewater that results from our infrastructure and buildings. processes and services, most of which is subject to a ·· Wastewater treatment. process of contaminant elimination through treatment plants installed at the worksites or by outside service Gross direct GHG emissions (Scope 1) and metric tons suppliers. of CO2 equivalent, not including carbon certificate trading, in other words, the purchase, sale or QUALITY transfer of carbon certificates and offsets. TREATMENT OF WATER AMOUNT DESTINATION METHOD DISCHARGED DISCHARGED MT CO2 eq* Municipal network Aerobic biological Treated 304,802.94 ICA 639,579.40 Treatment plant Physical-Chemical Treated 115,676.86 Rivers Anaerobic Treated 2,792.00 * In order to establish a global standardized unit for the emission of greenhouse biological gases, the concept of carbon dioxide (CO2, the most common greenhouse gas in Soil Anaerobic Treated 57.43 the atmosphere) was established through a factor called global warming potential. biological For example, the warming potential of methane is 25, while that of CO2 is 1; this Total 423,329.23 means that one metric ton of methane gas in the atmosphere will have the same greenhouse effect as 25 metric tons of CO2 . Calculations were performed based on data from the worksite logs at projects where ICA discharges wastewater. ICA 2013 122 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN19 SCOPE 1 EMISSIONS Since this is the first year we conducted an inventory of carbon covering most of our Scope 1 emission sources, we have decided to use this calculation to establish a baseline, based on two precepts: 71% Fuel use 1. In the construction business, the vast majority of our 29% Change in land use emissions come from the projects, and predicting 0% Welding the flow of projects, which depends on many factors 0% Oxy-cutting beyond this company’s control, is a highly complex 0% Painting task. Furthermore, emission intensity can vary over the course of a project’s life, so it is difficult to The ICA operations included in this inventory are establish a baseline in terms of absolute emissions Urban and Civil Construction, ICA Fluor, ViveICA, PRET, to serve as a parameter for comparing one year ICAi and international operations in Peru, Costa Rica, against another (see figure). For this reason, we Panama and Colombia. have decided to prepare a normalized baseline referring to man-hours worked (MHW) in the same This year, we worked on creating an inventory that period. This baseline represents a clear indicator of was sufficiently exhaustive to be of use in responding the efficiency of our operations and enables us to to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Climate Change compare projects over time. Questionnaire, with the support of expert consultants in the field. 2. Our Civil Construction business contributes the largest percentage of our profits and is the most representative of our operations. It is also the division that yields the most detailed body of information (even at the independent project level), so we decided to use it as a reference for the rest of our company and establish our normalized baseline based on its record of emissions and man-hours worked. ICA voluntarily filed in the report of greenhouse gases and answered the Carbon Disclosure Project questionnaire. ICA 2013 123 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN15, EN16 Project 1 Total emissions erratic dependIndirect greenhouse gas emissions from energy Emisiones Project 2 ing on project flow generation (Scope 2) Project 3 Project 4 The calculation of Scope 2 indirect emissions includes Project 5 consumption of electrical energy reported in indicator Project 6 EN3. MT CO2 eq* ICA 23,249.74 As with Scope 1, we prepared a normalized baseline using our Construction division as a reference, along Year 1 Year 2 Year 3 Year 4 Time with the number of man-hours worked. On this basis, ICA’s normalized baseline for Scope 1 is: Baseline 2013 KG CO2 eq/MHW ICA Scope 2 0.2610 BASELINE 2013 KG CO2eq/MHW ICA SCOPE 1 7.5233 We also used the GHG protocol and electrical energy generation emission factor in Mexico provided by the To prepare the greenhouse gases inventory, we GEI Mexico program of CESPEDES and Semarnat. used the World Resources Institute (WRI) and World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), In 2013, through two major photovoltaic energy GHG protocol, as well as emission factors from projects, ICA generated 112.793 MWh. This generation prestigious international sources such as: of energy from a renewable source meant avoiding the emission of more than 60 metric tons of greenhouse ·· 2012 Guidelines to Defra / DECC’s GHG Conversion gases into the atmosphere, the equivalent of what 12.5 Factors for Company Reporting. passenger vehicles would produce during a year.4 ·· AP42 Fifth Edition, Volume I, Chapter 12: Metallurgical Industry. ·· Masera, O.R., M.J. Ordóñez and R. Dirzo. 1997, “Carbon Emissions from Mexican Forests: Current Situation and Long-term Scenarios”, Climatic Change 35, pp. 265-295, SARH, Mexico. ·· The Climate Registry 1/05/09 General Reporting Protocol 1.1. 4 http://www.epa.gov/cleanenergy/energy-resources/calculator.html. ICA 2013 124 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN17, EN18, EN20, EN21 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Scope 3 indirect greenhouse gas emissions in ICA’s Our base line is normalized, so it is an intensity factor value chain. of our emissions, compared to man-hours worked (MHW). This being the case, our greenhouse gas MT CO2 eq emissions intensity factor is: ICA 136,904.44 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity The sources of Scope 3 emissions accounted for in this ITEM INDICATOR UNITS carbon inventory include: Scope 1 7.5233 KG CO2 eq/MHW ·· Air travel for business Scope 2 0.2610 KG CO2 eq/MHW ·· Acquisition of cement ·· Acquisition of concrete mix We are considering including more intensity factors in the future, both overall and by business unit. ICA’s Environmental Commission will be responsible for 86% Air travel for business integrating the indicator as part of the organization’s 7% Acquisition of cement environmental performance. 7% Acquisition of concrete mix This year, we are including in our report other greenhouse gas emissions that are not considered in the Tokyo Protocol. We chose these three sources for our preliminary FUEL MT CO2 MT NOx MT SOx analysis for a variety of reasons. We were interested Diesel 323.23 344.16 51.55 in determining our footprint relating to air business LNG 1.25 0.00 0.07 travel because this is an area where we can work to reduce or offset it in the future. We were interested Gasoline 6,671.75 667.18 259.94 in knowing our cement and concrete consumption Total 6,996.23 1,011.33 311.56 footprint because these are our primary inputs. In future inventory exercises, we will gradually add more relevant Scope 3 sources for our operations. ICA 2013 125 G4 CORE BUSINESSES EN20, EN23, EN24, EN29 To calculate other significant emissions, we are Specially treated waste is defined as material that is considering the consumption of gasoline, diesel and LNG generated in large quantities, in terms of both weight disclosed in indicator EN3. The calculation methodology and volume, and which has recycling potential. At was based on the factors of emission provided by the ICA, the main specially treated wastes are made of Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). metal, plastic and wood. Hazardous waste, according to Mexican environmental law, is defined as a material ICA’s Environmental Commission continues to work in that possesses one or more CRETI qualities (corrosive, order to provide more information about the company’s reactive, explosive, toxic or inflammable). At ICA, environmental performance in the future. hazardous waste is defined as that which is toxic to the environment, primarily used oils (for machinery maintenance), solids impregnated with hydrocarbons (left WASTE MANAGEMENT over from cleaning and maintenance) and receptacles The generation of waste in the course of the company’s that formerly contained chemical substances. operations was as follows: All the waste we produce is handled in accordance TYPE OF WASTE UNIT AMOUNT with the applicable legislation of our country and of the Solid urban waste MT 46,066.88 other countries where we operate. The final disposal Specially treated waste MT 309,793.75 of the waste is handled by third parties and includes Hazardous waste MT 1,174.70 recovery for re-use, sanitary landfills, dumps and Total 357,035.34 controlled confinement of hazardous waste. 86.8% Specially treated waste In 2013 there were no significant spills resulting from 12.9% Solid urban waste accident or failure to apply operational controls. The 0.3% Hazardous waste criteria used by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources of Mexico (Semarnat) is that a significant spill is one amounting to more than 10 m3. We have prevented such spills through training and follow-up and/or on-site supervision by personnel Solid urban waste is defined as material generated in responsible for environmental matters. small amounts in connection with the daily activities of workers during their shifts, including the residue from There were no significant fines or monetary sanctions operating companies’ basic activities. during the year for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Reference document: Criterio para clasificación de emergencias ambientales en organizaciones inscritas en el Programa Nacional de Auditoría Ambiental. NFPASAA-152-C/01-601. Rev.01 ICA 2013 126 APPENDICES ICA 2013 127 G4 APPENDICES EC1 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED AND DISTRIBUTED At ICA, we strive to generate prosperity in the 2013 2012 countries, regions and communities where we operate by creating direct and indirect jobs, taking % PS. Million % PS. Million environmental action, supplying infrastructure and Direct economic value 100% 36,204 100% 39,375 services, paying taxes and investing in health and generated education. We focus primarily on providing communities a) Revenues 100% 36,204 100% 39,375 with opportunities that leave a positive and sustainable Direct economic value 69% 25,046 84% 32,933 mark for the medium and long terms. distributed b) Operating costs 48% 17,373 63% 24,770 One of the company’s objectives is to create value by c) Employee wages and 10% 3,468 11% 4,452 developing the various locations where it works. The benefits amount of local investment during the year covered by d) Vendor payments 10% 3,616 8% 3,221 this report was Ps. 1,924 million. e) Payments to governments 2% 571 1% 476 f) IInvestments in the 0% 19 0% 15 community Retained economic value 31% 11,157 16% 6,442 ICA 2013 128 G4 APPENDICES EC1 BREAKDOWN OF DIRECT COSTS (PS. Million) 2013 2012 TOTAL DIRECT COST 18,472 100% 26,961 100% Labor 2,795 15% 3,262 12% Raw material and construction materials 3,969 21% 7,233 27% Depreciation and amortization 547 3% 648 2% Maintenance and repair 637 3% 465 2% Subcontract and outside manufacturing 5,282 29% 9,105 34% Shipping and haulage 781 4% 751 3% Equipment rental 2,591 14% 2,399 9% Insurance and bonding 18 0% 16 0% Maintenance 637 3% 465 2% FINANCING COSTS Interest expense 553 3% 907 3% Interest income (134) ‑1% (32) 0% Foreign-exchange fluctuations 35 0% (72) 0% Restatement of financial instrument valuations 0 0% 0 0% Commissions and other expenses 109 1% 143 1% Other direct costs 31 0% (198) ‑1% DIRECT COST 17,850 97% 25,093 93% Housing budget cost 569 3% 1,753 7% Housing financial expenses 53 0% 114 0% DIRECT HOUSING COST 622 3% 1,867 7% ICA 2013 129 APPENDICES AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS In 2013, ICA and its employees received many recognitions, which bear witness to the commitment, effort and dedication we bring to our jobs every day. Awarding institution Recipient Recognition Presidency of Mexico Ing. Bernardo Quintana Isaac National Engineering Prize: For his distinguished career and significant contributions to the development of Mexican infrastructure and construction of major projects in many other countries. Mexican Society of Geotechnical M.I. David Yáñez Santillán President of the Mexican Society of Geotechnical Engineering Engineering (SMIG) 31/01/13. Federal Environmental Protection Agency Aeropuerto de Tampico, S.A. de C.V. Environmental Quality Certification (no date). (Profepa) Ministry of the Environment and Natural Monterrey Airport and Zacatecas Airport Project implementation: Environmentally Appropriate Handling and Resources (Semarnat) Destruction of Polychlorinated Biphenyls in Mexico UNDP 00059701” (no date). National Chamber of Consulting Firms Ica Ingeniería, S.A. de C.V. Certification of capacity compliance with contractual commitment in terms of infrastructure, human resources and processes, 15/04/13. Construction Industry Training Institute Ingenieros Civiles Asociados S.A. de C.V. Introduction of training programs that promote the development of (ICIC) personnel knowledge and skills, 14/05/13. Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) ICA Socially Responsible Company Distinction 2013. RIMAC (Peru’s oldest insurance firm) ICA, San Martín Contratistas Generales S.A. Peru Excellence in Labor Risk Prevention (no date). PreMedi OMA Drug-Free Company Certificate (no date). Asociación Nacional de Industriales del ICA, PRET Award in the category of Highway Infrastructure, Bridges and National Association of Pre-Stressed and Prefabricated Distributors, October 2013. Prefabricated Materials World Finance Magazine Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Among the largest plants in the world, Water Deal of the Year 2013, October 2013. National Chamber of Commerce (Canaco) OMA Zacatecas “M” Distinction for adoption of best practices and model tourist and Ministry of Tourism (Sectur) company distinction. Ausenco, Hudbay Constancia Mining Project, Safety award for first million man-hours worked without San Martín Contratistas Generales S.A. incapacitating injuries, January 2013. Mining Safety Institute (Instituto de Gold Fields, San Martín Contratistas Generales Mine Safety: Safest open-cut mine in Peru, March 2013. Seguridad Minera, ISEM) S.A. ICA 2013 130 APPENDICES Awarding institution Recipient Recognition RIMAC Seguros ICA, Minera San Martín Contratistas Generales Excellence in Labor Risk Prevention 2012, April 2013. S.A. Ausenco, Hudbay Constancia Mining Project, San Martín Safety award for first two million man-hours worked without Contratistas Generales S.A. incapacitating injuries, June 2013. Jacobs–Chinlaco Toromocho Mining Project, Safety award for first 3,453,601 man-hours worked without San Martín Contratistas Generales, S. A. incapacitating injuries, June 2013. Compañía Minera Coymolache Tantahuatay Mining Project, San Martín Safety and Environment: Development of PAD2B without Contratistas Generales S. A. incapacitating injuries, October 2013. Compañía Minera MINSUR Pucamarca Mining Project, San Martín Safety and Environment: Half million man-hours worked without Contratistas Generales S. A. incapacitating injuries, November 2013. Jacobs–Chinlaco Toromocho Mining Project, San Martín Winners of the Beyond Zero contest for being the safest and most Contratistas Generales S.A. environmentally excellent contractor in 2011, 2012 and 2013 (3,453,601 man-hours worked without incapacitating injuries), December 2013. Town of San Luis Río Colorado, Sonora ICA, Contrato Plurinominal de Conservación de Responsible support to retailers and users during paving of Avenida Carreteras en Sonora Norte Alvaro Obregón. Mexican Construction Industry Chamber ICA Fluor Outstanding adoption of corporate social responsibility practices. (CMIC), National Social Responsibility and Disaster Meeting Mexican Center for Philanthropy (Cemefi) ICA Fluor Socially Responsible Company Distinction 2013. Fundación de Apoyo a la Juventud, IAP ICA Fluor Material support to the forum “Building with Equity” (UPIICSA-National Polytechnic Institute). Mexican Social Security Institute (IMSS) ICA Fluor Donated portable scales and metric tapes for the first National Vaccination Week. Hewlett–Packard México ICA Fluor Permanent participant in the HP Planet Partners Program for Collecting Printer Supplies. “Lic. Francisco Castellanos” Primary ICA Fluor Remodeling of restrooms. School Pemex ICA Fluor Participation in event to celebrate 75th anniversary of the nationalization of Mexico’s oil industry. Chinese Commitee for Large Dam La Yesca Hydroelectric Project Milestone Project Award, in recognition for best technical and Projects construction practices. ICA 2013 131 APPENDICES Awarding institution Recipient Recognition EcopilArte Crea Conciencia A.C. Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Support during the Environmental Restoration Day at Cerro La Mesa Ahumada. José María Pino Suárez Technical High Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Participation in this institution’s first Environmental Fair. School No. 51 Government of the State of Hidalgo-State Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Participation in the “Water Caravan.” Water and Sewage Commission Top PPPs in Emerging Markets Atotonilco Wastewater Treatment Plant Silver Award, Latin America and the Caribbean. Recognized by IFC and Infrastructure Journal Federal Environmental Protection Agency, Ing. Sofía Calderón García, El Realito Aqueduct Voluntary presentation of a peregrine falcon (falco peregrinus), Federal Delegation of San Luis Potosí considered a protected species under NOM-059-SEMARNAT-2010. Municipal Presidency of Tierra Nueva, San El Realito Aqueduct Support for a sports center for the José María Morelos y Pavón High Luis Potosí School. Municipal Presidency of Santa María del El Realito Aqueduct Donation of a 15-meter long, 36” diameter pipe to channel a flow of Río, San Luis Potosí water that had cut off the community of Tepozán. Donation of a 15-meter long, 36” diameter El Realito Aqueduct Work on forming a roadway and leveling streets. pipe to channel a flow of water that had cut off the community of Tepozán. Hewlett–Packard México Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán Highway Permanent participant in the HP Planet Partners Program for Collecting Printer Supplies. ECOLTEC Nuevo Necaxa-Tihuatlán Highway Environmentally safe handling, treatment and co-processing of tires. Mexican Association to Help Children with ICA Infraestructura Commitment to and support of children and young people at AMANC Cancer (AMANC) Guerrero. City of Acapulco, Department of Service Maxitúnel Acapulco Highway Presentation of school supplies to the Ve’esave bilingual primary to Ethnic Groups school. Sonora Institute for Adult Education ICA Infraestructura Company Committed to its Workers’ Education. Hewlett–Packard México ICA San Luis Permanent participant in the HP Planet Partners Program for Collecting Printer Supplies. Municipality of Río Verde, San Luis Potosí, ICA San Luis Support in the form of labor and equipment to revamp sports facilities Sports Department at the guild hall. Hewlett–Packard México Necaxa-Tihuatlán Highway Permanent participant in the HP Planet Partners Program for Collecting Printer Supplies. ICA 2013 132 G4 APPENDICES 13, 16, 22, 23, 28, 29, 30 PARTICIPATION IN INSTITUTIONS UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL AND ORGANIZATIONS COMPACT ICA proactively participates in the following HUMAN RIGHTS organizations and associations: Principle 1. Support and respect the protection of human rights. INSTITUTION OR ORGANIZATION TYPE OF PARTICIPATION Principle 2. Not being an accomplice in human rights Mexican Business Council on Foreign Trade, Members of the Board abuse. Investment and Technology (COMCE) Business Coordinating Council (CCE) Members of the Board LABOR CONDITIONS The International Chamber of Commerce, Member of the Board, Executive Principle 3. Uphold the freedom of association Mexico Chapter Committee and Vice Chairmanship principles and the right to collective bargaining. Issuer Committee of the Mexican Stock Member of the Board Principle 4. Eliminate forced and compulsory labor. Exchange Principle 5. Abolish any form of child labor. United Nations Global Compact Signatory Principle 6. Eliminate discrimination in employment and Partnering Against Corruption Initiative Signatory occupation matters. (PACI) of the World Economic Forum College of Civil Engineers of Mexico ICA staff are part of the Advisory ENVIRONMENT (CICM) Board and Board of Honor Principle 7. Support a precautionary approach to Trust for Electricity Conservation (FIDE) Members of the Technical environmental challenges. Committee; Chairmanship and Vice Principle 8. Promote greater environmental Chairmanship responsibility. Engineering and Construction Risk Sponsor Principle 9. Encourage the development and Institute Inc. (ECRI) communications of environmentally-respectful Mexican Chamber of the Construction Committee participation by our technologies. Industry (CMIC) staff FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION Principle 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ICA 2013 133 G4 APPENDICES 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 24, 31, 33 PARAMETERS OF THIS REPORT This is our fourth annual sustainability report. It This report will allow our stakeholders to learn in a was prepared following the G4 guidelines of the clear, objective and transparent way about the principal Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and the information sustainability developments and achievements that we presented corresponds to the period from January 1 to consider priorities based on our materiality analysis, December 31, 2013, unless otherwise specified. Detailed including numerous case studies (described in text information on the Company, its operating and financial boxes entitled CONCRETELY...that serve to illustrate our performance, as well as the electronic versions of the commitment in this area. All material aspects identified 2010, 2011 and 2012 sustainability reports can be found are relevant to the company and its stakeholders. on our website: www.ica.com.mx. This report covers all of ICA’s operations, including There were no significant changes in the coverage, scope Mexican and foreign subsidiaries that we control or or valuation methods applied in this report compared to over which we exercise significant influence, unless the 2012 report, unless otherwise indicated. Furthermore, otherwise indicated. In the case of Grupo Aeroportuario in 2013, ICA made no announcements that had any impact del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA), their information on the stock structure. For more details about this and is included in financial figures and the number of other issues, please visit our website at: www.ica.com.mx. employees, as OMA, being a public company, issues its own sustainability report independently. To prepare this report we conducted a materiality analysis on the Company’s administrative practices Social indicators and performance, the current context of sustainability in the construction industry, and the issues relevant The information is limited to 2013 and includes all to our stakeholders: shareholders/financial markets, of ICA’s consolidated subsidiaries, unless otherwise clients, employees, government/authorities, indicated. Data is also provided for Proactiva, a communities, suppliers, chambers/institutions, company in which ICA holds a 49% stake but over partners/competitors, and opinion leaders. which it exercises significant influence in terms of its sustainability policies and practices. ICA 2013 134 APPENDICES Environmental indicators The data presented are drawn from the various projects of our business units in Mexico. Because of the variety of our projects and the differences in availability of information, we can only offer environmental indicators with different scopes. Thus, we specify the scope of each indicator individually. This report contains quantitative and qualitative information on ICA’s management of and performance in sustainability issues in 2013. The data presented were collected by the Company’s commissions in which each of its business units are represented. This is our first integrated report of activities and the fourth sustainability report. It was prepared according to the GRI 4 Content Index to comply with the Essential Level option, based on the G4 Guide. Any comments or questions on matters concerning this report may be sent to the following email addresses: relacion.inversionistas@ica.mx and sustentabilidad@ica.mx. ICA 2013 135 APPENDICES GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE INDEX GRI-G4 INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 1 Statement from Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer about the relevance of sustainability to the organization. 11-16 2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities. 47 COMPANY PROFILE 3 Name of the organization. 7 4 Main brands, products and/or services. 7 5 Location of the company’s headquarters. 7 6 Countries where the company has operations. 9 7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 7 8 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers and beneficiaries. 9, 10, 38, 86-89 9 Scale of the organization, including total number of employees, of operations, net sales, total capitalization broken down in 8 terms of debt and equity and quantity of products or services provided. 10 Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; by region; whether a substantial portion of the 25 organization’s work is performed by individuals other than employees, including employees of contractors. Report any significant variations in employment numbers. 11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 23 12 Supply chain in the organization. 104,105 13 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain. 133 COMMITMENTS TO EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 66, 67 15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the 44 organization subscribes or which it endorses. 16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations 133 in which the organization holds a position on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues and/or views membership as strategic . ICA 2013 136 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES 17 Operational structure, referencing the information in publicly available consolidated financial statements or equivalent 134 * documents. 18 Process for defining the report content and the aspect boundaries. 134 * 19 List all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 9, 43, 134 * 20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization, report whether the aspect is material within 134 * the organization. 21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization. 134 * 22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. 133 * 23 Significant changes related to previous reports. 133 * STAKEHOLDERS’ ENGAGEMENT 24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 37, 39,40, * 134 25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 37 * 26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 37, 39, 40 * 27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded 41 * to those key topics and concerns. REPORT PROFILE 28 Reporting period. 133 29 Date of most recent previous report. 133 30 Reporting cycle. 133 31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 146 * There was no external assurance for this indicators during this year. ICA 2013 137 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE GRI CONTENT INDEX 32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen and report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. 1-3 EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 33 Organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. 134 GOVERNANCE 34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. 57, 58, 59 35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 61 executives and other employees. 36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, 58, 59, 62 environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. 37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social 64 topics. 38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 57 39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 57 40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees. 60 41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. 60 42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s 5, 6, 61 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. 43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental 63 and social topics. 44 Performance assessment of highest governance body. 63 45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, 61 and opportunities. ICA 2013 138 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE 46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for 62 economic, environmental and social topics. 47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 62 opportunities. 48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report. 74, 75 49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 62 50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the 62, 66, 67 mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. 51 Remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives and how performance criteria in the 63 remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. 52 Processes through which compensation is determined. 64 53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on 63 remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. 54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant 64 operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees. 55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of 64 significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 65 57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational 73 integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. 58 Internal and external mechanisms to report unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, 73 such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. ICA 2013 139 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH DMA Disclosure on management approach 33 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed. 128, 129 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change. 34 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. EC4 Financial assistance received from government. 76 Market presence EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. 23 EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation. 25 Indirect economic impacts EC7 Investments in infrastructure and services supported. 5-6, 90,91 EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including their extent. 128, 129 Procurement practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation. 128, 129 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 113 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 113 Energy EN3 Energy consumption: total fuel consumption from renewable and non-renewable sources, including fuel types; electricity, 115 heating, cooling and steam consumption; electricity, heating, cooling, steam sold; total energy consumption. Report standards, methodologies and the source of conversion factors used. EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. 116 EN5 Energy intensity. 116 CRE1 Reduction of energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives; types of energy 116 included in the reductions, and basis for calculating reductions such as base year or baseline. EN6 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. 117, 118 EN7 Reducciones de los requisitos energéticos de los productos y servicios. 118 ICA 2013 140 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by sources. 119 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 121 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 120, 122 CRE2 Building water intensity. Biodiversity EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside 92 protected areas. EN12 Significant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity 93 value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 95 EN14 Total number of IUCN red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations. 94 Emissions EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1). 124 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2). 124 CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from buildings. CRE4 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from new construction and redevelopment activity. EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3). 125 EN18 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions. 125 EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. 123 EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances. 125,126 EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions. 125 Effluents and waste EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 122 EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 126 EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. 126 EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported or treated waste deemed hazardous. EN26 Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by 96 discharges of water and runoff. CRE5 Land and other assets remediated and in need of remediation for the existing or intended land use according to applicable 96 legal designations. ICA 2013 141 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Products and services EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. 98 EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. N/A Compliance EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental 126 laws and regulations. Transport EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 96 Supplier environmental assessment EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria. 42 EN33 Significant, real and potential environmental impacts in supply chain and actions taken. 42, 96 Environmental grievance mechanisms EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved though formal grievance mechanisms. 96 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Labor practices and decent work LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region. 26 LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations 23 of operation. LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 23 LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective agreements. 26 Occupational health and safety LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help 30, 73 monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related 29 fatalities, by region and gender. ICA 2013 142 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation. 28 CRE6 Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance with an internationally recognized health and safety 68 management system. LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 31 Training and education LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. 26 LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist 26 them in managing career endings. LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee 26 category. Diversity and equal opportunity LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, 24 minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation. 23 Supplier assessment for labor practices LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. 42 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. 73 Labor practices grievance mechanisms LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 73 HUMAN RIGHTS Investment HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that 26 underwent human rights screening. HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are 26 relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 73 ICA 2013 143 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be 23 violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights. Child labor HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having risk for incident of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the 23 effective abolition of child labor. Forced or compulsory labor HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 23 contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security practices HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to 31 operations. Indigenous rights HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken. 73 Assessment HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments. 73 Supplier human rights assessment HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. 42 HR11 Significant actual ad potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. 42, 73 Human rights grievance mechanisms HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 73 SOCIETY Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments and development 99, 108programs. 111 SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities. 99 ICA 2013 144 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Anti-corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and significant risks identified. 73 CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily displaced and/or resettled by development, broken down by project. 99 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. 74 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. 73 Public policy SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary. 76 Anti-competitive behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 76 Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and 76 regulations. Supplier assessment for impacts on society SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. 42 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. 42 Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and services labeling PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service information and 68 labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labeling schemes for new construction, management, occupation 35 and redevelopment. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service N/A information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 70-72 ICA 2013 145 APPENDICES INDICATOR PAGE EXTERNAL ASSURANCE Marketing communications PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products. N/A PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, N/A including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. 76 Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of 76 products and services. ICA 2013 146 GRI‑report ICA 2013 147 CONTACTS Corporate Headquarters ICA in Peru Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. (Minera San Martín) Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, piso 15 Av. Pedro Miotta 103, Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000, San Juan de Miraflores Mexico City, Mexico Lima, Peru Tel: +52 (55) 5272-9991 Tel: +51 (1) 450-1999 Fax: +52 (55) 5227-5046 Fax: +51 (1) 276-9851 ICA in Panama ICA in Costa Rica Torre de las Américas Oficentro La Virgen Torre A Piso 9 Oficina 902 Edificio Torre Prisma 4o Nivel Pavas Ciudad de Panama, Panama San José, Costa Rica Tels: +507 216-9028 y +507 216-9029 Tel: +506 2296-4575 ICA in Colombia Rodio Kronsa in Spain Calle 102A No. 50-49 Calle Velázquez 50 Bogotá, Colombia 7ª Planta C.P.28001 Tel: +57 4320-2940 Madrid, Spain Tel: +34 (91) 425-2890 ICA in Peru (Los Portales) José Granda 167, San Isidro, Rodio Kronsa in Morocco Lima, Peru SOLSIF MAROC Tel: +51 (1) 211-4466 Anexo: 4281 Km 4 Route de Casablanca Fax: +51 (1) 211-4465 Rabat, Marruecos Tel: +212 (537) 79-4865 Rodio Kronsa in Portugal Avda. dos Combatentes 52, Apartado 112 Abrunheira 2710 Sintra, Portugal Tel: +351 (21) 915-8210 G4 31 INFORMATION FOR SHAREHOLDERS EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. STOCK INFORMATION Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, piso 15 The shares of Empresas ICA, S.A.B. de C.V. are listed on Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000 the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) and the New York Mexico City Stock Exchange (NYSE) Tel: (5255) 5272 9991 DEPOSITARY BANK AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES Fax: (5255) 5227 5046 BNY Mellon Shareowner Services P.O. Box 358516 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS Pittsburgh, PA 15252–8516 Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S.C. www.bynmellon.com/shareowner Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited shrrelations@bynmellon.com 1 888 BNY ADRS (toll free) INVESTOR RELATIONS 1 201 680 6825 (international) relacion.inversionistas@ica.mx www.ica.com.mx/ir Tel: (5255) 5272 9991 ext. 3608 EMPRESAS ICA, S.A.B. DE C.V. Blvd. Manuel Ávila Camacho 36, piso 15 Col. Lomas de Chapultepec, C.P. 11000 Mexico City, México Tel: (5255) 5272 9991 Fax: (5255) 5227 5046 www.ica.com.mx
