New Eyes for Industry CSR Report Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2014 Message from the President Global CSR Management Although global economic conditions have shown signs of a recovery, we must not let our guard down as a number of risk factors remain, such as abnormal weather, natural disasters and social change in the form of conflict and political unrest. Despite this somewhat obscure situation, Tamron continues to push forward with its overseas expansion and to follow through on its responsibilities to society as a good corporate citizen. This is because we are committed to being the eyes of industry by delivering lenses that offer video and imaging solutions that fit the needs of our customers both in Japan and overseas. I believe that any company has the inherent mission to practice CSR management through its core business. As for environmental targets, we have established the goal to reduce our CO2 emissions from 2012 by an average of 1% per unit of sales every year. Our final goal will be to reduce our CO2 emissions in 2020 by about 7% compared to 2012. In 2013, we were able to reduce our CO2 emissions by 9.6% per unit of sales compared to 2012. We are also focused on promoting environmentally friendly product designs, fully complying with environmental laws and regulations in Japan and overseas, and carrying out CSR procurement, including addressing conflict minerals in the supply chain. We will continue to build a supply chain that not only delivers quality and protects the environment, but also ensures a proper labor environment, protects human rights and carries out fair business practices. We are also striving to develop products that are closely in tune with customer needs. These efforts have been rewarded as Tamron’s interchangeable lenses have received the EISA Award for eight consecutive years1. Solid after-sales services are also an important means to attracting customers. Tamron has a system in place with repair centers located around the world that allows it to complete product repairs in less than three days. We strive to meet the expectations and trust of customers around the world in all aspects of the product lifecycle. Localized Human Resource and Employment Strategies 1 An important element behind the growth of a company is its human resources and employment practices. A global expansion requires a company to have employment practices that are closely in line with the local conditions and market. In 2012 we set up operations in Russia and in 2013 we established a subsidiary in India and plant in Vietnam. First, we hired someone locally who understands the local conditions and people to head up these companies instead of a Japanese expatriate, and second we are carrying out CSR activities closely in tune with the local community. Nevertheless, overseas subsidiaries also need to understand the management policies of the parent company. Therefore, we also hire local persons that graduated from a Japanese university and have in-depth knowledge of Japanese business and culture. In 2013 I visited all of our overseas subsidiaries to meet and talk with our people on the ground in each market. In this manner I hope to foster greater understanding of President & CEO local customs as well as laws and regulations and encourage greater communication between Tamron Co., Ltd. Japan and our overseas subsidiaries to ensure our global expansion is facilitated as smoothly Morio Ono as possible. Management that Always Values its People At Tamron, we believe that by pursuing management that always values its people our employees will be empowered to fulfill customer needs and make proactive contributions to society. We also recognize the importance of diversity in globalization and especially the contributing role of women in the workplace. This is why we are working to make our workplaces more female-friendly, provide even greater career advancements to female employees and increase the ratio of females in management positions. In addition, we have established an international study abroad program to provide our up-and-coming employees with the language skills and creative thinking needed to succeed in international business. Supporting the 10 Principles of the U.N. Global Compact Tamron continues to be an active supporter of the 10 principles laid out in the U.N. Global Compact as part of its global expansion. We recognize these 10 principles represent guidelines that truly multinational corporations must put into practice and as such we have reflected 1. EISA is an acronym for European Imaging and Sound Association. This organization is a unique these principles in our Action Declarations and educate our employees on the principles. As association of 50 special interest magazines mentioned previously, we place particular emphasis on “human rights” and “labour” to from more than 18 European countries covering ensure our business activities comply fully with local customs as well as laws and regulations. cameras, video or audio related topics. The In compiling this CSR Report, we focused on engagement with stakeholders. We would organization sponsors the EISA Awards which recognize leading products i n t h e f i e l d s o f greatly appreciate your comments and suggestions for how we can further improve our CSR photography and audio visual. management. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Tamron’ s CSR Management Enhancing Corporate Value Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Tamron’s CSR management is conducted under our corporate We have been working on our business operations under philosophy of contributing to the economy, society and twelve themes established for being a company acknowledged environment as eyes for industry. Tamron also pursues CSR by stakeholders. Through addressing these themes for CSR management through stakeholder engagement based on the management, we are carrying out our responsibilities to Action Declarations, which define the stance the company should contribute to the economy, society and the environment, for take toward stakeholders divided into the five categories of being a company our customers select as a reliable supplier. In “customers,”“employees,”“shareholders,”“business partners,” other words, our goal is to to be a company that has the power and“society,”and the Action Codes, which show how all Tamron to be selected by customers1. employees should conduct themselves. 1. This is one of our corporate objectives, showing that we have the power to be selected and supported by customers. Twelve Themes Association table Tamron s Action Declarations Twelve Themes Relevant page ●From the customer perspective Recognizing that customer satisfaction is of the highest Compliance P6、14 importance, Tamron will contribute to society by supplying safe, high-quality original products and services. Corporate Governance P6 ●From the employee perspective Risk Management P13 ・In order to become self-reliant, each employee at Tamron Environment P10、14 〜 18 works with a challenging spirit, maintains good communications with fellow workers for creating a lively work Disclosure P6 environment, and strives to yield the best possible results at all times while observing laws and regulations. Quality and Safety P8 〜 10 ・Each and every employee at Tamron respects human rights to support society as a good corporate citizen. Occupational Safety & Health P11 〜 12 Employment and Human Resources P11 〜 12 ●From the shareholders/investor perspective Everyone working at Tamron strives to enhance corporate Human Rights P7、P11 〜 12 value through faithful management, to proactively engage stakeholders, and to enhance stakeholder conﬁdence to be a Social Contributions P19 〜 20 2 company worthy of stable investments. Information Security P6 ●From the business partner perspective By respecting human rights, complying with laws and carrying Privacy Protection P6 out fair and transparent business transactions, Tamron will ensure that it can build relationships with its business partners so that they deliver quality materials and services, achieve mutual growth and contribute to society. ●From the society perspective ・Maintaining good communications with local communities, Tamron will strive to contribute to their growth while The Power to be upholding their tradition and culture as a good corporate Corporate Value citizen. Selected ・Tamron will observe laws and regulations, aiming to earn Responsibility to Contribute to conﬁdence from society as a good corporate citizen. ・Tamron take a resolute stance against all anti-social forces and organizations that pose threats to the public order and Disclosure safety of our civil society. Social ・Tamron will work hard in NGO and NPO projects to establish Environment Contributions a good society. Quality and Safety Employment and Social and Environmental Issues Human Resources Occupational Safety & Health Communicating for CSR Promotion Privacy Protection Tamron’s CSR Committee meets monthly to closely Information Security monitor the progress of CSR activities. The committee is an Human Rights organization under the direct control of the President and CEO. Representatives from all divisions at the head office Risk Management and plants in Japan and overseas meet through videoCompliance conferencing. Society Environment Tamron also provides CSR training to employees at its Corporate Governance overseas subsidiaries, Tamron Optical Foshan and its plant in Vietnam. In 2013 we provided an e-learning program Economy on conflict minerals, with some 1,589 employees taking part. In addition, 91 employees participated in a training program on Tamron’s CSR system as well as the progress Economic Responsibility and issues related to the twelve themes. Twelve Themes for Enhancing CSR Management Tamron CSR Report 2014 Aspiring to be Special Feature a Company Trusted Globally Tamron abides by the 10 principles outlined in the U.N. Global Compact at all of its operations in Japan and overseas in order to become a company that complies with laws and regulations and is trusted by stakeholders around the world. Participation in the U.N. Global Compact Tamron has operations around the world, including a anti-corruption (prohibition of bribery and corruption). production base in China and subsidiary sales companies Moreover, in recognizing differences in culture and in Europe and the United States. Agreeing to the Global customs, we adopted employment rules and a human Compact (GC), in August 2007 Tamron became a rights protection and labor standards regulations at supporter of this international initiative proposed by Tamron Optical Foshan that are more in tune with local the United Nations to support the Ten Principles related to needs. We also check to make sure our marketing and human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. advertising tools use appropriate language based on the The Ten GC Principles became pillars for establishing our local culture and customs of the areas where we sell our CSR promotion structure. (Please see page 4 of the COP products. report for a definitions of the 10 principles.) Tamron will continue to abide by the 10 principles of the When expanding overseas, we must take steps to U.N. Global Compact and strive to carry out corporate ensure that we do not violate the various rights activities that are considerate of local religion, ethnicity, of local communities, consumers, employ e e s a n d and culture, and that are accepted by the local community. other stakeholders, while also gaining stakeholder understanding and acceptance about our businesses. 3 As part of this process, we have a mechanism in place to ensure compliance with laws and regulations as well as to incorporate the four main areas of the U.N. Global Compact: human rights (civil rights inherent to all stakeholders including local communities), labour standards (the rights of employees), environment (measures to prevent local and global environmental issues), and For further details about the GC, please visit the United Nations website at: WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org/. Opening of New International Business Sites Tamron has opened a number of new international business opened a new sites as show in the table below. In addition to its existing sales plant in Hanoi, subsidiaries in the United States, Germany, France, Hong Kong Vietnam during and Shanghai, Tamron recently opened new sales subsidiaries 2013. Personnel in Russia in 2012 and India in 2013. Tamron also operates a from the head manufacturing base in Foshan, Guangdong Province in China and office, our three plants in Aomori Prefecture and Overseas sites opened since 2012 Tamron Optical Name of Foshan provide Locations Business lines business site support whenever Exterior view of our plant in Vietnam Importing, sales and a new sales Moscow, after-sales services subsidiary or TAMRON (Russia) LLC. Russia for precision optical plant is launched. equipment Afterwards, locally hired employees Marketing and afterGurgaon, take the helm TAMRON INDIA sales services for Haryana PRIVATE LIMITED. precision optical and commence State, India equipment operations. This approach Manufacturing and TAMRON OPTICAL Hanoi, to localization sales of precision (VIETNAM) CO., LTD. Vietnam gives greater optical equipment consideration to A clean room at our plant in Vietnam our employees and energizes communication. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Activities under the Global Compact Japan Network Tamron is an active member of the Global Compact Japan published as recommendations or Network (GC-JN), the local network in Japan for the U.N. Global used in other learning tools to ensure Compact. The GC-JN serves as a dynamic learning platform for that this information can be utilized by achieving sustainable growth by helping to solidify the network of other companies not participating in companies participating in the U.N. Global Compact. The GC-JN the GC-JN. In 2013, the Supply Chain has organized working groups for sustainable development themes Working Group published a set of based on the activities being carried out by its members. Tamron recommendations called A Vision of participates in the CSR Reporting Working Group, ISO26000 Desirable CSR Activities in the Supply Working Group and the Supply Chain Working Group. Working Chain, which presents procedures on group meetings are held regularly, while seminars are held on CSR procurement and other useful common challenges and information sharing also takes place information. with regard to the initiatives of participating companies. Details of activities introduced during the Supply Chain Working Group meetings are actually used as reference for our CSR procurement Use the following links to access A Vision of Desirable CSR Activities practices and actually put to use at Tamron. in the Supply Chain. Discussions at working group meetings are summarized and WEB Japanese version : http://www.ungcjn.org/activities/topics/detail.php?id=99php?id=99 English version : http://www.ungcjn.org/activities/releases/detail.php?id=117 COP Report (Communication on Progress) The following table describes Tamron’s accomplishments and efforts during 2013 in line with the Ten Principles. Relevant Principles Tamron’s Policies Results for 2013 page 1 Business should support and respect ・We support basic human rights in our Action the protection of internationally Declarations. P2 proclaimed human rights. Human Rights ・Carried out operations based on the ・We declare respect for human rights and Human Rights Protection & Labor elimination of discrimination in our Compliance Standard Management Regulations. Regulations. ・Clarified management items for 2 B  usiness should make sure that they operations and strengthened checks P11 〜 ・We clarify management items for operations and are not complicit in human rights and balances (Japan and Tamron strengthen checks and balances (established P12 abuses. Optical Foshan). the Human Rights Protection & Labor Standard Management Regulations for Japan and Tamron Optical Foshan). 4 ・Periodically provided opportunities to discuss labor-management issues including joint management council 3 B  usiness should uphold the freedom meetings and annual plan rollout ・We declare respect for the right of our of association and the effective meetings (head office). recognition of the right to collective employees to organize in our labor organization ・Held social gatherings involving the P12 memorandum. bargaining. President and female employees (head office). ・Established labor union (Tamron Optical Foshan in China). ・We stipulate the importance of complying Labour 4 B  usiness should uphold the P11〜 with labor-related laws and regulations and ・We provide our ・Specified all business days as“No elimination of all forms of forced and maintaining a proper work environment for our employees with overtime work days”(Head Office). P12 compulsory labour. employees in our Compliance Regulations. an opportunity to learn more about ･ We vow not to use child labor. We do not the 12 CSR themes ・Established a manual to check the age of P11〜 5 Business should uphold the effective (held once for employ workers under the age of 15 which is applicants at the time of hiring (Tamron abolition of child labour. 91 employees) P12 stipulated in our employment rules. Optical Foshan in China). employees). ・Achieved targets for hiring of persons 6 Business should uphold the ・We have targets for employing persons with ・Held in-house training with disabilities and the ratio of females elimination of discrimination disabilities and a policy to increase the ratio of on conflict minerals: in respect of employment and female managers in order to realize a diversified promoted to management positions. P12 1,589 participants. ・Ratio of eligible employees taking occupation. work place. parental leave: 100%. ・We have a provision in our consolidated ・Incidents of non-conformity to hazardous management policy to prevent environmental chemical regulations: Zero P10 deterioration through efforts such as the ・Held training sessions on environmentally7 Business should support a following: conscious designs and reducing CO₂ P13〜 precautionary approach to (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions; emissions: environmental challenges. (2)Reducing industrial waste; One session each (total of 140 P18 Environment (3)Finding alternatives to harmful chemical participants) substances; and ・Supported ecosystem protection efforts P20 (4)Conserving biodiversity (head office). 8 Business should undertake initiatives ・We have a policy to clearly establish ・Reduced CO₂ emissions by 9.6 % to promote greater environmental environmental objectives and targets for the P10 compared to 2012 per unit of sales. responsibility. following: ・Reduced product weight by 2% on (1)Reducing CO₂ emissions; P16〜 average. 9 B  usiness should encourage the (2)Reducing industrial waste emissions to ・Reduced product size by 2% on an P18 development and diffusion of ultimately achieve zero emissions; and average. environmentally friendly technologies. (3)Promoting environmentally-friendly designs. Anti-Corruption ・We have a our policy to regulate acts of 10 Business should work against ・The Compliance Promotion Committee endowment and political donations and corruption in all its forms, including terminate ties with anti-social forces in our held workshops for employees to learn P6 extortion and bribery. more about compliance. Compliance Regulations and Action Declarations. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Table of Contents Message from the President……………………………………… 1 Tamron’s CSR Management……………………………………… 2 Special Feature: Aspiring to be a Company Trusted Globally… …… 3 Table of Contents and Company Outline… ………………… 5 Relationship with Shareholders and Investors… …………… 6 Editorial Policy Relationship with Business Partners…………………………… 7 This report was issued to keep stakeholders, including customers, employees, shareholders, investors, business partners, local communities, public institutions, Relationship with Customers… ………………………………… 8 NGOs and NPOs, abreast of Tamron’s activities for protecting the environment and carrying out its social responsibilities. Relationship with Employees… ………………………………… 11 This report covers activities across the entire Tamron Group, including Tamron Co., Ltd., Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., and overseas sales subsidiaries, excluding Management System… …………………………………………… 13 certain environmental data and other information. Relationships with the Environment…………………………… 15 Guidelines mainly referenced in compiling this report: ・Environmental Report Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (2012 version) Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved… ……… 16 ・Greenhouse Effect Gas Measuring & Reporting Manual Version 3.4 (Version 2.4 2009 used for emission coefficient factors) ・Environmental Accounting Guidelines (Ministry of the Environment) (2005 version) Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption…… 17 ・The GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and ISO 26000:2010 Manual on Reducing Waste and Water Consumption………………… 18 Business Entities’ Social Responsibility were also referenced to identify important information that should be disclosed to stakeholders. Relationship with Society… ……………………………………… 19 ・We made efforts to disclose information based on stakeholder perspectives, by referencing the warranty processes in the AA1000 Warranty Standard. Activities at Tamron’s Overseas Subsidiaries………………… 21 ・The cover design was selected to express our stance toward contributing to the Independent Third-Party Opinion… …………………………… 22 environment and achieving harmony with all stakeholders through our lenses. Company Profile 5 Trade name Tamron Co., Ltd. Head office 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-shi, Saitama, Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9111 Founded November 1, 1950 Incorporated October 27, 1952 Capital 6.923 billion yen Head Office (Saitama City, Saitama Prefecture) President & CEO Morio Ono Employees 2,545 (consolidated; excluding 4,090 temporary employees) 《Net Sales for the Previous Five Years》 Net sales 68.453 billion yen (consolidated; as of December 31, 2013) (Billion yen) Consolidated 70 68.4 64.3 Listed First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 58.5 60 56.6 Domestic plants One each in Hirosaki, Namioka and Owani in Aomori 49.8 50 Overseas plants Foshan, China and Hanoi, Vietnam 40 Consolidated subsidiaries 30  nited States, Germany, France, Hong Kong, China（Shanghai）,Russia, U 20 and India 10 Outline of Business Operations 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY 《Employees》 Commercial/ 18.0% industrial-use optics (person) Consolidated Consolidated (regular employees) (temporary employees) 8,000 355 7,000 406 4,090 Optical 450 3,843 11.2% 6,000 components Percentage 5,000 of sales by 4,000 business 7,198 3,000 5,472 6,005 segment (2013, 2,000 consolidated) 1,000 2,295 2,545 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY Photographic 1 lenses 70.8% 1. The increase in temporary workers during 2012 was attributed to changes in employment format made primarily at Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd., our manufacturing subsidiary in China. Temporary workers at Tamron Optical Foshan will soon be switched to regular employees per changes in China’ s labor laws. Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000-6-2 Organizational Governance Relationship with Shareholders and Investors We are committed to fair and transparent management practices as well as enhancing corporate value, which is achieved by strengthening corporate governance to build up trust with shareholders and investors. Corporate Governance Basic Policy Corporate Governance Structure We at Tamron have constantly pursued fair and transparent General Meeting of Shareholders management practices under our management philosophy Election/dismissal Election/dismissal Election/dismissal and in line with our brand message, “Contributing to Society Board of Auditors by Creating Eyes of Industry” as well as by respecting the rights (Corporate Auditors and Accounting Auditor Independent Auditors) Coordination and equality of our shareholders and working diligently to Audit Audit Coordination maintain a sound relationship with all stakeholders. Coordination Board of Directors Corporate Governance System Overview (Directors and External Directors) Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System to speed CSR Implementation & Internal Audit & President & CEO Administration Board Supervision Board up decision making and improve efficiencies, which has enabled it to establish a management structure capable of CSR Committee Management Meeting (MAC) making accurate and strategic decisions. External Directors Internal Audit Compliance Committee Executive Oﬃcers with expertise in their respective field carefully monitor and advise the company regarding its execution of operations Each department/subsidiaries from an independent and fair standpoint. At the same time, Independent Auditors with expert knowledge of finance, accounting and legal affairs as well as Corporate Auditors Shareholder and Investor Engagement well versed in Tamron’s operations work together with the Accounting Auditor and Internal Audit & Supervision Board In 2013 Tamron held two earnings presentations as well as to carry out rigorous audit programs. Tamron appoints hosted meetings and plant tours for institutional investors 14 Directors, of which 2 are External Directors, and four and securities analysts. In addition, Tamron continues to participate in conferences 6 Corporate Auditors, of which 3 are Independent Auditors. for domestic and international investors organized by securities companies. We also hosted four briefings mainly in (1)Board of Directors the Saitama Prefecture areas for individual investors. Meetings of the Board of Directors are held twice a month, in We are committed to actively engaging our shareholders principle, attended by all Directors and Corporate Auditors, and investors through for reviewing the execution of duties by the Directors and dynamic IR1 activities. deciding on important issues as set forth in the basic policy of the company and related laws and regulations. In 2013, Board of Directors met 26 times. 1. IR stands for investor relations and means providing (2)Board of Auditors shareholders and investors with information such as The Board of Auditors audits the processes of decision financial standing that is making by the Board of Directors and the execution of duties necessary for investors to make investing decisions. IR conference for institutional investors of Directors by attending the Board of Director meetings and and securities analysts checking approval documents. The Board of Auditors meets monthly, in principle. In 2013, Board of Auditors met 14 times. Compliance (3)Executive Officer System Tamron has employed the Executive Officer System to In accordance with our Compliance Rules, we carry out compliance promotion activities through the Compliance ensure separation between management and the execution Committee, comprising members of the executive management of operations. Executive Officers carry out their duties and team, and under this the Compliance Promotion Committee, responsibilities following the basic policy determined by the comprising members selected from each business division. Board of Directors. In 2013, compliance activities addressed pertinent issues of (4) Internal Control through Committee Meetings today, including transactions involving cartels or anti-social forces We regularly hold monthly management (MAC) meetings and improper employee conduct on social networking sites, in addition to commentary provided on Tamron’s compliance attended by all Directors, full-time Corporate Auditors action guidelines and important laws and regulations. Tamron and Executive Officers to discuss management issues and also raises awareness among its employees not only about the respond to the fast-changing management environment. importance of compliance as a corporate organization, but also (5) Accounting Auditor as individuals. Tamron has concluded an auditing agreement with Wako We have been carrying out compliance promotion activities at our overseas subsidiaries for some time and in the future greater Audit Corporation and receives audit from this firm in its attention will be paid toward promoting these activities on a capacity as accounting auditor. group-wide basis in line with efforts to strengthen our production bases and sales systems outside of Japan. Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.6 Fair Operating Practices Relationship with Business Partners Tamron respects human rights, ensures compliance with laws and regulations, and establishes good relationships with business partners to grow and contribute to society together. Summary of Activities in 2013 Tasks for 2014 ● Began tracking investigations for conflict minerals ● Further reinforce CSR procurement with ● Continued rigorous management of chemical substances business partners (conduct questionnaire) Business Partner Accreditation Program CSR Efforts in the Supply Chain In order to contribute to society in accordance with its CSR policy, Tamron works together with its business partners to comply with Promoting CSR Procurement laws and regulations, and continually aspires to serve as a partner To promote CSR procurement, Tamron engages in activities that delivers high quality products and services. For product and through its CSR Procurement Subcommittee, a cross-functional environmental quality1, we conduct surveys to check the status of organization that includes participation from Tamron in Japan and our suppliers through on-site and paper-based audits in accordance Tamron Optical Foshan (TOF). Since 2008, Tamron has asked with our assessment standards. We also request suppliers’ CSR its suppliers to follow the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct, activities comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct and which includes provisions prohibited child labor and forced labor. monitor if they do so. Tamron only does business with companies In turn, suppliers perform self-evaluations of their compliance that act in accordance with these standards. efforts. In 2013, we examined ways to improve the accuracy of checks and updated questionnaires based on the EICC Standard3. 1.“Environmental quality”means regulating the use of harmful chemical substances in products In 2014 and beyond Tamron will use these questionnaires to our suppliers deliver to us to ensure they fall below the threshold level stated in our standards. continually monitor the CSR activities of its business partners. Procedures for Selecting Suppliers 3. EICC stands for Electronic Citizenship Coalition, which adopted a code of conduct applicable to all member companies for ensuring labor safety, human Request the supplier to make efforts in CSR, covering aspects including rights protection and environmental protection throughout their supply chains. labor, health and safety, environmental protection, administration systems and ethical management, in addition to promoting environmental and quality assurance 7 History of Our Activities Check whether the supplier complies with the 2008 Requested all business partners to comply with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct. 2009 Requested respective business partners to perform selfevaluations Periodical evaluation 2010 Introduced case examples on particularly important aspects Carry out quality audits, environmental quality No, requires such as“occupational health and safety”and“human rights protection” audits, process audits and paper-based audits improvement 2011 Held CSR Procurement Workshops for all business partners in Japan and abroad Yes, conforms to standards 2012 Continued to work on improving methods for checking business partner compliance with the Tamron Supplier Code of Conduct Accreditation as business partner Held internal training sessions and in-house hearings 2013 Prepared questionnaire referencing the EICC Standards CSR management implemented by business partners following the Tamron Supplier Codes of Conduct Response to Conflict Minerals A portion of the minerals (tantalite, tin, gold and tungsten) Working Together with Business Partners produced in the Democratic People’s Republic of the to Manage Chemical Substances Congo and neighboring countries of Africa are being used Tamron maintains a policy to avoid the use of harmful to fund armed militants that violate human rights and chemical substances in the materials used to make its cause environmental destruction. These minerals are now products. We use a system to check substances regulated collectively referred to as conflict minerals and regulated. by the EU’s RoHS Initiative based on environment data Tamron has declared a policy4 not to use illegal conflict obtained from our suppliers2. We continued to internally minerals related to the violation of human rights or implement analytical work with advanced equipment including Inductivity Coupled Plasma Atomic Emission environmental destruction in order to fulfill its corporate Spectrometry (ICP-AES) and Gas Chromatography Mass social responsibilities within its procurement activities. In Spectrometry (GC-MS) to ensure only the safest most 2013 we initiated tracking investigations covering conflict secure products are delivered to customers. We also minerals used in the parts we purchased during the first request business partners to manage chemical substances quarter and received assistance from about 90% of our according to our environmental quality assurance entire supply chain. As a result, it was found that 98% of the standards and check to see if indeed they are fulfilling products we purchased did not contain conflict minerals. these standards. In 2014, these efforts will be strengthened In 2014, we will pursue further tracking investigations into further by consolidating certain environmental quality the remaining 2% of parts as well as carry out investigations assurance activities. We also manage substances with our business suppliers in accordance with REACH, with relevant on parts purchased after April 2013. information in turn passed on to customers and consumers. 4. Please see our corporate website for this policy. http://www.tamron.co.jp/envi/top/index.html（available only in Japanese） 2. Such data and documents as the certificate of non-use of harmful chemical substances, ICP analysis data and MSDS Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Tamron is committed to contributing to society by supplying customers with safe, unique and quality products and services, putting the highest priority on satisfying customers, dealers and OEM customers. Summary of Activities in 2013 Tasks for 2014 ● Manufactured products in various fields, ● Create unique products that customers appreciate including traffic monitoring lenses ● Pursue environmentally-conscious designs, ● Expanded the number of after-sales service outlets such as those that use recycled materials Tamron Products Familiar to All We leverage our optical technologies Photographic to create many eyes of industry. and imaging culture Contributing to the propagation and development of photographic culture and imaging technologies ・Lenses for DSLR cameras Daily life ・Lens units for video cameras ・Lens units for compact digital cameras Manufacturing 8 Contributing to our economy, society Supporting factory automation Contributing to safety and environment with eyes for industry and quality enhancement and security in everyday life ・Lens units for surveillance cameras (including infrared) ・Industrial lenses ・Surveillance cameras ・Lenses for automotive applications Commendations and Recognition Tamron focuses on developing lenses for DSLR cameras construction, an ultrasonic motor (USD) capable of quick that feature high power zoom capabilities so that both auto focusing, and a vibration compensation (VC)2 image wide angle and telephoto shots can be captured with stabilization mechanism. The SP 70-200mm F/2.8 Di a single unit that never needs to be changed. In 2013, VC USD (Model: A009) features the smallest-inclass 3 Tamron President Ono received the Technical Achievement fast aperture zoom lens that offers excellent resolution Award from the PMDA1 for technological innovations and images, while its USD motor delivers quick and silent auto new market creation achieved through the development focusing. and launch of Tamron’s compact high power zoom lenses. Furthermore, Tamron was selected as a top 10 brand by In addition, two lens models released in 2012 and 2013 A&S of China (security magazine publisher) in recognition won the awards noted in the table below. The SP 90mm of being an excellent supplier of specialty lenses for F/2.8 Di MACRO 1:1 VC USD (Model: F004) features surveillance cameras to Chinese corporations. the newly developed eBAND coating and delivers clear and crisp images, while also offering moisture-resistant 《Lens Awards》 Category Model Award Awarding Organization EISA Award F004 European Imaging and Sound Association(Europe) Imaging European Lens 2013-20144 (Camera lens) EISA Award A009 European Imaging and Sound Association(Europe) European Zoom Lens 2013-20144 1. PMDA stands for the Photoimaging Manufacturers and Distributors Association. 2. VC stands for Vibration Compensation, which helps prevent blurry images. Tamron lenses for Sony cameras do not offer Tamron’s VC mechanism because Sony includes an imagine stabilizing mechanism in the body of its DSLR cameras. 3. Among fast aperture telephoto lenses with an image stabilizing mechanism and ultrasonic motor used on full-frame 35mm DSLR cameras. Based on Tamron research; as of January 2014. 4. Tamron lenses have received an EISA award for eight consecutive years since 2006. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Quality Management System Expanding After-sales Services Globally Tamron manufactures products using an integrated quality In 2013, we continued with our goal to complete repair work within management system1. Before being delivered to customers, three days and provided after-sales services to customers in 64 products go through various processes, from product countries using 42 sites located around the world. planning based on customer needs to design, metal We began operations at a hub in Russia in May and quickly mold fabrication for plastic components and prototype achieved this goal. To ensure our new hub in India could begin manufacturing to name just a few. A design review is carried operations at the start of 2014 and quickly achieve the less than out at every stage in order to check if the products have three-day turnaround time for repair work, a training program for been completed exactly as specified during each respective local persons in charge was held at our Hirosaki Plant in Japan. process. In addition, temperature, endurance and other Such training programs help to speed up the launch of repair hubs tests, as well as sequential sampling, are performed before and also foster greater communication with Tamron’s sites in Japan. the final products are delivered to customers. Tamron also organized a skills building training program for distributors that expect to see an increase in sales so that they too 1. Please refer to page 13 of this report for further details about Tamron’s integrated quality management system. can achieve a consistent three-day turnaround time locally. In addition, in 2013 we began sending out an email magazine to registered customers in Japan beginning in December, launched Commendations from Distributors and OEM Customers an online service that enables customers to request repair work and check progress, and set up a dedicated telephone hotline Every year we ask our OEM customers and Tamron brand for customers. Going forward, we plan on continuing to improve distributors to complete a customer satisfaction survey. In customer convenience and to deliver truly satisfying after-sales 2013, positive improvements were observed in scores for services. survey items that had negative growth in 2012, including delivery, cost, handling of repairs and response to complaints. Compared to last year, however, scores for quality were down 0.2 points and communications also dropped 0.5 points compared to last year. As for quality, the negative effects of quality troubles in the first half of the year were eliminated by the second half and sound quality has since 9 been maintained. The dip in our score for communications required that we more actively collaborate to address changes taking place in the market, and as such, we are currently examining improvement measures. Individual requests were forwarded to the relevant sales departments, which carried out improvements. 《Results of Customer Satisfaction Survey》 The survey was conducted at 17 companies. Delivery 2012 After-sales service 6.0 2013 5.0 Handling of repairs Cost 《Incorporating Customer Feedback》 4.0 Reports/Instructions 3.0 2.0 Product inquiry Reports/Instructions 1.0 Feedback Response to for product Management team 0.0 Communications planning Reporting complaints Customer Suggestions and design Service Oﬃce departments Customers ●Identifying ●Necessary Questionnaire quality steps problems and Quality Development proposing Mail magazine solutions ●Reflection capability in products (from 2013〜) ●Customer and services Technical capability service improvements 1.Very dissatisfied 2.Dissatisfied 3.Slightly dissatisfied 4.Slighly satisfied 5.Satisfied 6.Very satisfied Development Technical Response to Handling of Delivery Cost Communications capability capability Quality complaints repairs Overall FY 2012 5.0 4.1 5.5 4.6 5.1 5.1 4.8 4.8 4.9 Provide better products and services to customers FY 2013 5.2 4.3 5.0 4.8 5.2 4.9 5.0 5.0 4.9 Gap +0.2 +0.2 -0.5 +0.2 +0.1 -0.2 +0.2 +0.2 0 Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues Relationship with Customers Environmentally-friendly Designs Making Motorized Society Safer We perform product assessments starting from the Traffic Monitoring Camera Lenses design stage to ensure we deliver products that are Traffic monitoring systems records images on roads using environmentallyfriendly. There are nine factors to consider cameras and lenses and mine information using imaging in assessing designs, with light weight and compact designs processing technologies tailored to each application. Using are particularly important goals. In 2012, we reduced the this information, road administrators can control traffic overall weight of all models produced by 2% and overall volume and catch speed limit violators, which helps to compactness by 2%1. To reduce impacts to human health enhance the safety of motorized society. and the environment, we constantly manage harmful Most traffic monitoring systems use single focus lenses, but chemical substances based on our Environment-related Tamron has developed and launched the DE005 (1/1.8 Type Substance Management Regulations, which our own internal 15-50mm F/1.4) zoom lens for traffic monitoring systems. regulations based on RoHS and the REACH Initiative. Products As a result, the multiple lenses required of conventional with environmentally-friendly designs wear the Tamron Eco systems can now be consolidated into a single lens unit7. Label and are reported on our website. In order to reduce The DE005 also features an electronic zoom and focus waste from manufacturing processes, we make rear caps for control mechanism. This enables auto focusing and remote our DSLR camera lenses from 100% recycled plastic runner operations, reduces installation work time, and improves materials2. We started using these plastic runner materials in convenience. 2010 and since then we have used some 71 tons of recycled 7. Zoom lenses for traffic monitoring can easily be adjusted for roads with materials up to 2013 (3.24 million rear caps). We are multiple lanes and differing shooting distances. currently examining the best mixture of recycled and virgin materials to ensure functionality and quality with the hopes of expanding this initiative to other parts as well. In 2014, we will continue to research the commercial viability of these efforts. 1. Calculated using production volume from 2013 comparing conventional models. 2. Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/en/envi/top/index.html 10 Tamron Eco Label： The label was designed to resemble an eye gently looking at our economy, society and environment. The eyebrow symbolizes a flowing stream of air and water, the pupil represents the green in the earth, and the tree in the pupil I N T E R V I E W stands for our work for the three Rs of“reduce,” “reuse”and“recycle” . Enhancing Our Technological Development Capabilities Interview with a Product Designer Our Namioka plant has established coating technologies for Senior Engineer the lenses it mass produces. Lens coatings are used on wide Dept.＃2, Optical Design & range of lens products, including camera lens units, surveillance Engineering R & D Unit camera lenses, automotive camera lenses and illumination Lai Wei optics. We have designed lenses for traffic monitoring Lens coatings are also referred to as antireflective coatings systems before, but this time we developed a because they reduce the amount of light that reflects on the zoom lens not available anywhere else. This lens surface of the lens, which enables more light to make it through offers variable focus lengths in a single unit, making to the imaging element3 or film surface. Coatings are available it possible to take pictures of a driver’s face or in single coats or multicoats and are also used to adjust the the car’s license plate, which can enhance the color contrast (CCI)4, eliminate ghosting5, and reduce flaring6. accuracy of traffic monitoring systems greatly. In 2013, we developed and began mass producing eBAND For this particular project we mulled over how Coating, a super anti-reflective lens coating that greatly exactly to develop a high resolution zoom improves lens and camera functionality. This technology is used lens within the short lead time required by the on lenses to guarantee optical performance. Going forward, customer. To shorten lead time, we carried out we will continue to push forward with similar development simulations, which made it possible for us to meet initiatives to enhance customer satisfaction even further. the required specifications in an efficient manner. The surveillance monitor now delivers 4K2K8 high 3. The main forms of fixed imaging elements include charge-coupled devices (CCD) and resolution images and sensor sensitivity has also complementary metal oxide semiconductors (C-MOS). These elements store light as an electronic signal. been increased as a result. Moving forward, I hope 4. Refers to the color reproduction characteristics of the subject in photographs taken with to develop new even higher resolution lenses. a lens unit. The lens color balance is compared to ISO standards using green and red CCI values. 8. 4K2K refers to high resolution imaging/display technologies measuring 5. A phenomenon that occurs where light reflected in the inside of the lens creates a false 4,000 x 2,000 pixels. image when taking pictures of strong light sources. 6. When strong light makes a photograph appear white or when light blurs. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Relationship with Employees Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with a challenging spirit and strives to provide positive workplace environments grounded in fair evaluations and compensation as well as mutual understanding. Summary of Activities in 2013 Tasks for 2014 ● Examined ways to more actively utilize female employees ● Further develop globally-minded human resources ● Established labor union at Tamron Optical Foshan and engineering-related human resources Human Resource Development Tamron fosters self-disciplined employees with a challenging of lens control software grows immensely with each passing spirit by fully capitalizing on its rank-based training programs, year. Therefore, software design represents an increasingly which build employee skills after they have been with the more important part of the pre-design phase for lens company for a certain period of time, occupational-based structures. The Software Design Theory course was a very training programs, which develop necessary competencies meaningful platform for sharing basic information about the for engineers, sales reps and administrative staff, and field, which even benefitted lens mechanism designers. company-wide training programs, which aim to build The Communication Basics for Cameras with Lens Units individual skills. course provided basic knowledge about relevant lens Tamron focuses in particular on engineering training courses development practices for camera-lens communication, within its broader occupational-based training programs. In which has grown quite complex to accommodate video 2013 three new courses were held primarily for electronic recording capabilities. designers. These included “Software Design Theory,” The Basic Principles of Actuators course fostered greater “Communication Basics for Cameras with Interchangeable understanding in the basic principles, performance and Lenses,”and“The Basic Principles of Actuators1”. control of DC motors2. With digitization bringing about technological advancements, This heightened focus on electronics in a systematic learning the technologies used in camera lenses continue to evolve environment was welcomed by training participants. Tamron in various ways. Today, most photographic lenses and will continue to use employee feedback to expand the realm 11 surveillance camera lenses now use electronic controls of its training programs so as to focus even greater efforts instead of conventional mechanized controls and importance on training its pool of engineering talent. 《Training System Diagram》 《Training for Electronic Designers》 Occupational-base Rank-based training Company-wide training Name of course Curriculum training programs programs programs Software Design Provided an overview of Theory software design methods Sales and On the job training Manager training Engineer training Correspondence Communication Provided an overview of Basics for camera-lens communication administrative staff Training for midand the movements of the Cameras with education career hires latest interchangeable lenses Lens Units training Provided information on Training for new The Basic the general performance, graduate hires Principles of selection and controls of Actuators DC motors 1. An actuator transforms various forms of energy into mechanical energy, such as rotational movements and straight-line movements. 2. A direct-current (DC) motor generates torque. Creating Safe and Comfortable Workplace Environments Tamron works hard to ensure safety, to enhance the mental Foshan. Most occupational accidents are minor incidents that and physical health of employees and to create comfortable occur on the production floor, while commute-related accidents workplace environments. Recognizing the importance of involve mainly automobile or bicycle traffic accidents. We strive administrating occupational safety properly, Tamron drew to prevent similar accidents from happening again by analyzing up its Occupational Health and Safety Regulations, organized the causes, providing safety education and raising awareness the Occupational Health and Safety Committee and started about safety. Tamron also organizes an annual training session on patrols with health and safety administrators to help prevent CPR and other emergency responses (31 employees participated labor accidents. Furthermore, health and safety managers from in 2013) to prepare employees for emergencies and to minimize each workplace carry out patrols, 5S (sort, systemize, sweep, injuries and damages. standardize, and self-discipline) patrols are also organized, while For mental health issues, we hold seminars led by professional previous near accidents are shared with the production floor to organizations one or two times each year so that employees prevent future reoccurrences. Each of these efforts helps us to may learn more about mental health care. In 2013, a total of prevent occupational accidents before they happen. 100 employees participated in the seminars. We will continue In 2013, there were two occupational accidents and six commuteto support employees’mental health and help prevent mental related accidents in Japan, as well as three occupational illnesses by offering health consultations with industrial physicians accidents and one commute-related accident at Tamron Optical and follow-up interviews with personnel department staff. Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.3 Human Rights / 6.4 Labour Practices R e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h E m p l o yees Achieving Diversity Relationship with Employees at Tamron Optical (Foshan) A diverse, self-disciplined pool of human resources and Tamron Optical (Foshan) (TOF) continues to work on comfortable workplace environments are absolutely essential to creating a comfortable, rewarding and employee-friendly Tamron’s future growth as a company. Tamron recognizes that workplace environment. providing positive workplaces where female employees can work Human Resource Development and Training Programs a longer career and offering an employment environment tailored to local conditions in each country where it operates are urgent Tamron Optical (Foshan) carries out human resource training issues that need to be addressed to achieve greater diversity. programs based on rank in order to enhance manager’s leadership skills and improve production technologies. In 2013, training Positive Use of Female Employees sessions were held on six occasions covering the subject matter of The total number of female employees at Tamron in Japan was 204 management knowledge and production technologies in order to as of December 31, 2013, accounting for 19% of the company’s develop candidates for executive management positions. A total of workforce. 119 employees took part in these sessions, including 14 assistant Tamron has positively employed female employees for many years. managers, 80 team leaders, and 25 other employees. Some 98% In the future we will continue to hire female employees so as to of participants have been able to use what they learned in these raise the ratio of female employees further and we will also aim to sessions to make improvements in operating processes. increase the ratio of female managers as well. We recognize the need to have a system in place that supports a work-life balance Labor Union Activities at Tamron Optical (Foshan) between their professional careers and their personal life, which may involve raising children, to help ensure female employees are The Tamron Optical (Foshan) Co., Ltd. Labor Union (below,“the comfortable working at Tamron for an extended period of time. Union”) was formed in September 2013 at the recommendation Of our female employees in Japan approximately 50% are married of the government in order to improve employee welfare. Today, and 45% have children, while nearly 100% of all eligible female the Union comprises a Leadership Committee of 9 members, employees take maternity leave. As such, we believe there will be Expense Audit Committee of 3 members and nearly 2,900 a steady rise in the number of female employees that continue to other active members. The Union is being managed responsibly work while raising a family. Tamron plans on opening an on-site according to the following basic policies, with the goal of daycare facility at its head office in 2015 as part of its measures to eventually expanding its reach further. support a work-life balance, and in November 2013 an in-house 1. We will serve as a bridge to the company and build a project team was set up to facilitate the opening of the daycare. All harmonious labor relationship by providing consulting and 12 of Tamron plans on further expanding support measures for a workadvice based on the reasonable needs of employees. life balance with the hope of creating even friendly workplaces for 2. We will summarize reasonable proposals from employees female employees. and cooperate to make improvements in the workplace The social gathering held between our president and female enviro nment an d living enviro nment base d o n these members of the labor union in January 2014 served as a meaningful proposals. platform for the exchange of information and viewpoints. Plans call 3. We will organize various cultural and athletic activities to for this social gathering to be held again next year. enrich the mental health of employees. I N T E R V I E W 4. We will build a mutual support system among employees and provide mental/physical healthcare or financial assistance to Interview with a Tamron employees in need. Optical (Foshan) Manager 5. We will check the conditions of wages, welfare, occupational health and safety, and social insurance and cooperate to Manager make improvements. 6. We will organize employee training opportunities and skills Technology Development Center competitions to enhance corporate competitiveness. Mingjian Huang 7. We will establish the Union and focus on improving sound democratic systems and improving democratic ways of living. Under the president’s policy of focusing development on 8. We will manage the Union’s budget and spending and protect automation equipment, the Technological Development its assets. Center headed up this these development efforts which The Union’s Leadership Committee and active members recently focused on general purpose automation and energy helped organized the first knowledge sharing meeting, and saving equipment, large-scale automation equipment, beginning in 2014 the Union plans on offering courses on mental quality stabilization equipment, defect outflow prevention health coaching, providing assistance to employees in need, equipment, and a traceability system. In 2013, automation and carrying out employee training. This newly established equipment was rolled out and quickly helped to reduce labor union is expected to help stabilize employee livelihoods, work hours and defects. The overall effect of this new improve company benefits, and help both the company and equipment helped reduce work hours by the equivalent employees grow. of 54 persons monthly work hours. I believe measures to secure consistent product equality and enhance work efficiency should focus on improving equipment and tools through automation to prevent defects, rather than relying on worker-focused measures such as coaching. In 2014 we will continue to focus on developing automation equipment to achieve even greater cost savings and quality improvements during production. Establishing the Union The Union’ s first knowledge sharing meeting Tamron CSR Report 2014 Management Systems Tamron strive to enhance our product and service quality while reducing environmental impacts through our integrated management system. Additionally, we ensure the continuity of our business by avoiding various management risks using our risk management system. Integrated Management System Audit System and Identifying Problems Tamron has obtained blanket ISO9001 (quality) and ISO Tamron regularly performs internal quality and environmental 14001 (environment) certification applicable to the entire audits covering the head office and three Aomori plants. In Tamron Group’s integrated management system, including addition to the internal audit, the Head Office and three Aomori plants audit each other to check their systems and manufacturing Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China as well as Hirosaki Plant, processes. We periodically arrange to receive audits from Namioka Plant and Owani Plant and other sites in Japan. external audit organizations to maintain certifications while Under this integrated management system, we will continue continually improving the integrated management system. As a to produce high quality products that are safe and satisfy our result of external audits implemented in 2013, the effectiveness of customers, while paying greater attention to the environment. the policy and management processes adopted at our domestic sites was assessed at level-4 on a scale of one to five, while the effectiveness of processes used at Tamron Optical (Foshan) was rated at level-4. Issues pointed out through this triple audit system are promptly remedied, and these improvements are in Integrated Management Policy turn rolled out at our other locations within the Tamron Group to continually improve activities. As a member of the international optical industry, we will continue to manufacture products that deliver customer satisfaction and help achieve our goal of Contributing to Risk Management System Society by Creating Eyes for Industry, while being considerate of environmental conservation. Tamron’s risk management system covers 10 specific themes 1. We will supply our customers with high quality and reliable in accordance with its Risk Management Policy, which include products by using our originality, ingenuity and technology, compliance, employment and human resources. We have also pursuing sustainable growth with profits arising out of completed our business continuity plan (BCP) for our head office as customer delight and satisfaction. 2. In running our business, we will comply with all related laws, well as our three plants in Aomori Prefecture. At the same time, we standards and treaties at home and abroad, respecting the completed the seismic review of our plants and made changes to requests and demands made by our customers and the alternative plans currently being used with regards to the necessary local community. personnel to restore operations in the event of an earthquake, the 13 3. We will work on preventing environmental contamination seismic strengthening of manufacturing facilities and information through reducing CO₂, waste emissions and harmful systems, and component procurement and assembly. As for the chemicals, while seeking alternatives and keeping biodiversity intact. server that powers the information system installed in the new head 4. We will continue to work on improving the effectiveness of office building, we used an aseismic structural design for the server our integrated management system. room and installed an emergency back-up generator to ensure the 5. To achieve this management policy, we will establish specific server will continue to be powered even during a loss of power. objectives and targets, periodically evaluating our progress. Tamron has also established a remote back-up system as part of 6. To enhance recognition of our integrated management, we efforts to reinforce its crisis management system for handling major will maintain good communications while providing sufficient education and training to all people working for Tamron. disasters that may occur in the future. 7. We will closely cooperate with society in all countries and regions where we operate and disclose information as necessary on our quality assurance and environment Tamron’s Risk Management Policy conservation efforts. In recognizing all possible risks that may affect our December 7, 2009 business, Tamron is committed to all possible prevention Morio Ono measures in order to minimize damage to the economy, President & CEO society and environment. In emergencies, we work to minimize damage and promptly restore operations by acting responsibly, providing continuous services to our 《Integrated Management System Implementation System》 customers, ensuring continuous growth. We aim for safety and peace of mind for all stakeholders including Representative our employees, shareholders, customers and business (President) partners. We will continue to provide opportunities for Quality/Environment Committee learning about risk management to all employees so Consolidated Administration that they may work on risk management from a CSR Manager perspective built on properly recognizing the importance Secretarial Office (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) of the policy and their mission. Omiya Consolidated Aomori Consolidated Tamron Optical (Foshan) September 30, 2009 Administration Manager Administration Manager Hirosaki, Namioka, and Owani Manager Consolidated Administration Morio Ono President & CEO Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce Secretarial Oﬃce (CSR Implementation & Administration Board) (Operation Promotion Section） (ISO Promotion Oﬃce) Specialty committees (Waste Reduction, Eco-friendly Design, CSR Procurement) Responding to Emergencies As part of their risk management initiatives, Tamron’s head Head Oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Owani Tamron Optical office and three plants in Aomori Prefecture as well as Tamron Plant Plant Plant (Foshan) Co., Ltd. Optical (Foshan) hold firefighting drills led by employees, *Integrated Internal Auditors work at our all sites, while Integrated Management while departments that handle chemicals carry out emergency Promotion Committee members are fulfilling their missions at all domestic sites. response drills for chemical spills. Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.2 Organizational Governance / 6.5 The Environment / 6.7 Consumer Issues M a n a g e m e n t S y s tems Environmental Management Systems Compliance with Laws and Regulations Environmental Training In 2013, work environment readings taken regularly inside Tamron regularly holds training on the environment. In 2013, we the Hirosaki Plant in accordance with the Industrial Safety and provided training on energy conservation activities for members of Health Act found that measured values temporarily exceeded the Integrated Management Promotion Committee who serve as statutory requirements at the start of the year. The Hirosaki environmental leaders at their respective workplaces. The Integrated Plant uses organic solvents when assembling products and Management Promotion Committee comprises 49 members who in turn shared training curriculum with their workplaces as well as these findings necessitated inspections and improvements carried out and promoted energy conservation activities, such as as required by law. The Hirosaki Plant immediately required more closely controlling air conditioning. all workers to wear protective masks and to carefully follow In addition, the third Friday of every month has been designated No the existing rule to dispose of all paper exposed to organic My Car Day, while certain days in the summertime and wintertime solvents be disposed of in a receptacle with a lid. In addition, are designated Eco Life Day (organized by Saitama Prefecture), the plant added three new exhaust fans and one ceiling fan, as part of the company’s efforts to raise awareness about the which has improved the work environment. environment among all of its executive officers and employees at In addition, Tamron carefully stores and fully reports PCB1 the head office5. wastes to government agencies in accordance with the Act on Special Measures concerning Promotion of Proper 5. Approximately 14 tons of CO2 emissions were reduced as a result of No My Car Day and Eco Life Day in 2013. Treatment of PCB Wastes. In 2013, one capacitor stored at the Hirosaki Plant that contained PCBs was disposed of responsibly Environmental Accounting The following table contains information on Tamron’s compliance with important laws and regulations, including Tamron’s environmental accounting in 2013 is presented in the those mentioned table below. In 2013, we invested 300 million yen as global environment protection costs. This covered the installation of highabove. In 2013, efficiency air conditioners and LED lighting as part of the head Tamron complied office reconstruction project. Management activity costs total 14 with the expanded 16.79 million yen and included greenery initiatives for rooftops and scope of REACH areas surrounding Tamron’s business sites (Please see page 17 of substances and this report for more information about the energy saving effects of also verified Tamron’s head office reconstruction project). In addition, pollution that its use of prevention costs totaled 1.16 million yen for installing exhaust fans substances of and ceiling fans at the Hirosaki Plant to improve the workplace very high concern environment. (SVHC) were (Unit : thousand yen) within reporting Environmental costs Details of main Environmental Economic Relevant guidelines. Category Investment Expense activities effect conservation effect page Disposing of PCB waste (Hirosaki Plant) 1. PCB is an abbreviation for poly chlorinated biphenyl. PCB was generally used Pollution ・Installed exhaust fans and Complied with P14 in the insulation oil of electronic equipment and thermal catalysts used in heat prevention 1,164 7,264 ceiling fan (Hirosaki Plant) ― costs environmental standards P16 exchangers. Chronic exposure to PCB can lead to a build-up of the substance in the body, which has led to reported health problems. Cost Global ・Installed high-efficiency air P7 ・Reduced electricity within environment 301,351 21,646 conditioners for reconstruction ― P14 《Compliance at Respective Sites》 business conservation costs project (head office) usage 〜17 area 〇 Compliance △ Exceeded standard temporarily Resource cycling costs 0 15,908 Reduced waste and recycled 330 Raised recycling rate P18 × Administrative action as a result of violation of law/regulation Head office Aomori plants Tamron Optical (Foshan)4 Subtotal 302,515 44,818 ― 330 ― ― Energy saving (Energy Saving Act) ○ ○ ― Upstream and Carried out environmental downstream 0 1,287 Green procurement ― quality audits at business P7 CO₂ reduction (Act on Promotion of costs partners Global Warming Countermeasures) ○ ○ ― Run and maintain environmental management Chemical substance management2 ○ ○ ○ Management 16,788 28,466 system ― Achieved environmental P16 activity costs ・Environmental training goals/targets Air ○ ○ ○ ・Greenery Water quality ○3 ○ ○ Made efforts in Promoted environmentallyP10 R&D costs 0 145,805 environmentally-friendly ― Soil ○ ○ ○ designs friendly designs P18 Noise ○ ○ ○ Social activity ・Supported nature restoration in the community (head office) 0 932 ・Carried out neighborhood ― Reduced littering ― Vibration ○ ○ ○ costs clean-up activities Odor ○ ○ ○ Cost to prevent Number of environmental Occupational health & safety ○ △ ○ environmental 0 0 ― ― P14 damage pollution incidents: 0 Waste management ○ ○ ○ Total 319,303 221,308 ― 330 ― ― 2. Laws related to managing and investigating chemical substances apply to domestic sites; international directives including RoHS and REACH apply to the entire group. 3. Values for groundwater temporarily exceeded certain standards, but our treatment *Scope of Environmental Accounting measures prevented contamination from spreading outside our facilities. Period: From January 1 through December 31, 2013 Premises covered: head office (including sales offices in Tokyo and Osaka) and the three Aomori plants. 4. Compliance with related laws and regulations enforced in China as well as international *Labor costs are calculated based on the average wage. directives such as the RoHS and REACH. *The economic effect of resource recycling costs is represented by profits from the sale of metal waste sales. *Depreciation is not calculated as an expense. Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Relationship with the Environment Tamron is considerate of the environment in all aspects of its business operations and constantly works to be in harmony with the environment. Summary of Activities in 2013 Tasks for 2014 ● Began identifying environmental impacts at ● Examine ways to reduce CO2 emissions further Tamron Optical (Vietnam) ● Establish environmental management system ● Reduced CO2 emissions thanks to improvements in logistics at Tamron Optical (Vietnam) Environmental Impacts In Japan, Tamron carries out design work, creates manufacture plastics used to make peripheral components prototypes and fabricates metal molds at its head office for lenses, and these processes produce runner materials 1 plant located in Saitama Prefecture, while the Namioka and other waste. Plant manufactures lenses, the Owani Plant molds plastic Air cargo, marine shipping, and trucks are used to components, and the Hirosaki Plant assembles products. transport components and products between plants, Tamron manufactures parts and assembles products at which results in CO₂ emissions from the burning of fuel. Tamron Optical (Foshan) in China and at Tamron Optical (Vietnam). These sites use electricity, heavy oil, kerosene and 1. Waste material that occurs when pouring plastic resin during the production process. other energy sources for developing, designing and manufacturing, which produce CO₂. Our plants in Namioka, Foshan and Vietnam also use water for polishing and cleaning lens elements. The Owani Plant and Tamron Optical (Foshan) Inputs 15 Sites covered: Energy Water Transportation energy2 Head oﬃce (including Tokyo Sales Oﬃce and Osaka Sales Oﬃce), the Electric power 71,317,000kWh Clean water 699,000㎥ Diesel 215kℓ three plants in Aomori Prefecture, Heavy oil 218kℓ Groundwater 132,000㎥ Gasoline 61kℓ Tamron Optical (Foshan) and Tamron Kerosene 17kℓ Total 831,000㎥ Optical (Vietnam). However, Tamron Total 276kℓ Optical (Vietnam) only includes Diesel 21kℓ energy for inputs and CO2 for outputs. Gasoline 1kℓ Raw/auxiliary materials LPG 1,000kℓ 2. Data for transportation covers energy Metal (brass and aluminum) Natural gas 112,000㎥ used to transport parts and ﬁnished Glass products by ground and commercial Total 657,000GJ Plastic vehicles connecting Tamron s ﬁve Chemicals (drugs, solvents, and cleaners） satellite oﬃces in Japan. Tamron Paper Gas (nitrogen, oxygen, and argon) Optical (Foshan) data covers companyowned vehicles. Copy paper 18t Electrical components Cardboard Site coverage: 96% Manufacturing of raw materials/ Development, design and Transportation between factories and distributors Use by customers components at suppliers production at Tamron (logistics/commercial vehicles) Outputs Reference guideline: CO2 Recycling CO2 emissions during transport2 Manual for Calculating and Reporting Greenhouse Gas Emissions Ver. 3.4 CO2 37,085t-CO2 Plastic 316t Diesel 565t-CO2 (Ministry of the Environment) Electric power 591t-CO2 Cardboard 289t Gasoline 142t-CO2 (Ver. 2.4 used for emission factor) Heavy oil 41t-CO2 General waste (thermal recycling) 185t Kerosene Total 707t-CO2 55t-CO2 Waste liquid 172t 3. Industrial waste includes 4 tons Diesel of Pollutant Released & Transfer 3t-CO2 Waste oil 113t Gasoline Registered (PRTR) substances. LPG 7t-CO2 Metal 94t One ton of a PRTR substance Natural gas 234t-CO2 Paper 44t (xylene) was also released into Polishing sludge 11t the atmosphere. Total 38,016t-CO2 Other 11t Waste contracted for intermediate processing Total 1,235t Industrial waste3 812t General waste 704t Products Total (Japan) 1,516t Total for products 1,614t Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved In 2013, we worked toward achieving the environmental objectives and targets for the first year of our phase-five environmental protection program, and achieved our CO2 reduction targets. Environmental Objectives and Targets Achieved in 2013 The Tamron Group has established a target to reduce its the three plants in Aomori Prefecture did not achieve their CO2 emissions compared to its benchmark year of 2012 targets for increasing the material recycling rate for waste by 1% per year on average in terms of basic unit per plastics2. This was attributed to the fact that production sales1 and also a mid-term environmental target to reduce at the three plants was cut back compared to the initial emissions 7.7% by 2020. plan at the outset of the year, which in turn reduced the In 2013, we achieved a 9.6% reduction in CO2 emissions amount of materials for recycling (please see page 18 of versus 2012 compared to the target of 1% (basic unit this report for more data on our waste reductions). per sales). Although 2013 sales and CO2 emissions both In 2014, Tamron’s Waste Reduction Sub-committee will increased compared to 2012, improvements were made handle matters related to the reduction of industrial in the basic unit versus 2012 (please see page 17 of this waste, while the Integrated Design, Engineering and report for more data on our CO2 emissions). Production Sub-committee will address the promotion of Tamron Optical (Vietnam) began operating in the summer environmentally-friendly products. These sub-committees of 2013 and first we identified the amount of CO2 it was manage horizontal targets and carry out their activities producing. In 2014, we will bolster our management of throughout the manufacturing process. these emissions now that targets have been set for the The organizational chart for each sub-committee entire Tamron Group, including Tamron Optical (Vietnam). is provided in Integrated Management System As for environmental impacts other than CO2 emissions, Implementation System diagram on page 13 of this report. each site has set individual targets because of each site manufacturers a different category of products. In 2013, 《2013 to 2020 Mid-term Environmental Targets》 《Progress in 2013 and Targets for 2014》 Reduction 2013 2014 rate of 16 CO2 7.7% CO₂reduction target emissions 1% reduction About a 2% reduction Average annual reduction (versus 2012 basic unit of sales; cumulative annual average) per basic unit of reduction of 1% Results 9.6% reduction − sales 2012 2020 (benchmark year) (mid-term target year) Status ○ − 《Environmental Targets Achieved in 2013》 Environmental targets 2013 targets 2013 results Status Material recycling rate for waste plastics Reduce industrial 3 Aomori plants 45% × Increase 3% compared to 2012 (59%) waste Tamron Optical (Foshan) Reduce 2.5% compared to 2012 (basic unit of sales) 4.2% reduction ○ ・Promoted environmentally-friendly designs Promote environ・Promote environmentally-friendly designs Lightweight: 2% reduction mentally-friendly All sites Compact: 2% reduction ○ ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 (compared to conventional models; calculated based on 2013 production volume) products3 ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 《Environmental Targets for 2014》 Environmental targets 2014 targets Reduce industrial Tamron Optical Reduce 2.5% compared to 2013 (basic waste (Foshan) unit of sales) Promote environ・Promote environmentally-friendly designs mentally-friendly All sites ・Incidents of environmental non-conformity: 0 products3 Total CO₂ emissions（ｔ－ CO₂） 1. Basic unit per sales: Consolidated sales (million yen) 2. Material recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. 3. Promoting lightweight, compact designs and the use of recycled materials in line with our product assessment regulations Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Reducing CO2 Emissions and Electricity Consumption Tamron strives to reduce CO2 emissions and electricity consumption at plants using its integrated management system. Sources of CO₂ emissions Reducing CO₂ Emissions through Improvements in Logistics Looking at sources of CO2 emissions from the head office, Tamron primarily manufacturers its products at Tamron Optical the three Aomori plants and Tamron Optical (Foshan) in (Foshan) in China, which are in turn delivered to its sales China, electricity accounts for 97%, heavy oil 2% and natural subsidiaries, distributors and retailers around the world. Up until gas, diesel oil, kerosene, LPG and gasoline collectively 1%. 2008 products were shipped by air internationally via Narita Given this breakdown, our energy saving activities focus on Airport, but starting in 2009 we made changes to our logistics reducing electricity consumption. network in which our logistics hub was shifted to Hong Kong to increase the number of direct shipments by air sent from there. These improvements in our logistics scheme helped reduce CO2 Electricity Heavy oil Natural gas Diesel emissions by 2076t-CO22 between 2009 and 2013. Kerosene LPG Gasoline Beginning in October 2013 we established a new logistics route for our products shipped from Tamron Optical (Vietnam) that first Diesel 0.1% Kerosene 0.3% passes through our hub in Hong Kong. LPG 0.02% In addition, we have carried out a modal shift to further enhance Natural gas 0.7% Heavy oil Gasoline 0.01% logistics efficiencies based on delivery needs, which includes 1.7% shipping products bound for Europe first by ship to Dubai. In 2014 and beyond we will examine ways to make further improvements in our shipment route from Tamron Optical (Vietnam). Electricity 97.4% 《Summary of Logistics Improvements》 Tamron Optical (Foshan) Narita Other countries Until 2008 Hong Kong From 2009 17 Trends in CO₂ Emissions Over the past five years CO₂ emissions from the head office, 2. The number of flights between Hong Kong and Narita Airport was reduced. As three Aomori plants, and Tamron Optical (Foshan) has been on a result, this amount was calculated based on transport volume. the rise, and in 2013 the total volume of CO₂ emissions from the company rose 3% compared to 2012. Viewed by geographic location, our sites in Japan saw a 15% decrease, while Tamron Energy Saving Promotion through the Head Office Reconstruction Project Optical (Foshan) remained largely unchanged, and the launch of Tamron’s head office carried out the following energy operations at our new plant in Vietnam added additional CO₂ Saving measures on occasion of its reconstruction project emissions. With the exception of Tamron Optical (Vietnam), completed in November 2013 production volume fell at our domestic sites and Tamron Optical Anticipated energy (Foshan) and CO₂ emissions were reduced by 4% thanks to a usage reduction effect shift to energy efficiency compressors and air conditioners at the (Converted to crude oil) Hirosaki Plant and the utilization of an energy saving system for better visualizing electricity usage. Furthermore, CO₂ emissions 1. Installed high-efficiency air conditioners 9.0㎘ /year in terms of a basic unit of sales were reduced 9.6% compared 2. Installed high-efficiency lighting (LED) 8.8㎘ /year to 2012. In 2014, we will examine ways to improve production 3. Installed motion activated light switches 0.2㎘ /year efficiency and make production faculties more energy efficient, 4. Installed light dimming switches 1.7㎘ /year including at Tamron Optical (Vietnam). 5. Installed CO2 controls on air conditioners that process outdoor air 15.0㎘ /year Head office Hirosaki Namioka Owani Foshan Vietnam Basic unit 6. Installed a BEMS3 31.0㎘ /year （t-CO₂) 40,000 3. BEMS: Building Energy Management System. A system used to reduce energy consumption 38,016 36,778 t-CO₂/ through the controlled management and operations of a building’s facilities. 2,506 35,000 /sales 32,537 33,364 (million All lighting in the building uses high-efficiency LED to 30,507 yen) 30,000 0.57 0.57 0.57 0.60 cut electricity consumption, while the BEMS helps to 0.52 0.61 visualize electricity consumption and controls electrical 25,000 0.50 1 facilities by turning them on or off based on demand. 20,000 21,947 24,212 25,413 27,725 27,778 0.40 15,000 0.30 10,000 620 593 595 549 0.20 535 5,013 4,639 4,447 5,267 4,193 5,000 0.10 891 1,012 968 1,055 995 2,036 2,081 2,001 2,136 1,995 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY 1. Tamron Optical (Vietnam) commenced operations at its plant in the second half of 2013. As a result, its data has not been included in the 2013 results of CO2 emissions per basic unit of sales. LED lighting in the North Wing of the new head office building Electricity monitoring in progress Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.5 The Environment Reducing Waste and Water Consumption Tamron is working to reduce waste and water consumption by improving the way in which business division operates. Trends in Waste Volume Trends in Water Consumption Tamron’s total volume of waste emitted by the entire Tamron’s total water consumption volume by the entire group in 2013, including Tamron Optical (Foshan), group in 2013, including Tamron Optical (Foshan), dropped 16% compared to 2012, while in Japan waste dropped 14% compared to 2012, while in Japan it volume was reduced by 3%.1 remained relatively unchanged. Water consumption also In 2013, Tamron Optical (Foshan) alone was able to cut fell per basic unit of sales. the amount of waste it produced by 21% versus 2012. This Tamron uses the largest volume of water during the lens was partly attributed to a reduction in production volume, polishing process, which means production volume greatly but the plant’s efforts to reuse trays and recycle them as impacts water consumption. As a result, we are developing rear caps in order to reduce waste plastics also played an plastic lenses and molded lenses4 that do not require important role. polishing to help reduce water usage. In addition, general waste accounted for 60% of all the In 2014, we will regularly monitor our water consumption waste generated by Tamron Optical (Foshan), which is and investigate as well as remedy the situation if increases much higher than the 25% figure typically seen at our sites are found. in Japan. As a result, the plant devised strategies to trim down this general waste and achieved a 20% reduction in Head oﬃce Hirosaki Namioka Basic unit 2013. （thousand㎥） Owani Foshan 1,000 969 thousand ㎥/ Head office Hirosaki Recycling ratio sales Namioka Owani Foshan (Domestic) 900 852 (billion 831 yen) （ t） 99.8 1,777 1,729 1,800 （%） 1,800 100 800 16 1,654 99.7 99.2 99.7 99.9 722 1,600 1,516 95 700 15.1 14 14.6 12.0 90 1,400 600 549 12.7 12 85 1,200 500 11.0 10 80 1,126 1,265 1,262 1,316 1,045 1,000 400 8 75 386 546 671 789 650 800 300 6 18 70 600 200 0.4 0.4 0.8 0.5 4 65 0.4 92 74 57 400 73 89 224 202 60 100 149 161 165 162 162 2 248 214 206 200 6 6 7 7 7 121 145 123 55 8 9 9 10 11 110 97 0 67 69 70 92 89 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY 0 50 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 FY 4. A molded lens refers to a lens made using a metal press after glass and other materials are heated to a workable temperature. 1. Waste from Tamron Optical (Foshan) includes converted data for types of waste that cannot be measured. Waste Reduction Initiatives I N T E R V I E W Interview with an The Waste Reduction Sub-committee is working diligently Environmental Manager to reduce waste and recycle more in order to reach its Operations & Administration zero emissions target2. The Hirosaki Plant and Namioka Section, Section Manager Plant are making efforts to raise their material recycling Factory Management Dept. rate3 by contracting out the recycling of plastic packaging Production Management & trays that had normally been disposed of as waste to Administration Unit an external provider. This activity will be expanded to Kiyonori Imai other plants beginning in 2014 to help expand the types of plastics that can be recycled as materials. In addition, Tamron’s three manufacturing plants in Aomori the Integrated Design, Engineering and Production SubPrefecture are working hard to increase waste committee is promoting the reuse of waste plastics in recycling. The Hirosaki Plant has been rigorously Tamron products to help reduce plastic waste (please see sorting its waste plastics since 2012 and has shifted from conventional thermal recycling to material page 10 of this report for more details.). These initiatives recycling. In 2013 the Namioka Plant started these are helping us to reduce waste with confidence. same activities. In 2014 the Owani Plant will begin full-scale 2. Tamron’s definition of zero emissions is recycling more than 98% of the industrial material recycling activities for runner materials waste it produces. produced during the molding process. Going 3. Material recycling refers to the collection and utilization of used products and forward we will aim to ensure that recycling waste generated from production processes as raw materials to make new activities gain a foothold at all Tamron sites. products. Tamron recycles runner materials as waste plastics and prioritizes material recycling over thermal recycling so that recycled materials can be reused offsite. Tamron CSR Report 2014 Relationship with Society Tamron supports activities that contribute to photographic and imaging culture, while its employees are actively involved in their local communities, which helps them to recognize the importance of their work and close connections with society. In this way, Tamron is aspiring to be a company beloved by the local community. Contributions to Photographic Culture The 6 th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest Tamron sponsors the Railway Scenery Photo Contest in order to promote train culture and local revitalization in Omiya, known as an important railroad town in Japan and also site of our head office. As part of this contest, a photo exhibition is held at the Omiya Sogo Department Store showcasing the winning entries. This local event is made possible with the support of the City of Saitama, the Saitama Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Saitama City Board of Education. The 6th Railroad Scenery Photo Contest received strong support from a host of different individuals, including amateur photographers and railway fans. A total of 6,584 submissions were received for the general and student divisions, which was higher than the 6,211 entries received the previous time. WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/train2013/result.html (available only in Japanese) General Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Mayor’ s Prize) Mr. Mitsuhiro Chiba Summer Ending My goal was to capture the Shinkansen the exact moment it passed. It took two different cameras and nearly three hours to get this shot. Humorous Photo Contest Award 19 (Saitama City Chamber of Commerce and Industry President’ s Award) Ms. Natsuko Chiba Slanted Eye Brothers I took this picture of a senior colleague who imitated the Shinkansen on a poster in front of the Omiya General Rolling Stock Center. Student Division Grand Prize (Saitama City Board of Education Superintendent’ s Award) Mr. Syunsuke Nakano Water Mirror It was tough to get the timing down so that both the train and Mt. Fuji were in the shot, but I think I nailed it with this one. 10 th Macro Lens Photo Contest This photo contest accepts entries shot from any macro lens, regardless of manufacturer. For the tenth contest a total of 5,477 entries were received, marking a slight increase over the 5,429 from the previous time. The contest has two categories: the Nature Division for nature enthusiasts that enjoy taking pictures of plants and insects and the Genre-Free Division for amateur photographers using DSLR cameras to take pictures of food, their children or pets. Many of the entries featured beautiful, warm natural scenes captured 10th Macro Lens Photo Contest delicately in only ways a macro lens can. Grand Prize Mr. Minoru Yamasaki WEB http://www.tamron.co.jp/special/macrocon2013/result.html Jewel of the Forest (available only in Japanese) Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development R e l a t i o n s h i p w i t h S o ciety Growing Together with Local Communities Contributions of the Three Aomori Plants Participation in the Saitama City CSR Promotion Council Each of Tamron’s three plants in Aomori Prefecture carry Tamron’s head office was a member of a CSR promotion out local clean-up activities as part of their support for the council organized by the City of Saitama, which instituted a CSR local community. These activities take place between April Certification program and established the CSR Promotion Council and November every year in predetermined areas of the community. The first clean-up activity of the spring usually in order to heighten CSR activities being undertaken by small and yields a large amount of trash, as no clean-ups are carried medium-sized enterprise in the city. The CSR Promotion Council out during the winter. The three Aomori plants have also creates standards for the city’s CSR Certification program as well collected pull-tabs since 2005, an initiative they continue as provides advice on screening methods and CSR activities. As today. a member of this organization, Tamron sought to foster greater The plants also sponsor local festivals. The Hirosaki Plant dialogue and engagement with other local companies. continues to update its certification as an Eco Office 1 by the City of Hirosaki. Science Classes for Children 1. Hirosaki Eco Office certification recognizes companies that take part in certain volunteer community clean-up activities and actively promote the collection recyclables. Tamron has organized science classes for children at local public halls and elementary schools since 2008. Supporting Adaptive Athletes These interactive classes are intended to spur interest in the sciences and teach about Tamron sponsors wheelchair track and field athletes Wakako the importance of maintaining harmony between people and the Tsuchida and Kota Hokinoue and in environment. In 2013, we held eight 2013 began sponsoring prostheticscience classes at local public halls legged runner Saki Takakuwa. While and elementary schools, with a physically challenged, these athletes total of 263 children in attendance. Science class have been working hard day in and day out to realize their dreams to become international athletes, giving Supporting the Cookie Project 20 strength to and inspiring many people. Tamron provided advertising support and donations to Tamron is committed to supporting Cookie Bazaar 2013 held in Saitama City in February 2013 the activities of these athletes going and organized by the Cookie forward. Ms. Tsuchida Project. This organization was established to help the disabled live independent lives and seeks to increase opportunities for community workshops to sell the cookies they make. Cookie bazaar I N T E R V I E W Interview with the Representative of the Cookie Project Ms. Takakuwa Mr. Hokinoue Cookie Project Representative / Supporting Nature Restoration Hot Lounge Director Tamron’s Omiya head office continues to support the nature Mr. Yasuo Noguchi restoration project carried out by the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Saitama together with local citizen groups at the Shibakawa The Cookie Project is in its sixth year and thanks to the Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir and surrounding areas. Many years support of many people we have been able to increase the ago the Minuma Tambo area of the reservoir area was an abundant visibility of our activities. The greatest joy for those at our wetland with white herons. Today the reservoir continues to see a partner community workshops, who are disabled and have number of wildfowl such as swans and even short-toed eagles visit few opportunities to interact with the outside world, is to the area to feed. meet and become inspired by professional confectioners, officials from confectionery schools and packaging experts. Because of their involvement in this project, these individuals continually dedicate themselves to improving the taste of their products and tackle cookie making with a sense of advancement. I hope that our partner companies will develop a greater interest in the issues and welfare needs of the local community and increase their involvement going forward. Shibakawa Daiichi Flood Control Reservoir Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 6.8 Community Involvement and Development Activities at Tamron’s Overseas Subsidiaries Tamron’s subsidiaries outside Japan continue to strengthen their relationship with local communities. Tamron Europe GmbH Tamron Optical (Shanghai) Germany has a high photovoltaic (PV) system penetration To promote photographic culture to the younger rate compared to other countries and Tamron Europe generation, Tamron Optical (Shanghai) has held a photo is no exception. In February 2011 when adding on to its contest and photography classes for four consecutive head office building, Tamron Europe installed 344 PV years since 2010. The photo contest is open to university panels on the rooftop to generate its own power and students across China, selecting noteworthy entries reduce CO2 emissions. In 2013, this PV system generated for awards, which has helped to spur excitement some 61,359kWh of power and reduced the company’s CO2 in photography. The photography class is held in emissions by about 43 tons per year. Since being installed collaboration with university photography clubs to provide the system has produced a total of 186,000kWh of power students with an initial interest in photography the chance and reduced CO2 emissions by 129 tons. to use a DLSR camera to learn about the features of the Tamron Europe also purchases UNICEF Christmas camera and lens and how to take pictures. Students that cards every year and contributes to a pediatric cancer are already camera aficionados learn about advanced support organization in Cologne, Germany as part of its photography techniques directly from the instructor to commitment to giving back to society. In 2013, Tamron improve their camera skills. Europe supported a school in Columbia though a donation In addition, in April 2013 a major earthquake registering a to an organization that provides educational assistance. magnitude 7.0 struck Lushan County in Sichuan Province, The impetus for this donation came in 2011 when a affecting some 2.3 million people. The Tamron Group Tamron Europe employee visited an elementary school donated 300,000 renminbi (approx. 5 million yen) to newly built by this organization in Columbia to document help fund emergency disaster relief activities through the organization’s activities with a Tamron interchangeable the Sichuan Province Philanthropic Association for those lens (model B008). These photographs were in turn used communities and people most in need. to raise awareness of the organization’s activities and promote Tamron’s B008 interchangeable lens. Tamron Europe continued to work with this organization, which led to the donation in support of its activities in 2013. 21 Letter of appreciation for charitable donation Photography class held by Tamron Optical (Shanghai) Tamron USA In efforts to maintain our dedication to Corporate Social Responsibility, Tamron USA has implemented a new Rooftop PV panels at the Tamron Europe head office in Germany environmentally conscious sales and marketing initiative. Tamron USA began publishing a guide to its products and photography as an eBook on its corporate website to replace the printed version. Since the first in July 2013, six versions have been published and accessed widely by consumers not only in the United States, but also other English speaking countries, with more than 1,000 downloads to date. Plans call for six versions to be published every year and even more downloads are expected in the future. Switching to an eBook version has eliminated CO 2 emissions resulting from the printing and delivery processes. School in Columbia eBook on Tamron-USA.com Tamron CSR Report 2014 ISO26000 7.5 Communication on Social Responsibility Independent Third-Party Opinion Environmental Credentials Current Title Eco Action 21 Screener and Environmental Counselor (civic/business) Associate Professor Department of Social-Human Environmentology Areas of Specialization Daito Bunka University All aspects of corporate management and sustainability, including environmental management, management strategy theory, CSR, environmental management systems, carbon management Career History 2004 Completed coursework without degree at Yokohama National University’s Graduate Committees School of Environment and Information Science Review Committee for a Japan-ASEAN Coordinated Transportation Environmental 2008 Guest Associate Professor, Graduate School Action Plan (Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism; 2009) of Innovation and Management, Hosei University Review Committee for Co-benefit Type Global Warming Prevention Measures 2010 Full-time Instructor, Department of Socialand CDM (Ministry of the Environment; 2010) Human Environmentology, Daito Bunka University Environmental Management System Assessment Committee (Saitama Prefecture; 2011) 2013 Associate Professor, Department of SocialWorking Group Committee for the Environmental Communication Awards (Global Human Environmentology, Daito Bunka University Environmental Forum; 2013) Academic Societies Works Authored Sustainable Management Forum of Japan, Japan Academy of Business Carbon Disclosure (author and editor) published by Zeimu Keiri Kyokai Associate Professor Administration, The Academic Association for Organizational Science, Sustainability and Business Administration (co-author) published by Minerva Shobo Yoshifumi Tsuruta Academy of Management、Japan Society for Applied Management, Japan Academy for International Trade and Business, Japan Academy of International Modern CSR Management Principles (co-author) published by Business Studies, The Japanese Association for Environmental Sociology Soseisha Co., Ltd. Assuring Confidence in the Supply Chain I found that this report conveys Tamron’s stance to by its suppliers using its proprietary analysis of procured faithfully and fully carry out initiatives under its 12 themes components. Tamron’s Business Partner Certification System that promote an integrated approach to CSR and its basic following the company’s own standards functions effectively corporate philosophy of contributing to the economy, and Tamron has been able to build sound relationships with society and environment by supplying customers with its suppliers, which indicates conscientious efforts are being quality products that serve as eyes for industry. made between suppliers and buyers to fulfill accountability. Tamron is working diligently to address the issue of conflict In terms of business continuity planning, Tamron has made minerals and is fulfilling its inherent responsibilities in the great strides with its back-up measures, including installing supply chain. I commend the fact that is has obtained the generators that will ensure offices can function for up to assistance of nearly 90% of its suppliers for tracking their 48 hours without power and storing important data in an use of mineral resources, which is also proof that Tamron all new server building. However, the fact that more than has earned the trust and confidence of its suppliers. Tamron 95% of the company’s energy for production comes from has also been managing its use of chemical substances electricity represents a future risk and as such Tamron 22 for some time and is able to confirm matters reported should take steps to diversify its sources of energy. Global CSR Management that Values People-to-People Connections As for global CSR management, Tamron diligently complies accurate. with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. In 2013 In recent years, Tamron is working to globalize its a labor union was established at Tamron Optical (Foshan), production and organizational governance by clarifying which indicates the company is paying special attention the roles of its domestic and overseas plants. With the to the UN Global Compact principles on labour. Tamron launch of full-scale operations at Tamron Optical (Vietnam), hires local persons to head up management at its overseas Tamron will need to ensure that it can cope with the risks subsidiaries and plants, which makes it possible to carry posed by building a global logistics system. The increase out CSR-management tailored to each local community. in Tamron’s overseas sites and growth in the industrial-use This demonstrates the company is making progress optics business will result in a supply chain much different toward the realization of a localized overseas human from the current one, so it will be key for the company resources and employment strategy advocated by the to develop the human resources necessary for practicing president of the company. The company’s hiring of human the 12 CSR themes and to build a robust organizational resources overseas that have attended university in Japan governance mechanism. I anticipate such a corporate and understand Japanese culture and customs not only system will be a clean combination of management that reduces globalization risks, but speeds up the decision values the people working at Tamron and rebuilding a making process and makes business execution more governance system better suited for globalization. Editorial Team’s Postscript This rep o r t contains info rmation on Tamron’s annual Head office activities as a way to facilitate engagement with our many stakeholders. The 2014 version contains information about our human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption activities at our overseas sites in the special feature section. In addition, universal font has been used to ensure even more people have access to this content. We sincerely hope that these initiatives have helped our readers learn more about Tamron. Going forward, we consider the issues raised in the third party opinion above and will tackle issues of organizational Tamron Optical (Foshan) governance and human resources development in order to promote global CSR management. We also encourage readers to share their honest opinions and requests so that we may be able to use these to improve next year’s report. The three Aomori plants Tamron CSR Report 2014 Tamron Co., Ltd. CSR Implementation & Administration Board 1385 Hasunuma, Minuma-ku, Saitama-city, Saitama 337-8556 Japan Tel. +81-48-684-9190 Fax. +81-48-684-9472 E-mail: e-report@tamron.co.jp Website: http://www.tamron.co.jp Published March 2014
