LEADING THE WORLD IN ESSENTIALS FOR 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT A BETTER LIFE KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CONTENTS 2013 HIGHLIGHTS OUR APPROACH 3 PEOPLE 21 PRODUCTS 48 About This Report 4 Employees 21 Innovation 48 Independent Assurance Statement 6 Traning, Benefits & Compensation 22 Packaging 52 Sustainability 2015 Progress 9 Employee Health 23 Post-Consumer Waste 56 Sustainability Advisory Board 10 Employee Safety 24 Supply Chain 58 Stakeholder Engagement 12 Employee Engagement 27 Suppliers 59 External Princples & Memberships 14 Diversity & Inclusion 28 Product Quality and Safety 62 Governance, Ethics Labor Relations 30 & Human Rights 17 Community 32 PERFORMANCE DATA 64 Awards 19 Foundation, Social Giving And Summary 64 Volunteerism 33 People 68 Planet 71 PLANET 34 Products 77 Fiber 34 Economic 78 Sourcing 36 Alternative Fibers 39 Water 40 GRI INDEX 79 Community Water Initiatives 41 Waste 42 Climate Change & Energy Use 44 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH GRI G4-1 AND G4-2 • For more than 60 years, the Kimberly-Clark Foundation and many other regional, brand and employee-led initiatives have made positive contributions to communities around the world. Last year, we contributed more than $35.0 million in cash and product donations, in addition to the countless hours our employees spent volunteering in their communities. • Within the manufacturing arena, we are continuing to reduce our own environmental footprint. In 2013, we deployed our “LEAN Energy” program at 14 facilities to engage mill employees in a culture of energy conservation and GHG emission reduction. Using this system, we saved about $3.2 million over the course of the year. • In 2013, we established our REAL global safety strategy that engages all Kimberly-Clark employees in delivering our vision of a safe workplace — zero fatalities and zero reportable incidents. The strategy engages employees in four key areas: THOMAS J. FALK, CHAIRMAN AND CEO Risk mitigation, Environmental health and safety management Over time, I have learned that sustainability is about more than systems, Accountability for safety, and Leadership in safety. just doing the right thing. It creates a competitive advantage for our company — whether it’s direct value, like cost savings, or We also faced some challenges this past year. For example, we indirect value, like the ability to recruit and retain top talent. It fell short of our goal of zero manufacturing waste to landfill as the also secures us an advantage with customers and suppliers who number of facilities to meet that goal remained flat year over year. want to do business with companies that operate in a transparent, Our packaging goal has also remained flat versus 2012 although responsible and ethical manner. product sales volumes increased 3%. As a result, we are amending our chosen 2015 packaging metric to accommodate Our Kimberly-Clark team is continuously improving how we alternative ways to improve in addition to reduction. Finally, within operate and how we embed sustainability into the fabric of the our own organization, we continue to work to better integrate business. In 2013, we celebrated achievements in each of our sustainability into the mindset and capabilities of our teams in sustainability pillars — People, Planet and Products: order to accelerate our progress. Going forward, we are focused on establishing our next set of robust sustainability goals through a process that includes collaboration with our regional leaders • Our team finds value-added opportunities for materials and Sustainability Advisory Board. that would otherwise be destined for a landfill in both our manufacturing processes and by helping users of our products Customers, consumers, employees, investors, suppliers and to identify non-landfill solutions. As a result, 81.5% of K-C communities all expect more from corporations that they care manufacturing waste is diverted from landfill. about. My hope is that our sustainability results set an industry • We continue to innovate in product development. In fact, 37% standard and live up to our stakeholders’ expectations. More of net sales are now from environmentally innovative products. importantly, we seek to consistently raise the bar we set for In 2013, our Huggies brand launched a major improvement ourselves to create a more sustainable future. to Snug & Dry diapers. Diaper material was reduced by more than 10%, which equals approximately 32 million pounds of material. Additionally packaging materials were reduced by almost 2 million pounds. These improvements were made while maintaining the quality that our consumers expect from Tom Falk the Huggies brand. Chairman & CEO KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 3 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ABOUT THIS REPORT systems. In addition, we optimized water use reduction programs and effluent recycling systems installed in 2012. • Met and exceeded our objective of 60% supplier participation in the Corporate Social Compliance program we launched in 2012. Approximately 64% of K-C’s key suppliers are participating in the program. This program gives us increased confidence that our suppliers are operating in a sustainable and ethical manner. • Continued our trend of improved safety performance by achieving a 13% reduction in reportable injuries & illnesses, delivering the lowest incident rate ever in our history and achieving our 2015 reportable incident rate target of 0.30 ahead of schedule. In 2013, Kimberly-Clark also embarked on a sustainability materiality assessment to ensure that we were addressing the issues of greatest relevance to our business and our stakeholders. To conduct this process, we engaged a third-party organization, LISA MORDEN SENIOR DIRECTOR, GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY Two Tomorrows, to conduct interviews with priority stakeholders KIMBERLY-CLARK such as suppliers, customers and sustainability experts. The resulting materiality matrix, presented on the following page, At Kimberly-Clark, our vision is to “lead the world in essentials for represents the summary of our findings. Issues in the top-right a better life.” Sustainability is inherent to this vision and challenges quadrant demonstrate areas that were deemed both of high us to create a better future by being responsible stewards of the importance to the business and of high relevance to stakeholders. environment and positive contributors to our communities. The resultsof the analysis on the following page informed our reporting efforts and will be further incorporated into our business In 2013, we continued to make progress towards the goals strategy moving forward. outlined in our Sustainability 2015 strategy and we have engaged employees, suppliers, business partners, social and GRI G4-18 environmental non-governmental organizations (NGO) and customers to help us reach our goals. “Kimberly-Clark’s Annual Sustainability Report is a unique opportunity to report on goals and progress, describe As I reflect on my first full year as the head of our global challenges and demonstrate accountability on key issues. sustainability initiatives, I am proud of the progress we have made on many fronts. In 2013, Kimberly-Clark: It also highlights how K-C identifies the most material issues and how it addresses them, in addition to following the high • Set a record for our highest absolute reduction of GHG standards set by the Global Reporting Initiative, ensuring emissions, with a 6.4% reduction from the baseline year of it is comprehensive and in-depth. In doing so K-C reaches 2010, delivering on our Sustainability 2015 goal two years out to various stakeholders, including its own Sustainability early. This achievement was driven by continued manufacturing Advisory Board, for evaluation and input. footprint optimizations, alternate and renewable energy supply deployment, and energy conservation. Frank assessments of challenges and missed goals will serve to make the Report even more credible.” • Achieved our water use reduction objective ahead of schedule. — Tim Smith, Reductions were driven by continued manufacturing footprint Sustainability Advisory Board Member optimization, implementation of water conservation programs and the completion of six upgrades to water and waste water KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 4 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI G4-19, G4-20 AND G4-21 HIGH MEDIUM Importance to Stakeholders LOW INSIGNIFICANT INSIGNIFICANT LOW MEDIUM HIGH Importance to Business KEY ETHICS EMPLOYEES SUPPLIERS SOCIAL PRODUCT ENVIRONMENT GRI G4-32 People, Planet and Products pillars. This Report was prepared using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines As we seek to drive a culture of accountability, we see our as a reference, and contains Standard Disclosures from the efforts to pursue a materiality analysis as an important step in framework. We want to hear from you, and we invite you to the right direction— increasing our transparency and furthering join the conversation. Please tell us what you think at our progress on issues that are important to our business and Sustainability@kcc.com. stakeholders alike. We are proud to present our 11th annual Sustainability Report Lisa Morden in the pages that follow, which will provide a further update Senior Director, Global Sustainability on progress we have made towards the goals within our KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 5 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any part of the Report. This is our fifth year of providing assurance for KimberlySTATEMENT Clark formerly as part of the Two Tomorrows group and now as part of DNV GL. In addition, DNV GL facilitated Kimberly-Clark’s materiality assessment process from November 2013 through January 2014. Key activities under this scope of work included: • Review of sustainability issues impacting the company and that are of interest to stakeholders • Interviews with external stakeholders GRI G4-33 • Facilitation of internal workshop where Kimberly-Clark employees prioritized sustainability issues based on Scope and Objectives importance to business performance DNV Certification Inc. (DNV GL) was commissioned by • Facilitation of workshop with the external Sustainability Kimberly-Clark Corporation to conduct independent assurance Advisory Board to validate the placement of issues on the of its 2013 Sustainability Responsibility Report (‘the Report’), materiality matrix as published on the company’s website at http://www.kimberly-clark.com/sustainability.aspx. DNV GL was not responsible for establishing the significance or prioritization of the sustainability issues nor for their placement on The assurance process was conducted in accordance with the the matrix. AccountAbility 1000 Assurance Standard [AA1000AS (2008)]. We were engaged to provide a high level of assurance on We adopt a balanced approach towards all stakeholders when the company’s adherence to the AA1000APS principles of performing our evaluation. inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness (the Principles). In addition, we provided a Type 2 assurance to a moderate Our team comprised: Dave Knight and Natasha D’Silva. Further level which covered the reliability of specified sustainability information, including individual competencies relating to the performance information. This included data relating to: team, can be found at: www.dnvglsustainability.com Energy; GreenHouse Gas emissions; Fiber sourcing; and Safety as well as any claims in the Report. Basis of our opinion Information presented in the Report, with the exception of Our work was designed to gather evidence with the objective financial information presented in the Corporate Overview, of providing assurance as defined in AA1000AS (2008). We was included in the scope of our assurance engagement. undertook the following activities: We used the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Quality of Information Principles (Balance, Clarity, Accuracy, Reliability, • We conducted interviews with senior executives and managers Timeliness and Comparability) as criteria for evaluating based in Roswell, GA, Neenah, WI, Irving, TX and Reigate, performance information. United Kingdom who are responsible for areas of management and stakeholder relationships covered by the Report. The Responsibilities of Kimberly-Clark Corporation objective of these discussions was to understand top-level and of the Assurance Providers commitment and strategy related to corporate responsibility and Kimberly-Clark’s governance arrangements, stakeholder Kimberly-Clark has sole responsibility for preparation of engagement activity, management priorities, and systems; the Report. DNV GL, in performing our assurance work, is • We visited two facilities in Conway and Maumelle, Arkansas. responsible to Kimberly-Clark’s management. Our statement, During the on-site visits, we met with the plant manager, however, represents our independent opinion and is intended environmental coordinator, health and safety coordinator, and to inform all stakeholders including Kimberly-Clark. human resource manager to assess controls and processes KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 6 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT present at the operational level in comparison with claims To further incorporate sustainability into key decision-making made at the Group level and to conduct a review of data opportunities at the operational level, we recommend that samples on indicators contributing to the Report. Kimberly-Clark consider developing guidance on the integration • We conducted a general review of issues that could be of on-site third-party vendors into goal-setting, inspection, and relevant to Kimberly-Clark’s operations and policies to communication processes at the mills. Systematic engagement provide a check on the appropriateness of statements made of vendors, for example through an expansion of Contractor in the Report; Safety Guidelines to encompass broader sustainability issues and engagement around this, will support their increased • We assessed documentation and evidence that supported and awareness of corporate as well as site-specific sustainability substantiated claims made in the Report; goals as well support alignment of third-party vendor policies • We interviewed internal audit responsible for internal data with Kimberly-Clark’s business objectives. verification, reviewed their work processes and approach, and discussed specific competencies related to data verification; While Kimberly-Clark has a strong stakeholder engagement • We provided feedback on the Report based on our program, we recommend that the company continue to build on assurance scope. its consumer outreach efforts in its key markets. This will support the company in developing an effective response to key issues Findings of concern for end-users at a regional level as well as to better reflect the consumer viewpoint in its reporting on material On the basis of the work conducted, we can confirm that the issues such as post-consumer waste, access to products, and Report accurately describes Kimberly-Clark’s adherence to women’s empowerment. the Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality, and Responsiveness. Moreover, nothing came to our attention to suggest that the data Materiality: identification of those issues which are and claims made in the Report are not accurate and complete. necessary for stakeholders to make informed judgments concerning Kimberly-Clark and its impacts. Observations The Report addresses the most material environmental and social issues facing the company and its stakeholders. Without affecting our assurance opinion, we have noted the following areas of strong practice as well as opportunities for Kimberly-Clark has conducted a formal sustainability materiality Kimberly-Clark to further improve its adherence to the Principles assessment for the first time which has helped to confirm the and reporting of performance information: topics covered in the Report. This was a recommendation made in our assurance statement for the 2012 Report, which Inclusivity: the participation of stakeholders in developing the company has addressed. The company has demonstrated and achieving an accountable and strategic response to good practice by seeking external feedback on its materiality sustainability. matrix from industry leaders and sustainability experts in order Kimberly-Clark has implemented numerous initiatives on to validate the placement of issues and ensure that no material an ongoing basis to engage stakeholders from across the issues were omitted. While Kimberly-Clark’s materiality matrix company’s value chain. The company’s approach to its was developed at the corporate level, the process incorporated sustainability strategy and report is informed by inputs at the regional sustainability context of Europe and South America different levels of the company from varied sources such as its by involving internal and external stakeholders based in those Sustainability Advisory Board, customers, and suppliers as well geographies. As Kimberly-Clark operates in markets globally, as through its partnerships with non-governmental organizations. we recommend that the company continue to replicate these We commend Kimberly-Clark for its empowerment of employees efforts in other regions to capture divergences across its at its mills to address sustainability objectives at both the business and reflect them appropriately in its business strategy individual and team levels through incentivizing behavior change and public disclosures. that contributes to the company’s continued progress towards its Sustainability 2015 goals. As Sustainability 2015 will draw to a close next year, the Report can benefit from a discussion on how the company envisions KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 7 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT using the findings from its materiality and ongoing stakeholder The specified data presented in the Report are considered to engagement processes to drive its sustainability strategy be reliable and accurate as minimal technical errors have been and reporting through 2022. In the 2014 Report, we suggest identified based on the sampling conducted by internal audit at beginning a dialogue on where the greatest leadership and the corporate level and by DNV GL at the site level. There are collaborative opportunities may exist for the company as well opportunities for some minor process improvements such as as on how materiality has helped the company establish goals establishing corporate guidelines on data retention at the site and define metrics that will measure the characteristic of the key level that will help on-site data coordinators balance between issues with which stakeholders are most concerned. a lean management culture and requirements for replicability and traceability. We recommend that Kimberly-Clark consider Responsiveness: the extent to which Kimberly-Clark extending the function of internal audit to periodic on-site responds to stakeholder issues audits of sustainability-related data to reduce any risks to data Stakeholder ideas and concerns influence decision-making accuracy and reliability. throughout the organization. Through its next generation sustainability strategy, Kimberly-Clark has an opportunity to take DNV Certification Inc. on a more mature systems-thinking approach (enterprise-wide Oakland, California and reflecting the global sustainability context) to address deeply June, 2014 rooted issues such as the use of petrochemicals in products. We believe that Kimberly-Clark can further demonstrate its leadership in sustainability by communicating more fully the depth of its operational and product innovations as well as on the extent of its collaborative efforts across its value chains in different regions. The company has begun to develop internal mechanisms which Dave Knight can demonstrate a strong return on investment based on an Project Director enterprise-wide approach as opposed to an initiative-by-initiative basis. By taking this approach to financial valuation, the company will be able to better reflect its strategic intent through its capital investments and demonstrate the wider range of business value that Kimberly-Clark’s sustainability approach can bring. It will also serve for greater buy-in at mills where unique historic or regulatory challenges may otherwise prevent implementation of a Natasha D’Silva more environmentally efficient process or asset. We recommend Consultant increased emphasis in future reports on these efforts. Performance Information The purpose of the DNV GL group of companies is to promote Sustainability 2015 goals and performance are generally safe and sustainable futures. The USA & Canada Sustainability presented in a clear manner. The inclusion of longer-term team is part of DNV GL Business Assurance, a global provider goals in the Report, which are linked to the scale and speed of of certification, verification, assessment and training services, change recommended by peer reviewed science, will support helping customers to build sustainable business performance. the company as it looks forward to executing its next generation www.dnvglsustainability.com sustainability strategy. It will also help stakeholders better understand Kimberly-Clark’s mediumand long-term aspirational goals in the context of key sustainability challenges and opportunities. In addition, the company can consider publishing further detail on longer-term trends which require cross-sector collaboration and where in Kimberly-Clark’s value chain these trends have the greatest impact. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 8 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY 2015 PROGRESS GRI G4-22 Sustainability 2015 is an important part of our business. Built 2011 2012 2013 around the pillars of People, Planet and Products, it integrates social, environmental and economic elements into our PEOPLE company’s agenda. Zero workplace fatalities1 0 0 0 Our Sustainability 2015 goals are clear and measurable. Our progress towards them is summarized below. Please note that differences in historical data are because of footprint changes. Socially focused programs in all K-C 62% 89% 89% We account for our data in accordance with the GHG protocol communities 99% 67% 64% and their rules for dealing with mill closures/footprint changes. 100% participation by key suppliers with social We are on track to achieve most of the Sustainability 2015 compliance standards2 goals. We also recognize that sustainability is a journey. As our business grows, we will continue to raise our expectations and PLANET look for opportunities to improve. The stakeholder engagement interviews we undertook in 25% reduction in water use and maintain quality 0.88% 18% 26.4% of discharge3 December 2012, the materiality assessment process we conducted in 2013, as well as ongoing consultation with our Sustainability Advisory Board and various industry and NGO partners provide us 100% fiber from certified suppliers 99.9% 100% 100% with great perspective and help us identify issues to explore and gaps to close. 5% absolute reduction in GHG4 1.2% 3.6% 6.4% Notes: Baseline year is 2010. Zero manufacturing waste to landfill 78.3% 78.7% 81.5% (% of waste currently 1 In 2012 and in 2013, a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, an unconsolidated affiliate. K-C excludes hours worked, diverted from landfill) as well as incidents that occur within non-consolidated equity companies, where K-C 2 does not have a controlling interest (>50% ownership). In each year of the program, we have expanded the number of suppliers who are PRODUCTS asked to sign the Declaration of Intent to Comply with the Supplier Guidelines. In 2011, 40 suppliers were sent declarations, as a pilot. In 2012, 250 finished-product manufacturers were sent declarations. In 2013, our scope expanded to include 250 million new consumer touches(M) N/A 110 134 branded packaging suppliers which increased the number of declarations sent to 3 392 suppliers. Water use reductions in 2013 were driven by a more efficient manufacturing footprint 25% of 2015 net sales from environmentally 13% 22% 37% achieved through water conservation programs and optimization of effluent recycling innovative products system that were installed in 2012. We also completed the shutdown of our Everett and Delyn facilities and one tissue asset that contributed to the company’s total water use. These shutdowns accounted for approximately 47% of our water use reduction. 20% reduction in packaging environmental 4% 4% 4% impact5 4 Our GHG emissions reductions in 2013 were driven mainly by 1) continued manufacturing footprint optimization at Everett, Millicent, Barton, Delyn and Chester; 2) alternate and renewable energy supply deployment; 3) energy conservation. See Planet section Climate Change & Energy Use. 5 Numbers are cumulative and reports progress against baseline year of 2010. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 9 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY ADVISORY BOARD • Jeffrey Hollender (USA), cofounder of Seventh Generation; board member of Greenpeace U.S., the Environmental Health Fund, and Verité, a leading workers’ rights organization • Mindy Lubber (USA), president of Ceres, a network of investors, companies and public interest groups whose aim is to accelerate and expand the adoption of sustainable business practices and solutions to build a healthy global economy • Malini Mehra (India), founder and former CEO of the Centre for Social Markets, a nonprofit organization that has pioneered work on sustainability and corporate responsibility in India and its diaspora since 2000 • Tim Smith (USA), senior vice president, Environment, Social and Governance Group at Walden Asset Management • Andrew Winston (USA), co-author of the best seller Green to Gold, author of Green Recovery and most recently The Big Pivot; founder and CEO of Winston Eco-Strategies, an organization that helps leading companies use environmental TIM SMITH strategy to grow and prosper SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, ENVIRONMENT, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE GROUP, WALDEN ASSET MANAGEMENT GRI G4-34, G4-44, G4-45 AND G4-47 Kimberly-Clark’s Sustainability Advisory Board (SAB) was formed in 2007 to provide insight on sustainability issues to our Global Strategic Leadership Team and Global Sustainability staff. The SAB has assessed our sustainability efforts, and their comments can be found throughout this report. The SAB is composed of seven external thought leaders who possess a diversity of expertise and cultural experience, and offers an independent view of our sustainability programs, as well as potential risks and opportunities for our business. Members include: • Suhas Apte (USA), former vice president, Global Sustainability at Kimberly-Clark • Claude Fussler (France), former vice president at Dow Chemical and former director of stakeholder relations at the World Business Council for Sustainable Development KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 10 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In addition, the SAB annually assesses our sustainability report. Their comments can be found throughout the People, Planet and Products sections of this report. SAB members may serve for three consecutive two-year terms. Each member receives an annual stipend and is reimbursed for travel expenses to attend meetings. As of June 30, 2013, Malini Mehra and Andrew Winston completed their first terms and half of second term, while Claude Fussler and Tim Smith completed their second and half of third term. Suhas Apte, Mindy Lubber and Jeffrey Hollender joined the Advisory Board and began their first terms on July 1, 2012. Ricardo Young Silva resigned from the SAB in March 2013, when he was elected to public office in São Paulo. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 11 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT STAKEHOLDER AREAS OF INTEREST GROUP EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Consumers • Improved health and hygiene • Cause marketing campaigns • Affordability • Consumer education • Good customer service campaigns • Consumer satisfaction surveys • One-on-one interviews Wholesale • Sustainability attributes • Customer meetings Customers of products • One-on-one interviews • Environmental impacts of manufacturing, e.g. water use • Post-consumer waste • Product quality and safety • Consumer education • Pricing SKIP KRASNY MANAGER, SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY PROGRAMS Employees • Sustainability performance • Team meetings • Raw material sourcing • @K-C intranet site • Business performance • @myHR intranet site Stakeholders’ Views on Our Reporting • Training and development • Employee surveys opportunities • One-on-one interviews Beginning in December 2012, we engaged a third party to reach • Safety • Employee networks out to a number of our stakeholders whose opinions we value, • Fairness and equality • Town hall meetings with to seek input on how well our sustainability report provided • Employee engagement executives transparent, comprehensive and accessible coverage of key • Charitable giving • Performance issues. In addition, stakeholders were asked for their views on management process the sustainability issues they expected would have a significant Suppliers • Contractual terms • Sustainability guide for impact on Kimberly-Clark in the future. suppliers • Sustainability requirements • Risk assessments and • Fiber procurement policy Stakeholders from eight groups (business partners, suppliers, audits customers, employees, investors, socially responsible investors, • Labor standards and • Supplier sustainability accountability NGOs and academics) were engaged through telephone summits • Quality and consistency interviews and, when requested, written questionnaires. To the • One-on-one interviews extent possible, we have incorporated their recommendations Traditional • Cost reductions • Annual meeting from that engagement in this report. Investors • Organic revenue growth • Earnings calls • Operating margins • Meetings between executives and investors GRI G4-24 , G4-25, G4-26, AND G4-27 • Earnings • Analyst conferences • Dividends Our ongoing engagement, summarized in the following table • One-on-one interviews • Corporate governance (in no particular order), takes many forms—from one-way • Shareholder resolutions information channels to consumer and customer research, dialogues with environmental organizations, and partnerships with humanitarian organizations. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 12 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Academics • Resource use • One-on-one interviews STAKEHOLDER AREAS OF INTEREST EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT • Climate change GROUP • Water availability Socially • Cost reductions • Annual meeting • Life cycle of products Responsible • Organic revenue growth • Earnings calls Investors (SRI) • Social welfare • Earnings • Sustainability reporting Business Partners • Renewable materials • One-on-one interviews • Corporate governance • Meetings between executives and investors • Waste reduction • Political contributions and lobbying • Analyst conferences • Resource use (water, energy, etc.) • Sustainability performance • One-on-one interviews • Recycling • Recycled fiber • Shareholder resolutions • Supply chain management • Climate change • Employee safety • Innovation and R&D • Supply chain management • Product quality and safety In addition, we communicate our progress to the shareholder and Communities • Job opportunities • Community meetings investment communities through our 2012 10-K, on the Investors • Local impacts such • Volunteering programs section of our corporate website, in our public SEC filings, as well as water use, noise, as through investor and shareholder meetings, analyst-sponsored • Media Relations air pollution conferences and distribution of our sustainability report. • Support of local charities • Taxes GRI PR5 Government • Legal compliance • Meetings with Government Affairs team • Lobbying Listening to the Consumers Who Use • Meetings with Regulatory • Corporate citizenship Affairs team Our Products • Meetings between mill staff and local We welcome input from the consumers who use our government officials products and provide them with a variety of ways to reach • One-on-one interviews us, including web chats, email, social media, toll-free NGOs • Sourcing raw materials • Direct engagement phone numbers and mail. with NGOs • Wood fiber • Environmental impacts • Participation in World • Consumers who reached out to Kimberly-Clark in 2013 Business Council for of manufacturing, in North America and Europe: Sustainable Development • e.g. water use Toxics in the environment initiatives 519,543 • One-on-one interviews • Climate change • Consumer satisfaction surveys in North America: • Product life cycles 463,479 • Supply chain management • Favorable experiences with Consumer Services Teams • Animal testing when they responded to questions and comments about • Labor standards products, ingredients, advertising and promotions: • Bottom-of-the-pyramid 96.5% • Consumers intending to purchase Kimberly-Clark products in the future: 93.9% KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 13 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EXTERNAL PRINCIPLES Kimberly-Clark is a founding member of The Sustainability Consortium, including leadership in the Paper Sector, in the & MEMBERSHIPS Measurement Science Working Group and on the Co-Chairs council Kimberly-Clark has been active in the Paper, Pulp, and Forestry Sector group (as one of the only organizations to have completed a life cycle analysis in the category) and provides research and insight to help drive the development of the bath tissue category sustainability profile. Kimberly-Clark is a member of the Lacey Act Defense National Consensus Committee (LADNCC), a group made up of companies, associations and organizations affected by the Lacey Act, as well as leading environmental groups. The Lacey Act was introduced in 1900 to prohibit the transport of illegally captured wildlife. It has been amended several times, most recently in June 2008 when the U.S. Congress extended its protection to plants, including timber, paper and other forest products. The We subscribe to several global declarations of principles and LADNCC created a standard that provides clarity on the Lacey are members of a number of industry organizations that provide Act’s regulatory guidelines and enforcement rules, including the platforms for Kimberly-Clark to learn and share information about notion of “due care,” in order to provide a common understanding sustainability and related issues. of the regulatory framework within which Kimberly-Clark and other organizations operate, and to develop an effective means of External Principles protecting against inadvertently obtaining illegal wood fiber. The United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) AdvaMed Technology and Regulation (T&R) Group is an are a set of goals and targets meant to eradicate extreme umbrella regulatory group under AdvaMed (a trade association poverty, hunger, illiteracy and a number of devastating diseases. representing makers of medical devices, equipment, software We use the MDGs as a guide for the programs and initiatives we and supplies). Its role is to coordinate efforts to accelerate market plan in support of our Sustainability 2015 goals. access, pursue reasonable post-market and inspection programs, develop a legislative agenda, and coordinate as appropriate on international regulatory efforts. Kimberly-Clark participates in GRI G4 -15 several of its working groups. For example, to ensure greater As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, we are patient safety, we have been working with AdvaMed, AAMI and committed to upholding the Compact’s 10 Principles (per UNGC) ISO to address connector design regulations in California for on human rights, labor standards, the environment and antienteral feeding devices as well as epidural products. Kimberlycorruption, working within our sphere of influence to encourage Clark, because of its leadership role in the connector design their support. This report serves as our Communication on effort, provides an annual update to Advamed for communication Progress to the UNGC. to the California state legislature. The Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation GRI G4 -16 (AAMI) is a nonprofit organization of nearly 7,000 healthcare Memberships technology professionals supporting the healthcare community in the development, management and use of safe and effective Kimberly-Clark first became a member of the Corporate Eco medical technology. AAMI is a major resource for national and Forum in 2010. The Forum is a community of global leaders, international standards. The AAMI standards program consists representing 18 industries and $3 trillion in assets, dedicated to of more than 100 technical committees and working groups that advancing sustainable business. produce standards, recommended practices and write technical KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 14 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT information reports for medical devices. Kimberly-Clark Health intermodal utilization, from approximately 42,000 loads in 2006 Care participates in a number of committee activities impacting to more than 92,500 loads in 2013, resulting in: the full range of the product line, and is a charter member of AAMI’s Sustainability Committee, which is developing • Savings of 62 million gallons of diesel fuel environmental standards for manufacturers and hospitals. • Reduction of CO2 emissions by more than 630,000 tons ASTM International, formerly known as the American Society • Cumulative savings of $353 million compared to usage of for Testing and Materials (ASTM), is a globally recognized over-the-road trucks leader in the development and delivery of international voluntary consensus standards. Its ASTM E60 Sustainability Committee, of which Kimberly-Clark is a member, focuses on the acquisition, promotion and dissemination of knowledge; the stimulation of research; and the development of standards relating to sustainability and sustainable development. EDANA is the international association serving nonwovens and related industries. Based in Europe, EDANA provides leadership to foster innovation as well as sustainable and profitable growth of the industry participants through the active promotion of sustainable development, transparency and consumer interests. The Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) is an independent, In 2013, Kimberly-Clark Europe contributed feedback to the nonprofit organization that protects forests for future European Commission on the draft criteria for the EU Ecolabel generations. Kimberly-Clark is a member of FSC-International for absorbent hygiene products, to ensure that the final criteria and renewed its Cooperation Agreement in 2013 as FSC’s are fair to both industry and the consumer. selected global partner to represent the tissue industry. For the duration of this two-year agreement, Kimberly-Clark is working with FSC on activities that will be mutually beneficial to each organization and will seek to drive increased awareness of the FSC brand, increase the growth of FSC-certified forest area globally, and consider the opportunities for certification of non-wood alternative fibers. Kimberly-Clark funded FSCCanada to conduct field-tests of the FSC Guidelines on Free In 2013, Kimberly-Clark continued its involvement in the U.S. Prior & Informed Consent that would support compliance with Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay Transportation social requirements as part of the FSC certification process. Partnership winning the program’s Environmental Excellence In addition, Kimberly-Clark sits on the FSC National Board of Award in November. This award recognized Kimberly-Clark Directors in Australia and the United States. for outstanding achievement in reducing carbon pollution and other harmful emissions as we moved goods across the United Kimberly-Clark is a member of the United States Council for States more efficiently. We were also recognized for continuous International Business (USCIB) which promotes open markets, improvement in working with transportation providers to find competitiveness and innovation, sustainable development, and ways to reduce their carbon footprints in line with our long-term corporate responsibility supported by international engagement sustainability goals. and prudent regulation. USCIB presents American business views on a wide range of issues — from environmental Kimberly-Clark has adopted several programs that are regulation to trade policy to labor relations — directly to U.S. increasing intermodal usage and reducing length of haul, total policy makers, UN and EU officials, and a host of governments miles and empty miles, as well as wait time and idling at shipping and other groups. and receiving docks. Since 2006, we have more than doubled KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 15 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) is a national trade association representing the global cosmetic and personal care products industry. Founded in 1894, the Council has more than 600 member companies who manufacture, distribute, and supply personal care products in the U.S. Kimberly-Clark participates in many of its standing committees and technical subcommittees including the International Committee, Safety and Regulatory Committee, Quality Assurance Committee, and The U.S. Green Building Council (USGBC) is a nonprofit Microbiology Committee. In addition, Kimberly-Clark participates organization committed to a prosperous and sustainable future in member-only meetings on subjects of common interest. through cost-efficient and energy-saving green buildings. USGBC works toward its mission of market transformation Kimberly-Clark is also a member of a number of diversity through its LEED green building program, robust educational organizations. To learn more about these memberships and offerings, a nationwide network of chapters and affiliates, affiliations visit People Diversity & Inclusion. the annual Greenbuild International Conference & Expo, and advocacy in support of public policy that encourages and enables green buildings and communities. Kimberly-Clark is a platinum member of the USGBC. Kimberly-Clark provides a wide variety of products that help buildings and facilities meet the requirements of LEED certification. An organization’s participation in the voluntary and technically rigorous LEED process demonstrates leadership, innovation and environmental stewardship. The World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) is a CEO-led organization of forward-thinking companies aiming to create a sustainable future for businesses, society and the environment. Together with its members, the Council applies its respected thought-leadership and effective advocacy to generate constructive solutions and take shared action. In 2013, Kimberly-Clark was an active participant in its Forest Solutions Group (FSG) as well as sustainable consumption and value chain efforts. The FSG provides business leadership in expanding sustainable forest solutions to meet the needs of people now and in the future. It aims to be recognized as the leading platform for the global forest-based industry and its value chain partners driving scalable business solutions to advance sustainable development. One significant outcome for the FSG was the publication of a leadership statement on the value and future of forest certification and the development of an action strategy to increase the volume of independently verified fiber. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 16 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GOVERNANCE, ETHICS & GRI G4-38 HUMAN RIGHTS BOARD DIVERSITY OVERVIEW 2010 2011 2012 2013 Independent 92.3% 92.3% 91.7% 91.7% members Women 23.1% 23.1% 25.0% 25.0% Minority group 23.1% 30.8% 33.3% 33.3% membership Total Board members 13 13 12 12 Our Board of Directors and its various committees provide oversight and guidance on all aspects of our businesses and our relationships with stakeholders. Our annual proxy statement contains detailed information on our Board and committee structure, the independence of the members, and the responsibilities and meeting frequency of each committee. THOMAS J. FALK, CHAIRMAN AND CEO The Board has established and approved the framework for our policies and procedures. Among these are our policies relating to environmental stewardship, fiber sourcing, product safety, charitable contributions and employment. As part of their For more than 140 years, Kimberly-Clark has fostered a culture oversight role, the Board and its committees receive regular of fairness, honesty and integrity. Our core values — authenticity, reports from management on these topics, the corporation’s accountability, innovation and caring — guide our business goals, and progress against these goals. decisions and initiatives. Our day-to-day actions are founded on a long-standing governance structure, which comprises: GRI G4-44, G4-45 AND G4-47 • A Board of Directors that is more than 91% independent and Management receives input from an independent Sustainability includes independent Board committees Advisory Board established to ensure that outside perspectives on • A clear reporting structure and lines of accountability these topics were being solicited and evaluated. In addition, the • A global Code of Conduct Board receives benchmarking reports on how the Corporation’s programs compare with those of other companies. Finally, • A comprehensive policy platform, including policies on human each year the Board conducts a self-evaluation, as does each rights, labor, diversity and inclusion, and environmental issues of its committees, to assess whether it is meeting its oversight • Strong oversight and communications mechanisms, including responsibilities; the Board then develops action plans for any oversight by the Kimberly-Clark Board of Directors on key opportunities identified. environmental, social and governance issues Kimberly-Clark has a robust compliance and ethics program. Key We provide more detail on the Governance and Policies pages of components of that program are our anti-corruption policies and our corporate website. In this sustainability report, you may also procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with global visit our Labor Relations and Diversity & Inclusion pages. anti-corruption standards, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the United Kingdom Bribery Act. More information on our policies is available here. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 17 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI G4-56 GRI SO6 We regularly assess the quality and effectiveness of our Political Spending and Lobbying compliance and ethics program. In 2013, we surveyed 277 employees about their awareness and knowledge of our In 2013, Kimberly-Clark reported $570,000 in expenditures Code of Conduct. The survey showed an improved level of on U.S. federal lobbying activities, which included the salaries participation and awareness of the Code and the procedures and other expenses of Kimberly-Clark employees engaged in for reporting Code misconduct. Key aspects of our antilobbying, fees paid to outside consultants lobbying on corruption program include: Kimberly-Clark’s behalf, and the portion of trade association dues used for lobbying. • Prohibition of both government and commercial bribery and corruption In the U.S., Kimberly-Clark does not currently operate a • Prohibition of facilitating payments even where permitted political action committee (PAC). Similarly, in the U.S., the under local laws company makes no contributions from other sources or funds to political candidates, PACs that contribute to candidates, or • Global standards applied throughout our enterprise other organizations formed solely for the election or defeat of • Regular training of employees on Code of Conduct, a public official. anti-corruption and related ethics topics • Requirement for contracts with third-party agents to contain Protecting Human Rights anti-corruption/bribery covenants Our commitment to protecting human rights is consistent • Availability of multiple channels for guidance on or reporting with our respect for each other and continues our heritage of of potential violations of Code of Conduct, anti-corruption or fairness, honesty and integrity. This commitment is formalized other corporate policies. Reports may be made anonymously. in our Human Rights in Employment Policy and our Code of • A strict anti-retaliation policy in support of anyone who reports Conduct. Our policies align with the goals of several international a suspected violation of the Code of Conduct standards, including the International Labour Organization’s • An experienced investigative team that follows up on Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and all reports of alleged fraud or other violations of the Code those of the UN Global Compact. of Conduct We respect international social compliance and environmental • An experienced internal audit team that actively audits for and principles aimed at promoting and protecting human rights and evaluates potential unreported fraud or other violations of the the environment. We also promote human rights in our supply Code of Conduct chain. We do this through our Supplier Social Compliance • An annual survey of enterprise workforce to confirm Standards, which identify, prevent, mitigate and account for understanding of the Code of Conduct and that all human rights violations, with a focus on countries at high risk for potential violations have been reported properly and human rights abuses. Companies within our contracted supply in a timely manner chain, including our packaging supply chain, are requested to sign annual declarations of compliance. We regularly assess the quality and effectiveness of our compliance and ethics program and continue to believe that our The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors provides oversight anti-corruption program is effective. of our efforts to ensure compliance with the Code, other internal policies, and certain legal and regulatory requirements. For more information on 2013 audit results, see the Supply Chain section of this report. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 18 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT AWARDS Sustainability Awards We’re proud that in 2013 we were acknowledged for being a leader in sustainability by a number of organizations: # 6 • FSC® Excellence Award for Supplier of the Year • For our strong leadership in the procurement and supply of FSC® Certified products and using the power of our well-known brands in partnership with FSC and WWF on the Love Your Forests Program, Kimberly-Clark Australia was awarded FSC Supplier of the Year at the annual 2013 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Australia Excellence Awards held in Melbourne. • Banksia Foundation Award — Leading in Sustainability for Large Organisations • For being an industry leader with the Our Essential World sustainability strategy that holistically covers the key elements of sustainability people, planet and profit (products). • The Australian Business Award for Environmental Sustainability • For our commitment to driving environmental and social sustainability practices and initiatives throughout the entire business value chain • Champion for Change Award from Practice Greenhealth, Workplace Awards for leaders in health care sustainability. Recognizes our commitment to improving our environmental performance and In 2013, Kimberly-Clark Corporation was ranked No. 6 among “The realizing a top standard of excellence in sustainability. World’s Best Multinational Workplaces” in one of the largest and most • FTSE4Good Index Series, for eleventh consecutive year respected annual studies of workplace excellence and corporate • Ethisphere’s World’s Most Ethical Companies Ranking in 2014, management practices. We’ve received top honors in the survey for third consecutive year for three straight years, and again rank highest among all global • CDP Sector Leader for Improving Deforestation Risk in Supply consumer products companies included in the survey. Chain, in the Forests Annual Report (formerly Forest Footprint Disclosure Project), earning the top ranking for three of the This latest recognition follows several international awards Kimberlypast four years Clark has received from the Great Place to Work Institute this year, including placing among the top five in the following countries: • 2013 U.S. EPA SmartWay Environmental Excellence Award • Dow Jones Sustainability North America Index member and • No. 1 in Bolivia, Honduras and Nicaragua listed on UN Global Compact 100, two indexes that track the financial performance of firms committed to practice • No. 2 in Brazil and El Salvador sustainability and good citizenship in their operations • No. 3 in Guatemala • National Premier Healthcare Alliance Award For Operational • No. 4 in Panama, Puerto Rico and Dominican Republic Excellence, winner of the eighth annual performance award • Yuhan-Kimberly has been named the No.2 Great Workplace in the Korean manufacturing sector for 2013 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 19 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Environmental Sustainability prize at the Australian Business Awards 2013. Recognized for driving environmental and social sustainability practices across the value chain • CSC Award 2013 for 2012 Sustainability Report • CSC Awards most outstanding programs of the decade, which included Kimberly-Clark Argentina’s Sumando Valores. The program is aimed at promoting actions with a positive impact on society. Employee Health and Well-Being Awards Kimberly-Clark received several awards for the company’s employee health and well-being efforts worldwide: • Investors in People Health and Wellbeing Award (UK) • League of American Bicyclists Gold Award for Bike-Friendly Business (US) • American Heart Association Gold Award for Fit-Friendly Business (US) Diversity & Inclusion Awards • Corporate Equality Index 2013, score of 90% • Catalyst, a leading nonprofit organization with a mission to expand opportunities for women in business, recognized Kimberly-Clark as a leading company in supporting women. • Diverse & Resilient, Inc. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin awarded PRIDE@K-C, People Respecting Individual Differences Everywhere at Kimberly-Clark, the 2012 LGBT Community Partner Award Additional Awards • Kimberly-Clark Professional Headquarters Building Received Prestigious BOMA 360 Performance Program Designation • Received international recognition at the Procurement Leaders Awards. Cynthia Dautrich, Global Procurement Officer, won the top award in the Procurement Leader category in recognition of her achievements in the procurement industry. In addition, Kimberly-Clark’s global procurement organization became a finalist in the Transformation category and one of the Top 10 companies to show a significant transformation in the procurement function. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | OUR APPROACH | JUNE 2014 20 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE Employees are our most valued resource and are at the center of everything we do. Their talent, diversity and commitment are crucial to our innovation and success. Our work environment fosters personal, professional and corporate growth and nurtures innovation through product development and customer solutions. Our global team works together in a spirit of cooperation and trust to lead the world in essentials for a better life. EMPLOYEES FULL-TIME EMPLOYEES 2010 2011 2012 2013 North America 15,356 14,889 14,652 14,441 % of total 27% 26% 25% 25% Latin America 19,316 20,351 21,824 21,804 % of total 34% 36% 37% 38% Europe, Middle East and Africa 8,626 8,222 8,039 6,872 % of total 15% 14% 14% 12% Asia/Pacific 13,973 13,789 13,825 13,631 % of total 24% 24% 24% 24% TOTAL 57,271 57,251 58,340 56,748 Authentic, accountable, innovative, caring: Our values underpin every aspect of our work. We believe in a performance-driven culture. Our People Philosophy expresses what we expect from and how we support our employees. Our aspiration is to “Unleash the Power of our People” by harnessing the value our diversity can create; encouraging employees to dream and grow our businesses; creating a winning culture and celebrating our successes; living well-balanced lives; and giving back to our communities. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 21 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TRAINING, BENEFITS & We offer opportunities for special assignments, job rotations, and extracurricular projects that provide a broader range of experience to help move their careers forward. Learning COMPENSATION by exposure can range from informal experiences — such as personal introductions and conversations — to formal experiences such as joining a networking group, volunteering for a community organization or participating in a mentoring program. Compensation At Kimberly-Clark, we believe that strong company-wide and business unit results in combination with individual performance should translate to rewards for all our employees. Our annual incentive plan contains financial targets, as well as other quantitative and qualitative factors. For our executive leadership (chairman and CEO Tom Falk and his direct reports), diversity is one of those factors. “Kimberly-Clark recognizes that corporate sustainability is about more than just doing the right thing, but exists as a critical value driver that offers a competitive advantage for the company. We encourage Kimberly-Clark to send this message to all of its employees by establishing a link between compensation and sustainability performance targets. Taking this important next step will help drive innovation, engage employees, and ultimately, communicate that at Kimberly-Clark sustainability is inextricably linked to financial performance.” We coach new team members on our People Philosophy, culture, — Mindy Lubber, values, and commitment to diversity and inclusion, and we Sustainability Advisory Board Member support their growth through the “3Es”: education, experiences and exposure to development opportunities. Kimberly-Clark offers over 100 development opportunities through K-C University to enhance employees’ skills and knowledge through classroom courses, virtual classroom courses, and “Grow on the Go,” which features our mobile apps and online computer-based training offered by leading institutions like Harvard ManageMentor and Rosetta Stone. In addition, seminars and workshops are organized at the business function and regional levels. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 22 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE HEALTH Many Kimberly-Clark locations around the world offer comprehensive health assessments, biometric screenings, health coaching and energy management training. Employees traveling internationally are provided with health screenings, travel health advice, vaccinations and emergency medical care anywhere in the world. On-site medical clinics staffed with physicians and nurses are provided in some locations in the U.S., Latin America, Europe, and the Middle East and Asia. At Kimberly-Clark our Health Services team is focused on building and sustaining a culture of health, energy and vitality, providing a competitive edge for Kimberly-Clark and a lifelong advantage for our employees. We do this through a dedicated team of highly experienced health professionals, award-winning programs and resources, and through our best in class on-site health and fitness facilities. LiveWell Our LiveWell health-promotion programs are designed to inform and motivate employees to live healthier lives by eating well, exercising and reducing health-related risk factors. In 2013, our employees engaged in a variety of activities to improve their health, including the LiveWell Challenge pilot program within select North American locations. Over 500 program participants completed biometric screening at the beginning of the year and worked with K-C Health Services professionals to establish personalized wellness goals related to exercise, nutrition and sleep — three primary components of a good health. Employees received free Fitbit monitors to track their progress and had access to online tools, resources and a host of K-C sponsored wellness events and activities. At the end of the year, participants returned to Health Services for a final health assessment to measure their success. Over 75% of participants were successful in meeting their health improvement goals. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 23 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE SAFETY Over the last few years, we have made progress in meeting the majority of our important safety and health objectives. In fact, Kimberly-Clark has achieved its 2015 reportable incident rate goal of 0.30 ahead of schedule. In 2013, Kimberly-Clark achieved a 13% reduction in reportable injuries & illnesses, and delivered the lowest incident rate ever in its history (0.27 incidents per 200,000 hours worked). Kimberly-Clark is also making progress towards achieving our 2015 goal of zero permanently disabling injuries. During the year, K-C achieved an impressive 70% reduction in accident severity, reducing permanently disabling injuries from 7 to 2. In 2013, we established a clear, simple and effective global safety strategy that engages all Kimberly-Clark employees in delivering our vision of zero fatalities, and zero reportable Our safety focus, day-in and day-out, is on creating exceptional incidents. K-C Global Safety Leaders from all parts of the workplaces by helping our people to be safer, healthier and business developed the new organizational safety strategy to more productive. That includes building robust safety and energize and engage the entire organization. Known as “REAL”, health management systems that deliver sustained, continual this safety strategy engages employee teams in 4 areas: improvement in our reportable incident rate, reduced incident severity, and a fatality-free workplace. Risk Mitigation EHS Management Systems Accountability for Safety Leadership in Safety 2013 SAFETY & HEALTH We will continue to strive for zero workplace fatalities and PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS: reportable incidents by conducting comprehensive workplace risk assessment and risk management, by implementing a formal EHS Management system, by fostering personal accountability for safety and by developing safety leadership. 13% reduction in Reportable Incidents Lowest Incident Rate ever achieved by K-C Achieved 2015 Reportable Incident Rate goal ahead of schedule Reduced accident severity by 70% KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 24 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI LA6 EMPLOYEE SAFETY 2010 2011 2012 2013 Fatalities1 0 0 0 0 Permanently disabling injuries 14 8 9 2 Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.44 0.40 0.31 0.27 North America 0.59 0.44 0.33 0.30 Latin America 0.40 0.40 0.39 0.41 Europe 0.71 0.71 0.39 0.80 Middle East and Africa 1.01 0.53 0.76 0.33 Asia/Pacific 0.32 0.23 0.14 0.20 Lost-time Reportable Incident Rate (LTRIR) 0.30 0.27 0.19 0.17 North America 0.39 0.22 0.20 0.15 Latin America 0.31 0.36 0.21 0.25 Europe 0.45 0.59 0.29 0.40 Middle East and Africa 0.82 0.37 0.52 0.14 Asia/Pacific 0.21 0.14 0.08 0.13 Sentinel Events Reporting Rate (SERR) 1.70 1.53 1.54 1.66 Safety compliance penalties2 $110,955 $4,800 $23,000 $1,000 Notes: Our commitment to our employees 1 In 2012 and in 2013, a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mexico, an unconsolidated affiliate. K-C excludes hours worked, To provide a workplace in compliance with all applicable as well as incidents that occur within non-consolidated equity companies, where K-C occupational safety and hygiene (OS&H) laws and does not have a controlling interest (>50% ownership). regulations and in conformance with the company’s OS&H 2 In 2013 the Kimchean Mill in South Korea received a $1,000 fine for inadequate machine guarding that has been corrected. performance standards. TRIR: Work-related events that result in fatalities, temporary or permanently disabling injuries, or illnesses, per 200,000 hours worked per annum Our expectation of our employees LTRIR: Reportable injuries/illnesses that result in time away from work or restricted To refuse to take any action considered unsafe, to confront work, per 200,000 hours worked per annum others acting in an unsafe manner and to immediately stop SERR: Number of Sentinel Events reported per 200,000 hours worked per annum any unsafe actions. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 25 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Safety Systems, Policies and Communications 2013 Crystal Eagle Award Our Global Occupational Safety and Hygeine (OS&H) Policy Award given to sites that worked 365 days in 2013 without a states that we will manage OS&H for the protection of our reportable incident involving a Kimberly-Clark employee. employees, contractors and visitors and to aggressively pursue the elimination of occupational injuries, illnesses, United States: International: disabilities and fatalities. Our Environment, Health and Beech Island, SC Huntsville, Ontario, Canada Safety Management System (EHS MS) establishes minimum Beaverton, OR Jaromer, Czech Republic requirements and standards for the management of EHS La Grange, GA Flint, UK activities. We are committed to regularly assessing the EHS Neenah Nonwovens, WI Barrow, UK MS in order to achieve continuous improvement of OS&H Roswell Pilot Facility, GA Poza Verde, Guatemala and environmental performance. Owensboro, KY San Pedro Sulas, Honduras New Milford, CT Santo Domingo, DR More than 95% of our facilities have formal EHS committees, Corinth, MS Santa Cruz, Bolivia a requirement of our EHS MS. With participation from both Berkeley, NC Esteio, Brazil employees and management, the committees address EHS Del Rio, TX Puente Piedra, Peru concerns raised by employees and others; identify, prioritize Jenks, OK Santa Clara, Peru and support the facilities’ improvement activities; and review Maumelle, AR Taejon, South Korea progress of those activities, safety incidents and trends. Tuscon, AZ Chungli, Taiwan X-Mill, WI Beijing, China Family Care R&E, WI Nanjing, China Shanghai, China Jakarta, Indonesia Albury, Australia Enstra, South Africa Naharia, Israel Rehasim, Israel Zrfrin, Israel Afula, Israel Hadera, Israel Hat Yai, Thailand 2013 Crystal Globe Award This award is given for 1 million hours without a reportable incident involving Kimberly-Clark employees. United States: Conway, AR Jenks, OK Loudon, TN Mobile, AL Ogden, UT Owensboro, KY Paris, TX Neenah, WI KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 26 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT added more environmentally sustainable Small Steps options and expanded, through collaboration with Health Services and the K-C Foundation, to include wellness (LiveWell) and kindness (Helping To succeed, Kimberly-Clark must empower employees who have Hands) Small Steps. a desire to win and a passion to make a difference. We actively develop new initiatives to fuel engagement. The Small Steps 2.0 platform is designed to allow K-C employees to engage both individually and with others in Sustainability at In 2013, we conducted our global “Input to Action” Employee a more ongoing, holistic and personal level. In switching to this Engagement Survey as follow-up to the 2012 One K-C Jam more enhanced program, employees had to sign up again for sessions, designed to foster communication between employees the Small Steps program, resulting in a decrease in number of and leadership. We received positive results from our employees employees participating overall. Our aim is to continually increase and saw a positive increase in many areas since our 2010 survey: this number through 2015 to engage 15,000 employees overall. • We received a 95% response rate from employees By the end of 2013, our employees accomplished: • Engagement scores rose two points (from 75 to 77) and our enablement score rose four points (from 68 to 72) 12,272 TOTAL ACTS OF GREEN (INCLUDING): • K-C continues to demonstrate care and concern for employees (up eight points) lbs • More barriers are being removed so that employees can get work done (up five points) • Employees feel encouraged to take more risks 1,970,110 LBS OF GHG = 199 CARS OFF THE ROAD = 896 TREES PLANTED = (up seven points) 26,393 131 • K-C is implementing our Performance Management process kWh HOMES OF THE GRID more effectively (up 16 points) Sustainability at Home Kimberly-Clark’s Small Steps program reaches out to our global workforce, encouraging employees to adopt small behavioral changes that together can contribute to a significant reduction in 3,161,257 GALLONS OF WATER SAVED = 15,806 BATHTUBS OF WATER SAVED = 1.3 OLYMPIC SIZED SWIMMING POOLS the use of energy, water and other resources. 2011 2012 2013 2015 Goal 1,751 TOTAL ACTS OF KINDNESS (INCLUDING): Employees Participating in 11,600 13,100 4432 15,000 Small Steps Note: 6,270 PERSONAL HOURS Reflects 5~35% of employees who have regular access to computers. Updates to program resulted in lower numbers in 2013. See full text for explanation. 3,601 TOTAL ACTS OF WELLNESS (INCLUDING): The Small Steps program, which over the years has encouraged employees to make a difference by taking small steps to improve our planet, was updated in 2013 with a new web-based, interactive program: Small Steps 2.0: My Sustainable Life. The program allows participants globally to become involved in 1,217 1,442 842 making more comprehensive sustainable choices. We have NUTRITION FITNESS HEALTHY LIVING KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 27 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Crystal Tree Awards In 2013, 14 K-C mills across the globe received a Crystal DIVERSITY & INCLUSION Tree award for making significant contributions to our overall Sustainability 2015 progress. All mills are evaluated annually by the Global Sustainability Team, and the award recognizes mills that have achieved specific targets for a sustained period of one year related to occupational safety, energy efficiency, water use reduction and waste elimination. Each winner receives a Crystal Tree Award made out of recycled glass, a donation to the nonprofit of their choice and an opportunity to participate with one of K-C’s NGO partners on a project such as tree planting or water replenishment. Our diversity and inclusion vision is to look, act and behave like the people who buy our products. Increasing the representation For achievement in safety, energy efficiency and of women (globally) and ethnic minorities (U.S.) in senior water use reduction: management positions (defined as Director-level and above) are Ramos Arizpe, Mexico our primary measurement metrics. Our considerable progress has Koblenz, Germany been recognized by Catalyst and we are on track to reach our Shanghai, China long-term goals. LongFor achievement in safety, energy efficiency and Employee term waste reduction: 2010 2011 2012 2013 Diversity Goals Flint Mill, Wales (2020) Villanueva, Honduras Women Global Eldorado, Brazil Director and 21.1% 23.8% 25.5% 26.4% 40% Beijing, China Above1 Safeskin SSMT, Thailand Nanjing, China Ethnic Minority Prosede, Mexico U.S. Director 11.6% 13.6% 14.7% 15.8% 18-20% Jaromer Nonwovens, Czech Republic and Above1 Nogales 1, Mexico Women Global Salary 38.3% 38.4% 39.6% 42.4% 50% For achievement in safety, energy efficiency, water Employees use and waste reduction: Ethnic Minorities Orizaba, Mexico U.S. Salary 13.6% 14.2% 15.0% 14.8% 20% Nahariya, Israel Employees Note: 1 Leaders in Director-level position or higher Additionally, Kimberly-Clark is affiliated with a number of diversity-focused organizations, including: • Catalyst Inc. Organization that expands opportunities for women at work. Kimberly-Clark chairman and CEO Tom Falk serves on the Board of Directors KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 28 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • The Consortium for Graduate Study in Management Diversity in Our Operations (Recruiting partners) • Corporate Council Women of Color: Kimberly-Clark holds We promote diversity among our employees through Employee an advisory board position with this organization. Resource Groups. These are open to all employees and are valuable tools for the recruitment, development and retention of, • Executive Leadership Council Networks for African and engagement among, colleagues from different backgrounds. American executives of Fortune 500 companies • National Association of Asian MBAs, National Black MBA Our current Employee Resource Groups in North America include: Association, National Society of Black Engineers, National Society of Hispanic MBA. (Recruiting partners) • African American Employee Network (AAEN) • Network of Executive Women Advances women in the • Family Caregivers Network consumer packaged goods and retail industries • Parents Interactive Network (PIN) • SMU Cox School of Business Latino Leadership Initiative, Hispanic Leadership Development: Kimberly-Clark is a • Focus Asia founding member of the SMU Cox Latino Leadership Initiative, • Latin American Network for Diversity (LAND) with the mission to discover, develop and encourage • New Employee Opportunity Network (NEON) high-performance Latino executives who will drive business growth and create a sustainable competitive advantage for • People Respecting Individual Differences Everywhere Network their companies. (PRIDE@K-C) • Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers Member of the • Service, Alliance, Uniting Together (SALUTE) Industrial Partner Council • Women’s Interactive Network (WIN) • Society of Women Engineers Member of this society’s Corporate Partnership Council In 2013, we made progress on expanding our Employee Resource Groups: Inspire a World of Talent • Kimberly-Clark Dallas completed a needs assessment, In June of 2013, Kimberly-Clark launched Inspire a World business case and leadership approval for a local LAND group of Talent, an innovative learning program designed to help • Focus Asia expanded to Kimberly-Clark Korea employees rethink diversity and inclusion in a way that would • WIN expanded globally with the launch of WIN Korea generate better debate, better insights and better solutions. • The European Diversity Council restructured and initiated The program included a highly engaging series of TV episodes, steps to expand PRIDE and WIN in the UK sketch learning videos, e-learning opportunities, podcasts and • K-C Completed needs assessment, business case and tools designed to help employees apply what they’ve learned leadership approval for Capabilities 1st, K-C’s first ERG right away. designed to support employees with disabilities Human Rights in Employment Policy Diversity Internationally Our Human Rights in Employment Policy underscores our The Global Diversity & Inclusion team collaborates with Kimberlycommitment to diversity and inclusion. It prohibits discrimination Clark leaders around the world to develop action plans that are and harassment based on race, color, sex, pregnancy, sexual specific to the issues in their regions. orientation, gender identity, age, religion, creed, national origin, disability, genetic information, veteran status, legally protected Within Kimberly-Clark International, we have focused on hiring leave and other categories protected by applicable law. local-country management and teams, because they know the marketplace best. Local management are also a valuable KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 29 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT resource for our leaders who are honing their capabilities and knowledge of emerging markets through temporary LABOR RELATIONS international placements. Supporting Constructive Labor Relations Catalyst Award To maintain open communication channels with the approximately In 2014, Catalyst, a leading nonprofit organization with a mission 25% of our global workforce that is unionized, Kimberlyto expand opportunities for women in business, recognized Clark supports active union-management labor councils and Kimberly-Clark as a leading company in supporting women. communication forums. Catalyst awarded K-C the recognition for our Global “Unleash YOUR Power” initiative. This initiative launched in 2010 and is In 2013, Kimberly-Clark renewed our “joint agreement” with Union built on our business strategy to have a workforce that is diverse Network International (UNI), United Steel Workers (USW) and and inclusive, and reflects those who look, think and behave Unite the Union, for a fourth year. like the people who use our products. It includes programs like our Accelerated Development Program, Global SWAP and GAP At the annual Global Union and Management Leadership programs, DIG (Develop, Inspire & Grow), WIN Scholarship Conference, progress against goals was evident, which allowed programming and Flex Work. for reaffirmation of the joint commitment to continue to maintain a respectful relationship based on proactive sharing of information LINKS: and finding solutions to issues and opportunities. http://blogs.wsj.com/atwork/2014/04/01/how-one-company-putwomen-in-charge/ 2010 2011 2012 2013 www.youtube.com/watch?v=ie7p-AvWii4&feature=youtu.be Employees with 27% 25% 25% 25% Union Membership PRIDE@K-C Diverse & Resilient, Inc. in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, awarded In 2013, an initial labor agreement was signed in Colombia PRIDE@K-C (People Respecting Individual Differences through the collective efforts of the union and management. Everywhere at Kimberly-Clark), the 2012 LGBT Community Adriana Rosenzvaig, UNI America’s Regional Secretary, Partner Award. This award was given in recognition of the applauded the company’s efforts. K-C is one of only a few significant leadership contributions made in the Fox Valley companies that has shown that the culture of dialogue and community during the past year, specifically outreach and negotiation is possible in the region. mentoring LGBT (lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender) youth. In particular, members of PRIDE@K-C were actively engaged with community programs like Harmony Café, an organization GRI G4-23 that provides a safe place for area high schools’ Gay Straight Alliances to network, where students can be themselves and Supporting Employees at Plant Closure Sites achieve their potential. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark made changes in our European strategy We recognize the importance of respectful union-management to focus resources and investments on the company’s strongest relationships in advancing areas of mutual interest with respect products and markets. As part of this work, we announced that to our sustainability initiatives and global workplace rights. we would stop manufacturing and selling diapers in Europe, with the exception of Italy. In addition, Kimberly-Clark streamlined its manufacturing and administrative footprint and divested itself of or exit certain lower-margin, low-growth markets. The strategy allows our consumer business in Europe to place resources KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 30 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT and investments behind our strongest brands with the greatest GRI HR5 AND HR 6 potential in key markets. In Costa Rica, we are consolidating manufacturing processes on one site (the Coris mill) to optimize Protecting our Workforce Against Forced and resources and the quality of our products with more efficient and Child Labor modern equipment. Another aspect of our Social Compliance program requires As a result of these factors, the company sold or closed seven suppliers to ensure protection against forced or child labor manufacturing facilities in 2013. These include the closure of our and abuse of labor. During our auditing process, we check for diaper mills in Barton, UK and in Calatayud, Spain; the closure of evidence of forced labor and abuse of child labor, evidence of Kimberly-Clark Professional’s Delyn facility at the company’s mill physical coercion, and we ensure that all workers are present in Flint, Wales (which primarily makes hand towels); the closure of voluntarily. In 2013, there were no adverse findings during audits our tissue mill in Reisholz, Germany; the sales of our toilet tissue with our current Finished Product Contract Manufacturers. mill in Alanno, Italy, and our toilet and facial tissue mill in Klucze, Poland; and the consolidation of our mill in Cartago, Costa Rica. “As its many awards in 2013 attest to, Kimberly-Clark is viewed as a reputable employer committed to the safety Throughout the restructuring process, Kimberly-Clark worked and well-being of its people. Following the Rana Plaza proactively with employees and local employee representatives, building collapse of April 2013, no contracting company ensuring that consultation processes were respectful, fair and will be judged on the basis of assertions alone. Far greater consistent. To support employees through these transitions, scrutiny, systematic compliance and accountability systems Kimberly-Clark established an employee assistance hotline with are now expected. Kimberly-Clark’s Supplier Social support in multiple languages, offered outplacement assistance Compliance Standards are an important step towards this. and counseling services, and provided severance and benefits Board level monitoring is welcome but continued vigilance packages. In Barton, more than 50% of the workforce secured is required to ensure that Kimberly-Clark meets its 100% new employment before operations had ceased and Kimberlysupplier participation goal by 2015.” Clark gifted an area of mill land to the neighboring special needs — Malini Mehra school. In the case of our diaper mill closure in Calatayud, Sustainability Advisory Board Member Spain, Kimberly-Clark donated the mill site in its entirety to the local community. GRI HR4 Corporate Social Compliance Progress Internally, we conduct an annual Code of Conduct survey, as well as country-specific communications on the issues of freedom of association and collective bargaining (as developments warrant). Additional details regarding our Social Compliance program for external suppliers can be found in the Products section of this report. In 2013, more than 140 K-C owned and contracted suppliers were audited by external auditing firms, checking for evidence of illegal denial of collective bargaining, illegal denial of freedom of association, threats of intimidation, or bribes for not joining or associating with a worker organization. There has been one audit finding to date that has raised concern. This finding was remediated in a timely fashion KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 31 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMUNITY GRI G4-EC7 Kimberly-Clark’s goal is to help sustain the communities in which our employees work and live. Our success — and theirs — is grounded in this principle. Community Contributions ($M) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Community Partners grants to U.S. employee-chosen charities 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.7 Value of matching gifts contributions made by U.S. employees 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5 Value of Product donations 8.3 19.2 14.0 16.3 Global cash donations 12.4 12.9 19.0 18.7 Total global (product and cash) donations ($M) 20.7 32.1 33.0 35.0 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 32 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT FOUNDATION, SOCIAL GIVING & The Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Community Partners program recognizes the volunteer efforts of U.S. employees VOLUNTEERISM and their spouses by making $500 grants to the charitable organizations at which they volunteer for 30 or more hours per year. Through our Kimberly-Clark Foundation’s Matching Gifts program, U.S. employees are able to double their donations to qualified charitable organizations. Employee Contributions 2010 2011 2012 2013 Employee giving ($M) 4.2 3.9 4.2 4.4 U.S. employee 78,000 84,000 77,430 80,571 volunteer hours The Kimberly-Clark Foundation strives to help those in need gain essentials for better lives through a range of health, humanitarian, economic and environmental initiatives. The Foundation maintains strategic partnerships with global organizations that address issues related to our business and that are of interest to consumers and our customers. In 2013, we contributed more than $35 million in cash and product donations, in addition to the countless hours our employees spent volunteering in their communities. For more information on social programs supported by K-C, including those that provide consumers with access to our products, please visit our website. Volunteerism & Giving Additionally, throughout the year, employees from Kimberly-Clark facilities around the world participate in a variety of volunteer activities with local nonprofit organizations. Kimberly-Clark employees contributed $4.5 million to nonprofit organizations in 2013. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PEOPLE | JUNE 2014 33 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET Our mission to provide essentials for a better life is inseparable from our commitment to protect the environment. It’s hard to imagine anything more essential to a better life than clean air, clean water and a healthy environment. It’s been our way for more than 140 years, and it is our priority going forward. FIBER Since Kimberly-Clark’s inception in 1872 we have had a focus on sustainable forestry. That focus continues as we lead the way in environmentally responsible fiber use through the following actions: • Sourcing 100% of our wood fiber, by 2015, from suppliers that have received third-party certification of their forestry activities • Obtaining 90% of the fiber, by 2025, in our tissue products from environmentally preferred sources. This includes Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified wood fiber, recycled fiber and sustainable alternative fibers. • Transitioning at least 50% of wood fiber sourced from natural forests to alternative fiber sources by 2025 “Kimberly-Clark has modest environmental impact reduction objectives. It is no surprise, then, that with its strong efficiency and culture of continuous improvement, K-C has achieved or exceeded most 2015 targets. While that is a job well done, there is still more to achieve! I would encourage the company to set its ambitions and goals to a heightened level and speed required by the threat of a climate crisis, the pressures of deforestation and urban consumer waste, and the needs of communities suffering water, sanitation and food stresses.” — Claude Fussler Sustainability Advisory Board Member KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 34 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Fiber Use in 2013 • Total market pulp consumed by Kimberly-Clark in its manufacturing our products: 4.4% • Total virgin wood fiber used in Kimberly-Clark products: approx. 2.40 million air-dried metric tons (ADMT) • Environmentally preferred fiber used: 71.7%* • Reduction of fiber sourced from natural forest: 24%. *Refers to global fiber supply GRI G4-EN2 FIBER USE (MILLION MT) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Virgin 2.56 2.48 2.36 2.40 % of total 72.6% 70.3% 71.1% 71.5% Recycled 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 % of total 27.5% 29.7% 28.6% 28.5% Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) + recycled content 65.3% 62.4% 66.1% 71.7% Notes: As part of our 2014 global GF&TN agreement with WWF, we will report our total use of environmentally preferred fiber for all fiber-containing products. Virgin pulp will include all K-C manufactured pulp, purchased market pulp and third-party contract-manufactured fiber-containing products. K-C began collecting fiber data from third-party contract manufacturers in 2009. Environmentally preferred fiber used for all business globally: 71.7% Environmentally preferred fiber used in our global tissue business 83.5% Moreover, Kimberly-Clark will not knowingly use “conflict wood,” illegally harvested fiber or fiber procured from special forest areas, such as primary tropical rainforests, endangered forests, high-conservation-value forests and any areas protected by government authorities. We promote efforts to stop illegallogging imports through our support of the Lacey Act in the U.S.; the Illegal Logging Prohibition Act in Australia,14 of which came into effect in 2012 following years of lobbying by environmental groups and support from businesses such as Kimberly-Clark; and the EU Timber Regulation, which took effect in March 2013. You can read more about this in our Fiber Procurement Policy. In the following sections, we provide additional details on fiber certification, and our plans to reduce our dependence on natural forest fiber. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 35 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SOURCING The third-party certification systems we recognize are: • Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) • Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) • Canadian Standards Association’s (CSA) National Sustainable Forest Management Standards (CSA) • Sistema Brasileiro de Certificação Florestal (CERFLOR), in Brazil • Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes (PEFC) Our Commitment to Environmentally Preferred Fiber We continue to have a strong preference for the use of environmentally preferred fiber. Kimberly-Clark has set a goal that by the year 2025, 90% of the fiber supply for our global tissue products will be environmentally preferred fiber, consisting of the following sources: Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified fiber; recycled fiber (RF); and sustainable alternative fiber. FSC has the world’s most In 2012, we reached our Sustainability 2015 goal of sourcing widely recognized forest certification scheme, supported by 100% of our virgin wood fiber from suppliers whose forestry internationally recognized environmental nongovernmental operations or wood-fiber procurement activities are certified by a organizations (ENGOs) and preferred by a number of retail third-party forest certification system. customers and business-to-business partners. At K-C, we look to support our suppliers by working with partners such as FSC International, Greenpeace and the World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Global Forest & Trade Network (GF&TN) to standardize FSC requirements. The FSC administers three different types of certificates. ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE TISSUE (GLOBAL) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Virgin Fiber FSC Mix 33.3% 38.5% 44.3% 50.3% FSC Plantation 29.1% 33.1% 38.4% 41.8% FSC Controlled Wood 31.4% 26.1% 21.8% 16.5% Recycled Fiber Recycled content 32.0% 34.5% 33.9% 33.2% Post-consumer recycled content* 12.9% 14.1% 13.8% 13.7% Notes: Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content” “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix” *Post-consumer recycled content reported for North American and Europe only KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 36 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ENVIRONMENTALLY All Kimberly-Clark tissue mills in North America and Europe PREFERABLE TISSUE 2010 2011 2012 2013 and approximately 50% of our mills in our other regions are (NORTH AMERICA) Chain of Custody-certified. In 2013, we obtained FSC Chain of Custody certification for facilities in Malaysia, Hong Kong, Virgin Fiber Thailand and Singapore. FSC Mix 31.6% 36.7% 44.0% 50.7% FSC Plantation 25.9% 30.0% 34.4% 38.0% Our goal, under our GF&TN agreement with WWF, is to achieve 100% Chain of Custody certification for all of our mills FSC Controlled Wood 42.7% 36.4% 26.5% 21.3% by 2016. Pulp suppliers must be Forest Management-certified Recycled Fiber in order to supply us with FSC-certified pulp for our FSC Recycled content 25.2% 26.0% 29.5% 28.0% product-labeling initiatives. Post-consumer 20.3% 22.5% 25.6% 22.9% recycled content* Notes: Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix” “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content” A Decade of Progress: Leading Our Industry in Responsible Fiber Sourcing 2012 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 37 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT “In 2013, Kimberly-Clark importantly launched Viva paper World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Love Your towels with bamboo fiber and began to promote Forests Campaign Forest Stewardship Council certification on product packaging, a key step that could still be more Since 2011, Kimberly-Clark has been a foundation aggressively communicated. In addition, in 2013, global partner of WWF’s Love Your Forests campaign, which GHG emissions at manufacturing facilities were 3% less aims to raise awareness of FSC® as the certification of than 2012. Although this was better than their goal, I choice, and the importance of sourcing tissue, paper and believe there is room for the company to set much more timber products from responsibly-managed forests. aggressive greenhouse gas emissions reduction goals.” — Jeffrey Hollender The program is helping WWF to spread two key messages: Sustainability Advisory Board Member • We can all love our forests by making informed choices and choosing products certified by the FSC-Certification Achievements in 2013 FSC; and The number of our products that are FSC-certified continued • Making informed choices can make a difference in to grow in 2013 as part of our continued commitment to raise the marketplace as the more consumers demand customer awareness of environmentally sound fiber sourcing. FSC certified products, the more businesses will Particular achievements include the introduction of K-C need to supply them. Professional products in Southeast Asia and the introduction of FSC-certified Viva brand paper towels with bamboo at Costco In 2013, we continued our support of the program by stores in Australia. ensuring that all our Australian manufactured FSCcertified consumer tissue and towel products have In North America Consumer Tissue, we expanded FSC product packaging clearly labeled with information about certification to include Cottonelle brand and Scott brand extra FSC and the Love Your Forests program. The Love soft bath tissue. This is in addition to FSC product labeling Your Forests campaign gives K-C the opportunity completed previously on Kleenex brand facial tissue and Scott to encourage people and businesses to look for the 1000 bath tissue and Scott towels. Moreover, K-C has worked FSC registered trademark when buying wood based to further our achievements in FSC-certification through strong products and educate them on how their purchasing partnerships that allow us to deepen our reach and drive decisions have an impact on the environment. We are consumer education. proud to report that through the program, awareness of the FSC logo has grown in Australia, allowing K-C to differentiate our products by highlighting our commitment to environmentally friendly practices. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 38 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ALTERNATIVE FIBERS Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) In 2012, Kimberly-Clark commissioned a Life Cycle Assessment Going beyond the commitments in our current fiber-sourcing (LCA) from scientists at the Georgia Institute of Technology policy, Kimberly-Clark is exploring alternative sources of fiber (GIT) to help inform us of potential environmental benefits and in order to continue to provide the high-quality products our life cycle impacts of using alternative natural fibers. In addition to consumers demand. We work to strengthen our tissue business the traditional impact areas studied in LCAs, the study provided by enabling increased fiber flexibility, and to foster sustainability supplemental analysis on issues such as scale of land use, of the world’s natural forests. impacts on biodiversity and biogenic carbon accounting. The study indicates that the alternative fiber sources researched We continue to support sustainable each had different environmental impacts. In general bamboo, recycled fiber, Arundo donax (Giant Cane) and kenaf had lower forest management by adhering to our impacts on water depletion and land use. fiber procurement policy, which holds Building on the findings of the LCA, in 2013, we commissioned WWF-US to do additional sustainability work related to potential FSC certification in the highest regard. impacts on carbon sequestration, biodiversity and ecosystem services of various alternative natural fibers. At the Rio+20 United Nations Conference on Sustainability This LCA has further deepened our understanding of the Development in June 2012, we announced our intention to environmental impacts associated with the use of alternative transition at least 50% of our wood fiber sourced from natural natural fibers and guides our fiber development activities in forests to other fiber sources by 2025. This ambitious goal the future. has required us to undertake initiatives such as maximizing our use of wood from plantations, increasing our use of waste Global Stewardship Standard by-products, and incorporating land use-efficient, rapidly renewable fiber alternatives. This move may also provide To ensure that the management of alternative natural fibers business advantage as regards fiber flexibility and, ideally, is handled responsibly, it is essential to have a clear standard reductions in cost volatility. that promotes and enforces globally respected environmental and social criteria among producers of alternative natural fibers. Kimberly-Clark is pursuing several high-potential fiber To help achieve this goal, Kimberly-Clark is working with the alternatives, including those from plants such as bamboo, Rainforest Alliance on the long-term development of a rigorous miscanthus, and other purpose grown natural fibers that make global stewardship standard. efficient and sustainable use of land, as well as “agricultural waste” fibers such as wheat straw. In the meantime, the company is working with environmental partners like Greenpeace and WWF to develop interim In 2013, we were able to reduce the use of our fiber supplied sustainability criteria to follow as new plantings are grown and from natural forests by 24%. While we are pleased with this level crops are developed. These criteria include no conversion of of progress, we recognize there is still room to improve, and are natural forests, no use of genetically-modified organisms and no committed to working with key stakeholders to continue towards permanent conversion of agricultural crop land. our 2025 goal. Using Alternative Fiber In 2013, Kimberly-Clark launched VIVA brand paper towels with bamboo fiber in Australia, a first for Kimberly-Clark globally, and the first paper towel product in the country to contain bamboo fiber. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 39 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WATER PROCESS FRESH WATER USE (MILLION M^3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Surface 72.9 69.5 46.0 44.5 % of total 58% 55% 44% 48% Municipal 36.7 37.5 39.4 32.3 % of total 29% 30% 38% 35% Groundwater 16.8 18.5 18.1 16.2 % of total 13% 15% 17% 17% TOTAL 126.4 125.4 103.4 93.0 26.4% Reduction over N/A 0.8% 17.5% 10.1% previous years Notes: N/A: Data is not available PROCESS EFFLUENT DISCHARGE 2010 2011 2012 2013 DESTINATIONS Surface 84% 83% 81% 86% Municipal 16% 17% 19% 14% TISSUE MANUFACTURING 2010 2011 2012 2013 WATER USE EFFICIENCY (M^3)/MT PRODUCTION) Water issues directly affect Kimberly-Clark’s business. Because Actual 43.5 45.7 40.0 36.0 we use large amounts of water in our manufacturing processes Annual Target 31.7 30.9 29.3 29.2 and because water is vital to human and ecosystem health, we have invested significant capital to minimize our absolute water Percent Deviation 37% 48% 37% 23% use and support the needs of communities in which we operate. Reducing Our Water Use Our goals include: In 2013, we achieved our water use reduction goal ahead of • A 25% reduction in water use by 2015, using a 2010 baseline, schedule. Our total global water use was 93 million cubic meters while maintaining our current quality of discharge (m3). This represents a 10% reduction from our 2012 water use • Replenishing 200 million gallons per year of water to of 104 million cubic meters, and a 26.4% reduction from the communities in need. 2010 adjusted baseline water use of 126 million cubic meters. Water use reductions in 2013 were driven by a more efficient GRI G4-EN8 AND G4-EN22 manufacturing footprint, water conservation programs and upgraded water and waste water systems that were designed with water use reduction as a key performance objective. In addition, mill staff strove to optimize the water use reduction programs and effluent recycling system that were installed in KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 40 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT COMMUNITY WATER INITIATIVES 2012. We also completed the shutdown of our Everett and Delyn facilities, as well as one tissue asset that contributed to the company’s total water use reductions. In 2012, Kimberly-Clark formally announced its Water for Life In 2013, we also completed six major water reduction projects program as a key component of the company’s Sustainability by initiating long loop water recycling or water treatment 2015 strategy. Recognizing the global importance of fresh water upgrade projects. Our Northfleet Mill, for example, upgraded and the sustainable management of water resources, through this and expanded its wastewater system to improve wastewater program Kimberly-Clark collaborates with NGOs to provide clean quality and enable more than half of its wastewater to be drinking water, as well as sanitation and hygiene education, to recycled and reused. Completing this project allowed the mill to communities around the world. meet regulatory requirements, reduce water usage and improve mill operations. Approximately 700 million people across 43 Compliance with Water Discharge Standards countries are affected by water scarcity. Since 2000, we have required all facilities and business units to certify their compliance with our biological oxygen demand GRI G4-EN10 (BOD) and total suspended solids (TSS) global wastewater performance standards. In 2006, we developed a program to Kimberly-Clark uses approximately 34 billion gallons of water per monitor acute toxicity at our international mills on a rotating year, and we return about 32 billion gallons, or 94%. Our goal is basis and introduced corrective measures at mills where acute to close the remaining 6% gap over 10 years, by 2021. To that toxicity was present. And in 2011 we formalized the standard end, we have set a water-replenishment target of 200 million requiring that all wastewater discharges be free of acute toxicity. gallons per year, which will accumulate to 2 billion gallons over 10 years. In 2013, all applicable facilities met this standard. Water Replenishment Projects (million m^3) 0.026 Honduras 2.067 TOTAL .227 .303 Israel 0.002 Global Small Step Program 0.004 Spain 1.146 Colombia India .330 France 0.030 El Salvador KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 41 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT WASTE savings. Our manufacturing team is developing similar plans for other child care products in 2014. In addition to reducing manufacturing waste, there are additional sustainable benefits such as the reduction in energy used to produce the waste product and a reduction in transport costs of materials for manufacture of the product. 2010 2011 2012 2013 81.5% Waste per metric ton of production (MT/MT) Notes: 0.28 0.29 0.29 The MT of waste/MT of production data indicates that nearly 30% of the weight of 0.31 our products is waste. This is mainly due to the recycled fiber process and the water and byproducts left behind after usable fibers are extracted. Nearly 1 million MT of K-C’s waste are from recycled fiber sludge; that represents roughly two-thirds of K-C’s total waste generation. Nearly 50% of that weight is residual water leftover from the pulping process. Maximizing the Value of Secondary Materials As Kimberly-Clark facilities move toward the 2015 goal of zero waste to landfill, our teams are also working to ensure that manufacturing by-products are managed to provide optimal value as secondary materials. This optimal value includes both financial value as well as a reduction in the use of other “virgin” As a major manufacturer of disposable products, we recognize raw material resources. To that effect, K-C facilities have been a special obligation to manage waste responsibly. Reducing sharing best practices in scrap material sorting and sales, waste, optimizing material value and eliminating manufacturing identifying material reuse and recycling opportunities within our waste to landfill has been at the core of our solid waste operations and supply chain, and developing relationships with management strategy for more than a decade. outside recyclers. We are confident that we are moving in the right direction in reducing pressure on virgin resources, putting Eliminating Waste scrap materials to good use while offsetting costs. In 2013, our goal was to have 85% of our manufacturing waste In 2013, our internal scrap sales team (KimCycle) generated diverted from landfill. We achieved an 81.6% diversion rate to $28 million in sales in the US and our Health Care operations in secondary, beneficial uses, up from 78% in 2012. While this fell Mexico. This includes an incremental $7 million in new revenue, short of our goal, we are proud that 58% of our facilities met exceeding the goal of $5 million. This goal was achieved and the 2015 goal of sending zero manufacturing waste to landfill. surpassed by identifying new waste streams that had not We are currently on track to be near 90% landfill free by the end previously generated value, and increasing the overall material of 2014. values of the streams that had been previously identified. One of the best ways to avoid sending manufacturing waste K-C International operations generated approximately $15 million to the landfill is to stop making it. This effort compliments our from secondary materials. In our Epping, South Africa operations, strategy to reduce manufacturing cost. for example, 572 tons of diaper trim waste was recycled. Instead of sending the trim to landfill, Kimberly-Clark baled the trim waste In 2013 and 2014, we have made great strides in reducing and sold it to a third party plastic recycler, who then produced manufacturing waste. For example, we are on track to eliminate other plastic materials such as park benches. In addition to the production of more than 210 million diapers that don’t meet the waste diverted from landfill, the anticipated total monetary our quality standards, resulting in a significant year-on-year cost savings for selling the waste was more than $200,000. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 42 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Managing Tissue Mill Sludge GRI G4-EN23 Residual short fiber (RSF), the wastewater treatment sludge Nonhazardous 2010 2011 2012 2013 from our tissue-making operations, accounts for approximately Waste 90% of our manufacturing waste still going to landfill. Many Percentage of 99.97% 99.98% 99.97% 99.96% of our mills have successfully diverted sludge from landfill total waste for soil amendment, newsprint and corrugate manufacturing, Landfilled 18.8% 21.7% 21.3% 18.5% and building and insulation products. All continue to seek new Recycled 20.0% 21.2% 22.7% 22.1% markets. Our mill at Beech Island, South Carolina, for example, has been diverting its RSF from landfill for more than Beneficial use 23.7% 20.8% 25.0% 28.3% three years, selling it for pet bedding products and composted Converted to 19.6% 18.5% 12.1% 11.3% topsoil amendments. energy Reused and One of our largest challenges to achieving our zero landfill goal 12.0% 14.0% 17.3% 18.1% other is RSF from mills that recycle waste paper for manufacturing Composted 4.9% 3.1% 0.9% 0.9% into tissue. In 2012, we lost the ability to divert RSF from our Enstra, South Africa and Loudon, Tennessee mills to other Incinerated 1.0% 0.7% 0.8% 0.8% beneficial uses. We have since identified potential solutions for TOTAL (million MT) 1.39 1.44 1.37 1.33 both of these facilities, and our goal is to have these solutions implemented in 2014, keeping us on track for achieving our 2015 zero landfill goals. GRI G4-EN25 Creating a Circular Economy Hazardous Waste 2010 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of 99.71% 99.59% 99.65% 99.74% total waste Biological 23.1% 41.1% 16.8% 17.3% treatment Recycled 23.1% 41.1% 16.8% 17.3% In order to secure a more reliable supply of fiber for Incineration recycling and use in the products they sell, our Our KCP without heat 18.8% 30.9% 39.2% 26.4% business in Latin America has been exploring a ”circular recovery economy” model called Club KC.This Waste to Finished Chemical 11.8% 16.1% 16.7% 27.2% Product exchange helps acquire additional secondary fiber treatment and strengthen relationships with KCP customers. Surface 0.0% 5.2% 6.3% 0.0% impoundment The program identifies companies with a high secondary Thermal fiber potential which are also existing or potential customers 2.4% 1.1% 5.0% 11.6% treatment for KCP products, then collects the recyclable fiber in Permanent exchange for finished KCP products. The pilot was launched 0.0% 1.2% 2.4% 0.9% storage in Costa Rica during 2013. To date, 27 customers have Landfilled 2.7% 1.2% 0.8% 0.1% participated in the program and more than 360 annualized metric tons of secondary fiber has been collected. These Blended fuel 0.4% 3.2% 12.6% 16.5% results have encouraged the business to expand the Deep well 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% program to other Central American, Caribbean and Andean injection countries during 2014. TOTAL (kg) 483,521 348,059 391,390 507,926 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 43 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CLIMATE CHANGE & ENERGY USE GRI G4-EN19 In 2013, absolute global GHG emissions at our manufacturing facilities were 5.1 million metric tons (MT) of CO2 equivalents (CO2e). This represents a 3% reduction from 2012 GHG emissions and a 6.4% reduction from the baseline year of 2010, delivering our Sustainability 2015 goal two years early. 6.4% This record year for GHG emissions reduction was driven by initiatives executed within three main corporate strategies designed to deliver our goal: • Footprint Optimization: Our strategy to restructure our manufacturing footprint for improved business results has resulted in facilities sold or retired. Recent reductions from retirement of assets at five global sites contributed to a reduction of more than 80,000 MTCO2e in 2013. • Alternate and Renewable Energy Supply Deployment: GRI G4-EC2 Our strategy for global energy supply incorporates At Kimberly-Clark, the majority of our operational greenhouse responsible, sustainable procurement of energy to deliver gas (GHG) emissions result from energy use at our reliable supply and predictable energy cost. GHG emissions manufacturing facilities. In line with our Essentials for a Better reduction from new alternative energy sources including Life vision, we strive to address issues like reducing our carbon combined heat and power (cogeneration) technology and footprint by understanding how it affects all aspects of our renewable energy reduced emissions by 33,000 MTCO2e. business — from regulatory complexity to cost implications to • Energy Conservation: Our strategy for energy conservation environmental and social concerns. incorporates facility energy assessments against best practices to generate projects to reduce energy consumption “Kimberly-Clark has made progress on all its major and improve energy efficiency. We have established process environmental impacts. The company has made absolute benchmarks for targeted energy intensity as measured by cuts in greenhouse gases, but I believe it needs to set amount of energy required per unit of manufactured product. much more aggressive goals that are based on the science To support our GHG emissions reduction effort, we set the of climate change, which would drive extensive use of goal to eliminate the overconsumption of energy above those renewable energy and larger efficiency gains. Kimberlybenchmarks by 2015. GHG emissions reductions from energy Clark’s work on water is going well, but will require continued conservation projects resulted in savings of 42,000 MTCO2e. investment and support, and its fiber strategy (certification and innovation around alternatives) is world-class.” Renewable energy is utilized where possible in our global — Andrew Winston operations and range from biofuels sourced from wood waste Sustainability Advisory Board Member and landfill gas in the United States (Mobile & Beech Island), Switzerland (Neiderbipp), Brazil (Correia Pinto), and Thailand; Managing Our Greenhouse Gas Emissions also active solar installations are part of the portfolio in the United States (Berkeley) and Italy (Romagnano) where To manage and reduce the GHG emissions from our operations, 1 megawatt of electricity is generated for internal mill use. we have developed a corporate-wide GHG inventory of the six major greenhouse gases. We report progress annually based on detailed EPA protocols. As part of our Sustainability 2015 strategy, we set a goal of reducing GHG absolute emissions from manufacturing by 5% from a 2010 baseline. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 44 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI G4-EN21 Since 2005, we have deployed cogeneration of electricity at four manufacturing facilities as the cornerstone of our Other Criteria Pollutants alternate energy strategy. Through 2013, those projects 2010 2011 2012 2013 (MT) have provided cumulative avoided emissions of 4.2 million NOx 4,870 4,892 3,919 3,763 MTCO2e compared to conventional sources. Our 2013 avoided emissions of more than 230,000 MTCO2e is equal SO2 4,456 4,685 3,252 2,048 to those from generation of electricity used annually by 31,650 homes. Our newest cogeneration system in Millicent, GRI G4-EN6 Australia, not only produces more than 90% of the electricity for the manufacturing facility, but also produces 100% Energy Conservation: of the mill’s steam through a waste heat recovery steam Managing Energy Efficiency generator. Additional waste heat is integrated into the tissue manufacturing process to reduce more than 60% of the Energy Efficiency (million 2010 2011 2012 2013 natural gas used to dry our tissue. This project also shows Btu/MT of production) our continuous improvement by achieving a Kimberly-Clark Actual 15.3 15.6 13.3 13.6 cogeneration record 80% cycle efficiency which saves 80,000 Benchmark Target (based on MTCO2e and more than $8 million in energy cost annually. 14.3 14.3 12.9 13.4 volume/mix of products) Percent deviation Fuel switching to lower GHG emitting fuels is an important 6% 9% 3% 1.5% (over-consumption) part of our alternate energy strategy. Applied to steam generation, six facilities (Enstra, Chungli, Hsing Ying, From 2012 to 2013, Kimberly-Clark manufacturing facilities Tayuon, Thailand Safe Skin and Barbosa) have converted reduced energy overconsumption by 50%, from 3% in 2012 to fuel oil or coal to natural gas. In 2013, savings from fuel a record low 1.5% in 2013. Energy consumption per unit was switching contributed 25,000 MTCO2e in GHG reduction. reduced 11.1% since the baseline year 2010. This increase in energy efficiency saved Kimberly-Clark nearly $90 million in energy costs to manufacture our products in 2013. These results were positively influenced by the execution of 95 discrete energy conservation/energy efficiency improvement projects GRI G4-EN15 AND G4-EN16 implemented in our manufacturing facilities across the globe. Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million MT CO2e) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Direct (Scope 1) 2,532,226 2,483,048 2,379,935 2,243,926 Indirect (Scope 2) 2,919,432 2,912,934 2,874,870 2,856,695 Total emissions (CO2e) 5,451,659 5,395,982 5,254,805 5,100,621 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 5,398,851 5,336,053 5,220,373 5,066,093 Methane (CH4) 13,562 12,913 8,272 8,332 NItrous oxide (N20) 39,246 37,624 26,160 26,197 Change from the previous year 0 1.0% 2.6% 3% CO2e per metric ton of production 2,532,226 2,483,048 2,379,935 2,243,926 Note: The U.S. emission factors were based on the 2011 U.S. EPA eGRID2010 version 2.1, and the international emission factors used the International Energy Agency Data Services “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2011 Edition),” and 2010 data has been updated to reflect these new calculations. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 45 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT At Kimberly-Clark, energy efficiency improvements are accomplished by identifying and prioritizing conservation Kimberly-Clark’s Family Care division initiatives through two strategies based on value delivered against our goals: in North America saved $2 million and • Global Energy Best Practices Adoption: 16 global energy 10,000 MT of GHG a year by executing best practices are used during the energy assessments at our manufacturing facilities to identify the most impactful initiatives high efficiency lighting projects at Beech to pursue, in order to reach our full potential energy efficiency. We have realized a significant increase in conservation Island, Huntsville and Fullerton mills. In by executing projects with highest economic payback first. Examples include installation of hot air showers to recover the Beech Island and Fullerton the projects waste heat back into the tissue process; high-efficiency lighting retrofit utilizing the latest LED technology; variable-frequency were eligible for Federal EPAct accelerated drives for pumps and fans, among many others. • Lean Energy Management: 14 facilities deployed depreciation tax credit, which remained in Kimberly-Clark’s “LEAN energy management” in 2013, saving a combined 2.9% in energy use against equivalent place through 2013. manufacturing volume within their facilities. This system GRI G4-EN3 is designed to engage mill employees in a culture of conservation, execute process changes oriented to optimize Direct Energy Use energy efficiency and deploy real time visual tools to make 2010 2011 2012 2013 (trillion Btu) energy overconsumption visible, triggering corrective actions. Natural gas 29.5 30.03 30.03 29.7 Piloted in mid-2010, Kimberly-Clark’s El Salvador mill, Sitio % of total 51% 53% 68% 68% del Nino (SDN), has saved more than $1.5 million a year in Purchased biomass, 14.1 13.4 7.0 7.4 energy costs since the LEAN energy system was deployed. purchased liquor As a result of best-practice sharing, 14 additional facilities % of total 24% 24% 16% 17% on three continents deployed the system, with savings of Coal 7.8 7.3 6.5 5.6 more than $3 million in 2013. The success has led to a plan which will total more than 15 facilities deploying their LEAN % of total 13% 13% 14% 13% journey for energy conservation by the end of 2014. Self-generated liquor 5.0 4.5 0.0 0.0 % of total 9% 8% —% —% Fuel oil 1.6 1.2 0.9 0.7 % of total 3% 2% 2% 2% Other self-generated 0.16 0.18 0.1 0.1 % of total 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% TOTAL 58.1 56.5 44.7 43.5 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 46 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Indirect Energy Use GRI G4-EN17 AND G4-EN30 2010 2011 2012 2013 (trillion Btu) Intermodal Electricity 18.4 18.4 18.1 17.9 2010 2011 2012 2013 Transportation % of total 99% 99% 99% 99% Total loads 78,502 87,934 91,353 92,536 Steam 0.12 0.14 0.10 0.10 Annual change 0.22 0.12 0.04 0.013 % of total 1% 1% 1% 1% Miles traveled (millions) 109.4 117.8 119.6 120.0 TOTAL 18.6 18.5 18.2 18.0 Savings ($M) 44.2 55.8 60.3 59.2 Fuel use (million gallons GRI G4-EN6 of diesel) Intermodal 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 Energy Use (trillion Btu) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Comparable truck18.2 19.6 19.9 20.0 Non-renewable energy 57.1 56.7 55.7 54.0 only fuel use % of total 75% 76% 88% 87% Savings 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 CO2 emissions (million Renewable energy 19.4 18.2 7.3 8.0 pounds Scope 3) % of total 25% 24% 12% 13% Intermodal 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 TOTAL 76.5 74.9 63.0 62.0 Comparable truckEnergy Efficiency (million 409.4 440.9 447.7 448.8 15.3 15.6 13.3 13.6 only fuel use Btu/MT of production) Savings 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 Notes: Numbers are estimates Pounds of carbon dioxide emitted for each gallon of diesel fuel burned: 22.45 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PLANET | JUNE 2014 47 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCTS Since we made our first product in 1872, quality, INNOVATION service and fairness have been the values behind our essential Innovation is the lifeblood of our business. We products. These values compete in eight major consumer categories, continue to inspire our search five of which we created*: for more sustainable ways of meeting our customers’ • Facial tissue* needs, and today, we apply • Paper towels* the precautionary principle at each stage of a product’s life • Bathroom tissue* cycle. While we constantly • Diapers seek to address essentials like • Training/youth/swim pants* clean water, fresh air and a • Infant and child wipes healthy environment through our operations, we design • Feminine care* our products to continuously • Incontinence care provide essentials that support our everyday lives. Additionally, customers use Kimberly-Clark Professional’s products to create GRI G4-14 exceptional workplaces through safety solutions, while medical professionals turn to Kimberly-Clark Health Care for a portfolio of products essential to the health and “It’s good to see that Kimberly-Clark is hygiene of patients and staff. transparent and realistic in evaluating their progress. At the same time, it’s not Together, Kimberly-Clark Professional and Kimberly-Clark Health Care accounted for good enough to just recalibrate metrics 23% of 2013 net sales. Both businesses are experiencing continued growth, with a where one falls short, for example shift of their respective product mixes into faster-growing, higher-margin segments, packaging. Moreover, it would also be including safety and wiping products in K-C Professional and medical devices in K-C good to reevaluate goals where the Health Care. company has exceeded the five-year target, such as the case with sales from environmentally innovative products. Kimberly-Clark is focusing its long-term research on Additionally, with anticipated growth of their single use disposable products alternative materials and other environmental innovations in new urban emerging markets, the company needs to accelerate the efforts that don’t rely on wood fiber. to re-purpose post-consumer waste working with industry associations and governments.” — Suhas Apte Sustainability Advisory Board Member KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 48 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Kimberly-Clark’s philosophy of innovation is based on GRI EN1 providing essentials for a better life around the world by identifying the needs and wants of consumers and other MATERIALS USED end-users and satisfying those needs by improving existing 2010 2011 2012 2013 (MILLION MT) brands and exploring new opportunities. By 2015, we aim for 25% of our net sales to be from environmentally innovative products. We are currently at approximately Virgin fiber 2.56 2.48 2.36 2.40 37%, exceeding our goal on this measure. Materials Innovation Recycled fiber 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 Kimberly-Clark is focusing its long-term research on alternative materials, materials reduction and other environmental Polymers 0.74 0.72 0.72 0.69 innovations. In 2013, we gained momentum with sustainability improvements to major product lines which moved the percentage of sales of environmentally innovative products Packaging 0.52 0.50 0.52 0.52 up significantly. Specifically in the area of materials reduction, the Huggies Adhesives 0.08 0.07 0.08 0.06 brand launched a major improvement to their largest volume product, Snug & Dry diapers. The result was a product that was thinner and softer than before while still delivering the Polymer-based components 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 trusted absorbency and leakage performance levels that Huggies consumers have come to expect. Improved fit for long-lasting leakage protection was delivered to delight Packaging 0.104 0.103 0.103 0.104 consumers. All in all, materials in the diaper were reduced (MT/MT of production) by more than 10%, which equals over 36 million pounds of material reduced. Also, less packaging material was required for this new product, reducing packaging materials by over One area showing continued progress in light-weighting materials 1.8 million pounds. is our Global Nonwovens operations which produces nonwoven fabrics for our Personal Care, Kimberly-Clark Professional, and Health Care businesses. The Global Nonwovens team continues to implement Life Cycle Analysis tools applied to nonwoven developments in order to improve the footprint of these materials. In 2013, approximately 4% of additional nonwovens grades were reduced in weight bringing the total number of reduced basis weight sourced nonwovens to 66% versus 2009 baseline. These efforts to reduce mass translate into more efficient Personal Care and Health Care products. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 49 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Life-Cycle Assessment: Our ecoLOGICAL Model By the end of 2013, we had achieved approximately 37% of net sales from environmentally innovative products in our In 2010, we introduced our ecoLOGICAL model to establish a ecoLOGICAL portfolio, including: global portfolio of environmentally innovative products and to provide ourselves with a tool with which to measure progress YEAR BRAND REGION PRODUCT toward our Sustainability 2015 goals. The model includes 2011 Kleenex Europe FSC-labeled products an environmental innovation rating system for products, business-specific product scorecards, environmental innovation tracking systems, sales tracking systems, and rapid life cycle Kleenex, Europe EU Ecolabel assessment (LCA) tools for use in product development, Scott, Kimberly-Clark communications and training. Wypall Professional products Kleenex UK Eco-form facial Before being included in our ecoLOGICAL portfolio, cleansing wipes products must be evaluated and qualified in at least one Kleenex, North America FSC-labeled and of four categories: Scott Eco-Logo-certified Kimberly-Clark • Responsible Materials — including rapidly Professional products renewable materials, third-party-certified materials Huggies North America Pure and Natural and post-consumer materials diapers • Life Cycle Footprint Huggies North America Baby wipes Scott U.S. Scott Naturals bath • Third-Party Recognition tissue • Breakthrough Environmental Innovation Kleenex U.S. FSC-certified tissue Neve Brazil NeveNaturali bath tissue 2012 Scott North America FSC-certified bath tissue and towels Huggies Latin America Diapers Neve Latin America Bath tissue 2013 Huggies Latin America Diapers Kleenex, Asia FSC-labeled products Scott, Wypall Viva Australia Towels with bamboo Andrex Eco Europe Bath tissue with bamboo Cottonelle, North America FSC-labeled products Viva Huggies North America Diapers Kleenex, North America Wheat straw & bamboo Scott Kimberly-Clark Professional products KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 50 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In our Australia business, Viva brand paper towel with bamboo The majority of our Kimberly-Clark Professional towel and tissue fiber was launched in 2013 — the first paper towel product in codes in North America are now EcoLogo® certified. Australia to contain bamboo fiber, a highly renewable fiber that regenerates and grows up to five times faster than trees. The Ecolabel, a pan-European certification program, assesses our new paper towel is just as strong and absorbent as our regular tissue products using equally stringent criteria, including the Viva paper towel. Viva paper towel with bamboo fiber is FSC elimination of elemental chlorine from the bleaching process. certified, meaning that it is sourced from responsibly managed Ecolabel guarantees responsible manufacturing from “cradle to forests that are not inhabited by pandas, and the bamboo is not grave.” Qualifying products are evaluated to determine the impact the type consumed by pandas. on the environment throughout their life cycle. Eco-Certifying Our Products ISO 14001 is a certification process towards responsible manufacturing. K-C has implemented an environmental Eco-certification programs are voluntary, often country-specific, management system at several global locations including China, initiatives intended to encourage businesses to develop and France, Australia and New Zealand to name a few. market products that are better for the environment. Products are evaluated by independent third parties against program-specific Lastly, In New Zealand we’ve achieved Environmental Choice criteria and carry the program logo on their packaging. certification for Kimberly-Clark Professional’s Kleenex and Scott toilet tissue and Kleenex and Scott compact and optimum In 2011, Kimberly-Clark became the first U.S. tissue maker to towel range. offer branded consumer tissue products that meet the rigorous sustainable sourcing requirements of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). We are committed to continuing this leadership. For information on fiber certification and FSC labeling, please click here. As of July 2013, we are pleased to announce that most of our Malaysian manufactured Kleenex and Scott tissue, paper towel and wiper products are now FSC™ certified. EcoLogo® is one of North America’s most respected environmental leadership certification programs, emphasizing reduced environmental impact throughout a product’s life cycle. The EcoLogo assures that our tissue products demonstrate a significantly reduced environmental impact as measured by five key life cycle criteria: • Resource consumption • Energy consumption • Wastewater quality • Aquatic toxicity • Solid waste generation KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 51 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PACKAGING From a measurement perspective, some of these gains were offset by product mass reductions which have a dilutive effect on our packaging metric ratio calculation. However, it is important to note that these product weight reductions have other significant sustainability benefits such as less material used. The table on the following page captures some of our notable 2013 packaging sustainability improvements across the globe. In Latin America, Kimberly-Clark worked with suppliers throughout the region to incorporate recycled material as 20% of the packaging for the wipers product. Specifically, the company incorporated recycled HDPE (high density polyethylene) resin into the thin film blown packaging. The product is now targeting nearly $10MM in annual sales, and the team is now In 2013, we implemented various packaging reduction projects looking at the potential to incorporate the across all Kimberly-Clark businesses and regions. Using our continuous improvement approach, we are steadily improving the recycled material across their product sustainability of many of our primary and secondary packages without compromising quality or increasing wasteful damage of lines and in other countries. products sold. In general, reductions in packaging are driven by various approaches including decreases in packaging weight (lightweighting) or the use of less packaging as a result of product or package design specification changes, such as thinner or more compact products. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 52 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Packaging Improvement Projects for 2013 K-C AUSTRALIA AND NEW ZEALAND NORTH AMERICA PERSONAL CARE BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Huggies Jumbo Brown liner Lowered the overall BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT corrugated board weight of the Huggies diapers Bag and corrugate 10% overall corrugated board reduction as part packaging weight by 6% of thinner product savings U by Kotex pads Changed from Overall packaging improvement cartons to bags weight reduction of 88% for the retail NORTH AMERICA FAMILY CARE package Kleenex facial Facial Carton mass Reduced carton BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT New Zealand reduction board weight of 15% Cottonelle Bath Flexible film gauge 12% packaging Cottonelle bath Poly label 20% PE weight 12-pack bundles reduction weight reduction; packaging savings CO2e reduction of reduction 156 metric tons/yr Scott Extra Soft bath 12-pack Flexible film gauge reduction 12% packaging weight reduction; KCP NORTH AMERICA bundles CO2e reduction of BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT 219 metric tons/yr Kleenex facial Removed overwrap CO2e reduction of Kleenex Cottonelle, Changed Moved from 28 tissue cartons from facial tissue 845 metric tons/yr single roll bath packaging cases to 36 cases/ cartons tissue, 60 count orientation for pallet. Saved over Kleenex facial Reduction in CO2e reduction of improved pallet 400 truckloads per tissue cases corrugate board 410 metric tons/yr stacking year & cost savings weight via. removal $1 million of PDQ case perfs Scott Scottfold Reduced the case Reduction in (flat codes) towels width size corrugate material plus more cases/ pallet. Reduced 60 truckloads per year Scott coreless Reduced corrugate Reduction in jumbo roll towels thickness corrgate material plus more cases/ pallet. Reduced 100 truckloads per year KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 53 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT KCP EUROPE ASIA BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Kleenex & Scott Reduce carton Increased case Kotex and Huggies Bundle Polybag Annual savings of facial tissue height by 3mm quantity from 36 to Vietnam with 20% Post 5 metric tons virgin and created an 45 per pallet Industrial Recycle resin additional pallet (PIR) PE layer Kleenex & Scott Corrugate board 54.8% complexity Small rolled toilet Reduced from 3 to Less material and Thailand harmonization reduction with tissue 2 ply construction adhesive for $64k annual usage cores cost savings reduction of 150 metric tons of MEA China Kotex PE bag gauge 20 metric ton PE Feminine Care reduction reduction BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT Korea: All Reduction in Less ink used and FemCare, Infant number of inks $315k annual cost Scott Kim Dri Improved corrugate Pallet utilization Care and Pants used in corrugate savings regular/medical/ orientation design increased from 16 codes and flexible folded (Sub to 20 boxes per packaging Saharan Africa) pallet Huggies dry comfort and Reduction in bag length and width of Less packaging and all bags can be LAO gender-specific primary packaging recycled BRAND / PRODUCT PACKAGING REDUCTION SUSTAINABILITY BENEFIT (Sub Saharan Africa) Brazil Kleenex Reduced carton 1.8 metric ton Baby soft enviroReduced packaging Reduced impact facial carton and board; removal packaging weight roll compacto of plastic usage pocket pack of printed poly reduction, 39.5kg (Sub Saharan and decreased window; label size ink reduction Africa) transport reduction requirements Andean region Standardised Reduction in PE Turkey, waste bags Decreased the Annual savings of Huggies diapers, gauge of poly consumption thickness of mill 14 metric tons of (Colombia, Peru, diaper packaging waste packs PE Bolivia, Ecuador) Diaper bags KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 54 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Additionally, Kimberly-Clark is a member of the Sustainable employed to successfully drive and track our environmentally Packaging Coalition (SPC). The SPC is a U.S.-based industry innovative product goals. Therefore, we are amending the working group dedicated to a more robust environmental vision existing ecoLOGICAL scorecard with an additional module for packaging. The SPC encourages members to initiate projects specifically designed to recognize and drive sustainable of interest on packaging sustainability within a framework packaging criteria more consistent with those voiced by the SPC. of science-based research, supply chain collaborations and We will be communicating the changes to the scorecard to our continuous outreach. According to the SPC, sustainable global product and packaging development community and will packaging can best be defined assessing alignment with broad be developing our baseline and goals in 2014. We will plan to design, sustainability, and performance criteria. Kimberly-Clark share our progress and recast goals in subsequent reports. incorporates these principles in our packaging metric and continuous improvement activities. K-C continues to invest in our systems and people to promote sustainability actions like packaging improvements into daily Measuring Our Progress business practices. K-C’s standard cost-management tool, FORCE, is a global program driving continuous improvements As a result of some of our packaging sustainability efforts, global to our businesses including managing $1.5 billion in cost packaging sourcing remained flat versus 2012 although product management activity annually with over 10,000 programs sales volumes increased 3%. Hence, we were able to deliver our per year. In 2013, the system was enhanced to help drive products in packaging that uses relatively fewer raw materials sustainability project implementation. Added functionality while maintaining or improving quality and performance. tracks whether a program reduces packaging amounts. Energy usage, waste, or water usage are also tracked. Sustainability Even though we have made progress in reducing the program submitters can calculate the reduction and enter environmental impact of the packaging that protects our products’ it in a data entry box thereby enabling better visibility and quality and the safety for our consumers, we are not on track to global coordination to important programs that are reducing meet our stated 2015 impact reduction goals. environmental impact. In 2013, we performed a “check and adjust” regarding our 2015 packaging improvement metric, using our continuous improvement methodologies and have determined that we must amend our chosen metric. The original metric was designed to measure the improvement of packaging sustainability in relation to the product it protects. We accomplish this by tracking the CO2e (carbon equivalents) footprint of the packaging in proportion to the mass of product sold. This ratio method contains several issues we are planning to address including that product efficiency or mass changes that we are successfully commercializing around the globe significantly affect the packaging metric’s calculation and tracking. After taking a retrospective look at our progress to date relative to the packaging environmental impact goal communicated back in 2011 when we announced our Sustainability 2015 goals, we have determined that our chosen metric was not capable of satisfactorily capturing and driving the progress we seek as an enterprise. As a result, we have devised a more robust metric that builds on our ecoLOGICAL scorecard approach we have KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 55 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT POST-CONSUMER WASTE CASE STUDIES Case Study: K-C Professional (KCP) initiated a single-usegarment recycling program in 2011 through a partnership with TerraCycle. In 2013, our customers diverted more than 62 tons of used garments and gloves from the landfill through the program (124,329 lbs). 2013 also marked the piloting phase of a new program within KCP called RightCycle. This program builds on our experience with TerraCycle and expands our offering of recycling services for single-use-garments to more end users. Case Study: Kimberly-Clark’s Huggies brand in New Zealand continued its partnership with Envirocomp in 2013, developing a voluntary product stewardship scheme to reduce sanitary hygiene waste to landfill. The program was the first by an individual consumer goods manufacturer to receive accreditation by the Hon Amy Adams, New Zealand’s Minister for the Environment, under the Waste Minimization Act 2008. The service, which collects and composts used diapers, incontinence products and sanitary items, now reaches 24% New Zealanders serving around 10% households with babies in the Canterbury and Wellington regions and over 500 commercial customers Envirocomp is planning to introduce a third plant in Auckland and extend their existing coverage, so that more New Zealanders have access to the composting service. Case Study: Kimberly-Clark Health Care has been working with The majority of Kimberly-Clark products are single-use, and hospitals to help them recycle Kimguard* Sterilization Wrap. In our stakeholders have identified post-consumer waste as an 2012, we launched a five-stage recycling engagement program important issue for Kimberly-Clark to tackle as we continue to called Blue ReNew. The program helps hospitals organize their expand into emerging markets. We are working on a number of wrap-recycling needs, including engagement of leadership and recycling, upcycling and composting solutions, which we describe key stakeholders, identification of recycling partners, training of below. We understand the importance of applying life cycle hospital operating room teams and measurement of program thinking — from development to disposal — to our products and results. In 2012, 52 hospitals helped us divert an estimated will provide updates on our progress on this front in future reports. 1.5 million pounds of sterile wrap from landfills. An estimated 3 million pounds were diverted from landfill by 114 customers recycling through Blue ReNew in 2013. An additional 236 In 2013, our customers diverted more than hospitals are currently working with Kimberly-Clark Health Care to set up the program. 62 tons of used garments and gloves from Case Study: Members of our Global Nonwovens business the landfill through the program. participate on the boards of the Association of Postconsumer Plastic Recyclers and the Healthcare Plastics Recycling Council, working with other industry leaders to increase the recycling of plastics-based products. Information on our materials recycling efforts in our manufacturing operations is available in the Waste section of this report. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 56 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2014, Kimberly-Clark joined the How2Recycle Label Program. The goal of the program is to help consumers better understand what to do with North American packaging, and to encourage greater participation in recycling programs so that packaging gets a new life. The How2Recycle Label is an initiative of GreenBlue’s Sustainable Packaging Coalition. More information on the program can be found at www.How2Recycle.info. Kimberly-Clark will initially add the label to their Scott Naturals Tube-Free bath tissue flexible film packages. In the future, Scott Naturals brand and other Kimberly-Clark consumer and professional brands will add the label to packaging where appropriate. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 57 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUPPLY CHAIN The Supplier Social Compliance Standards (SSCS) are a vital pillar of Kimberly-Clark’s workplace accountability programs and are part of our Code of Conduct and Human Rights in Employment policy. These standards are driven by the belief that good corporate citizenship is essential to our long-term business success and must be reflected in our relationships and actions in our workplaces and the workplaces of those who are authorized to directly supply our business. The standards outlined in the SSCS program reflect the values we uphold in our own policies, and we expect our suppliers to follow these standards and requirements. Our standards share common goals with several international standards, including the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2010. For more information on how we’re working with suppliers, click here. GRI G4-12 Kimberly-Clark maintains an extensive global supply chain consisting of 30,000 suppliers of goods, services and equipment, including 250 contract manufacturers of finished goods. Maintaining a resilient supply chain in support of K-C sales and operations depends on K-C suppliers operating in an ethical manner with respect to human rights, worker safety and environmental practices. The Supplier Social Compliance Standards (SSCS) are a vital pillar of Kimberly-Clark’s workplace accountability programs. Working towards a Responsible and Resilient Supply Chain is a business imperative, and our relationships with suppliers are essential to our ability to deliver on our promises to customers and consumers. We seek to do business with suppliers who share our values of quality, service and fair dealing, and our commitment to sustainability. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 58 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SUPPLIERS Our compliance program focuses on establishing consistent 64% standards and control processes within our in-scope supplier facilities, while recognizing that there are differences in laws, customs and economic conditions that affect business practices around the world. We emphasize the importance of responsible workplace policies and practices that comply with applicable employment laws and regulations, human rights, occupational safety and health, and environmental regulations. This is a priority for Kimberly-Clark, and we are determined to proceed with diligence and transparency. GRI EN32 AND HR10 All new contract manufacturers who, through a process of structured supplier due diligence research, are added to our supplier list are included to the scope of our compliance program and subject to the same requirements for signing Declarations of Compliance and third-party audits. All new branded packaging suppliers are also included to the scope of the program. Progress in Supply Chain Compliance K-C’s SSCS program supports the Sustainability 2015 objective of 100% participation rate of key suppliers in K-C social We select our suppliers based on a number of factors, including compliance programs. In 2013, the participation-rate objective safety, quality, value, assurance of supply, technology, of 60% was met as 64% of K-C’s key suppliers are participating innovation, service and sustainability. Supplier sustainability in the program. 2014 and 2015 goals are 80% and 100% assessment considerations include environmental sustainability, participation rates, respectively. social performance and good governance. In 2013, we updated our Supplier Social Compliance Standards (SSCS) program The SSCS program is a human rights risk-management process to include updated standards. The SSCS are part of the terms to identify, prevent, mitigate and account for suppliers’ impacts and conditions attached to Kimberly-Clark purchase orders and on human rights and compliance. We focus on countries at high contracts issued to all suppliers. risk of human rights abuses to define the scope of suppliers that will be requested to sign K-C’s Declaration of Compliance and demonstrate for the facilities in those countries an absence of By the end of 2013, 230 out of 392 of our violations in each of the following categories: contract finished-product and branded • Child labor packaging suppliers had signed the • Forced labor • Abuse of labor Declaration of Compliance. • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Discrimination KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 59 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Working conditions that present an imminent threat of serious last year, when one of our key pulp suppliers had a portion injury to employees of their FSC certification revoked, although this was • Use of conflict minerals subsequently reinstated. • Anti-corruption & bribery policies In 2013 we scored 25 suppliers using a scorecard system. For all except transportation, we send the suppliers a detailed In 2013, we expanded the scope of SSCS to include: supplier sustainability scorecard that they have to fill out. For transportation, we require detailed information on fuel • Inclusion of branded packaging suppliers, which expanded the consumption and carrier efficiency. in-scope number of suppliers to 392. • Additional anti-corruption & bribery requirements into We also perform on-site audit-inspections on about 80 suppliers surveying and auditing per year. These audits cover a range of topics such as corporate social compliance and protection of the environment. The audits • Executive order and FCPA guidance are robust and many of these audits result in findings that • Administration of increased customer-driven audits for need to be remediated. Our practice is to help the suppliers fix customer-branded products. the problems with a goal of supplier improvement, not to exit suppliers. We believe that our approach is in the best interest Working with our customers and external auditing firms, we of Kimberly-Clark, the supplier, and the supplier’s employees. conducted 56 K-C branded audits in 18 countries and 43 Last year our program was highly successful but we did exit customer-brand audits, utilizing independent third parties, to one supplier because it was felt that their infrastructure was so assess suppliers’ compliance with the SSCS. The assessments far behind that effective remediation on acceptable timing was involved confidential interviews with employees and on-site unlikely. This was a packaging supplier in Asia. contract workers as well as facility tours where observation of working conditions and worker safety were observed and All new suppliers are screened using environmental noted. By the end of 2013, 43 audited suppliers completed a criteria, including: remediation process. • All new contract manufacturers are vetted through a thorough due diligence process that includes environmental GRI HR12 performance. We have 330 contract manufacturers with about 10% turnover per year. Suppliers that fail to fully comply with our standards are required to work with Kimberly-Clark to implement corrective actions. In • All new fiber suppliers are required to agree to the K-C fiber the event a supplier subsequently still fails to fully comply with policy, which is an environmentally-driven policy and a leader our standards, we exercise our contractual rights, including the in the industry. Fiber is our largest commodity-spend area. right to terminate a supplier’s agreement(s). Our fiber policy is posted on our website. • All of U.S. carriers (truckers) are required to work with Supply Chain and Environmental Impact Kimberly-Clark through EPA SmartWay to reduce fuel consumption and emissions. We do environmental assessments on all new and existing suppliers in six material categories key to our business: pulp, • All of our fiber-based packaging suppliers are required to resin (PE and PP polymer), superabsorbent polymer, rayon, report annually their progress on use of recycled fiber and cotton and transportation. Our expectation is that we will have certified (responsibly sourced) fiber. few major issues, and such is the case. • All new K-C suppliers are required to agree to our corporate social compliance standards, which includes We pay close attention to our key suppliers. For example, we environmental performance. expect them to alert us in a timely manner if they experience major issues in their KC-relevant operations, and inform us of their remediation plans. We did have one supplier-related issue KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 60 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Audit Results • Number of in-scope suppliers for 2013: 392 supplier locations • Facilities audited: 56 K-C branded audits 41 customer-branded audits • Facilities with mandatory violations: 43 supplier facilities 11% of in-scope suppliers • Facilities with non-mandatory violations: 44 supplier facilities 11% of in-scope suppliers • Mandatory violations by category that required remediation: • Safe & Healthy Workplace: 40 instances • Child Labor: 3 instances • Forced Labor: 6 instances • Freedom of Association: 2 instances • Environmental: 1 instance • Successful supplier remediations from 2013 audits: 80% of facilities with Mandatory Violations • Remaining follow-up audits to confirm remediations from 2013 audits: 20% of facilities with Mandatory Violations KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 61 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PRODUCT QUALITY AND SAFETY This year’s objectives have evolved from a strong historic focus on manufacturing quality control to a combination of a leading indicator assessing total quality system effectiveness and a trailing indicator, or Quality Index, measuring product quality at point of sale. The program seeks to quantify the amount of sub-standard product reaching point-of-sale and translate into lost-sales opportunities impacting top and bottom line performance. The data is then used to identify and fix root causes of quality failures, and set improvement targets by category and by country/region. In K-C’s International division 2013 Quality performance was ahead of expectations and a significant improvement versus prior year for both Quality System effectiveness and for Quality Index, which measures the volume of product reaching point of sale fully meeting our expectations for the look and feel of quality. K-C’s International program is expected to reduce amount of sub-standard product reaching point of sale by about $800 million by 2015. Kimberly-Clark is accountable for and committed to the integrity of our products and supply chain. External regulations and industry best practices, as well as internally developed standards, define our quality criteria. Programs are established to measure compliance with these and report results to senior management. These quality standards and established quality-system processes drive the continuous Ensuring quality is an essential part of Kimberly-Clark’s business improvement activities that ensure that Kimberly-Clark products strategy, and a culture of quality is the foundation for meeting our are safe and effective for consumers. customer and consumer expectations. Should they become necessary, product recall programs are in It is the policy of Kimberly-Clark to design, manufacture and place to proactively and promptly address potential safety issues. deliver products that meet or exceed customer and consumer These processes are tested periodically to ensure that they are expectations for quality performance and value. Each effective and efficient. Kimberly-Clark business, function and facility is charged with developing and maintaining quality systems that support this policy. From design and sourcing to manufacturing, Kimberly-Clark takes a proactive approach commercialization, transportation, distribution and sales, quality is an important part of our entire process. to recovering products that do not meet quality or regulatory standards or that may pose an adverse health or safety risk. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 62 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT In 2013, Kimberly-Clark executed recalls in the U.S. — unless otherwise stated — that included the following products: • Global Nonwovens / Health Care • Container Filter • Health Care • ON-Q Pain Relief System, ON-Q T-Block • Single Shot Epidural Pain Management Trays containing the BD LOR Syringe • RadiOpaque Radiofrequency Cannula, Gauge 22, Length 100 mm, Active Tip 10 mm • K-C International • U-by-Kotex STAR tampons size 1 from Korea and all sizes from Brazil • Kleenex Moist Hands and Face Wipes from Thailand • K-C Professional • Jackson Safety AIRMAX Powered Air Purifying Respirator (PAPR) from Europe We are equally dedicated to protecting consumer health and safety. Our product-safety scientists are trained and accredited in the field of toxicology, biocompatibility and health-risk assessment. Most have doctoral degrees and several are board-certified by the American Board of Toxicology. Safety assessments conducted by our product-safety experts cover the complete life cycle of a product: research and development, manufacture, sale, use and disposal. Additional information on our policies is available on our corporate website here. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | PRODUCTS | JUNE 2014 63 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE DATA SUSTAINABILITY 2015 GOALS SUMMARY 2011 2012 2013 PEOPLE Zero workplace fatalities 0 0 0 Socially focused programs in all K-C communities 62% 89% 89% As a signatory to the United 100% participation by key suppliers with social compliance standards 99% 67% 64% Nations Global Compact (UNGC), Kimberly-Clark PLANET is required to annually communicate its progress 25% reduction in water use and maintain quality of discharge 0.88% 18% 26.4% in promoting the UNGC’s ten principles. The content 100% fiber from certified suppliers 99.9% 100% 100% index below cross-references each of the ten principles to 5% absolute reduction in GHG 1.2% 3.6% 6.4% the location where they are discussed on the website and Zero manufacturing waste to landfill (% of waste currently diverted from landfill) 78.3% 78.7% 81.5% serves as Kimberly-Clark’s Communication on Progress (COP). PRODUCTS 250 million new consumer touches(M) N/A 110 134 25% of 2015 net sales from environmentally innovative products 13% 22% 37% 20% reduction in packaging environmental impact 4% 4% 4% KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 64 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE 2010 2011 2012 2013 DATA SUMMARY PEOPLE Total employees 57,271 57,251 58,340 ~57,000 Turnover (U.S. only) 6.4% 10.1% 9.9% 10.1% Percentage employees with union membership 27% 25% 25% 25% Diversity Percentage women employees (U.S.) 29.9% 30.1 % 31.0% 35.6% Percentage ethnic minority employees (U.S) 17.8% 17.9% 18.8% 18.7% Percentage women in management (U.S) 27.3% 28.6% 29.3% 30.3% Percentage ethnic minority in management (U.S) 10.9% 11.3% 11.7% 13.7% Independent board members 92.3% 92.3% 91.7% 91.7% Women on the board 23.1% 23.1% 25.0% 25.0% Minority group board membership 23.1% 30.8% 33.3% 33.3% Safety Total reportable incident rate (TRIR) 0.44 0.40 0.31 0.27 Lost-time reportable incident rate (LTRIR) 0.30 0.27 0.19 0.17 Community Community investment (product + cash donations 20.7 32.1 33.0 30.5 in millions) % of net income 1.1% 2.0% 1.8% 1.4% Note: Our employee numbers only include full-time employees KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 65 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE 2010 2011 2012 2013 DATA SUMMARY PLANET Fiber Total virgin fiber used (million MT) 2.56 1.80 2.36 2.40 Recycled (million MT) 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 Percent of virgin fiber from environmentally 98.0% 99.9% 100% 100% responsible sources* Climate Energy use (trillion Btu) 76.5 74.9 63.0 62.0 Energy efficiency (million Btu/MT production) 15.3 15.6 13.3 13.6 Percentage energy from renewable sources 25% 24% 12% 13% Carbon dioxide equivalents from manufacturing 5.45 5.40 5.25 5.10 (million MT CO2e) Carbon dioxide equivalents per metric ton 1.10 1.14 1.09 1.10 of production Water Total global water use (million m^3) 126.4 125.4 103.4 93.0 Tissue manufacturing water use efficiency 43.5 45.7 40.0 36.0 (m^3/MT production) Waste Non-hazardous waste (million MT) 1.39 1.44 1.37 1.33 Hazardous Waste (kg) 483,521 348,059 391,390 507,926 Waste per metric ton of production 0.28 0.29 0.29 0.31 Percentage waste sent to landfill 18.8% 21.7% 21.3% 18.5% *Approximately 150 tons of the fiber were not certified in 2012, but with two digit rounding the percentage is 100% 2010 2011 2012 2013 PRODUCTS Manufacturing Total production volume (million MT) 4.97 4.73 4.80 4.63 Packaging per metric ton of production 0.104 0.103 0.103 0.104 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 66 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE 2010 2011 2012 2013 DATA SUMMARY ECONOMIC Financials Summary Net sales ($B) 19.7 20.8 21.1 21.2 By division Personal Care 8.7 9.1 9.6 9.5 Consumer Tissue 6.5 6.8 6.5 6.6 K-C Professional 3.1 3.3 3.3 3.3 Health Care 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.6 By region North America 10.7 10.8 10.8 10.8 Europe 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 Asia, Latin America & Other 6.6 7.5 7.9 8.1 Intergeographic (Asia, Latin America & Other) (0.71) (0.77) (0.81) (0.80) Note: “Intergeographic” refers to inter-company sales KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 67 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GENERAL 2010 2011 2012 2013 PEOPLE Full-Time Employees North America % of total 15,356 27% 14,889 26% 14,652 25% 14,441 25% Latin America 19,316 20,351 21,824 21,804 % of total 34% 36% 37% 38% Europe, Middle East and Africa 8,626 8,222 8,039 6,872 % of total 15% 14% 14% 12% Asia/Pacific 13,973 13,789 13,825 13,631 % of total 24% 24% 24% 24% TOTAL 57,271 57,251 58,340 56,748 Union Membership Percentage of employees 27% 25% 25% 25% Turnover (U.S. only) Total 6.4% 10.1% 9.9% 10.1% Voluntary 4.3% 5.2% 5.8% 7.4% Involuntary 2.1% 4.9% 4.2% 2.8% PERFORMANCE DATA SAFETY 2010 2011 2012 2013 Notes: Employee Safety 1 In 2013 a motor vehicle fatality occurred in the Fatalities1 0 0 0 0 trucking operations of Kimberly-Clark de Mexcio, an unconsolidated affiliate. Permanently disabling injuries 14 8 9 2 2 In 2013 the Kimchean mill in South Korea received a Total Reportable Incident Rate (TRIR) 0.44 0.40 0.31 0.27 $1,000 fine for inadequate machine guarding that has been corrected. In Jan. 2012, the Chester, PA mill was North America 0.59 0.44 0.33 0.30 cited by OSHA as a result of an explosion involving a Latin America 0.40 0.40 0.39 0.41 propane tank that occurred in Aug.2011. A monetary sanction of $23,000 was paid and the following Europe 0.71 0.71 0.39 0.80 corrective actions undertaken: a) Discontinued refueling of propane cylinders on the Chester site Middle East and Africa 1.01 0.53 0.76 0.33 immediately following the incident, and the two propane filling stations on site were dismantled and removed, Asia/Pacific 0.32 0.23 0.14 0.20 b) Propane is now delivered in cylinders by a vendor. c) The smoking policy has been clearly Lost-time Reportable Incident Rate (LTRIR) 0.30 0.27 0.19 0.17 re-communicated and is consistently enforced. North America 0.39 0.22 0.20 0.15 TRIR: Work-related events that result in fatalities, temporary or permanently disabling injuries, or illnesses, Latin America 0.31 0.36 0.21 0.25 per 200,000 hours worked per annum. Europe 0.45 0.59 0.29 0.40 LTRIR: Reportable injuries/illnesses that result in time Middle East and Africa 0.82 0.37 0.52 0.14 away from work or restricted work, per 200,000 hours worked per annum. Asia/Pacific 0.21 0.14 0.08 0.13 Sentinel Events Reporting Rate (SERR) 1.70 1.53 1.54 1.66 SERR: Number of Sentinel Events reported per 200,000 hours worked per annum. Safety compliance penalties2 $110,955 $4,800 $23,000 $1,000 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 68 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE GENERAL 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Board Independent members 92.3% 92.3% 91.7% 91.7% Women 23.1% 23.1% 25.0% 25.0% Minority group membership 23.1% 30.8% 33.0% 33.0% Total Board members 13 13 12 12 Employee Diversity Women 29.9% 30.1% 31.0% 35.6% Women in management 27.3% 28.6% 29.3% 30.3% Ethnic minorities 17.8% 17.9% 18.8% 18.7% Ethnic minorities in management 10.9% 11.3% 11.7% 13.7% Board Diversity Details 2013 Age 51-55 2 (Falk, Garcia) 56-60 3 (Jemison, Read, Rice) 61-65 2 (Bru, Decherd) 66-70 5 (Alm, Bergstrom, Jenness, Karch, Shapiro) 11 (Alm, Bergstrom, Bru, Decherd, Garcia, Independent Jemison, Jenness, Karch, Read, Rice, Shapiro) Non-independent 1 (Falk) Gender 9 (Alm, Bergstrom, Bru, Decherd, Falk, Garcia, Male Jenness, Read, Shapiro) Female 3 (Jemison, Karch, Rice) Ethnicity: Minority 4 (Bru, Garcia, Jemison, Rice) 8 (Alm, Bergstrom, Decherd, Falk, Jenness, Non-minority Karch, Read, Shapiro) Note: “Management” is defined as U.S. employees in EEP category 01 (executive/senior-level officials and managers, and first/middle-level officials and managers). Employee Contributions Employee giving ($M) 4.2 3.9 4.2 4.4 U.S. employee volunteer hours 78,000 84,000 77,430 80,571 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 69 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PEOPLE COMMUNITY 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Community Contributions ($M) Community Partners grants to U.S. employee-chosen 0.8 0.9 0.8 0.7 charities Value of matching gift contributions made by 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5 U.S. employees Value of product donations 8.3 19.2 14.0 16.3 Global cash donations 12.4 12.9 19.0 18.7 Total global (product and cash) donations ($M) 20.7 32.1 33.0 35.0 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 70 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GENERAL 2010 2011 2012 2013 PLANET Fiber Use (million MT) Virgin % of total 2.56 72.6% 2.48 70.3% 2.36 71.1% 2.40 71.5% Recycled 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 % of total 27.5% 29.7% 28.6% 28.5% Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) + recycled content 65.3% 62.4% 66.1% 71.7% Note: As part of our 2011 global GF&TN agreement with WWF, we will report our total use of environmentally preferred fiber for all fiber-containing products. Virgin pulp will include all K-C manufactured pulp, purchased market pulp and third-party contract–manufactured fiber-containing products. K-C began collecting fiber data from third-party contract manufacturers in 2009. FIBER SOURCING 2010 2011 2012 2013 Virgin fiber from environmentally responsible sources* 98.0% 99.9% 100.0% 100.0% Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 39.4% 47.0% 52.7% 60.5% Sustainable Forest Initiative (SFI) 30.7% 30.4% 32.4% 23.7% Programme for the Endorsement of Forest 8.4% 6.0% 5.0% 4.1% Certification (PEFC) PERFORMANCE DATA CERFLOR (Brazil) Canadian Standards Association (CSA) 7.9% 7.2% 3.3% 5.4% 2.2% 5.4% 0% 6.1% Forest Stewardship Council Controlled Wood 4.8% 7.9% 2.4% 5.6% (FSC-CW) Not Certified* 1.7% 0.1% 0% 0% Note: *Approximately 150 tons of the fiber were not certified in 2012, but with two digit rounding the percentage is 100% CHLORINE FREE WOOD PULP PURCHASES 2010 2011 2012 2013 Elemental Chlorine Free (ECF) 95.1 % 95.2% 98.3% 97.5% Total Chlorine Free (TCF) 4.9% 4.8% 1.6% 2.5% Notes: ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE TISSUE (GLOBAL) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix” Virgin Fiber “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of FSC Mix 33.3% 38.5% 44.3% 50.3% “Recycled content” FSC Plantation 29.1% 33.1% 38.4% 41.8% *Post-consumer recycled content reported for North America and Europe only FSC Controlled Wood 31.4% 26.1% 21.8% 16.5% Recycled Fiber Recycled content 32.0% 34.5% 33.9% 33.2% Post-consumer recycled content* 12.9% 14.1% 13.8% 13.7% KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 71 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET ENVIRONMENTALLY PREFERABLE TISSUE (NORTH AMERICA) 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Virgin Fiber FSC Mix 31.6% 36.7% 44.0% 50.7% FSC Plantation 25.9% 30.0% 34.4% 38.0% FSC Controlled Wood 42.7% 36.4% 26.5% 21.3% Recycled Fiber Recycled content 25.2% 26.0% 29.5% 28.0% Post-consumer recycled content 20.3% 22.5% 25.6% 22.9% Notes: Data represents Kimberly-Clark and equity affiliates “FSC Plantation” is a subset of “FSC Mix” “Post-consumer recycled content” is a subset of “Recycled content” KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 72 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET ENERGY 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Energy Use (trillion Btu) Non-renewable energy 57.1 56.7 55.7 54.0 % of total 75% 76% 88% 87% Renewable energy 19.4 18.2 7.3 8.0 % of total 25% 24% 12% 13% TOTAL 76.5 74.9 63.0 62.0 Energy efficiency (million Btu/MT of production) 15.3 15.6 13.3 13.6 DIRECT ENERGY USE (TRILLION BTU) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Natural gas 29.5 30.03 30.3 29.7 % of total 51% 53% 68% 68% Purchased biomass, purchased liquor 14.1 13.4 7.0 7.4 % of total 24% 24% 16% 17% Coal 7.8 7.3 6.5 5.6 % of total 13% 13% 14% 13% Self-generated liquor 5.0 4.5 — 0 % of total 9% 8% — — Fuel oil 1.6 1.2 0.9 0.7 % of total 3% 2% 2% 2% Other self-generated 0.16 0.18 0.1 0.1 % of total 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% TOTAL 58.1 56.5 44.7 43.5 INDIRECT ENERGY USE (TRILLION BTU) 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electricity 18.4 18.4 18.1 17.9 % of total 99% 99% 99% 99% Steam 0.12 0.14 0.10 0.10 % of total 1% 1% 1% 1% TOTAL 18.6 18.5 18.2 18.0 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 73 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET INTERMODAL TRANSPORTATION 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Total loads Annual change 78,502 0.22 87,934 0.12 91,353 0.04 92,536 0.013 Miles traveled (millions) 109.4 117.8 119.6 120.0 Savings ($M) 44.2 55.8 60.3 59.2 Fuel use (million gallons of diesel) Intermodal 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 Comparable truck-only fuel use 18.2 19.6 19.9 20.0 Savings 9.1 9.8 10.0 10.0 CO2 emissions (million pounds Scope 3) Intermodal 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 Comparable truck-only fuel use 409.4 440.9 447.7 448.8 Savings 204.7 220.4 223.8 224.4 Notes: Numbers are estimates Drop in savings for 2009 is due to a significant drop in fuel prices Pounds of carbon dioxide emitted for each gallon of diesel fuel burned: 22.45 CLIMATE CHANGE 2010 2011 2012 2013 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (million MT CO2e) Direct (Scope 1) 2,532,226 2,483,048 2,379,935 2,243,926 Indirect (Scope 2) 2,919,432 2,912,934 2,874,870 2,856,695 Total emissions 5,451,659 5,395,982 5,254,805 5,100,621 Carbon dioxide (CO2) 5,398,851 5,336,053 5,220,373 5,066,093 Methane (CH4) 13,562 12,913 8,272 8,332 Nitrous oxide (N2O) 39,246 37,624 26,160 26,197 Change from previous year 0 1.0% 2.6% 2.9% CO2e per metric ton of production 1.10 1.14 1.09 1.10 Note: The U.S. emission factors were based on the 2011 U.S. EPA eGRID2010 version 2.1, and the international emission factors used the International Energy Agency Data Services “CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion (2011 Edition),” and 2010 data has been updated to reflect these new calculations. OTHER CRITERIA POLLUTANTS (MT) 2010 2011 2012 2013 NOx 4,870 4,892 3,919 3,763 SO2 4,456 4,685 3,252 2,048 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 74 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET WATER 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Process Fresh Water Use (million m^3) Surface 72.9 69.5 46.0 44.5 % of total 58% 55% 44% 48% Municipal 36.7 37.5 39.4 32.3 % of total 29% 30% 38% 35% Groundwater 16.8 18.5 18.1 16.2 % of total 13% 15% 17% 17% TOTAL 126.4 125.4 103.4 93.0 Reduction over previous year 0.8% 17.5% 10.1% PROCESS EFFLUENT DISCHARGE DESTINATIONS % 2010 2011 2012 2013 Surface 84% 83% 81% 86% Municipal 16% 17% 19% 14% TISSUE MANUFACTURING WATER USE EFFICIENCY 2010 2011 2012 2013 (M^3/MT PRODUCTION) Actual 43.5 45.7 40.0 36.0 Annual Target 31.7 30.9 29.3 29.2 Percent Deviation 37% 48% 37% 23% WASTE 2010 2011 2012 2013 Nonhazardous Waste Percentage of total waste 99.97% 99.98% 99.97% 99.96% Landfilled 18.8% 21.7% 21.3% 18.5% Recycled 20.0% 21.2% 22.7% 22.1% Beneficial use 23.7% 20.8% 25.0% 28.3% Converted to energy 19.6% 18.5% 12.1% 11.3% Reused and other 12.0% 14.0% 17.3% 18.1% Composted 4.9% 3.1% 0.9% 0.9% Incinerated 1.0% 0.7% 0.8% 0.8% TOTAL (million MT) 1.39 1.44 1.37 1.33 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 75 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT PLANET HAZARDOUS WASTE 2010 2011 2012 2013 PERFORMANCE DATA Percentage of total waste Biological treatment 99.71% 23.1% 99.59% 41.1% 99.65% 16.8% 99.74% 17.3% Recycled 23.1% 41.1% 16.8% 17.3% Incineration without heat recovery 18.8% 30.9% 39.2% 26.4% Chemical treatment 11.8% 16.1% 16.7% 27.2% Surface impoundment —% 5.2% 6.3% 0.0% Thermal treatment 2.4% 1.1% 5.0% 11.6% Permanent storage —% 1.2% 2.4% 0.9% Landfilled 2.7% 1.2% 0.8% 0.1% Blended fuel 0.4% 3.2% 12.6% 16.5% Deep well injection —% —% —% 0.0% TOTAL (kg) 483,521 348,059 391,390 507,926 WASTE EFFICIENCY 2010 2011 2012 2013 Waste per metric ton of production (MT/MT) 0.28 0.29 0.29 0.31 Note: The MT of waste/MT of production data indicates that nearly 30% of the weight of our products is waste. This is mainly due to the recycled fiber process and the water and byproducts left behind after usable fibers are extracted. Nearly 1 million MT of KC’s waste are from recycled fiber sludge; that represents roughly two-thirds of KC’s total waste generation. Keep in mind that nearly 50% of that weight is residual water leftover from the pulping process. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 76 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANUFACTURING 2010 2011 2012 2013 PRODUCTS Total production volume (million MT) MATERIALS USED (MILLION MT) Virgin fiber 5.13 2010 2.56 4.96 2011 2.48 4.80 2012 2.36 4.63 2013 2.4 Recycled fiber 0.97 1.05 0.95 0.96 Polymers 0.74 0.72 0.72 0.69 Packaging 0.52 0.50 0.52 0.52 Adhesives 0.08 0.07 0.08 0.06 Polymer-based components 0.02 0.02 0.02 0.02 Packaging (MT/MT of production) 0.104 0.103 0.103 0.104 PERFORMANCE DATA KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 77 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ECONOMICS FINANCIALS 2010 2011 2012 2013 Total production volume (million MT) 5.13 4.96 4.80 4.63 Net sales ($B) 19.7 20.8 21.1 21.2 By division Personal Care 8.7 9.1 9.6 9.5 Consumer Tissue 6.5 6.8 6.5 6.6 K-C Professional 3.1 3.3 3.3 3.3 Health Care 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.6 By region North America 10.7 10.8 10.8 10.8 PERFORMANCE DATA Europe 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 Asia, Latin America & Other 6.6 7.5 7.9 8.1 Intergeographic (Asia, Latin America & Other) (0.7) (0.8) (0.8) (0.8) Operating costs ($B) 16.9 18.5 18.4 17.9 Cash returned to shareholders ($B) 1.9 2.3 2.4 2.4 Employee compensation ($B) 3.3 3.8 3.8 3.8 Taxes paid ($B) 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.8 Total environmental expenditures ($M) 201 226 166 168 Capital 26 32 22 30 O&M 162 171 126 114 Government Payments and R&D 13 23 18 24 Assets ($B) 19.9 19.4 19.9 18.9 Donations and community investments ($M) 20.7 32.1 33.0 35.0 Percent of net income 1.1% 2.0% 1.8% 1.7% Note: “Intergeographic” refers to inter-company sales KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 78 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX The Global Reporting Initiative GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES (GRI) G4 was used as a basic guideline to ensure that our GRI # Description Cross-reference/Direct answer UNGC Reported sustainability reporting efforts are in line to the extent Section: Strategy & Analysis possible with the extensive Statement of G4-1 CEO Letter Our Approach G4 indicators. Continuing Support Key impacts, risks, and G4-2 Our Approach Principle 8 As a signatory to the United opportunities Nations Global Compact Section: Organizational Profile (UNGC), Kimberly-Clark G4-3 Organization name Kimberly Clark Corporation is required to annually Primary brands, communicate its progress G4-4 10-K products, and services in promoting the UNGC’s ten principles. The content G4-5 Headquarters location 10-K index below cross-references Where the organization G4-6 Dallas, TX each of the ten principles to operates the location where they are Nature of ownership G4-7 10-K discussed on the website and and legal form serves as Kimberly-Clark’s G4-8 Markets served 10-K Communication on Progress Scale of the (COP). G4-9 organization 10-K FULLY PARTIALLY NOT a. 59,278 employees (full time, part time, temp); 21,264 are female / 37,584 are male / 430 not identified Total number of b. 57,289 permanent employeed G4-10 employees by type (full time and part time); 20,349 are female / 36,510 are male / 430 not identified f. no variations Collective bargaining G4-11 25% Principle 3 agreements Supply chain G4-12 Supply Chain description Organizational G4-13 changes during the 10-K reporting period G4-14 Precautionary principle Products Principle 7 KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 79 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-15 External charters, principles, or other External Principles & Memberships Principles 1 & 8 initiatives FULLY PARTIALLY NOT Membership G4-16 External Principles & Memberships associations Section: Identified Material Aspects & Boundaries Entities included in G4-17 10-K financial statements Process for defining G4-18 report boundaries and About this Report Principle 8 content Material aspects G4-19 About this Report included in the report Descriptions of material G4-20 aspect boundaries About this Report within the organization Descriptions of material aspect G4-21 About this Report boundaries outside the organization G4-22 Restatements Sustainability 2015 Progress Changes from previous reports in G4-23 Labor Relations terms of scope and/or boundaries Section: Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 Stakeholder groups Stakeholder Engagement How stakeholders were G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement identified Approach to G4-26 stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement Principle 8 engagement Topics raised G4-27 during stakeholder Stakeholder Engagement engagements Section: Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period January December 2012 Date of most recent G4-29 2012 report G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Report contact sustainability@kcc.com “In accordance” option, About this Report G4-32 GRI Index and report GRI Index assurance KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 80 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-33 Policy regarding report assurance About this Report (Two Tomorrows Assurance) Principle 8 Section: Governance FULLY PARTIALLY NOT Governance structure 10-K G4-34 Principle 8 of the organization Sustainability Advisory Board Composition of Governance, Ethics & G4-38 the board and its Human Rights committees Whether the chair of Tom Falk is Chairman & CEO of G4-39 the board is also an Kimberly-Clark executive officer Nomination and selection processes G4-40 Proxy Statement for the board and its committees Board conflicts of 10-K G4-41 Principle 10 interest Code of Conduct Board performance 10-K with respect to Sustainability Advisory Board G4-44 Princple 8 governance of Governance, Ethics & sustainability topics Human Rights Board role in the identification and Sustainability Advisory Board G4-45 management of Governance, Ethics & Principles 7 & 8 sustainability impacts, Human Rights risks, and opportunities Frequency of the board’s review of G4-47 Sustainability Advisory Board Principles 7 & 8 sustainability impacts, risks, and opportunities Process for G4-49 communicating critical Contact the Board concerns to the board Section: Ethics & Integrity G4-56 Governance, Ethics & (bribery & Human Rights corruption; Code of conduct Principles 1 & 8 Governance business Code of Conduct conduct) G4-57 (bribery & Outlined in our Code of Conduct Helplines or advice corruption; Governance lines for employees business Code of Conduct conduct) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 81 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-58 (bribery & corruption; Mechanisms for reporting concerns Outlined in our Code of Conduct business about unethical or FULLY PARTIALLY NOT conduct) unlawful behavior SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES GRI # Description Cross-reference/Direct answer UNGC Reported Disclosures on G4-DMA About this Report management approach Direct economic G4-EC1 value generated and Economic Performance Data distributed G4-EC2 (climate Climate change risks Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 7 change) G4-EC3 (Bribery & Benefit plan coverage 10-K corruption) Financial assistance G4-EC4 None Principle 7 from the government Infrastructure G4-EC7 Community investments G4-EN1 (Petrochemical consumption Materials by weight & alternate or volume (Fiber Innovation Principle 8 materials; Fiber consumption & consumption alternate materials) & alternate materials) G4-EN2 (Petrochemical consumption Recycled input & alternate materials (Fiber Fiber Principle 8 materials; Fiber consumption & consumption alternate materials) & alternate materials) G4-EN3 Energy consumption (Energy Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 (Scope 1 + 2) management) G4-EN6 (Energy Energy reductions Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 & 9 management) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 82 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-EN8 (Water management & Water withdrawals by source Water Principle 8 consumption) FULLY PARTIALLY NOT G4-EN10 (Water Water recycled and Water Principle 8 management & reused consumption) Facilities in or near G4-EN11 We do not own any forestlands Principle 8 areas of high diversity All of our wood fiber suppliers are certified under a forest certification scheme which G4-EN12 Impacts on biodiversity assures that there is a low risk of sourcing wood fiber from protected areas or areas of high diversity outside protects areas All of our wood fiber suppliers are certified under a forest certification scheme which Habitats protected or G4-EN13 assures that there is a low risk Principle 8 restored of sourcing wood fiber from protected areas or areas of high diversity outside protects areas G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse (climate gas (GHG) emissions Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 change) (Scope 1) G4-EN16 Energy indirect (climate greenhouse gas (GHG) Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 change) emissions (Scope 2) G4-EN17 Other indirect (climate greenhouse gas (GHG) Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 change) emissions (Scope 3) G4-EN18 GHG emissions (climate Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 intensity change) G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 7, 8 & 9 (climate change) emissions NOx, SOx and G4-EN21 other significant air Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 8 (climate change) emissions G4-EN22 (Water management & Water discharge Water Principle 8 consumption) G4-EN23 (Waste Waste by type and management & Waste Principle 8 disposal method consumption) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 83 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-EN24 (Toxic Emissions) Significant spills No significant spills Principle 8 G4-EN25 (Waste FULLY PARTIALLY NOT management & Hazardous waste Waste Principle 8 consumption) G4-EN27 Mitigation of K-C does not currently collect (Product end use environmental impacts Principle 8 & 9 this Data & disposal) of products and services G4-EN28 Products and packaging K-C does not currently collect (Product end use Principle 8 & 9 materials reclaimed this Data & disposal) G4-EN 30 Transport Climate Change & Energy Use Principle 7 & 8 G4-EN32 New suppliers screened (Environmental using environmental performance of Suppliers criteria supply chain) G4-EN33 Supply chain (Environmental environmental impacts Suppliers performance of supply chain) All full-time and part-time Benefits provided to G4-LA2 salaried employees receive the full-time employees same benefits. K-C’s Global Safety Governance Model requires the establishment of Safety Committees or Councils at the G4-LA5 site, region, Sector, and Global Workforce represented (Employee Level. Safety Committees in health and safety Principle 1 working have been established at each committees conditions) of these levels.Therefore, approximately 95% of employees are represented by a management-employee safety committee. Employee Safety Kimberly-Clark has implemented comprehensive industrial G4-LA6 Rates of injury, hygiene and occupation health (Employee occupational disease, lost programs that ensure that Principle 1 working days, absenteeism, and occupational exposures to conditions) work-related fatalities hazardous materials and agents are maintained at safe levels. Therefore, there are no worker groups with a high incidence of disease. KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 84 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-LA7 (Employee Workers with high All Kimberly-Clark facilities, unionized and non-unionized, and contracts operate under Principle 1 working incidence risk of diseases FULLY PARTIALLY NOT the K-C policies on safety and conditions) health. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics All unionized facilities and (Employee covered in agreements contracts operate under the K-C working with trade unions policies on safety and health. conditions) G4-LA14 New suppliers that were (Supplier K-C does not currently measure screened using labor working this data practices criteria conditions) G4-LA15 Negative impacts for labor (Supplier K-C does not currently measure practices in the supply working this data chain conditions) G4-LA16 (Supplier Grievances about labor Zero working practices conditions) Clauses concerning human rights are incorporated into all G4-HR1 of our terms and conditions (Employee Investment agreements in supplier contracts and working and contracts that include purchase orders. In 2012, Principles 1-6 conditions; human rights clauses or these terms and conditions Human rights in underwent screening were updated to include a the supply chain) section that discusses our new Supplier Social Compliance Standards G4-HR2 (Employee We have provided (1 hour per working Employee training on employee) on the Code of Principles 1-6 conditions; human rights Conduct in 2013 Human rights in the supply chain) G4-HR3 (Employee In 2013, there were working 47 complaints based Incidents of discrimination Principle 6 ? conditions; on “harassment and Human rights in discrimination.” the supply chain) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 85 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom (Freedom of FULLY PARTIALLY NOT of association and Association Labor Relations Principles 1, 2 & 3 collective bargaining may and Collective be at significant risk, and Bargaining) actions taken to support these rights Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, Labor Relations Principles 1, 2 & 5 (Child Labor) and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor Operations and suppliers identified as having G4-HR6 significant risk for (Forced or incidents of forced or Labor Relations Principles 1, 2 & 4 Compulsory compulsory labor, and Labor) measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor G4-HR7 (Employee Security personnel trained working in the organization’s 100% Principles 1 & 2 conditions; human rights policies Human rights in the supply chain) G4-HR8 (Employee Incidents of violations working involving rights of Zero Principles 1 & 2 conditions; indigenous peoples Human rights in the supply chain) G4-HR9 (Employee Operations that have been working subject to human rights 100% Principles 1, 2, 4 & 5 conditions; assessments Human rights in the supply chain) G4-HR10 New suppliers screened (Human rights in Suppliers Principles 1-6 for human rights the supply chain) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 86 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX G4-HR12 (Human rights in Grievances about human rights impacts Reported only to Kimberly Clark Audit Committee Principles 1, 2, 4 & 5 ? the supply chain) FULLY PARTIALLY NOT In Kimberly Clark’s Code of Conduct, we discuss mechanisms for reporting G4-SO3 unlawful/unethical behavior (bribery & Risks related to corruption Principle 10 corruption) Governance Code of Conduct Every employee has received a one-hour training on our Code of Conduct, with specialized G4-SO4 training for HR employees and Communications and (bribery & supervisors. It is the policy Principle 10 training on anti-corruption corruption) of Kimberly-Clark to conduct business in compliance with all anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws. We regularly assess the quality and effectiveness of our compliance and ethics program G4-SO5 and continue to believe that Confirmed incidents of (bribery & our anti-corruption program Principle 10 corruption corruption) is effective and that we are in compliance with applicable anti-corruption laws in all material respects. G4-SO6 Governance, Ethics & (bribery & Political contributions Principle 10 Human Rights corruption) G4-SO7 (business Anti-competitive behavior Zero Principle 10 conduct) In 2013 Kimberly Clark had 9 Notice of Violations, which resulted in fines of $200,500. The fines were related to G4-SO8 the use of an improperly Fines for non-compliance (business licensed waste hauler at the with laws conduct) Pathumthani facility in Thailand and a penalty for improper labeling and storage of hazardous waste at our Kluang facility in Malaysia KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 87 KIMBERLY-CLARK 2013 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI INDEX 100% Development of product concept FULLY PARTIALLY NOT (yes) R&D (yes) Certification (yes) G4-PR1 Health and safety impact Manufacturing and production (Product safety assessments of products Principle 7 (yes) & quality) and services Marketing and promotion (yes) Storage distribution and supply (yes) Use and service (yes) Disposal, reuse or recycling (yes) Non-compliance G4-PR2 concerning the health and (Product safety Zero safety impacts of products & quality) and services G4-PR5 Results of surveys (Product measuring customer Stakeholder Engagement and Service satisfaction Labeling) KIMBERLY-CLARK SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | DATA | JUNE 2014 88
