UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2013 THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD 2 3 04 HELLMANN AT A GLANCE 06 FOREWORD KLAUS AND JOST HELLMANN 08 STATEMENT KARL ENGELHARD 10 STANDARD DISCLOSURE 12 OUR STRATEGY 13 VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT 14 HUMAN RIGHTS 17 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 18 EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK 19 COMMITMENT 22 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE 24 LABOR 26 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT 30 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS 31 DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 36 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 38 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 40 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND TRAINING 42 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT SYSTEM: ISO 14001 43 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 46 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS 48 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO 50 BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 54 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 55 BUSINESS ETHICS 56 COMPLIANCE 58 REPORTING AND COMMUNICATION 59 CONTROLS AND FOLLOW-UP MEASURES CONTENT 60 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE 62 APPENDIX 4 5 Hellmann at a Glance 2013 Managed by owners in the fourth generation 6 7 O ver the past years, we have always needed to adapt to the ever-changing environment, but we never left out of sight what matters most to us: headquarters, and will be rolled out globally over the next months, beginning in 2014. We are not only focusing on our family but our F.A.M.I.L.Y values. trying to influence our environment and have a By integrating the UNGC principles in how we positive impact on the communities and families work, we want to inspire our stakeholders to be around us. For over 20 years, we have always innovative and think outside the box. We believe been searching for new environmentally-friendly in what we are doing because it is in our Corpotechnologies and methods to further develop our rate DNA. Therefore, we started at the heart and services. Strong attention has been put on supengine of the organization: our employees. porting social institutions, which focus on people, Through a diverse range of trainings we enable especially children, in need. them to further improve their skills and discover We are driven by an inner force and will further undeveloped potential in order to get the chance carry those principles in our mindset and services to develop themselves into positions where they in order to improve and inspire ourselves and evercan foster their creativity. In 2013, we therefore yone around us, every day. focused on personal development trainings as well as anti-corruption and anti-bribery e-learning || Jost and Klaus Hellmann (Managing Partner) modules, which more than 5.300 employees passed successfully. To further challenge undetected potential, it FOREWORD is important to look at everyone individually. Our family, like every family, also consists of many difKLAUS AND JOST ferent characters. Every day our family grows in regard to diversity. For communicating this topic throughout our organization, diversity has been integrated into several policies, such as our BusiHELLMANN ness Code of Conduct. In 2013, we set the basis for making diversity an omnipresent goal through­ out our company. Concrete measures have already been taken in Germany, home of our corporate 8 9 W e have been an active member of the UNGC for more than two years, now. In 2012, I took the initiative to join in and sponsored the I would like to thank all of our employees for having helped to integrate the intentions of the UNGC principles in our daily business. membership. The Management Board has come to believe that our public commitment to the ten || Karl Engelhard (Managing Director) principles of the UNGC underlines the way we have been thinking and doing business for years. These principles confirm and manifest our longForward-looking Statements term Corporate DNA and encourage us to contiThis Communication on Progress (CoP) Report nue in this direction. contains forward-looking statements that are We are proud to be a member of the UNGC, partly based on estimates as well as currently and we are certain that shaping our business with available information. These statements are in no a focus on fairness, sustainability and transparency way a guarantee of prospective corporate perforwill result in an increasingly important competitive mance. They may be subject to risk and uncertainadvantage. ties, which are beyond our area of control and theAt the beginning, we focused on communirefore may cause actual results and developments cation and training concerning the ten principles to differ from expectations expressed in this CoP. with the active involvement of all managers and employees in our subsidiaries worldwide. EstablisReport Profile hing a synchronized reporting system throughout This report is the second Communication on Proour company was one of our main tasks last year. gress Report (CoP) we have published on behalf STATEMENT In 2014, we are intensifying our activities in of our commitment to the United Nations Glonational UNGC networks. We want to be involved bal Compact. Data and information reported in KARL ENGELHARD in the active implementation of the UNGC principthis CoP refer to the time frame from January 1st, les by the exchange of experience and cooperation 2013 to December 31st, 2013. The reported data with further members of the UNGC and we are mainly refer to branches in our 40 countries (excluespecially interested in cross-company value chains. ding joint ventures, etc.). STANDARD DISCLOSURE 12 13 OUR STRATEGY VALUE-BASED MANAGEMENT W e have committed ourselves to being the leading global logistics provider in terms of service excellence, quality, innovation and environD NA is short for deoxyribonucleic acid, the “building block of life“ which carries hereditary codes and traits from parent to child. Like Family defines not only who we are, but also forms the basis of our Corporate DNA: F.A.M.I.L.Y. Our corporate genes and family values continue mental care. individuals, every company has its own DNA in to inspire the way everyone in our global network We recognize that people are the foundation of the form of a unique culture and way of doing thinks and acts from country to country and our success. We make every effort to provide them business. from generation to generation. They also contiwith a fulfilling and engaging working environOur Corporate DNA defines who we are and nue to determine the integrity and mutual trust ment. We carry out our commitment to customers what makes us stand out. It also ensures our with which we build both our business and our by being responsive to their needs and providing heritage endures through successive generations partners‘ business. them with logistics solutions that create value and by enabling new team members from around support their success. the world to share our values. At Hellmann, we see our Corporate DNA as being far more than THINKING AHEAD – MOVING FORWARD mere words on a piece of paper. Ultimately, our F.A.M.I.L.Y corporate genes inspire the way we think. They F irst, people first A ll about the customers, always determine the motives behind our actions and M aking it work better, everyday define what we should expect of one another. I nnovation and entrepreneurship Most importantly, they highlight the qualities that L ive sustainability ensure we are, and always will be, different from Y ou and Me! other Logistic Service Providers. HUMAN RIGHTS 16 17  George Passarella (Facility Security Coordinator) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY »We at Hellmann firmly believe in adopting and embracing respect I n order to constantly improve our health and safety standards, we are currently examining and assuring that the regional minimum stancategories first, items needing immediate attention (one month) second, medium attention (one to three months) and low attention (within for human rights (as articulated in the United Nations Universal Decladards in each country, which are defined by the six months). A final audit is held within the time local government, are fulfilled. Furthermore, we frame specified to ensure all items are addressed. ration of Human Rights) all around the world and therefore, compliwill develop internal principles as a guideline for Once a branch passes an audit a safety plaque is ance with this policy as well as our Business Code of Conduct which further health and safety standards. Concerning presented to the branch for display in the recepis mandatory for every employee and office. It is our policy to act with this topic, a workshop for health and safety tion area so customers and employees will see officers will take place in 2014. that we at Hellmann take the health and safety integrity and fairness and treat all employees and persons with digThe USA can be named as one of the best of our employees and visitors seriously.« nity, decency and respect by providing a healthy, safe and secure work practice examples due to its new and extensive environment.« Occupational Health and Safety Administration The OSHA guideline explained above is a model (OSHA). Following a brief statement from our that could be prospectively implemented in all Facility Security Coordinator, George Passarella: our Hellmann countries. »USA has implemented a health and safety guideline under the regulatory governmental agency called OSHA. The USA standard practice consists of having each branch file a risk assessment followed by a safety audit of the branch. Each violation (if any) is classified in one of three 18 19 EMPLOYEE FEEDBACK COMMITMENT I n mid-2013 we carried out a global Employee Opinion Survey (EOS) aiming to find out more about our employees’ needs and concerns. The scale and defined general measures together with our international boards. In addition, we worked together with representatives of all our W e are caring about communities and environments around us and supported them in the best possible ways. This kind of support varies goods for survival, such as rice, water, working equipment etc. participation of all our branches worldwide gave countries to analyze the national results and to from first aid for people who suffer from natural everyone the opportunity to express their opicreate dedicated action plans per country. Every disasters to local schools and institutions, depennion about working with us. Globally, 5,704 of manager shared the results with his or her team ding on where help is needed and where we can our employees took part in the survey. The results and added individual actions. have an impact on the current situation. allowed us to find out if we are on the right track and to identify potential for improvement. When looking at the overall results of our company in comparison to an external benchmark across several industries, we received positive results in essential areas like our above average results in the category “present engagement capital”. It deals with the well-being of the employees at work. Also in the category “customer satisfaction”, which includes statements such as “My organization is committed to customer satisfaction” or “I am fully aware of the needs of our customers.” We performed above average, which gave us the confirmation that our organization focuses on our good relationship with our custoAs the real work starts after conducting an emplomers. 86% in the category “discretionary effort” yee opinion survey, we are now focusing on the Hellmann Spain shared their logistical knowledge is the sign of a positive atmosphere at work and, follow-up and motivating the country represenin order to help the Philippine population which Due to the current civil war in Syria, many Syrian for us, going the extra mile and supporting our tatives by regular calls and meetings to keep worsuffered from the severe typhoon in October inhabitants have been trying to leave the country colleagues is common practice. king on the areas of improvement which were 2013. In cooperation with the social initiative and are seeking for refuge in neighboring counIn the next step we need to focus on the defined. “Ayuda a Filipinas“, we also convinced several tries as well as Europe. Germany was also one of areas, which show potential for improvement. of our customers that their support was needed these countries, where people have been searTherefore, we analyzed the results on a global to provide victims of the catastrophe with basic ching for shelter, with many children among them. 21 One of these refugee camps, providing initial decided on the donation of school starter sets, to accommodation for several of the Syrian refugees, supply the children who settle in Germany with a is located close to our headquarters in Osnabbasis of daily school materials to simplify the first rueck. On hearing about the high number of days in the new country and schools. people who had come to this camp, we wanted to offer our help. In cooperation with the refugee camp, supported by a public authority, we 22 23 Actions in 2013 Actions in 2014 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 1 WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE  Implemented Corporate Volunteering Initiative (“Perspektivwechsel“)  Managers in charitable organizations  Integrating a Corporate Volunteering Initiative (“Perspektivwechsel“) in our Learning and Development Program (e.g. disabled people‘s workshops)  Exploring the options for a foundation which  Began cooperation with the following institusupports and coordinates charitable work of our tions: Christophorus-Werk Lingen employees (in cooperation with other organizations/ and Martinshof Bremen companies)  Human rights related event  Exploring the options of supporting in building and  Donated 140 school starter sets to children of rebuilding houses in developing areas Syrian refugees  Sharing best practice experiences with another  Delivered first aid necessities to Philippine popuGerman company in regard to cooperations with lation who suffered from the consequences of the first aid organizations typhoon in October 2013  Liaised with UNGC participants in order to share  Participating in further UNGC related events regarbest practices ding best practice sharing  Participated in UNGC events in Berlin, including workshops with other UNGC members Principle 2  Global Employee Opinion Survey  Holding follow-up meetings with Managing  Conducted in all our branches worldwide Directors and Country HR Managers  Followed by workshops and action plans, which  Monitoring implementation of action plans were created according to individual country results  Analyzed health and safety audits  Developing global health and safety principles for  Training for UNGC Working Group in regard to an internal corporate standard health and safety regulations  Decided to develop internal health and safety regulations  Reviewed roles and responsibilities of Health and Safety Officers/persons in charge  Corporate health management  Analyzing corporate health management programs  Checked the current status of gym cooperation, in all our Hellmann countries medical check-ups, analysis and adaptation of workspaces in Germany LABOR 26 27 LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT »We are constantly promoting the topics of human rights and labor A ccording to our Corporate DNA “First, People First”, we support our employees to give each of them the opportunity of individual With the HLE, our internal Learning Management System, employees are able to get access to knowledge worldwide. The HLE offers traithrough policies and manuals, such as the Global Employee Handbook development. ning courses in six different languages to our Based on fair and equal evaluation procesemployees in all our four regions – AMERICAS, and our Business Code of Conduct. These policies and manuals also ses, we are analyzing at which current stage our EUROPE, ASIA and OMEA. Counting all trainings contain rules and regulations regarding forced and compulsory labor as employees are and what kind of potential they available in the HLE, we offer our employees well as discrimination. In order to create a fair and safe work environcan bring into our organization. Two of the tools more than 400 training courses. we used for determining the individual development, these regulations are mandatory for all our employees.« ment level are 90° and 270° feedback. Adapted from this appraisal, each employee and manager has an annual feedback conversation, the results of which are a major part of our Performance Management Systems. Through this individual competence evaluation, the employee as well as the responsible manager evolve a Personal Development Plan (PDP). The different steps to accomplish the goals of the PDP and the evaluation is documented in our Hellmann Learning Experience (HLE). 28 29 FOSTERING YOUNG TALENTS INTERNATIONAL LOGISTICS MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP HR NEXT GENERATION AWARD IN POLAND O ur academy which is responsible for the Human Resources Development in Germany started a program called “Talent Management”. »The ILM program is an invaluable experience that opens your eyes and mind to a whole new world of skills and possibilities.« O ur colleague Marta Harmacka was one of five finalists of the “HR Next Generation Award 2013”, which honors exceptional achievements in F or the third time, Hellmann Poland sponsored occupational training courses for the winners of a competition organized by the Stanisław Staszic It offers employees with certain skills and undethe field of HR Management. Upper Secondary School Complex No. 1 in Kwidveloped potential the chance to further improve || Andrea Nielson (Client Operations Manager, With her individual development, Marta Harzyn. The price was a two-week, free internship, their abilities and to develop themselves into posiNew Zealand) macka won the award for a seminal career in the including accommodation, in one of our branches. tions where they can foster their creativity. The field of HR. The young woman, born in Poland Students from several Polish schools who specialize Talent Management itself includes individual, as studied Management and Marketing at the Univerin logistics take part in this competition at the end well as group training courses, which are a unique »The ILM program is the perfect combination of sity of Warsaw and did her intermediate diploma of each year. combination for each “talent”. Although this prohard learning, self-reflection, growing as a person at the University of Osnabrueck, before she joined gram only takes place in Germany at this time, we and making friends for life.« our company as a Change Manager. After different »We hope that a number of those who participated have other options and programs for our emploresponsibilities in the field of national and internatiin the training courses will continue their studies in yees all over the world. || Piotr Zaleski (Chief Operating Officer, Mexico) onal HR projects, she is now responsible for HR Strathis area, and become new trainees. For my part, I tegy & Organization. This shows that it is possible can assure you that we will make every effort so One example is the International Logistics ManageWe emphasize the development of our employees to enter a new field of employment as part of a that the finalists joining our team have the opporment & Leadership Program (ILM). The ILM is a and give them different opportunities to constantly great HR management team at a logistics company. tunity to become acquainted with the operations of development program available for all our em­ploy­ develop technical, personal as well as social skills to “Nowadays one needs different qualifications our company and have the opportunity to broaden ees worldwide. The participants are prepared for fulfill the requirements of today’s employment market. and should be outward-looking”, explains Bernd their theoretical knowledge with practice in a large new challenges within the field of logistics and are Kraft, Vice President General Management of multinational corporation.« able to develop functional as well as interpersonal Monster Central Europe, which is the reason why competencies in an international work environment. they chose awarding Marta Harmacka. || Juliusz Skurewicz (Managing Director, Poland) 30 31 EMPLOYEE COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION T he health of our employees is essential for us. As an employer we offer a wide range of different compensation and health benefit packages. Our employees not only profit from healthcare benefits, but are also able to make use of life balance and monetary benefits. Examples conO ur Corporate DNA defines who we are and shows that our culture as well as our way of conducting business is unique. It is the individuality sity in a constantly changing environment, which is shaped by globalization, changes in values and demographics as well as continuously increasing In addition to the projects in Germany, there are cerning life balance are social and charity events and diversity of our employees that ultimately bring complexities. several healthcare initiatives in the USA, Brazil, in Canada, Thailand and South Africa or the supour Corporate DNA and our brand to life. We as South Africa as well as other countries which support of flexible working times in China, Spain an organization are committed to support diverport the physical, mental and social health of our and Denmark. 90% of all our Hellmann countries employees. According to the annual UNGC quesoffer monetary benefits, which are among others, tionnaire, 82% of our Hellmann countries have an medical insurance systems, dental plans, car and ergonomic working environment and provide their housing allowance as well as private pension employees constantly with free drinking water. options. Our employees all over the world have Furthermore, stress-reduction and drug-prevention several opportunities to profit from the benefits programs are offered to them. One best practice offered in order to build an appreciative and conexample is Hellmann Vietnam where we offer our structive work environment. employees Yoga and Zumba sessions twice a week In 2013, a new pilot project called “Healthafter work. care Month” took place at our headquarters in Germany. For a period of four weeks, workshops, trainings, and seminars with four different health topics – check-ups, spinal health, nutrition, and relaxation – were arranged. 81% of our employees achieved scores of „good“ or „very good“, which implies that the training courses were well accepted by the participants. Furthermore, over 60% expressed that the program had a sustainable impact on their future behavior regarding health. These results show that the “Healthcare Month” has been a helpful initiative and therefore will be further pursued in the future. 32 33  We committed us to the following Diversity Statement: L ooking at our employees, we can see a variety of different backgrounds regarding culture, generation, gender and ability. These differenThe above-mentioned diversity goals are an inherent part of several policies, such as our Business Code of Conduct or our agreement with »The success of our business is based on the diversity of thousands of ces, individual skills and personalities offer us a the works council. In 2013, we set the basis for employees. As a family owned business with global operations, we higher level of creativity and efficiency and we making diversity an omnipresent goal througappreciate each of our employee’s uniqueness and individuality. Our are aiming to further increase this. hout our company. Concrete action has only understanding of diversity goes beyond attributes such as gender, natibeen started in Germany, home of our corporate headquarters, but will be rolled out globally over onality, ethnic background, religion or ideology, disability, age, sexual Our Diversity Goals the next years, beginning in 2014. orientation and identity. With our Corporate DNA as a basis, we create Main objectives: As inclusion is another aspect of a diverse  Retaining young talents, professionals and workforce and brings new ideas and perspectia work environment which provides equal opportunities for everyone executives ves into our company, we already started an iniand is free of prejudice. We empower our employees to proactively  Developing new markets tial cooperation with an institution for disabled bring their different perspectives, experiences and competencies into  Appealing to our target group in the correct way people. This collaboration includes the employ­  Improving our attractiveness as an employer ment of apprentices of sheltered workshops our company, in order to fulfill our customers’ and business partners’ and our image as interns at our company. The internships last changing requirements. We strongly believe that a big part of our suc Warrantying equal opportunities several months and provide young people with cess is attributed to our corporate culture which is characterized by the  Increasing employee productivity and a chance to gain work experience outside of a recognition and appreciation of diversity.« motivation non-profit organization. At the same time, these  Diminishing employee absence rate interns bring new ideas and perspectives as well  Decreasing labor turnover rate as creativity into our company. The above-mentioned are only examples of Secondary objectives: what we have already started and of course more  Retaining a balanced age distribution concrete actions will follow in the next years. We  Enhancing the number of women in key and will change and further improve structures, opeleading positions in all our Hellmann countries rations and the corporate culture over time, as a  Increasing the number of employees with fordiverse workforce is what we believe in and what eign citizenship or an immigrant background we as an organization stand for.  Extending the number of employees with disabilities 34 35 STEFAN WIMMER CHRISTINE BOHMANN KLAUS HELLMANN GLOBAL CHIEF PEOPLE OFFICER HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGING PARTNER T he corporate volunteering initiative “Perspektivwechsel” (transl. change in perspective) enables our employees in leading management »Christophorus-Werk Lingen e.V. is an organization for the rehabilitation of people with different kinds of disabilities, established 50 years ago. In respect for the work we do. This will support our young people with disabilities with their individual life planning as well as their future development in positions to work in a charitable institution for a our work portfolio we unite modern and charitaa non-charitable organization.« few days. During this time our managers are part ble organizations, which aim to support everyone of teams in sheltered workshops, street ambulanindividually. Mainly young people with different || Klaus van Kampen (Christophorus-Werk Lingen) ces or refugee camps in which they are the “new” kinds and degrees of disabilities work and live in employee again. our institution. These young people are supported It gives participants the chance to see a situby teams of experts of several different professioation from another perspective and, therefore, nal backgrounds. develop interpersonal skills like motivating others, Two years ago, Christophorus-Werk created the understanding employees better, and dealing with department “Arbeit nach Maß“ (transl. customidifficult situations. zed work). This department is responsible for the In return, we offer our cooperating institucommunication and exchange with cooperating tions training courses in our internal academy, companies and supports them in the development visits to our business premises or internships. In of internship and apprenticeship positions for appliorder to further promote this initiative, we are curcants with disabilities. The overall goal of these partvolunteering project “Perspektivwechsel“ (transl. rently planning on integrating it in our personnel nerships is to build up long-term cooperations. change in perspective) in 2013. Getting to know development program. Hellmann Worldwide Logistics is one of our the atmosphere and the way of working within partnering companies. In addition to our trusteach other’s organization free of prejudices, has ful cooperation we have started the corporate already improved the understanding and mutual 36 37 Actions in 2013 Actions in 2014 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 3 WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Established constant dialogue with unions  Existence of a constant dialogue in Germany  Building a constant dialog with trade unions in further countries/strengthening relationships  Evaluating laws and regulations for collaboration with trade unions or work councils in all countries  Developed an employee online training regarding  Implementing this as a mandatory training for all the UNGC principles our employees Principle 4  Global reporting on written work contracts, employ Analyzing and setting standards for employment ment policies, employment confirmation letters policies/standards regarding forced and compulsory  Assured that basic working conditions for all our labor of our external temporary labor agencies/partemployees worldwide are in place ners 3rd party due diligence process  Integrated all ten UNGC principles in the Global  Global roll-out of the Business Code of Conduct as Employee Handbook and the new Business Code of well as ten UNGC principles Conduct Principle 5  Analyzed the prohibition of child labor in all employ Analyzing and setting standards for employment ment policies and employment standard contracts policies/standards regarding child labor of our external temporary labor agencies/partners 3rd party due diligence process Principle 6  Started our Diversity Management Program through  Exploring the options for a roll-out of our Diversity internal communication and first actions in Germany Management in the US  (Inclusion) Offering apprentices with disabilities internships at our company (cooperation with Christophorus-Werk Lingen)  Roll-out of Performance Management Program in  Making the Performance Management Program our major countries available in further countries ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY 40 41 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND TRAINING »As a fourth-generation, family-owned business, we certainly underO ur company was one of the first logistics providers to establish an environmental protection policy. It was published in 1996 business units in 2012. This report is based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (ISO 14064), an international calculation standard but it is limistand the concept of building a proud and lasting legacy for future and implemented in our F.A.M.I.L.Y DNA as an ted to Scope 1 + 2. This means that all direct integral part of our philosophy. With this impleemissions caused by our own vehicles and pregenerations. We see environmental sustainability as an extension mentation, we comply with our obligations to mises as well as all indirect emissions generaof this ideal and believe that environmental responsibility is not so economical, ecological, and social responsibility. ted by energy consumption are considered. Due much a choice, but a necessity. We continue to strive for increasingly In order to increase knowledge of the environto a good data quality in our other European mental policy, we established new environmenbranches the emission report has been extended environmentally-friendly practices across our network so that we can tal and Business Code of Conduct training courfrom a German emission report to a European provide for the generations to come and do our part to ensure that ses. The environmental training has the purpose one. If the data quality is sufficient, we are planthere are sufficient resources to safeguard their health, prosperity and of increasing the environmental awareness of ning to roll out the report on a global level in our employees. In 2014, it will be rolled out in 2014, otherwise it will be an objective for 2015. quality of life.« Germany and 2015 globally. The Business Code Collecting environmental data from all over of Conduct training will be mandatory for all our the world turns out to be very difficult; because employees on a global level in 2014. data regarding energy consumption is only limiOur carbon footprint and the calculation tedly available for rented premises. Germany is of emissions are core environmental aspects. the country with the biggest influence on our Our emissions calculation is required for global carbon footprint and has the highest data quality environmental objectives. Hence, we developed as well. Therefore, the KPIs regarding an emisa comprehensive emission report for all German sion report are limited to our German branches. 42 43 ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SYSTEM: ISO 14001 PERFORMANCE A s mentioned in our Corporate DNA, sustainability and environmental management as well as ecological responsibilities are important busiA s carbon emissions are the most significant environmental aspect for logistics companies like us, it is our goal to create more transparency in ness elements for us. To fulfill these obligations emissions reporting and to determine our carbon on a global level and within all different kinds of footprint. business solutions, we implement ISO 14001 cerIn 2013, we started to evaluate a European tifications whenever it is appropriate or requested. emissions report. For 2014, it is planned to consiAfter our first ISO 14001 certification back der all global branches for carbon emissions reporin 1996, our environmental department started ting in order to provide an international emissions with Environmental Management System audits report within the next years. Scope 1 emissions in order to check if the requirements of the ISO include the gasoline and diesel emissions of all our standards are met. We committed ourselves to the »As a company, we have a long tradition in caring own vehicles. The data of 2011 and 2012 is taken »As preventing carbon emissions is one of our most obligation to have at least one internal audit in for the environment to preserve this world for from the Sustainability Report, which was limited to important environmental aspects, a global reporevery ISO 14001 certified branch. future generations. This is why we already started our German branches. In comparison to 2012, the ting system with effective performance indicators In 2013, 28 of our branches were part of the our extensive environmental management program data of Scope 1 emissions increased, because new is necessary to assess our activities in sustainability ISO 14001 certification, most of them based in in Germany in the 1990´s. For us it is essential that branches with company-owned fleets as well as all and to define realistic environmental objectives. Germany. The number of certified branches will these developments are not limited to Germany but airand sea freight offices were added (e. g. Kunze, It is our ambition to provide a company carbon increase to 31 in 2014, because of new certificaacross borders as well. If we do it smartly, we will Honold, Lehnkering). Our most important factor for footprint for all of our business units. This will help tions in different German branches. The regional all find possibilities to also save money by saving Scope 1 emissions is the usage of diesel. us evaluating our impact on the climate and will headquarters in Miami and Hong Kong also mainprecious resources. We just need to keep asking Although new branches were added, Scope 2 show us potential for improvement. In a first step, tain certified Environmental Management Systems ourselves: Does the light need to stay on when emissions are on the same level as in 2012. This we concentrate on the evaluation of monitoring to ensure the requirements of the ISO specificanobody is around? Does the AC need to be turned effect is caused by electricity-efficient techniques, energy consumption and the use of fossil fuels on tions are met on a global level and to evoke awareto fridge-like conditions? Is my driving economical like the usage of LED-lighting systems or high-frebuildings and company owned vehicles, which are ness of the contents mentioned in environmental or can I save more fuel? By concentrating on areas quency batteries in forklifts. also areas of improvement for us.« management. Alongside these two international of improvement, we can be more and more effiAs Germany is the country where we employ offices, we acquired ISO-certifications in Lichfield cient. Let´s start with small steps everywhere!« a large number of our employees, we also record || Daniel Hülemeyer (Global Quality and Environ(UK) and in Istanbul (Turkey). Our branch in Franka high use of resources. Due to the consumption mental Representative) furt is the first Air and Sea Office which becomes || Tobias Jüchter (Global Quality and Environmenof natural resources like oil and gas, the Scope 1 part of the ISO 14001 certification-matrix. tal Representative) emissions of Germany is a strong parameter in our 44 45 LUFTHANSA CARGO CLIMATE CARE AWARD corporate carbon footprint. In Germany we cause fleets. The award was accepted by Klaus Hellmann the biggest amount of Scope 2 emissions, but the personally, who forwarded the congratulations to global share in percentage is lower in comparison our employees involved in the project. to Scope 1 emissions. The indirect emissions of energy consumption are significant in the different regions because electricity-operated heating and cooling systems in company buildings are used instead of natural oil or gas heaters. After extending our emissions report on a global level within the next year, global climate objectives for the reduction of carbon emissions can be defined to increase the environmental influence and to motivate our employees to support our initiatives. Lufthansa Cargo Climate Care Award Our company was honored for its environmental activities with the Lufthansa Cargo Climate Care Award in 2013. The air cargo forwarder distinguishes innovative concepts for carbon emission reductions every year and was impressed by the use of Liquid Natural Gas (LNG) in company-owned  Dr. Karl-Rudolf Rupprecht and Klaus Hellmann 46 47 ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECTS CHARGING STATIONS FOR ELECTRIC VEHICLES ON OUR PREMISES A n important procedure to reduce carbon emission is to minimize the use of natural resources like oil or gas, diesel or gasoline. Oil and gas are field test for LNG trucks in Germany which started in 2012. Over a period of four weeks, two trucks Apart from fuel usage, energy consumption is also an important environmental aspect for us and we the case, additional loading stations will be built at our US branches. were tested together with a mobile gas station. are interested in reducing its impact by making use With this initiative Hellmann USA tries to optitypical fossil fuels, used for heating systems in our Due to this success we will not only install the of new technologies like LED-lighting systems. mize our carbon footprint and takes responsibility premises. In order to reduce the consumption, it first LNG truck filling station in Germany but also This kind of lighting system in some of our for upcoming generations. is essential to invest in modern company buildings will buy five LNG trucks for our own motor pool. warehouses and cross docks implies a significant or use alternative heating systems like geothermal energy reduction and indirect carbon emissions.  George Passerella, Jil Hellmann Regouby and energy, which is for example implemented in our Making our people aware of these energy-saving Randy Edwards headquarters in Osnabrueck. methods is part of the global environmental traiDiesel and gasoline are used as fuel for comning, which will be rolled out in 2014/2015. pany cars and trucks and have a high impact on Freight forwarding and logistics businesses need the environment due to the fact that these are a lot of documentation, most commonly on paper. direct emissions. Although the trucking business is It is our goal to reduce paper consumption and one of our core activities, we always try to improve to aim for digital and paperless processes. The and develop ourselves. Therefore, we are aiming at electronic airway bill is one of our projects which changing the transport mode from road to rail. Up will help us to achieve this goal. In 2013, more to 400 containers are taken from road business and than 3.500 airway bills were submitted electrobrought to rail solutions every day, which means a nically which means that almost 25.000 pages reduction of 60-70 tons of CO2 per day. were not printed. We always look for possibilities to increase the The number of electric vehicles in the USA has rail solution network in Europe as well as globally. Further steps will be to complete the motor pool tripled since 2010 and the demand is increasing In 2013, Rail Eurasia, an intermodal transport with more vehicles as soon as they are available constantly. Therefore, we implemented the first opportunity from Europe to Asia, was introduced on the market, which is planned for 2014. At the charging station for electric vehicles at our regiand became an alternative for airand sea freight moment we are in a regular exchange with truck onal AMERICAS headquarter to cope with the shipments. manufacturers to purchase the first LNG trucks as increasing demand for our employees. In order to Besides the projects already mentioned, we soon as possible. The emission reduction of LNG measure the demand for further charging stations, are always interested in finding new solutions for is approximately 25% compared to diesel. We we will start an employee survey at each of our alternative mobility concepts in order to substimight be able to further reduce our emissions by US branches. We will observe if further electric tute for diesel and gasoline. One example is the making use of bio-LNG. vehicles will be bought by our employees. If this is 48 49 Actions in 2013 Actions in 2014 Principle 7 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND  Applied an Environmental Protection Policy  Applying our Environmental Protection Policy in the WHAT WE ARE GOING TO DO  Established since 1996 and implemented into new Corporate DNA: F.A.M.I.L.Y new Business Code of Conduct  Conducted Environmental Management System  Conducting Environmental Management System Audits Audits  At least one Audit in each of our 28 ISO 14001  At least one Audit in each of our 31 ISO 14001 certified branches certified branches  Communicated Environmental Policy as part of a  Roll-out of new environmental training in Germany new training program and at least two other European countries  Number of completed environmental trainings in the Hellmann Learning Experience  Established a comprehensive emission report based  Emissions report based on Scope 1 + 2 of the on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol for Germany Greenhouse Gas Protocol expanded to Europe (including all business units) Principle 8  ISO 14001 certification  ISO 14001 certification  28 branches certified  31 branches certified  ISO 14001 certification in Istanbul  New ISO 14001 certification in Hanau,  New ISO 14001 certification in at least one of Kelsterbach and Oelde our European branches Principle 9  Tested two LNG trucks successfully over four weeks  Installing Germany’s first LNG truck filling station  Acquiring 5 LNG trucks  Started to shift transport mode from road to rail  Further transport via rail solution  Daily transport of approx. 300-400 swap bodies  Daily transport of approx. 300-400 swap bodies with Hellmann Rail Solutions with Hellmann Rail Solutions  Developed E-Booking to save paper  Increasing the number of E-Bookings to ensure further development and to save paper resources  Extended rail transports to other European countries  Maintenance of rail transports to China  Increasing the number of containers with Hellmann Rail Solutions to China  Roll-out of new lighting systems with LED Further roll-out of new lighting systems with technology in Europe LED-technology  Number of warehouses equipped with LED-lighting systems BUSINESS ETHICS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 52 53 »Our F.A.M.I.L.Y – DNA defines who we are as an organization. This A s a family owned business we not only have a strong focus on sustainability in order to pass identity and these values distinguish us from the highly competitive on our responsibility and that of our stakeholders to the next generation and the generations to and anonymous mass. Our extensive Compliance Management supcome, but also on business ethics, including the ports us in acting in an ethical and responsible way. This prohibits fight against bribery and corruption. any kind of using, accepting or offering bribes, kickbacks or fraud Klaus and Jost Hellmann, our Managing Partners, make a strong commitment to compliance as a means of conducting business or influencing either our conin general as well as to the topics of anti-bribery duct or the recipient’s. Our overall goal is to positively influence the and antitrust. This commitment has been pubreputation of our company through an ethical and responsible way of lished on our homepage (www.hellmann.net), visibly to all our stakeholders. acting in our daily business life.« || Klaus Hellmann (Managing Partner) 54 55 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BUSINESS ETHICS I ntegral parts of our Business Governance Structure are not only a strong Board of Directors (Main Board) and an independent Advisory Board but T he world in which we operate today is becoming increasingly complex. This complexity creates new ethical challenges as we strive to adapt to all employees worldwide. Our overall goal is that all of our employees worldwide not only accept but also act according to this ethical guialso the two important governance instruments, ourselves and our business to new and unfamiliar deline. Therefore, we created interactive e-lear­ Compliance Management and Internal Audit. situations, rules, and regulations. Therefore, we ning programs on our corporate learning platdeveloped a set of standard principles and guideform. This training is mandatory for all employees, »At Hellmann, we always strive for a culture that lines that act as a legal and moral roadmap for us due to the fact that it concerns our overall policy. fosters the highest degree of ethics. Compliance and more importantly, for our employees. It will be integrated as part of the introductory plays an integral part in how we conduct business The updated Business Code of Conduct proworkshop for new employees and as an integral within our organization, as well as with custovides an integrated approach as well as insights training module for existing employees. In 2014, mers, partners, and vendors. Our commitment to into our core values and the way in which we we are aiming at training all new employees in anti-corruption is driven by our passion for excelconduct business globally. It reflects our committhis policy and 90% of our existing staff. lence and dedication to our F.A.M.I.L.Y DNA.« ment to do what is legally and ethically required and supports the foundation of our Corporate || Roger Häussler (Global COO) DNA as well as our commitment to the UNGC. These principles are not only necessary to meet the ever-changing requirements of the different areas in which we operate but they are also applicable to third parties we work with. First efforts have been made to distribute this guideline, currently available in eight languages, 56 57 COMPLIANCE B ecause of our worldwide presence, compliance can be a complicated endeavor due to varying local rules and regulations, cultural differences, adherence to compliance standards as well as avoidance of improper transactions and facilitation payments, are covered in this policy. subjected to corrective disciplinary actions that may include termination. It is our duty to train our employees on this important topic in order to or the legitimate need to network. Regardless, It is our policy that all directors, officers and ensure compliance with these policies as well as compliance with the spirit of employees comply with all applicable anti-corraise awareness globally. antitrust laws as well as with ruption and competition laws of any country By the end of our reporting period, year 2013, our “Global Anti-Corruption or group of countries applicable to our busi5,300 of our employees worldwide were successand Antitrust Compliance ness. Employees who violate this policy will be fully trained in the contents of this manual. Manual“ is mandatory for all our branches, offices, emplo»The works council of Hellmann Germany is usually yees, and agents worldwide. involved in national but not international initiatives. Our “Global Anti-CorRegarding the topic Compliance we, the German ruption and Antitrust ComWorks Council, were involved in the development pliance Manual“ advises all employees of the of an internal compliance program. This decision requirements of anti-corruption laws and estabmaking process shows that we at Hellmann work lishes codes of conduct as well as record-keeping differently according to our mission ‘Thinking ahead, procedures. This assures that all transactions, Moving forward‘!« undertaken by our offices and employees, are in compliance with our policies, laws and regula|| Helmut Ledor (Chairman of the German Works tions. Commitments to internal accounting checks, Council) 58 59 REPORTING AND CONTROLS AND FOLLOW-UP COMMUNICATION MEASURES T he heart of our Corporate DNA values our employees in an atmosphere of open communication that fosters trust and dedication. Therefore, T he data that we collect from our 40 countries all around the world is not only tested for consistency but also completeness as soon as it is receito the global status of our anti-trust and anti-bribery training courses. The Main Board and Regional Director will follow-up on countries in order to we do our best to keep our employees fully inforved. Through direct comparison of the information achieve the KPI of min. 90% of employees trained med about policies, guidelines and instruments of provided in a combined database, inconsistencies in each country. The constant monitoring and comcommunication. Our central and implausible answers will be cross-checked munication of our compliance status is the basis means of communication and followed-up by the UNGC Working Group. for continuous improvement in our compliance in the area of compliance is According to the Plan-Do-Check-Act Cycle, the environment. the Hellmann Ethics­ P ortal. UNGC Working Group is constantly improving the This website not only contway in which the data is being collected and reconciains information on policies led in order to ensure an increasing quality of reporand links to relevant training ting every year. As an independent function and courses, but also encourages direct reporting line to the Main Board and owners our employees to report their of the company, our Internal Audit Department not concerns or potential violations against our comonly helps to ensure compliance with internal stanpliance manuals or codes of conduct, anonymously dards but also with external rules and regulations. and confidentially. There is a strong focus on compliance and UNGC At Hellmann, we always prefer open and perso»The Hellmann EthicsPortal was created to give all related topics during the regular internal audits. The nal communication as most issues can be directly employees worldwide the possibility to report any annual audit planning is based on a risk-oriented resolved. Hence, we recommend that employees kind of discrimination or violation of policies and audit planning, considering compliance and especiprimarily report to their Line Manager, HR Manager guidelines. This also includes employees of branches ally bribery risks. Any violations identified are directly or to Senior Management. If the problem cannot without a works council who had to report their conreported to the Chief Compliance Officer and the be resolved or if anonymous reporting is preferred, cerns via letters in the past. This new means of comMain Board. these issues can be reported either in written form munication does not only allows us to protect the The Internal Audit Department, in combination or via phone through the Hellmann EthicsPortal. employee who reported the violation but also to get with the Chief Compliance Officer, also reports the in contact with him/ her in case of further inquiries.« progress of the compliance program on a monthly and semiannual basis to the Main Board. This pro|| Stephan Schnitzler (Global Compliance Director cedure guarantees an unbiased view on the status and Head of Internal Audit) and progress of the program. Special focus is given 60 61 Actions in 2013 Actions in 2014 WHAT WE HAVE DONE AND Principle 10 WHAT WE WANT TO ACHIEVE  Global roll-out of Antitrust and Anti-Corruption Manual  Written commitment of Managing Directors regarding the Antitrust and Anti-Corruption Manual  Roll-out of Business Code of Conduct  Roll-out of Business Code of Conduct Training  90% of employees worldwide trained on our Business Code of Conduct  Employee live and online training on Antitrust and  Anti-Bribery and Antitrust Training Anti-Corruption  90% of our employees worldwide trained in Anti-Bribery and Anti-Trust through the Online Learning Management Platform  Global Compliance Risk Assessment including  Online Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Risk Anti-Corruption Assessment to be completed in 2014  Implemented Hellmann EthicsPortal  Analyzing reported violations and actions taken of our policies to Hellmann EthicsPortal  Global Internal Audit function integrated as part of the Global Compliance Team  Roll-out of Hellmann Supplier Code of Conduct  Number of countries in which the Hellmann Supplier Code of Conduct has been rolled out  Global roll-out of Hospitality and Entertainment Guideline  Number of employees trained in our Hospitality and Entertainment Guideline through the Online Learning Management Platform  Developing Global Employee Compliance Survey 62 63 APPENDIX Stated in Hellmanns UNGC Principles Our Commitment Policies and Regulations P1: Businesses should support and Hellmann firmly believes in adopting  Business Code of respect the protection of internationally and embracing respect of human rights Conduct proclaimed human rights. (as articulated in the United Nations  Corporate DNA Universal Declaration of Human Rights) Human Rights all around the world and therefore, comP2: Business should make sure that pliance with the UNGC principles and the they are not complicit in human rights Business Code of Conduct is mandatory abuses. for every employee and office. P3: Businesses should uphold the It is our company’s policy to act with  Diversity Charter freedom of association and the effective integrity and fairness and treat all emplo Business Code of recognition of the right to collective yees and persons with dignity, decency Conduct bargaining. and respect by providing a healthy, safe  Employee Handbook and secure work environment.  Corporate DNA P4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulLabor sory labor. P5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. P6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. P7: Businesses should support a precauFor a globally active company such as  Corporate DNA tionary approach to environmental Hellmann Worldwide Logistics, the  Business Code of challenges. development of economic interests is Conduct inherently connected to our responsibi Environment Protection P8: Businesses should undertake initiality for the environment and the idea of Policy tives to promote greater environmental sustainable development has long been Environment Photo: UNGC Working Group responsibility. our focus. At Hellmann, we are committed to working within a structured P9: Businesses should encourage the system of environmental management development and diffusion of environusing task-oriented methods, continuous mentally friendly technologies. self-monitoring, and regular external auditing. Contact Point P10: Businesses should work against One key element of our success is our  Global Anti-Corruption We value your feedback! As a valued stakeholder, we Human Rights and Stefan Wimmer and corruption in all its forms, including dedication and commitment to integrity and Antitrust Compliance welcome your feedback, concerns or suggestions regarLabor: Christian Gerdes extortion and bribery. and ethics which serve as our foundation Manual ding the content of this report as well as our commitment Quality and Environmental Tobias Jüchter and when interacting with customers and  Business Code of to the United Nations Global Compact. Please provide Management: Daniel Hülemeyer vendors. Our compliance policies and Conduct Anti-Corus with your feedback by writing to our Hellmann UNGC Anti-Corruption: Stephan Schnitzler commitments are the embodiment of  Hellmann´s Commitment ruption the highest level of ethics practiced every to Compliance Working Group ungc@hellmann.net or by addressing the UNGC Project Coordination & CSR: Pia Stein day and serve as a constant reminder to  Annual Compliance Acktopic to the person directly responsible: all our employees of the importance of nowledgment and Certimaintaining our standards of ethics and fication excellence. WWW.HELLMANN.NET
