Full Effort, Full Potential Annual Report 2014 Year Ended March 31, 2014 Contents Annual Report 2014 Full Effort, Full Potential 01 Lead Story: 01 Lead Story Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 10 LIXIL Group in a Snapshot 12 LIXIL Group’s Market Positions 14 Financial Highlights 16 To LIXIL Group Stakeholders 21 Special Feature 1 30 LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Japan 32 LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Global 16 To LIXIL Group Stakeholders 34 Market Environment LIXIL Makes Further Progress toward Becoming a Truly Global Company and 36 Review of Operations the Global Leader in Comprehensive Living Metal Building Material Business and Housing Solutions Plumbing Fixtures Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Distribution and Retail Business Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Topics for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 21 Special Feature 1: 45 Corporate Governance Unleashing the Maximum Potential Message from the Chairman of the Board of Our M&A Deals Board of Directors Creating Value from a Customer Perspective Status of Corporate Governance Boosting LIXIL Group Earning Power Executive Officers Reinforcing Cost Management Investor Relations Staying Ahead of the Competition through Innovation 57 Special Feature 2 Creating a Dynamic Organization 67 Group Companies’ CSR Initiatives 57 Special Feature 2: 68 CSR Management Sustainability and Competitiveness 70 Financial FAQ Better Living through Renovation and Passive Design 72 Consolidated 11-Year Summary Importance of Passive Design in an Aging Society 74 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Global Issue : Water Conservation 78 Business Risks Development of New “Waterless” Market 80 Principal Group Companies Voice from Nairobi County, Kenya 82 Number of Sales and Manufacturing Bases 83 History 84 Shareholder Information 85 Corporate Data The brand name LIXIL is derived from the combination of “LI” in two words that represent our business: “LIVING” and “LIFE.” Cautionary Statement with Respect to Forward-Looking Statements Statements made in this annual report with respect to plans, strategies, and future performance that are not historical facts are forward-looking statements. LIXIL Group Corporation cautions that a number of factors could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed in the forwardlooking statements. Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 01 Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals In the past year, we made a series of bold moves, taking calculated risks. In the fiscal year ended March 2014, the LIXIL Group continued to make large-scale M&A deals overseas, significantly raising its global presence. Since 2009, the Group has brought a total of six overseas companies and groups under its wing, at a total acquisition cost of approximately ¥220.0 billion. In the following section, we report on what the LIXIL Group has gained through its series of M&A deals and how they are going to impact on corporate value and other aspects of the Group’s businesses. LIXIL Group’s Stock Prices (¥) 3,500 June 28 September 26 The LIXIL Group announces the The LIXIL Group announces a joint acquisition of 100% of the shares investment in GROHE Group S.à r.l., of ASD Americas Holding Corp. comprising the GROHE and JOYOU (commonly known as American brands. GROHE is the world’s leading Standard Brands, ASB), North provider of premium sanitary fittings. 3,000 America’s leading brand of sanitary The transaction was completed in ware. The share acquisition was January 2014, with the GROHE completed in August. Group being accounted for as an equity-method affiliate. 2,500 2,000 0 April 2013 July 2013 October 2013 January 2014 April 2014 LIXIL Group Corporation 02 Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals They brought us Based on this series of acquisitions, the LIXIL Group has achieved a quantum leap in overseas business expansion, one of the Group’s core growth strategies. Product brands highly respected in their markets have been brought into the Group, and its production and sales networks have been extended to Asia, Europe, and North America. T he LIXIL Group has positioned its overseas business as one of its growth drivers, and, in the medium term, it is aiming to achieve ¥1 trillion in overseas sales. In the ﬁscal year a manufacturer of premium sanitary ﬁttings in more than 130 markets all over the world. ASB is the North American market leader in sanitary ware. American Standard Asia Paciﬁc, formerly ended March 2014, overseas sales totaled ¥293.9 billion. With a member of the same group as ASB that joined the LIXIL a full year of sales contributions from ASB, the Group expects Group in 2009, is a major manufacturer of plumbing ﬁxtures in overseas sales to climb to ¥430.0 billion in the ﬁscal year Asia. Finally, JOYOU, which is a listed company in which the ending March 2015, and overseas sales contribution to increase GROHE Group has a 72.3% stake, manufactures and supplies to 24.4%, up from 18.0% in the ﬁscal year ended March 2014. sanitary ware products in China and boasts a sales network of The Group also anticipates signiﬁcant growth in operating more than 4,000 stores. Each of these companies has solidly income generated by its overseas business. In the ﬁscal year positioned its brand in and is developing its market, and each ending March 2015, overseas operating income is forecast to is widely recognized for its quality not only by construction surge 111%, from ¥9.0 billion in the ﬁscal year ended March professionals but also by end users. 2014, to ¥19.0 billion. Also, the LIXIL Group’s manufacturing bases and sales netEarnings are not the only aspect of the Group’s business works have spread and now extend to China and countries in expansion. The M&A deals have also yielded the products—in Europe, North America, and Southeast Asia. At March 31, 2014, particular, many market-leading brands—that will be the the Group had 40 manufacturing bases in Japan, 14 in China, source of those increased earnings. Permasteelisa S.p.A. 11 in Vietnam, 11 in North America, 5 in Europe, 4 in Thailand, (Permasteelisa) is a leader in the global curtain wall* market and 11 in other countries and regions, for a total of 96 manufacand a regular participant in competitions for world-class, turing bases. large-scale construction projects. GROHE is well-known as * Exterior wall materials for high-rise buildings with surface materials, such as aluminum, other metals, stone, and various types of glass Overseas Sales / Overseas Sales Ratio* Factories by Country and Region (¥ billion) (%) (Bases) 400 20 Others 11 Thailand 4 300 15 Europe 5 North America 11 Japan 40 200 10 Total: 96 bases Vietnam 11 100 5 China 14 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0 Greater China Rest of Asia Middle East North America As of March 31, 2014 Europe Others Europe, U.S., others Overseas sales ratio (right) * Share of overseas sales in total sales LIXIL Group Corporation Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 03 “speed.” American Standard Brands (ASB) GROHE North America’s leading manufacturer of sanitary With their function and superior design, GROHE’s ware, ASB boasts strong brand recognition as sanitary ﬁttings and showerheads have earned well as a reputation for market-shaping innovaan overwhelming reputation in the premium tion, quality and design in the United States, goods market. Canada, and Mexico. JOYOU JOYOU is a leading player in China’s bathroom ﬁxtures and ﬁttings market. The GROHE Group holds a 72.3% stake in the company. With more than 4,000 franchised retail stores in China, JOYOU is fast developing the premium and mass markets. American Standard Asia Pacific Permasteelisa Manufacturing bath and kitchen products that As a leading company in the global curtain wall match local needs in regional markets spanning and interior systems market, Permasteelisa has China, South Korea, Southeast Asian countries, close business ties with the world’s top architecand Australia, American Standard Asia Paciﬁc Ph.: ©Stephan Falk Baubild tural ﬁrms and construction companies. has earned the trust of its customers. LIXIL Group Corporation 04 Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals They brought us On April 1, 2014, the Global Management Committee (GMC)* was formed as the highest management body of LIXIL. Participated in by the heads of the major Group companies from Japan and overseas and the Company’s management team, the GMC has become the forum where global business strategies and directions are decided and given impetus and Group synergies achieved. * Please see page 19 (Standing, from left) Toshimasa Iue, Kenji Uenishi, Nicola Greco, Hiroyuki Kowase, Kenneth Ng, Yosuke Yagi, Haruo Shirai, Shinichi Tanzawa, Laurence W. Bates, Sachio Matsumoto, William Crichton (Seated, from left) Takashi Tsutsui, Ryuichi Kawamoto, David Haines, Yoshiaki Fujimori, Jay Gould, Harumi Matsumura Yoshiaki Fujimori Haruo Shirai Kenneth Ng President and CEO President President and CEO LIXIL Japan Company LIXIL Greater China David Haines Yosuke Yagi Sachio Matsumoto Chairman and CEO Chief HR Ofﬁcer Chief Financial Ofﬁcer GROHE Group S.à r.l. Shinichi Tanzawa Harumi Matsumura Kenji Uenishi Chief Business Transformation Ofﬁcer Chief Communication Ofﬁcer Chief Supply Chain Ofﬁcer LIXIL Group Corporation Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 05 “talent.” Photograph taken at the GROHE headquarters in Düsseldorf, Germany, on April 16, 2014 William Crichton Nicola Greco Jay Gould President and CEO CEO President and CEO LIXIL Asia Paciﬁc Permasteelisa Group American Standard Brands Ryuichi Kawamoto Takashi Tsutsui Toshimasa Iue Chief Technology Ofﬁcer Chief External Relations Ofﬁcer Chief Marketing and Sales Ofﬁcer Laurence W. Bates Hiroyuki Kowase Chief Legal Ofﬁcer Chief Information Ofﬁcer LIXIL Group Corporation 06 Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals They brought us Diversity is the energy source that drives dynamism in an organization. The level playing field of a global company—where people can freely discuss, trade, and argue beliefs, ideas, and know-how stemming from their myriad of backgrounds—encourages creativity and enthusiasm. D ynamism enables people to break out of their shells and face the challenges of new possibilities. This quality is also driven by the diversity of human resources. Currently, an In inter-company committees called function groups, members increased their understanding of the innovations and customer bases of each of the Group companies and thoroughly essential condition for responding quickly and ﬂexibly to debated Group strategies. While respectfully discussing their changes in the global market is being an organization where collective experiences, they gathered a wide range of opinions people can demonstrate their maximum capabilities regardless about the best way to achieve the LIXIL Group’s strategies for of nationality, gender, age, or position. manufacturing and marketing operations. Such a forum proBy aspiring to be truly global, the LIXIL Group’s organizavides an origin for generating an equal level of energy to comtion is also going through a rapid transformation. As a result of pete worldwide under the “One LIXIL” banner. its M&A deals, at March 31, 2014, the LIXIL Group had a total To prepare for future growth, the LIXIL Group is also of 51,419 employees* on a consolidated basis, of which 54.7% emphasizing leadership training. By utilizing leadership trainwere employees of overseas Group companies. ing programs established over the past two years, the Group At the GMC meeting held in April 2014, senior executives is bringing together the best and brightest personnel from all from six major operating companies convened as “regional countries to foster their development into the personnel that leaders,” accurately reﬂecting the diversity of the LIXIL Group. will become the core of the LIXIL Group in the future. Number of Employees by Major Group Company (People) Other Group companies outside Japan 4,864 LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation LIXIL Corporation 2,186 14,187 American Consolidated employees: Standard Asia Paciﬁc 51,419* 4,451 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd. Other Group companies 4,509 in Japan 9,109 ASB 5,299 As of March 31, 2014 Permasteelisa 6,814 * Figures referring to companies in Japan include only full-time regular staff, and ﬁgures referring to companies overseas include only directly hired employees. Figures do not include employees seconded to another Group company. LIXIL Group Corporation Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 07 “dynamism.” LIXIL Group Corporation 08 Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals They brought us an opportunity to reafﬁrm our “value.” The “One LIXIL” concept shared by the diverse and dynamic companies of the LIXIL Group and their employees springs from the Group’s management philosophy platform, LIXIL TETRA. Based on our corporate philosophy of “contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles,” we will continue to develop and grow. Group Management Philosophy LIXIL TETRA LIXIL’s management philosophy consists of the following four elements: LIXIL CORE, deﬁning the signiﬁcance of our existence in society LIXIL WAY, laying out our promise to customers and shareholders LIXIL VISION, setting our management targets, and LIXIL VALUES, embodying our shared values Our Promise LIXIL WAY (Our Promise) LIXIL WAY 1. LIXIL—Our Goal Creating a sustainable lifestyle which is in harmony with the Earth: Link to the Earth 2. Mission of LIXIL Building “bonds” that lead to a good life: Link to Good Living 3. Value offered by LIXIL Reliable quality: Link to Quality LIXIL CORE (Corporate Philosophy) High technologies: Link to Technology The Group’s superior products and Environmental beauty: Link to Environment services contribute to improving people’s Corporate Emotional impact: Link to Emotion comfort and lifestyles. Philosophy LIXIL CORE Management Shared Values Targets LIXIL VALUES LIXIL VISION LIXIL VALUES (Shared Values) LIXIL VISION (Management Targets) The behavior policy and the basis for evaluation that should be LIXIL will strive to become the No. 1 building shared by all members of the Group. materials and housing equipment company, and will continue to build solid relationships with all of our stakeholders, including our customers and shareholders. Our target is to become a global leader in the building materials and housing equipment industry. LIXIL Group Corporation Lead Story: Advantages Gained from Our M&A Deals 09 CSR Policy Link to Good Living The LIXIL Group is committed to building and expanding worldwide “bonds” that lead to a good living and good life. Aiming to improve people’s comfort and lifestyles, we endeavor to pursue innovation to develop better products and services, thereby contributing to the sustainable development of society. By facilitating stakeholder dialogue, we work to maintain integrity in conducting business activities. Priority Themes Innovation Integrity 1. Work to increase efﬁciency in the use of energy 5. Maximize customer satisfaction in cooperation and water resources with business partners 2. Work to build a senior-friendly, cooperation-based society, 6. Develop a corporate culture characterized by superb leadership focusing on healthy, safe, and secure living conditions and diversity 7. Promote speedy and transparent disclosure and share social Sustainability contribution visions with our stakeholders 3. Contribute to conservation of the global environment and development of local communities 4. Ensure an appropriate work environment and resource allocation in supply chain operations LIXIL Diversity Declaration The corporate culture of LIXIL is to become a company that utilizes energy and innovation generated by diversity for the business. We also aim to create an environment where everyone should not be content with the present and will achieve better results by continuously clearing self-imposed hurdles. Respect Diversity Energy / We will welcome differences among genders, ages, races, cultures, Creativity nationalities, beliefs, and backgrounds. Energy and creativity generated by open and passionate discussion can be used as Nationality Education a source of competitiveness. Race Career Age Diversity Lifestyle Gender Provide Equal Opportunity We will provide equal opportunities and occasions to anyone that tries to Equal demonstrate a positive and proactive attitude regardless of background. Opportunity Meritocracy Implement Meritocracy We will fairly evaluate how much one puts LIXIL VALUES into practice and how much one performs. In order to achieve this corporate culture, we will execute the following activities*1. 1. Implement Human Resources Measures 3. Improve the Environment (1) We will increase the ratio of talented diverse personnel among (5) To promote Work-Life-Flexibility*2 and performance by talented the newly promoted managers. diverse personnel, we will establish programs such as (2) We will increase the ratio of talented diverse personnel among child-care. the newly hired employees. (3) We will establish teams and task forces with diversity in order to 4. Promote Our Corporate Culture create the opportunity to develop their talents. (6) LIXIL Women’s Network will be established. (7) The president and the management team will lead “Diversity 2. Accelerate Human Resources Development Talks” to discuss diversity issues. (4) The leadership development programs should include a higher ratio of talented diverse personnel. *1 Objectives of LIXIL Corporation in Japan *2 Policy of aiming to be ﬂexible about work to be able to achieve continuous high performance during a person’s life stages LIXIL Group Corporation 10 LIXIL Group in a Snapshot LIXIL Group in a Snapshot Offering an Array of Products and Services for Living Environments, Lifestyles, and Surroundings LIXIL is a comprehensive living and housing solutions company that contributes to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles with its superior products and services under a brand name that combines the first two letters—as well as the concepts—of Living and Life. Operating Income Net Sales Composition Composition by Metal Building Material Business Principal Products and Services by Segment Segment*1 Housing window sashes, building sashes, store facades, sashes for low-to-medium rise buildings, entrance doors, various types of shutters, curtain walls, gates, carports, banisters, high railings, tide barriers, smoke insulated screens, etc. Plumbing Fixtures Business Sanitary ware, bidet-equipped shower toilets, water faucets, washstands, bathtubs, 44.6% 45.6% unit bathrooms, kitchen systems, washstand ﬁxtures, washstand cabinet units, etc. Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Wooden interior Window frames, wooden furnishing materials, interior decorafurnishing materials tive materials, etc. Other building External tiles for houses and buildings, internal decorative tiles, materials siding, stone materials, rooﬁng materials, precut products, etc. Interior fabrics Curtains, etc. Other Solar photovoltaic systems 26.8% 27.7% Distribution and Retail Business Home centers Household products, DIY products, building materials, etc. Comprehensive Building materials, tools, hardware, etc. building material stores 12.8% 13.7% Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Housing solution Developing homebuilding franchise chains, businesses construction on order, housing defect warranty liability insurance services, structural materials (structures), ground inspections and improvements, etc. 11.9% 5.2% Real estate Land, buildings, real estate management services, support for development of real estate franchises, etc. Nursing home Nursing homes 7.8% business 3.9% *1 Before adjustment LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Group in a Snapshot 11 Y/Y Change in Y/Y Change in Number of Net Sales Operating Income Employees*2 Major Japanese and Overseas Brands of the LIXIL Group 22,180 +12.3% +40.3% people 19,685 +17.1% +19.8% people 6,063 +11.5% +32.8% people 1,907 +11.2% 14.0 times people 1,451 +8.3% +16.1% people *2 Excluding 133 people at the Head Ofﬁce LIXIL Group Corporation 12 LIXIL Group’s Market Positions LIXIL Group’s Market Positions Housing window sashes Building sashes Japanese market Japanese market No. 1 No. 1 (50%) (40%) Windows Building sashes LIXIL offers a selection of window sashes combining quality design with These products, created not only with thermal insulation and soundsuperior functions, such as ease of opening and closing, excellent visiprooﬁng in mind but also with consideration to crime prevention and ble light transmission, ease of installation, safety, and thermal insulation. the principles of universal design, can be used to create pleasant spaces in various buildings, from ofﬁces to apartment blocks. Entrance doors Exteriors Japanese market Japanese market No. 1 No. 1 (55%) (55%) Entrance doors Exteriors LIXIL develops doors with high thermal insulation and crime prevenBy enabling uniform exterior design, from gates to the fence and tion properties as well as in a wide diversity of styles, from traditional approach from the carport as well as the balcony, LIXIL’s products Japanese to modern design. enhance the quality of a home. Washstand Sanitary ware cabinet units Japanese market Japanese market No. 2 No. 1 (40%) (35%) Sanitary ware Washstand cabinet units We aim to supply leading-edge functionality and superior design in our LIXIL offers a wide variation of product lines to suit individual lifestyles, sanitary ware, such as the world’s most compact units and easy-tosuch as easy-to-use washstand cabinet units with ample shelf space. clean models for the renovation market. Unit bathrooms Kitchen systems Japanese market Japanese market No. 1 No. 1 (30%) (28%) Unit bathrooms Kitchen systems By improving materials and constantly innovating functions, LIXIL supLIXIL has a full lineup of beautiful kitchen systems that make it easy ports the creation of clean and fresh spaces for comfort and relaxation. to cook and clean up. LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Group’s Market Positions 13 Wooden interior furnishing materials Tiles Japanese market Japanese market No. 3 No. 1 (10%) (40%) Interior furnishing materials Tiles Besides a rich selection of designs and colors, LIXIL has a diverse Our wall and ﬂoor tiles, in various colors and textures characteristic of lineup of interior furnishing materials that take into account safety, earthenware, feature superb humidity control and antibacterial properties. environmental, and ease-of-installation issues. Housing exterior wall materials Curtains Japanese market Japanese market No. 3 No. 1 (10%) (10%) Housing exterior wall materials Interior fabrics These materials come in a variety of designs and colors that not only LIXIL can provide total interior coordination solutions, including give character to homes but also increase their longevity by providing windows, interior construction materials, and interior fabrics. superb functionality in terms of ﬁreprooﬁng, weatherprooﬁng, and seismic resistance. Ph.: Courtesy of SOCAR Sanitary ware Curtain walls North American market Global market No. 1 No. 1 (20%) American Standard Permasteelisa Brands (ASB) Curtain walls Sanitary ware Exterior wall materials, or curtain walls, using aluminum and other Our strength is in offering a wide range of choices compatible metals, stone, and various types of glass, are utilized in notable with any requirement in terms of water pressure, water conservation, buildings and skyscrapers around the world. and design. Plumbing-related Water faucets products Global market Global market No. 1 No. 1 (10%) LIXIL Group GROHE Water faucets Plumbing-related products We offer various styles of faucets and showerheads for bathrooms We offer a wide array of products, ranging from mass to premium and kitchens using top-quality materials and cutting-edge technology. market products, sold under various local brands in North America, Asia, Europe, and Japan. Note: The market share data is LIXIL Group estimates. LIXIL Group Corporation 14 Financial Highlights Financial Highlights LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Net Sales* Operating Income* / Operating Income Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 1,800 1,628.7 80 69.1 8 60 6 1,200 4.2% 40 4 20 2 600 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 –20 10 11 12 13 14 –2 Metal Building Material Business Plumbing Fixtures Business Metal Building Material Business Plumbing Fixtures Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Distribution and Retail Business Distribution and Retail Business Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Operating income ratio * Net sales to outside customers * Graph data has not been adjusted for Group expenses allocations. Net sales in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014, amounted to ¥1,628.7 billion, Operating income rose 36.8% year on year, to ¥69.1 billion, as increased sales and up 13.4% from the previous ﬁscal year. Along with sales contributions from an steady cost reductions offset negative factors that included the impact of exchange overseas subsidiary acquired by the Group during the ﬁscal year under review, this rate ﬂuctuations and heavy snow in eastern Japan during the year. The operating increase also reﬂected robust performance in the Japanese market, notably higher income ratio was 4.2%. sales of products for the renovation market. Net Income (Loss) / ROE Total Assets / ROA (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) (%) 60 7.6% 9 2,000 1,810.1 8 44.8 1,500 6 40 6 1,000 4 20 3 2.7% 500 2 0 0 0 0 –20 10 11 12 13 14 –3 –500 10 11 12 13 14 –2 Net income (loss) ROE Total assets ROA Net income rose to a record high of ¥44.8 billion, 2.1 times the previous ﬁscal Total assets as of March 31, 2014, were up 23.5% from the previous ﬁscal yearyear’s ﬁgure. Consequently, ROE increased 3.7 points year on year, to 7.6%. end, reﬂecting increases in current assets and property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. ROA was up 1.3 points year on year, tracking higher proﬁts. Interest-Bearing Debt / Debt-to-Equity Ratio* Equity Ratio (¥ billion) (%) (%) 800 101.5% 120 60 626.5 600 90 34.1% 40 400 60 20 200 30 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 Interest-bearing debt Debt-to-equity ratio * Debt-to-equity ratio: Interest-bearing debt / Total equity Interest-bearing debt as of March 31, 2014, was up ¥202.4 billion from the The equity ratio as of March 31, 2014, was 34.1%, declining only 4.2 points year previous ﬁscal year-end, the result of large-scale acquisitions made to expand on year despite borrowings and the procurement of funds via corporate bonds for the Group’s overseas business. The debt-to-equity ratio was 101.5% the large-scale, back-to-back investments in ASB and GROHE. LIXIL Group Corporation Financial Highlights 15 SG&A Expenses / SG&A Ratio Cash Conversion Cycle (¥ billion) (%) (Days) 500 40 92 378.8 400 32 23.3% 89 88.5 days 300 24 86 200 16 83 100 8 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 0 9/12 12/12 3/13 6/13 9/13 12/13 3/14 (M/Y) SG&A expenses SG&A ratio The SG&A ratio declined 1.3 points year on year, to 23.3%, as beneﬁts from In the six months since launching its Cash Conversion Cycle Project on September cost reductions and growth in the proportion of net sales from sales outside 30, 2013, the Company shortened the amount of time required to convert products of Japan more than offset a 7.4% increase in SG&A expenses accompanying into cash through sales by 1.8 days as of March 31, 2014. top-line growth. Cash Flows Capital Expenditures / Depreciation and Amortization (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 100 80 83.5 64.3 0 60 49.2 –134.8 –100 40 –218.3 –200 20 –300 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 Operating cash ﬂows Investing cash ﬂows Free cash ﬂows* Capital expenditures Depreciation and amortization * Free cash ﬂow: Operating cash ﬂows + Investing cash ﬂows Free cash ﬂow declined roughly ¥150.0 billion from the previous ﬁscal year, as Capital expenditures stood at ¥64.3 billion. In addition to the establishment of a new increases in net cash used in investing activities for capital investment and acquisiproduction site in Vietnam, higher expenditures resulted from strategic investments in tions outweighed growth in net cash provided by operating activities. such areas as new product development and the opening of new home centers. EPS Cash Dividends / Dividend Payout Ratio (¥) (¥) (%) 200 60 55 800 153.93 150 45 600 100 30 400 50 15 200 0 35.7% –50 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 Cash dividends Dividend payout ratio Net income per share was ¥153.93 in the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014. The Company paid a year-end dividend of ¥30 per share, an increase of 50% year Excluding effects from the amortization of goodwill, net income per share—the on year, for an annual dividend of ¥55 per share. The payout ratio was 35.7%. Company’s criterion for dividend payments—was ¥172.28. LIXIL Group Corporation 16 To LIXIL Group Stakeholders To LIXIL Group Stakeholders Yoshiaki Fujimori President and CEO LIXIL Makes Further Progress toward Becoming a Truly Global Company and a Global Leader in Comprehensive Living and Housing Solutions I am excited to share with you great news; we generated all Japan Earthquake and devastating Thai ﬂooding. We also time record sales and proﬁts in the ﬁscal year ended March began a ﬁve company integration that was unprecedented in 2014. While we fought ﬁercely for near-term sales and proﬁts to Japanese history. The integration was challenging but absoachieve this result, we also made signiﬁcant progress in restruclutely necessary to solidify our Japanese foundation as we turing, strengthening, and growing LIXIL toward the long-term tried to expand into new, more proﬁtable areas, such as the goal of becoming a global leader in comprehensive living and Japanese renovation market and overseas markets, both housing solutions. In short, it was a terriﬁc year as we met most organically and through M&As. The second year was much of our near-term and long-term objectives. better as a V-shaped recovery began to emerge. This momenThanks to our employees’ hard work and the support tum carried into the ﬁscal year ended March 2014 with record of other stakeholders, we have come a long way since 2011 sales and proﬁts. Now, let me recap on the year ended and when we began our transformation of a traditional Japanese discuss our current strategies to elevate us to an even higher company in a domestically oriented industry. The ﬁrst year level over the next several years. was a period of tremendous hardships with the Great East LIXIL Group Corporation To LIXIL Group Stakeholders 17 From an operational efﬁciency standpoint, the C-30 An upswing in the Japanese market and strong overseas Project captured the beneﬁts of economies of scale and other business expansion supported sales growth and recordsynergies available to our now comprehensive Japanese busihigh operating income. nesses and reduced costs by ¥34.6 billion. This ﬁgure brought its three-year cumulative total to ¥114.7 billion. Strong Performance in Meeting Stakeholder Expectations In the ﬁscal year ended March 2014, our net sales reached With the completion of an integration stage to strengthen ¥1,628.7 billion, increasing 13.4% from a year earlier. our foundation, we are now establishing a growth strucOperating income rose 36.8%, to ¥69.1 billion. Net income ture to pave the way for our evolution into a global more than doubled from ¥21.3 billion to ¥44.8 billion. To leader in comprehensive living and housing solutions. reﬂect an improved performance that exceeded original targets, we raised our year-end dividend to ¥30 per share, up 50% Our Long-Term Strategies from a year earlier, for a total annual dividend of ¥55 per share. In May 2013, we announced ﬁve strategic imperatives as part We adopted a dividend payout policy of at least 30% before of the Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-15: the amortization of goodwill. As our business plan comes to • Establish a leading position in the Japanese market fruition, we expect dividend payments to rise in the coming by expanding the renovation business years in accordance with our payout policy of at least 30%. • Accelerate global business expansion Various factors supported robust markets in our Japanese • Expand sales and proﬁt of the distribution and retail business operations. Markets beneﬁted from positive business sentiment • Develop and expand service businesses around housing against the backdrop of the early-stage successes of “Abenomics” • Improve operational efﬁciency and Tokyo’s winning of the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics. In combination with rush demand ahead of the The Renovation Business—An Emerging Market April 2014 consumption tax hike, these conditions set the stage in a Mature Japanese Society for 10.6% growth in new housing starts and strong growth in As our traditional market of new housing no longer provides the renovation market. Our Japanese operations rode the a secular growth opportunity, we are determined to boldly upturn, making a positive contribution to sales and proﬁts. seek new growth areas. In Japan, the greatest potential for Outside Japan, our overseas sales beneﬁted not only from our business growth lies in renovation. Numerous factors, solid expansion in existing operations but also from the subincluding heightened energy conservation awareness, seisstantial added sales resulting from the acquisition of ASD mic standards, and the new housing requirements of an Americas Holding Corp. (American Standard Brands, ASB). A aging society, are driving the renovation market to be a profless-than-expected proﬁt performance by Permasteelisa S.p.A. itable “emerging market” within a mature Japanese society. was a disappointment, but the company’s fundamental capabilities, including design and engineering, remain strong. Financial Results for the Fiscal Year Ended March 2014 (¥ billion) Y/Y 2013 2014 2014 Forecasts increase / results forecasts*1 results over / under % % Years ended March 31 decrease Net sales 1,436.4 1,600.0 1,628.7 28.7 1.8 192.3 13.4 Gross Profit 403.1 447.8 44.8 11.1 Gross profit margin (%) 28.1% 27.5% — –0.6P SG&A 352.6 378.8 26.2 7.4 SG&A ratio (%) 24.5% 23.3% — –1.3P Operating income 50.5 70.0 69.1 – 0.9 –1.3 18.6 36.8 Opening income 3.5% 4.4% 4.2% — –0.1P — +0.7P margin (%) Recurring income 53.1 71.5 74.9 3.4 4.8 21.9 41.2 Income before income taxes 32.5 — 72.9 — — 40.3 124.0 Net income 21.3 44.5 44.8 0.3 0.6 23.4 109.7 Net income before amortization of goodwill 26.6 49.0 50.1 1.1 2.2 23.5 88.3 EPS before amortization of goodwill (¥) 91 169 172 3 — 81 88.4 EBITDA*2 100.6 — 123.6 — — 23.0 22.8 EBITDA ratio 7.0% — 7.6% — — — +0.6P *1 Figures are from the revised forecasts announced on February 3, 2014. *2 EBITDA figures are operating income before depreciation and amortization of goodwill. LIXIL Group Corporation 18 To LIXIL Group Stakeholders We have taken actions to respond to the renovation marpartnership with the Development Bank of Japan through which ket’s growth. We have implemented measures and developed we co-own the GROHE Group. This structure allowed us to innovative products to strengthen the appeal of our products, maintain an appropriate level of leverage in the current enviservices, and brands. Also, we have added signiﬁcant new ronment. It also helped us avoid dilutive new equity issues. resources to the renovation business, including approximately While we will continue to look for opportunities to 200 employees. expand our global footprints through M&As and reinforce Through integrated efforts under “One LIXIL,” we should our positions in local markets, we now have the platform to achieve growth signiﬁcantly higher than the overall renovaexpand our overseas sales to ¥1 trillion by the year 2020. tion market. Our performance in the ﬁscal year ended We are now proceeding with the mission of integration and March 2014 suggests that we are on the right track. Sales synergy creation. We need the uniﬁed business practices and from our renovation business were up 15.1% year on year, one global culture that will lay the groundwork for many while sales of products for the renovation market increased products, services, and brands of LIXIL to be welcomed 14.0%. Proﬁts also rose in both sales categories. This trend around the world. should continue for at least the next three-to-ﬁve years and most likely much longer. We have adjusted our medium-term business plan Overseas Operations—A Powerful Driver for Growth to deal with recent changes and expect to continue In March 2014, we made two important business investments expanding our Japanese renovation business and reap to fuel overseas expansion. First, we acquired ASB, an iconic the beneﬁts of globalization. North American company with a 142-year history and the original parent company of American Standard Asia Paciﬁc, The Road Leading to the Medium-Term which joined LIXIL in 2009. The acquisition gives us access to Business Plan LIXIL G-16 markets of the powerful global ASB for such plumbing-related In May 2011, we announced the Medium-Term Management products as toilets and baths and to its strong marketing netVision to pave the way to becoming a global leader in works in North America. comprehensive living and housing solutions. In May 2013, Second, we acquired a major stake in Germany’s GROHE we announced our Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-15 Group, a global leader in luxury bathroom and kitchen metal for executing the second stage of the vision to establish a ﬁttings. GROHE Group S.à r.l. also holds a 72.3% stake in Joyou growth structure based on the ﬁve strategic imperatives. We AG, a dominant player in the Chinese ﬁtting and sanitary ware remain fully committed to the imperatives of the LIXIL G-15 industry. This acquisition extends our ﬁtting and sanitary ware plan. However, the addition of new companies, ASB and the platform to Europe’s premium segment and to a dynamic, GROHE Group in particular, and changes in the business emerging market in China, positioning us in the world’s major environment, made it necessary to adjust our G-15 plan and economic regions of Asia, North America, and Europe. In unveil the renewed LIXIL G-16. The plan’s overall performaking the investment, LIXIL Corporation formed a 50-50 mance targets for the ﬁscal year ending March 2017 are Projection for Overseas Sales* LIXIL G-16 Targets toward March 2017 (¥ billion) (¥ billion) 1,200 Years ended / ending March 31 2014 2017 2017 vs. 2014 11% annual 1,000 Net sales 1,628.7 2,110 1.3x average growth Operating income 69.1 170 2.5x 900 Operating income margin (%) 4.2% 8% +4P 741 689 656 EBITDA* 1 123.6 235 1.9x 600 504 EBITDA (%) 7.6% 11% +3P CCC (days)* 2 88.5 55 –33.5 ROA (%) 2.7% 5% +2P 300 205 ROE (%) 7.6% 13% +5P 54 EPS (¥)* 3 172 344 2.0x 0 12 13 14 15 16 17 20 *1 EBITDA = Operating income + Depreciation + Amortization of goodwill * Includes GROHE sales in 2014 and after *2 Annual basis Note: Years ended / ending March 31 *3 EPS is calculated using the average number of outstanding shares during the fiscal year ended March 2014 and is before amortization of goodwill. Amortization of goodwill is ¥9 billion as a provisional figure after March 2015. LIXIL Group Corporation To LIXIL Group Stakeholders 19 net sales of ¥2,110.0 billion, an operating margin of 8%, In April this year, we took the ﬁrst step toward realizing and EPS of ¥344 before amortization of goodwill. The that goal through the creation of the Global Management plan’s goal for overseas operations is sales of ¥741.0 billion, Committee (GMC), which consists of the executives of both or 35% of total Group sales. The ﬁscal year ending March domestic and overseas operations. Our top management team 2017 assumes full consolidation of the GROHE Group. needs to globalize ﬁrst before we are able to ask our employees to change and effectively globalize our company. As a Efﬁciency Initiatives to Transform LIXIL result, we transformed our management from all Japanese Our efforts in Japan will focus on further expanding the renoand Tokyo based to a team that comprises half non-Japanese vation business while continuing with the implementation of executives based in the United States, Germany, Italy, China, operational efﬁciency action programs, with two focuses: and Singapore. We are proud to have created the most globalBusiness Transformation 16 (BT-16) for cost reductions of ized and experienced top management team of any large approximately ¥100 billion and the Cash Conversion Cycle* company in Japanese history. More importantly, this will be (CCC) Project. The CCC Project is targeting a 35-day contracour main driver to fully integrate LIXIL globally to maximize tion in our cash conversion cycle. By reducing the time our synergy potential. required to convert our products to cash from 90 days at the The GMC is a cross matrix organization of key functions start of the project in September 2013 to 55 days by March and business / regional leaders to decide on strategy, deliver 2017, we expect to improve our free cash ﬂow by approxiﬁnancial commitment, and achieve “One LIXIL” through funcmately ¥100 billion by March 2016. tional consistency. Management has been reorganized so as to * Please see page 71 globalize and horizontally integrate its various corporate functions, allowing functional leaders to focus on efﬁciency and maximizing the effectiveness of their allotted tasks. Vertically, By shifting to a truly global management structure, the heads of our major business platforms also sit on the comwe will accelerate our transformation into a truly mittee and deliver on ﬁnancial commitments. Our business global company and capitalize on the strengths of platform heads have been given substantial powers to lead the recent acquisitions. their businesses and delegate authority to ensure faster decision making. Post-M&A Integration—Getting the Job Done as a Team The GMC will meet face to face in regions around the Having amassed a formidable stable of major overseas corpoworld throughout the current year while consistently discussrations to complement our Japanese foundation, we now have ing and deciding on crucial strategy and management direca global distribution network, a wide-range of quality brands tions on an ongoing basis. The inaugural GMC meeting held in diverse markets, and a pool of multicultural and talented this April at the GROHE headquarters in Düsseldorf, Germany, managers and employees. We can extract the full value of was a resounding success in kicking off the next stage of our these acquisitions only by executing complete integration transformation. We plan to hold GMC meetings in Shanghai, of these newcomers into the LIXIL Group. New York, and Tokyo later this year. Organizational Structure of the Global Management Committee (GMC) (As of April 2014) LIXIL Corporation President & CEO Japan Greater China Asia Pacific* Permasteelisa ASB GROHE Human Resources Finance Technology External Relations Marketing & Sales Business Transformation Information Technology Supply Chain Legal Communication * Asia Pacific includes South Korea and India LIXIL Group Corporation 20 To LIXIL Group Stakeholders Under the GMC’s governance, we will bring all the recent women and non-Japanese employees to represent 30% of all acquisitions into the fold and utilize our resources to make managers. To implement meritocracy, we are rapidly extendthem even more efﬁcient and productive than they already ing our performance-linked compensation system from top were as major players previously. Our global expansion is crumanagement down to all managers and employees. We are cial because it allows us to use the power of globalization to convinced that our new, more diversiﬁed and open culture consistently meet the expectations of stakeholders. We expect will make us a much stronger company. our Japanese operations’ performance for new housing areas to be ﬂat or slightly up in the current ﬁscal year because in That completes my review of the ﬁscal year ended March the year under review the market was overheated. However, 2014 and what is happening at LIXIL today. I hope you are we also anticipate that our Japanese renovation business and just as excited as I am with the prospect of our improvement overseas companies will be able to take up the slack, allowthrough March 2017 based on the execution of the LIXIL G-16 ing us to post further gains in record sales and record proﬁts. Plan. We will become a much stronger, more globalized company that is appreciated by our stakeholders. Although Toward a Better World and Future the journey to become one of the world’s great companies To support our globalization efforts, we formed a Strategic will not end at that point, the transformation between 2011 Partnership with the World Economic Forum. We became one and 2017 will be dramatic and rewarding for all of our stakeof the 100 Strategic Partners, along with leading companies holders. In taking our next steps toward this goal, we need like GE, Goldman Sachs, and Nestlé, and one of the only four and look forward to your continued support. Japanese partner companies. The forum provides opportunities for leaders from government, academia, business, and other areas to discuss critical issues of the world today and tomorrow. Their activities often set future industry agendas August 2014 that could affect our industry, economies, and interests. By gaining a seat at this table, we intend to collect invaluable intelligence and also voice opinions to shape our industry and economies’ futures. We also signed, in July 2013, the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), an initiative proposed at the World Economic Forum’s Davos meeting in 1999 by the then UN Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan. Accordingly, we have committed to promoting ten principles relating to human rights, Yoshiaki Fujimori President and CEO labor, environment, and anti-corruption. In addition to advocating and implementing the ten principles, including workers’ rights across the supply chain, the UNGC is also committed to pursuing the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). In line with the MDGs, we will display leadership as a total housing and living environment solutions provider in improving the living environments of people in need and supporting the establishment of safe sanitation facilities. One example is our award winning Green Toilet System Project, which aims to dramatically expand the availability of safe sanitation facilities in developing countries. A New Corporate Culture and Future Prospects The Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange jointly selected LIXIL as a “Nadeshiko Brand” in March 2014, a recognition given to companies that create an excellent working environment for women, actively utilize their talents, and promote advancement. At LIXIL, we have been striving to create a corporate culture based on the three principles of respecting diversity, providing equal opportunity to everybody regardless of background, and implementing meritocracy. Since we began this effort in 2011, the number of female managers has increased by approximately 3.5 times to 76 in Japan. We have targeted LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals 21 Ph.: ©Bjorn Moerman Photography American Standard Brands Permasteelisa LIXIL Special Feature 1 Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals We are making the most of our new opportunities. Guided by our Medium-Term Management Vision of becoming a global leader in comprehensive living and housing solutions, the LIXIL Group is using M&A as a portal to globalization. In the following section, we look at the Group’s post-M&A integration efforts aimed at unleashing the maximum potential afforded the LIXIL Group through its M&A deals. In the report, the five function leaders of the GMC confronting this integration process express their determination to “do whatever has to be done” to get the job done. LIXIL Group Corporation 22 Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals STORY: 1/ 5 THEME: Marke ting & Sales Creating Value from a Customer Perspective By clarifying “LIXIL solutions” for each of our businesses, we are building a function model that maximizes what could be called “LIXIL Value,” not only in our products but also in terms of the degree that our customers benefit from our brand. Toshimasa Iue Chief Marketing and Sales Ofﬁcer Amalgamating the Marketing Resources of Each Group Company The role of the Marketing & Sales Function is to strengthen marketing and sales strategies in each of our core markets and create opportunities for business growth based on enhancing value for our customers. To that end, the current focus of our efforts is to maximize and optimize Group resource synergies. Through M&A, the LIXIL Group has added to its stable of top market share products in the housing and building materials and plumbing ﬁxtures markets in Japan. First, there was American Standard Asia Paciﬁc, with sales networks throughout Southeast Asia. Next came Permasteelisa S.p.A. (Permasteelisa), the leading company in the global curtain wall market with its close business ties with the world’s top architectural ﬁrms and construction companies. Last year’s deals brought ASD Americas Toshimasa Iue (center) Holding Corp. (American Standard Brands, ASB), a solidly positioned company in the North American market with a 142-year history, and yielded a relationship with GROHE Group S.à r.l. Priority Issues of the Marketing & Sales Function (GROHE), a company focused on making “killer product” sani■ Establish and share marketing platforms tary ware, such as faucets and showerheads, and boasting ■ Form a global strategy for the entire LIXIL Group a strong reputation as a premium brand, particularly in Europe. In pursuing their businesses, each of these Group companies ■ Maximize the positioning and presence of the LIXIL corporate has built its own prime customer and market bases along with brand in the market marketing platforms to support them. Our ﬁrst priority issue is to share the best practices of each of these platforms and instill them in each company of the LIXIL Group. Our second priority issue is to more concretely clarify the Group’s global strategy and ﬂesh out the details. Under our Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-16, the LIXIL Group’s goal is to achieve overseas sales of ¥741.0 billion in the ﬁscal year ending March 2017, stepping up to ¥1 trillion in the ﬁscal year ending March 2020. The performance targets of the G-16 plan are founded on the individual performance goals of China and Asia excluding China as well as Permasteelisa, ASB, and GROHE. We want to ensure that the G-16 plan goals are met, however, by formulating a more in-depth strategy that centers on leveraging the Group’s resources and the achievement of synergies. Finally, we want to position the LIXIL brand and presence globally. The characteristics of markets around the world differ by country and region, as do the segments that the LIXIL Group can most effectively target in each market. Building our presence in each market by deciding how we should position LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals 23 LIXIL, given our understanding of the market conditions, Our third goal is to strengthen our customer account manis also part of this priority issue. agement and establish a uniﬁed system for the Group. There is no doubt that our customer bases are our greatest asset. By Taking Measures to Optimize the LIXIL Business Portfolio sharing our area customer account information or providing and Combine Our Platforms regional services for global customer accounts, we will proIn consideration of the previously mentioned priority issues, ceed to maximize LIXIL value for our customers. For that purwe established three goals for the ﬁscal year ending March 2015. pose, we will build a state-of-the-art CRM system*. The ﬁrst goal is the optimization of our business portfolio. * CRM is an acronym for customer relations management. A CRM system focuses During the ﬁrst GMC meeting held in Düsseldorf, we worked on building relationships with customers in order to heighten customer satisfaction. up a list of the products, brands, customer bases, and marketing Developing a New Customer Value Creation Model regions of the LIXIL Group companies and thoroughly discussed for the Japanese Market what sort of measures would create the maximum synergies. Following the GMC meeting, I took a fresh look at Japan, both The Marketing & Sales Function plans not only to meet at GMC as a market and as an asset. Generally, it is thought that the meetings but also to hold meetings regularly in each country major feature of the Japanese market is its consumers, with that encompass all our different brands. During these meetings, their extremely reﬁned preferences and great diversity. Not we will deﬁne the measures needed to achieve the optimization surprisingly, the recent growth of the renovation market in of the LIXIL Group’s business portfolio. Japan reﬂects a movement away from houses incorporating Our next goal is to complete our integrated marketing platstandardized construction products to a demand for personalform. No matter how wonderful individual marketing platforms ized houses that reﬂect an individual’s lifestyle and prefermay be, if multiple platforms are operated at the same time ences. In a market like Japan with this type of customer within the Group, synergies are not going to emerge. We recsensibilities, we have high expectations of being able to ognize that establishing an integrated LIXIL Group marketing stimulate new demand by introducing the rivalless products platform is an urgent task if we are to quickly unleash the of ASB and GROHE. On the other side of the coin, we also maximum potential of our M&A deals. To begin with, we intend to actively introduce Japan’s technologies to the world. are working on integrating the market information of all our Group companies to create the database on which the integrated platform will be built. Ph.: Courtesy of SOCAR Permasteelisa American Standard Asia Paciﬁc ASB GROHE LIXIL Group Corporation 24 Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals STORY: 2/ 5 THEME: Business Transformation Boosting LIXIL Group Earning Power Structural reforms are the driving force behind the two interrelated action programs of our MediumTerm Business Plan LIXIL G-16: BT-16*1 and MI-16*2. To those ends, we are pursuing structural reforms that transverse divisional business lines at all levels of the LIXIL Group’s organization. Shinichi Tanzawa Chief Business Transformation Ofﬁcer Utilizing Structural Reform Successes as Management Resources The companies of the LIXIL Group have advanced a wide range of know-how and implemented many successful structural reforms. Examples include the results of the C-30 Project*3 initiated at LIXIL Corporation after the merger of domestic companies in 2011; wide-ranging business reform under the BT-16 action program, currently under way within the Group with an emphasis on Japan; the Six Sigma*4 activities being run in Japan and in other countries in Asia; the action plan to improve the gross margin on sales being undertaken by GROHE; and Permasteelisa’s efﬁcient supply chain management method for large-scale projects. At the GMC meeting, we all shared the common view that LIXIL could further strengthen its earning power as a group by sharing and implementing globally the Shinichi Tanzawa best practices of individual companies of the Group. *3 Please see page 44 *4 Six Sigma is a quality control method. By reducing variability in business, development, production, and logistics processes, the method seeks to raise customer satisfaction Priority Issues of the Business Transformation Function and improve business efﬁciency. ■ As part of the BT-16 action program, implement structural reforms at all levels to achieve supply chain optimization, Targeting a ¥100.0 billion Improvement in Proﬁts improve product development efﬁciency, increase gross proﬁt, based on BT-16 boost business efﬁciency, and reduce indirect costs The LIXIL Group is implementing various strategies to improve ■ Pursue improvement in the proﬁtability of low-margin businesses the degree of customer satisfaction while also targeting sales and subsidiaries and innovations in their business models growth and increased proﬁts. The strategies are being imple■ Achieve global implementation of the Six Sigma activities mented through numerous projects under the growth program based on business process improvement and innovation MI-16 and the operational efﬁciency program BT-16. These are the two action programs of the Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-16. By pursuing the goals of the medium-term busi*1 Business Transformation 16, a program targeting operational efﬁciency ness plan throughout the Group, we are targeting an increase *2 Marketing & Innovation 16, a program targeting growth of approximately ¥100.0 billion in proﬁts over a three-year period based on these two growth and efﬁciency action programs. The Business Transformation Function is principally responsible for proposing and executing the various measures that fall under the BT-16 program. To carry out this task, we are collaborating with the Supply Chain, Technology, Marketing & Sales, Information Technology, Finance, Human Resources, and other function groups to optimize the supply chain, increase the efﬁciency of product development, and improve gross proﬁt by enhancing product competitiveness. Moreover, we will pursue cross-functional reforms and business model innovations to achieve various improvements. Those efforts will include upgrading the efﬁciency of quotations, orders reception, construction or LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals 25 installation, and showroom operations as well as reductions Aiming for Increased Corporate Value in indirect costs aimed at Groupwide optimization and improvethrough Structural Reform Results ment and expansion of in-house and customer training sysCreated through a merger of ﬁve Japanese companies, LIXIL tems. Furthermore, we will be looking at restructuring Corporation is now going through another completely different low-margin businesses or subsidiaries both in Japan and organizational transformation as a result of some bold, mainly abroad. Our restructuring tools will include business portfolio overseas, M&A deals. In that transformation, we are pursuing revisions, business improvements or structural reforms, and structural reforms that cover all aspects of our corporate activieven the divesting or liquidation of the businesses or compaties, from sweeping reforms of business models to plain and nies. We have particularly high hopes of producing the quicksimple improvements in business processes. We intend to est visible results for supply chain optimization and indirect establish optimum business processes and further strengthen cost reduction measures by leveraging economies of scale our corporate structure, enabling the LIXIL Group to offer a on a global basis. wide range of products and services globally. In addition, To provide a support team for these activities, we will these reforms will increase the degree of customer satisfaction increase the number of Black Belts and Green Belts*5 responsias well as enhance our proﬁtability, thereby contributing to ble for Six Sigma activities. Through Six Sigma, we will consislong-term growth in corporate value. tently analyze and improve our business processes at the global level. *5 The managers responsible for Six Sigma projects (Black Belts) and the managers or supervisors who are responsible for implementing the projects while also working on their own jobs (Green Belts) LIXIL Group Corporation 26 Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals STORY: 3/ 5 THEME: Supply Ch ain Reinforcing Cost Management We are building a world-class global supply chain management (SCM) system that optimizes all processes, including procurement, production, logistics, and even inventory management. Kenji Uenishi Chief Supply Chain Ofﬁcer Building an SCM Model to Support Efﬁcient Group Management The LIXIL Group is targeting a global supply chain that can quickly deliver—to all corners of the earth—high-quality products and services that have been produced at optimum cost in different global regions. By achieving this, we will provide the highest degree of customer satisfaction, thereby enabling the Group to earn high levels of proﬁts. The LIXIL Group has 96 production bases around the world as well as 55 logistics bases. The mission of the Supply Chain Function is to integrate the operations of these production and logistics bases. Through the development of a global SCM model, we will capture synergies through overall optimization of our supply chain that marries the strong brand power of our overseas companies with Japanese monozukuri production processes. Kenji Uenishi (left) In the ﬁscal year ending March 2015, guided by the numerical targets set at the GMC meeting, we plan to begin by synchronizing the production ﬂows—from raw materials and building Priority Issues of the Supply Chain Function materials to products—developed by each of our businesses and ■ Optimize production with the emphasis on high quality, improving the visibility of these ﬂows. At the same time, we will improve global procurement and logistics systems, and impleseek to create SCM synergies for each of the procurement, proment cost management founded on strict reduction of duction, and distribution systems of our sanitary ware and saniinventories tary ﬁttings production lines as well as verify the construction of ■ Introduce Japan’s innovative technology and other best practheir global logistics chains. We aim to have established a directices for supply chain management throughout the Group tion for these procedures within a year. The creation of an SCM globally model for plumbing ﬁxtures that encompasses various brands, diverse product groups, and broad regions represents an extreme challenge for us. However, we have high expectations that success will have a positive impact equal to the degree of difﬁculty of the challenge. We are aiming for SCM optimization that will enable the delivery—of just the right amount at the necessary time and place—of a diverse range of raw materials, building materials, and products. LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals 27 Achieving ¥55.0 billion in Cost Reductions GMC meeting supporting us, I became convinced that we over the LIXIL G-16 Term could reach our stretch goals no matter how ambitious. In Guided by our Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-16, we are actual fact, following the GMC meeting, each region shared aiming to reduce costs by ¥55.0 billion based on unifying sales their data and participants began to steadily establish a process and construction and installation information, optimizing profor holding monthly meetings and systematically making deciduction and logistics bases, improving distribution systems, sions. Clearly, the level of exchange between Group compaundertaking strategic procurement, and improving our cash nies is deepening. conversion cycle (CCC). To reach this goal, we will need to carry out initiatives in our businesses throughout all points of Gathering Global Human Resources the Key to SCM the compass and in a speedy manner. Those initiatives will I believe that building an SCM model, in other words a founinclude collecting and sharing logistics information among the dation that will contribute to cost reductions and the maximicompanies of the LIXIL Group to reduce our inventories of zation of proﬁts going forward, means the establishment of a materials, products, and other supplies. The initiatives will also “center of excellence.” And the source of that excellence will involve utilizing centralized purchasing to take advantage of be global human resources with a broad vision and a high economies of scale and building a system that can rapidly degree of expertise. We need people who have a comprehendeliver supplies to all our production and sales bases. sive grasp of the LIXIL Group’s overall business structure and In that sense, I was greatly encouraged that the function who can also create ﬂexible measures to deal with the great leaders and the business leaders that participated in the GMC diversity of our products and markets. By gathering such meeting recognized the importance of post-M&A integration highly skilled people from around the world, we are going and were all on the same page. With all of the members of the to build the world’s best supply chain. LIXIL Group Corporation 28 Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals STORY: 4/ 5 THEME: Technology Staying Ahead of the Competition through Innovation We are leveraging the LIXIL Group’s technology management resources to the maximum in pursuing R&D, technology development, and product development. Ryuichi Kawamoto Chief Technology Ofﬁcer global technology research, product development, and design. Priority Issues of the Technology Function We held in-depth discussions on what type of decision-making ■ Establish a global product development structure process was needed for technology and product R&D pro■ Develop next-generation competitive global products grams being shared by Group companies, methods of fairly assessing technology and product R&D themes, and ways of managing R&D expenses. Following the completion of taking inventory of the technology and product R&D themes of each Setting Up an Organization That Efﬁciently Produces company after the GMC meeting, we have now begun selectNew Technology and Products ing global technology and product R&D themes. Going The source of the comprehensive strengths of the LIXIL Group forward, we will concentrate our efforts with the selected is its on-site capabilities in technology and product developtechnology and product R&D themes on the Group companies ment and manufacturing. We must establish a process whereby with the highest competitive abilities. Under my management we can quickly develop highly competitive global products by as Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, we will begin working toward harnessing each Group company’s new technologies emerging product commercialization. from these capabilities to the greatest extent. This approach By setting up an organization that efﬁciently produces will demonstrate a core competence of the new LIXIL Group, innovative products, we will move quickly to capture synergies both internally and to the outside world. from the consolidation of our development platform by focusAt the GMC meeting, the Technology Function had vigoring mainly on sanitary ware, sharing parts, and centralizing our ous discussions with all function members on the topics of supplier and production bases. Ryuichi Kawamoto (center right) LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 1: Unleashing the Maximum Potential of Our M&A Deals 29 Yosuke Yagi (left) STORY: 5/ 5 THEME: Human Resources Creating a Dynamic Organization We are striving to create an organization that demonstrates the highest degree of productivity and performance, where individual businesses and regions conduct independent strategies while maintaining strategic consistency under the “One LIXIL” banner. Yosuke Yagi Chief HR Ofﬁcer operations. The Human Resources Function engaged in conPriority Issues of the Human Resources Function structive discussions, particularly on people and organizational ■ Foster leaders on a global level development. Within that process, we shared our best practices ■ Build a common global training and education system for energizing organizations. Moreover, in order to build a common human resources platform for the LIXIL Group, we ■ Establish a truly global organization began deliberations on how to secure strategic consistency under the “One LIXIL” banner in all our efforts. We considered Maximizing the Dynamism of Our Human Resources how to advance LIXIL Value; create a database for our human to Win amid Global Competition resource pool; unify our personnel assessment, promotion, To stay ahead of the game in the global market, it is essential and compensation policies; and develop a curriculum for our to develop highly skilled personnel that can lead our transforglobal leadership training programs. We expect to achieve conmation. The task of the Human Resources Function is to, crete results for all these undertakings by the end of 2014. In regardless of their backgrounds, discover, nurture, utilize, the medium term, we are aiming to initiate a personnel rotaand retain the best available human resources. We will amass tion system that goes beyond individual business lines. We a world-class pool of intellectual capital, thereby contributing also intend to implement personnel and organizational strateto the value creation of the LIXIL Group. gies that use our scale and reputation to hire on a global level The ﬁrst GMC meeting, where more than 80 of the Group’s and enable us to demonstrate our strengths as a corporate top ofﬁcers gathered under one roof, represented the starting group expanding businesses globally. line in facing the challenge of fusing our global and local LIXIL Group Corporation 30 LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Japan LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Japan Haruo Shirai Metal Building Material Business Plumbing Fixtures Business President LIXIL Japan Company Manufacturing Business Market Conditions ■ Demand declines in reaction to the rush demand ahead of the April 2014 consumption tax increase ■ Rising building materials prices and labor shortages lengthen construction periods ■ Demand increases for housing and buildings with improved seismic resistance and thermal insulation functions against the backdrop of Japanese government administrative guidance Demand for housing window sashes and doors Areas with plumbing fixtures, such as bathhas reﬂected new housing starts because these rooms, washstands, toilets, and kitchen products deteriorate comparatively little due to systems, are a high priority for end users aging. However, interest in improving thermal considering renovation. Solid renovation insulation through renovation has heightened demand promises to support favorable among homeowners, and demand for home growth in the plumbing fixtures market. renovation is expected to grow. Factors Affecting Market Conditions ■ New statutory regulations for thermal insulation and seismic resistance ■ Government taking further measures to invigorate renovation market ■ Reversal in demand-supply gap for aluminum ■ Higher prices for copper, plastic, steel plate, ingots driving up prices and other materials as demand grows ■ Heightened interest in passive and smart functions among consumers Sales Strategies ■ Increase sales of SAMOS II high-thermal ■ Develop and sell products that meet needs insulation performance windows of renovation end users ■ Capture construction demand arising from ■ Start extended long-term guarantee services preparation for Tokyo 2020 Summer Olympics for plumbing ﬁxtures and Paralympics Direct Customers Housing window sashes: Dealers, sales agenDealers (plumbing supplies stores), building cies, house manufacturers, housing developers, materials trading companies homebuilders Exterior materials: Sales agencies Building sashes and shutters: General construction contractors Competitors YKK AP TOTO Panasonic Sankyo Tateyama Takara Standard Cleanup LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Japan 31 Other Building Materials Distribution and Retail Business Housing, Real Estate and Equipment Business and Other Businesses ■ Government announces a policy of increasing the proportion of housing stock that meets national seismic standards set in 1981 to 95% by ﬁscal year ending March 2020 ■ Government also announces a policy to introduce step-up requirements to force new residential housing and other structures to comply with energy conservation standards by ﬁscal year ending March 2020 ■ Renovation market expands because large volumes of previously built housing stock are reaching maintenance periods Because of government policy, growth in The home centers market has plateaued at Although a decline in demand is expected in demand is anticipated for structures and exteapproximately ¥4 trillion. A continued growth the ﬁscal year ending 2015 in reaction to the rior walls with improved seismic resistance and trend for about ﬁve years has raised the hike in the consumption tax, projections of thermal insulation properties. number of home centers to more than 4,500 further increases in interest rates and asset for the ﬁrst time, intensifying competition. values should support demand. Companies are differentiating themselves by developing specialty stores for professionals in such industries as construction and agriculture. ■ Demand expected to spike again ahead of October 2015 scheduled increase in consumption tax ■ Higher wood prices due to weakened yen ■ General consumption trends ■ Construction delays and prolonged construcand other factors tion periods caused by labor shortages ■ Increased demand for rental housing in reaction to decrease in basic deduction for inheritance taxes ■ Develop and supply construction methods ■ Further specialization in building materials ■ Expand ﬁnancial services business for new and products for efﬁciently retroﬁtting anti■ Reinforce renovation business homes and renovations seismic reinforcement and thermal insulation ■ Create synergies as comprehensive living and ■ Develop network of stores for professional ■ Expand solar photovoltaic systems business users and expand business housing solutions company by packaging ■ Develop housing construction material prodproducts made by manufacturing business with ucts incorporating electronic materials services provided from this segment ■ Expand and improve products and businesses related to Home Energy Management Systems (HEMSs) and energy storage Dealers, sales agencies Home center business: General consumers, Housing franchise business: construction professionals Homebuilding franchise members Ken Depot business: Construction professionals, Housing structural defects liability insurance small and medium-sized homebuilders business and housing site ground inspection business: Construction companies, real estate transaction agents Real estate brokerage franchise business: General consumers Daiken Panasonic DCM Japan Holdings Cainz Nichiha Danto Komeri Kohnan Shoji LIXIL Group Corporation 32 LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Global LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Global China Asia (excluding China) Kenneth Ng William Crichton President and CEO President and CEO LIXIL Greater China LIXIL Asia Paciﬁc Market Conditions In addition to the slowdown in the economy, Average annual GDP growth up to 2018 is prothe real estate market is showing signs of a jected to be 4.5% in Southeast Asia and 5.9% slump because of excess housing stock. in India. The expansion of the middle-income Consequently, there is a growing sense of segment resulting from population and uncertainty in the market. economic growth is expected to drive continued growth in real estate demand in the medium term. Factors Affecting Market Conditions ■ Chinese government’s economic polices ■ Foreign exchange rate ﬂuctuations ■ Stability of ﬁnancial system ■ Labor cost increases ■ Higher prices for copper, plastic, steel plate, and other materials as demand grows Sales Strategies ■ Focus sanitary ware marketing on major real ■ Open design center in Southeast Asia and estate developers develop and market products accurately ■ Utilize distribution network of home electronreﬂecting needs of local customers ics manufacturer Haier Group for kitchen sys■ Leverage No. 1 position in toilet market tems based on business alliance and aim to in Vietnam to expand business be No. 1 in Chinese market ■ Strengthen Vietnamese plant’s system ■ Pursue synergies between JOYOU and GROHE for supplying aluminum products to Asian markets Direct Customers Plumbing systems: Dealers, sales agencies, Metal building materials: Dealers, sales construction companies, developers agencies Kitchen systems: Haier stores Plumbing fixtures: Dealers, sales agencies Competitors YKK AP (metal building materials) YKK AP (metal building materials) Schüco (metal building materials) TOTO (plumbing ﬁxtures) Yuanda (metal building materials) Roca (plumbing ﬁxtures) TOTO (plumbing ﬁxtures) Kohler (plumbing ﬁxtures) Kohler (plumbing ﬁxtures) Roca (plumbing ﬁxtures) Chinese local companies LIXIL Group Corporation LIXIL Group’s Operations in Brief: Global 33 Permasteelisa American Standard Brands (ASB) GROHE (Affiliated company by equity method) Nicola Greco Jay Gould David Haines CEO President and CEO Chairman and CEO Permasteelisa Group American Standard Brands GROHE Group S.à r.l. Ph.: ©Sellar A mild recovery in European economies and a Against the backdrop of economic recovery The mild recovery in European economies is robust U.S. construction market coincided with and low interest rates, conditions in the North expected to have a positive impact on demand stable demand conditions in emerging markets, American housing market are looking favorable. for high-end housing equipment. particularly in Southeast Asia. As a result, the In March 2014, the U.S. Pending Home Sales non-housing construction market, including Index rose sharply for the ﬁrst time in three hotels, ofﬁce buildings, and commercial faciliyears. Although the reduction in quantitative ties, is forecast over the medium term to grow easing gives some cause for concern, it is 37% in China, 21% in North America and the anticipated that gradual growth in demand Middle East, and 3% in Europe. will continue. ■ Global economic trends ■ U.S. government’s monetary policy ■ Economic trends in Europe ■ Reversal in demand-supply gap for aluminum ■ Higher prices for copper, plastic, steel plate, ■ Higher prices for copper, stainless steel, and ingots driving up prices and other materials as demand grows other raw materials as demand grows ■ Implement stricter management of Asian ■ Accelerate development and distribution of ■ Maintain position as market leader through operations luxury brand DXV innovative technology and design ■ Be selective in accepting orders based on ■ Execute on agreed strategic partnership gross margins with Ferguson, North America’s largest ■ Increase sales proportion of high gross wholesaler of plumbing supplies and pipe margin North American market ■ Grow core business through commercializa■ Strengthen overall curtain wall operations that tion of new products and vertical market utilize Permasteelisa’s business platform expansion ■ Expand interior business ■ Build consumer awareness of spa-toilets Construction companies, architectural ﬁrms Dealers, sales agencies, wholesalers, Dealers, sales agencies, construction volume retailers companies, architectural ﬁrms YKK AP Kohler Hansgrohe Yuanda Masco (Delta) Fortune Brands (Moen) Local companies Fortune Brands (Moen) Geberit TOTO LIXIL Group Corporation 34 Market Environment Market Environment Industry Trends in Japan Trends in the Housing Market Total New Housing Starts by Usage New housing starts in Japan have continued to trend down(1,000 units) ward over the past 20 years, since peaking at 1.63 million units 2,000 in ﬁscal 1996. With the size of Japan’s population expected to decline further over the long term, housing starts will continue 1,500 to fall modestly, with a ﬁgure of about 800 thousand units projected for ﬁscal 2016 onward. However, in ﬁscal 2013, housing starts rose 10.6% year on year, to 987 thousand units. This 1,000 growth was the result of a surge in demand ahead of a tax rate change accompanying an increase in Japan’s consumption tax 500 from a previous rate of 5% to 8% in April 2014. Among new housing, the move toward rental housing is projected to gain momentum going forward, reﬂecting demographic changes in 0 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 (FY) Japan, such as lower birthrates, an aging population, and Owner-occupied Rental housing Built-for-sale growth in the number of single-person households, as well as Note: Company-provided housing is included in rental housing. greater lifestyle diversity among consumers. Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, Survey on Dwelling Houses and Construction Started Current Status of Housing Stock and Size of the Housing Renovation Market In Japan, the total housing stock already exceeds the total Total Numbers of Households and Housing Units (1,000 units) number of households by more than 10%. Similarly, as of 2008, 80,000 over 7 million units were vacant, and this number is expected to have risen. However, the market for buying and selling existing homes in Japan is much smaller than comparable mar60,000 kets in Europe, the United States, and other developed countries. Sales of existing houses as a percentage of total house 40,000 sales—that is, the total of new house and existing house sales—is between 70% and 90% among Western countries but only about 13.5% in Japan. 20,000 Since the mid-2000s, the Japanese government has backed housing policies that put emphasis on housing stock, with a 0 73 78 83 88 93 98 03 08 (FY) stated goal of expanding the scale of Japan’s existing housing Number of households Number of housing units and renovation markets to ¥20 trillion by the ﬁscal year Source: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, Housing and Land Survey (2008) ending March 2020. To reach this goal, steps are under way to increase the amount of quality housing stock usable beyond a single generation, coupled with efforts to put in place housing Orders Received by 50 Biggest Contractors markets for circulating and renovating existing stock. (¥ trillion) 12 Trends in the Commercial Building Market In Japan, total orders for building construction, including ofﬁce, commercial, industrial, and residential construction, 8 placed with the 50 biggest construction companies in ﬁscal 2013, rose 20.1% year on year. In addition to full-scale rebuilding following the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, 4 ofﬁce building development, notably in central Tokyo, gained momentum from the beginning of 2014. Most real estate developers have announced plans for new development projects, spurred on by improved corporate performance and lower 0 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 (FY) vacancy rates among large-scale ofﬁce buildings in central Note: Building construction only (includes ofﬁces, government buildings, accommodaTokyo. Consequently, in a period of roughly ﬁve years from tions, factories, residences, medical facilities, amusement facilities, etc.) Source: Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, The Current Survey 2015, Tokyo’s 23 wards will see a string of ofﬁce buildings of Orders Received for Construction [Big 50 Contractors] completed, offering an average of more than 1 million square meters in ofﬁce space each year*. * Mori Building Co., Ltd., Market Trend Survey of Large-Scale Office Buildings in Tokyo’s 23 Wards, Press release dated October 2, 2013 LIXIL Group Corporation Market Environment 35 Industry Trends Overseas U.S. Housing Market New Housing Starts and Number of Existing Home Sales In the United States, housing demand remains ﬁrm, reﬂecting in the United States an improved climate surrounding employment and personal (Million units) (Million units) income. In the wake of economic stagnation triggered by the 8 1.6 ﬁnancial crisis, institutional investors have led the improvement in market conditions as economic recovery takes hold, fol6 1.2 lowed by consumer-driven housing demand. While unexpected weather events and rising interest rates have caused momentary slowdowns, an improving supply-demand balance 4 0.8 in housing stock and projected medium-to-long-term population growth will continue to sustain modest expansion in the 2 0.4 housing market. If economic growth rates begin to show real strength, this could potentially accelerate the pace of investment in the housing sector. 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 0.0 (Calendar year) Number of existing home sales New housing starts (right) Real Estate Markets in Europe Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, White Paper on International Economy and Trade (2013); United States Department of Commerce; National Association In Europe, economic recovery is emerging thanks to the sucof Realtors cess of low interest rate policies led by the European Central Bank (ECB), with a turn to positive real GDP growth rates projected for eurozone countries in 2014. Monetary easing will Real GDP Growth Rates in Eurozone Countries lead to an inﬂux of capital into the real estate market. In addi(%) tion to falling ofﬁce vacancy rates in major European cities, the 1.0 value of commercial-use real estate transactions is increasing. However, with only a limited number of new development projects slated, European economies still lack the strength 0.5 to lift construction and facilities demand higher. By country, northern European countries, centered on Germany, are 0.0 expected to be stable, while Italy, Spain, and other southern European countries will likely require more time to recover. –0.5 Real Estate Markets in Asia As of 2011, the purchasing power of the middle-income –1.0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 segments of the 10 member countries* of the Association of (Calendar year) Note: Quarterly year-on-year comparison data Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) continue to grow, backed by Source: JETRO, Key Economic Statistics a population of 598 million and GDP growth. Thanks to high growth rates in both the general and working-age populations, along with dynamic corporate activity across the region, GDP Growth Forecast of 10 Member Countries of ASEAN medium-to-long-term growth in the housing and building and (¥ billion) commercial facilities markets is anticipated. 4,000 In China, growth over the long term in urbanization and expansion of the afﬂuent population is set to bring about expansion in the real estate market. However, housing prices 3,000 are likely to trend lower, due to the projected slowdown of China’s GDP growth rate in 2014 and the possibility that the 2,000 Chinese government may strengthen policies to clamp down on the real estate market. 1,000 * ASEAN member countries: Indonesia, Malaysia, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, Brunei, Vietnam, Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar 0 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 Forecast (Calendar year) Vietnam Thailand Singapore Philippines Myanmar Malaysia Laos Indonesia Cambodia Brunei Source: IMF, World Economic Outlook Database, April 2014 LIXIL Group Corporation 36 Review of Operations: Metal Building Material Business Review of Operations Metal Building Material Business Highlights for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Japan and Consolidated Performance Global ■ Sales and proﬁt growth was achieved, with net sales rising ¥80.0 ■ In calendar 2013, net sales of Permasteelisa amounted to billion, or 12.3%, year on year, to ¥731.8 billion, and operating ¥180.4 billion, expanding ¥39.5 billion, or 28.0%, primarily in income jumping ¥9.6 billion, or 40.3%, to ¥33.5 billion. The the Middle East, and contributing to segment sales. However, operating income ratio was 4.6%, returning to a level previous because of a decline in the proﬁtability of development projto the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake in the ﬁscal ects in Asia, Permasteelisa’s operating income declined ¥2.9 year ended March 2012 and the impact of the 2011 ﬂooding in billion, or 41.0%. Thailand that persisted until the ﬁscal year ended March 2013. ■ In October 2013, the LIXIL Group acquired a major capital ■ In Japan, sales of SAMOS II, a standard class product despite stake in Star Alubuild Private Ltd., a building curtain wall manhaving top-performance thermal insulation and design funcufacturer with its head ofﬁce in the Delhi metropolitan area, tions, and other types of housing sash were ﬁrm. The positive India, at a cost of ¥700 million. The new subsidiary will probusiness environment can be attributed to several factors. vide the platform for the LIXIL Group’s entrance into the Brand name recognition improved due to television comIndian market. mercials and other advertising and promotion campaigns. Moreover, there was a steady increase in interest in qualitythermal insulation housing and in improving thermal insulation through renovations among general users. ■ Expansion of production capacity at the LIXIL plant in Oyabe, Toyama Prefecture, which began in June 2012, was completed. Full-scale production began in August 2013. The plant’s aluminum production capacity has been increased from 700 metric tons per month to 2,500 metric tons per month. A comprehensive producer of aluminum building materials, from ingot casting to metal processing, the plant will contribute to stable supplies for the LIXIL Group. SWOT Analysis ■ Market leader in housing sash and exterior materials ■ Difficult to differentiate products in domestic market in Japan, holding large market share ■ Low profit margins for products for new homes and ■ Cost advantage from manufacturing at Thailand plant buildings in Japan ■ Permasteelisa, leading company in the global curtain wall business ■ Including Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System in China, business platforms well established in Japan SW New plant completed in January 2014 in Vietnam for the manufacture of sashes, doors, and exterior and China as well as in Europe products for residential and commercial buildings Strengths Weaknesses Opportunities Threats OT ■ Supply system for ASEAN market strengthened ■ Contraction of Japanese housing market as new housthrough completion of aluminum products plant in ing starts tapering off; concern for price competition Vietnam following construction of plant in Thailand ■ Deterioration in global and Japanese economies ■ Sales power and efficiency boosted through mutual sharing of supply chains and sales channels of ■ Surge in material prices Permasteelisa, American Standard Brands, and ■ Prolonged construction periods and construction LIXIL Corporation slowdowns caused by labor shortages in Japanese ■ Heightened demands for improved thermal insulation construction industry and seismic resistance and for universal design lay■ Declining advantage of overseas production due to outs in renovation market in Japan yen depreciation LIXIL Group Corporation Review of Operations: Metal Building Material Business 37 Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 731.8 33.5 800 40 6.0 4.6% 600 30 4.5 400 20 3.0 200 10 1.5 Window sash SAMOS II 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 0.0 Operating income Operating income ratio Increase / Decrease Breakdown of Operating Income Aluminum Prices (¥ billion) (US$ / ton) 50 3,000 40 1.6 7.3 8.6 4.2 5.8 0.9 3.0 2,000 30 8.8 20 33.5 1,000 23.9 10 0 2013 Sales Change in selling Raw material Cost Impact of Thai ﬂoods in SG&A Overseas 2014 0 4/09 4/10 4/11 4/12 4/13 4/14 (M/Y) ﬂuctuation price and mix costs ﬂuctuation exchange rate FY2013 ﬂuctuation business Note: Data charted up from April 1, 2009 to April 1, 2014 Source: London Metal Exchange statistics Ph.: ©Gardin & Mazzoli Permasteelisa Permasteelisa Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 200 180.4 8 6.0 150 6 4.5 4.1 100 4 3.0 2.3% 50 2 1.5 Example of installation of Permasteelisa’s curtain walls 0 11 12 13 0 11 12 13 0.0 Operating income Operating income ratio Note: Years ended March 31; years ended December 31 for Permasteelisa LIXIL Group Corporation 38 Review of Operations: Plumbing Fixtures Business Plumbing Fixtures Business Highlights for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Japan and Consolidated Performance Global ■ Net sales climbed ¥64.2 billion, or 17.1%, from the previous ■ In August 2013, ASD Americas Holding Corp., supplier of ﬁscal year, to ¥438.5 billion. Operating income also increased, American Standard Brands (ASB), North America’s leading up ¥3.4 billion, or 19.8%, to ¥20.4 billion. At 4.6%, the segment’s brand of sanitary ware with a 142-year history, was acquired by operating income ratio reached its highest level in ﬁve years. LIXIL Corporation. By leveraging ASB’s 13 manufacturing bases and 5 logistics centers in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, ■ By utilizing the introduction of such new products as primers, LIXIL will accelerate business expansion in North America. revenue growth of 7.5% in sanitary ware and 8.9% in bathrooms was achieved. However, because of roof damage ■ In January 2014, LIXIL Corporation acquired a major stake caused by heavy snowfall in February 2014 at the core kitchen in GROHE Group S.à r.l. through a joint investment with the system plant, the increase in kitchen system revenues was held Development Bank of Japan, making it an afﬁliated company of to 5.5%. LIXIL Corporation, accounted for by the equity method. GROHE is Europe’s leading manufacturer and supplier of premium sanitary ﬁttings. GROHE boasts high recognition as a premium brand used in luxury hotels and residences around the world. ■ As part of the investment, LIXIL Corporation also acquired a stake in Joyou AG, a Frankfurt exchange-listed bathroom ﬁxtures and ﬁttings manufacturer in which the GROHE Group owns a 72.3% share. Joyou is also accounted for as an equitymethod afﬁliate. Joyou sells a wide range of mass to premium market products in its home market of China and internationally. Its strengths are its leading market position, high proﬁtability, and extensive production base. SWOT Analysis ■ One of only two major players in Japanese market, ■ Declining product prices in Japanese market because controlling approximately 90% of market with its of intensifying competition competitor TOTO ■ Market leader in Japan, holding top market shares for kitchen systems, unit bathrooms, and washstand cabinets ■ Heightened presence in global market with addition of SW ASB, North America’s No. 1 sanitary ware manufacKitchen system SUNVARIE RICHELLE turer, and GROHE, world-leading manufacturer of premium sanitary ﬁttings Strengths Weaknesses Opportunities Threats ■ ened plumbing renovation needs among end users OT Expanding domestic renovation market and height■ ■ Contraction of Japan’s housing market as new housing starts tapering off Prolonged construction periods and construction slowdowns caused by labor shortages in Japanese ■ Recovery in North American housing market construction industry ■ Start of full-scale sales of shower toilets in ■ Rising management costs for procurement, North America manufacturing, and sales networks because of net■ GROHE’s JOYOU brand to develop Chinese and work expansion to include Japanese, other Asian, Washstand cabinet unit LUMISIS international mass market North American, and European markets LIXIL Group Corporation Review of Operations: Plumbing Fixtures Business 39 Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 500 438.5 24 20.4 8 400 18 6 300 4.6% 12 4 200 In March 2014, ASB launched DXV, a new, 6 2 full-range line of luxury plumbing products, 100 including spa-toilets. The LIXIL Group cur0 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 rently sells SATIS, a tankless spa-toilet, in Operating income Operating income ratio China and other countries in Asia as well as in its home market of Japan. After reengineering SATIS to U.S. speciﬁcations, the Group has begun full-scale sales of the product under the DXV brand using the Increase / Decrease Breakdown of Operating Income name spa-toilet AT 200, with “AT” standing for advanced toilet. (¥ billion) The bidet, deodorizing, and toilet seat 30 5.0 5.9 warming functions of the AT 200 are still 0 0.6 new to the North American market. The AT 7.0 2.8 0.6 20 200 is featured in the new DXV showroom in New York City, where press, designers, and consumers are invited to come in 10 17.0 20.4 and experience the AT 200 advantages for themselves. The product will also be displayed in 300 showrooms in North 0 2013 Sales Change in selling Raw material Cost Impact of SG&A Overseas 2014 America, including those of Ferguson ﬂuctuation price and mix costs ﬂuctuation exchange rate ﬂuctuation business Enterprises, North America’s largest plumbNote: Years ended March 31 ing wholesaler. In addition, more than 500 ASB employees will be installing the AT 200 in their homes so they will have ﬁrsthand experience in using this advanced product and can become ambassadors for the beneﬁts it provides. LIXIL Group Corporation 40 Review of Operations: Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Other Building Materials and Equipment Business Highlights for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Japan and Consolidated Performance ■ Net sales rose ¥21.7 billion, or 11.5%, from the previous ﬁscal year, to ¥209.7 billion. Operating income was up substantially, rising ¥2.5 billion, or 32.8%, to ¥10.1 billion. The operating income ratio also increased, to 4.8%. ■ Wooden interior furnishing materials sales—including ﬂooring, interior furnishing materials, and cabinets and other storage space furnishings—rose in particular, up 22.2%. ■ In October 2013, the LIXIL Group concluded a new capital and business alliance with Sharp Corporation, investing approximately ¥5.0 billion to further strengthen the alliance. ■ In October 2013, the LIXIL Group and JX Nippon Oil & Energy Corporation ( JX Energy) formed a business alliance. Under the agreement, the two partners will share the sales channel of JX Energy’s household-related energy products and the sales channel of the LIXIL Group’s building materials and equipment to expand their product sales. Moreover, the Group, including metal building materials and plumbing ﬁxtures businesses, will also develop new products by utilizing the high-performance materials of JX Energy. SWOT Analysis ■ Comprehensive renovation proposals that offer total ■ Delay in sales route expansion in Chinese market coordination of housing interiors, from wooden furfor wooden interior doors manufactured at plant in nishing, such as flooring and interior doors, to curtains Dalian, China and decorative wall tiles, made possible by a wide■ Low operational profit ratio of the Chinese business ranging product lineup ■ Extensive lineups of home exterior products, such as housing sidings, and solar photovoltaic systems SW Wooden interior furnishing materials FAMILY LINE ■ Cost competitive because approximately half of building materials and floor tiles sold in Japan are manufactured at overseas plants Strengths Weaknesses Opportunities Threats ■ OT Business alliances with Sharp, JX Energy, and others to develop and sell new products that fuse building materials with electronic materials, same as that with metal building materials and plumbing fixtures ■ Rising demands for improved thermal insulation and ■ Rising prices of wood tied to yen depreciation seismic resistance and for universal design layouts in ■ Declining advantage of overseas production due to Japan’s renovation market yen depreciation LIXIL Group Corporation Review of Operations: Other Building Materials and Equipment Business 41 The innovative thermal insulation renovation method COCOECO allows renovations of windows, walls, and floors one room at a time. The method entails the simple installation of only a 30-millimeter layer of ultrathin, high-performance, vacuum thermal insulation material to walls and a 15-millimeter layer to floors. Therefore, families can continue to live in their homes during the renovation process. In addition to the improved insulation of floors and walls, an extremely high degree of overall thermal insulation can be achieved by installing IN-PLUS inner windows, which are added to the interior side of existing windows. WALL IN-PLUS, a new model introduced in June 2014, integrates the plasterboard and vacuum thermal insulation material and maintains the same level of thermal insulation performance and pricing. By using the new product, renovations that used to take at least three days can be done in as short as one day. A/C temperature setting 24℃ Net Sales Operating Income (Loss) / Operating Income (Loss) Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) A house without COCOECO 209.7 250 15 9 10.1 Before 200 10 4.8% 6 A/C temperature setting 150 5 3 24℃ 100 Room 0 0 temperature 50 27.3℃ 0 10 11 12 13 14 –5 10 11 12 13 14 –3 Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) ratio After A/C temperature setting Increase / Decrease Breakdown of Operating Income 24℃ (¥ billion) Room 20 temperature 24.8℃ 15 1.6 3.3 1.8 1.9 6.0 2.6 0.9 Introducing COCOECO improves the efficiency 10 of air conditioners Note: The data listed represents only a portion 10.1 of the specifications and conditions under 5 7.6 which the measurements were made. Data results could change according to 0 2013 Sales Change in selling Raw material Cost Impact of SG&A Overseas 2014 the housing specifications, lifestyle, and ﬂuctuation price and mix costs ﬂuctuation exchange rate ﬂuctuation business location and measurement conditions. Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation 42 Review of Operations: Distribution and Retail Business Distribution and Retail Business Highlights for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Japan and Consolidated Performance ■ Net sales advanced ¥19.6 billion, or 11.2%, from the previous ﬁscal year, increasing to ¥195.1 billion. Operating income soared 14 times, jumping ¥3.6 billion, to ¥3.8 billion. ■ Four stores were opened in the large-scale home center business, Super Viva Home, and four stores were opened in the membership-based wholesale building materials business for professional users of housing-related materials, Ken Depot. The Super Viva Home business targets general consumers with its renovation services and renovation building materials for professional builders, while Ken Depot focuses on sales of renovation building materials for professional builders. The business segment uses this two-pronged strategy to differentiate its operations in and expand its share of the renovation market. ■ Giving top priority to improving proﬁtability, the home center business will increase the proportion of private-brand products and aim to reduce costs by increasing operating efﬁciency. Ken Depot will aim to turn a proﬁt in the ﬁscal year ending March 31, 2015. Net Sales Operating Income (Loss) / Operating Income (Loss) Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 250 4 3.8 4 195.1 200 3 3 2.0% 150 2 2 100 1 1 50 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 –1 10 11 12 13 14 –1 Operating income (loss) Operating income (loss) ratio Increase / Decrease Breakdown of Operating Income Number of Stores (¥ billion) (Number) 6 200 1.8 1.7 160 4 120 1.6 80 3.8 2 1.3 0.3 0.3 0 40 0.3 0 2013 Sales ﬂuctuation Sales ﬂuctuation Effect of Sales price of Cost of existing Ken Depot Impact of 2014 0 10 11 12 13 14 of new stores of existing stores closed stores existing stores stores exchange rate Viva Home Super Viva Home New Viva Home Ken Depot Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation Review of Operations: Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses 43 Housing, Real Estate and Other Businesses Highlights for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Japan and Consolidated Performance ■ Net sales amounted to ¥64.2 billion, increasing ¥4.9 billion, or 8.3%, year on year. Operating income grew ¥800 million, or 16.1%, to ¥5.7 billion. The operating income ratio was 8.9%. ■ Against the backdrop of rush demand ahead of the scheduled consumption tax increase, the business segment introduced products that met market needs, centered on its Eyeful Home’s core product cesibo. By concentrating its efforts on selling and winning orders for such products as cesibo EX-H, which features superior thermal insulation and airtightness, the business segment attained growth in sales and proﬁts. ■ In November 2013, the number of cumulative ground inspections and analyses done by JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION ( JHS) exceeded 800,000. Demand for ground inspections has surged since the March 2011 Great East Japan Earthquake, with JHS completing 120,000 inspections during the one-year period from autumn 2012. JHS offers ground inspection and improvement services. Sales by Company Operating Income (Loss) / Operating Income (Loss) Ratio (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) 80 9 12 64.2 8.9% 60 6 5.7 8 40 3 4 20 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 –3 10 11 12 13 14 –4 LIXIL Housing Research Institute* Operating income (loss) JAPAN HOME SHIELD JIO Other and adjustments Operating income (loss) ratio * Formerly Tostem Housing Research Institute Cumulative Number of Housing Site Ground Inspections and Analyses (Thousand houses) 900 850 600 300 Housing site ground inspection by screwdriver sounding test 0 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation 44 Topics for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Topics for the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 C-30 Project Achieves Cost Reduction Target Initiated in the ﬁscal year ended March 2012, the C-30 Project target. As a result, the ¥49.0 billion in operating income of aimed to reduce costs by ¥110.0 billion over the three-year existing domestic businesses in the ﬁscal year ended March period ended March 2014. This goal was to be achieved by 2011 increased to ¥88.0 billion in the ﬁscal year ended March increasing the efﬁciency of existing domestic businesses. 2014—a gain of ¥39.0 billion in proﬁts. The project started with the two basic policies of reducing The operating income improvement goal of the C-30 costs by 30% through the elimination of overlap following the Project is being worked toward under the new three-year LIXIL Corporation merger* and achieving Group optimization Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-16. Two new through efﬁciencies attained by “zero-based revisions” of all programs, Marketing & Innovation 16 (MI-16) and Business operations. These policies were then converted into concrete Transformation 16 (BT-16), are focused on realizing further measures for implementation. Overall, the project achieved a gains in proﬁtability on multiple fronts. cumulative total of ¥114.7 billion in cost reduction over the * In April 2011, TOSTEM Corporation, INAX Corporation, Shin Nikkei Company, Ltd., three-year period through March 2014, exceeding the original Sun Wave Corporation, and Toyo Exterior Co., Ltd., merged to form LIXIL Corporation. Results of the C-30 Project (¥ billion) 100 +15.2 88.0 80 +37.4 60 49.0* – 75.7 +37.1 40 20 +25.0 0 –20 – 40 2012 operating income Negative factors Sales Development and production Purchasing and distribution Others 2014 operating income of existing business of existing business 2014 2013 2012 * Constitutional profit (excluding the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake) Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Forms Business and Capital Alliance with Flagship Showroom Opens in Osaka EDION Corporation, Plans to Expand Renovation Product Following up on the 2012 opening of a ﬂagship showroom in Sales Channels Tokyo, the Group opened LIXIL Showroom Osaka in August In August 2013, the LIXIL Group formed a business and capital 2013. Designed around the concept of “Enjoying Home Life,” alliance with major electric home appliance mass retailer the showroom has 1,890 square meters of ﬂoor space. The EDION Corporation, and in September became its largest showroom features comprehensive exhibits of the LIXIL shareholder through the acquisition of a private placement. Group’s diverse product lineups, from plumbing ﬁxtures to After entering the renovation business in 2008, EDION has decorative tiles, interior building materials, window sashes, steadily expanded its services to include even sales and instaland exterior products. In addition, the exhibits support inforlation of solar photovoltaic systems, with the goal of developmation gathering by visitors through access to additional inforing its renovation business into a core source of earnings. With mation using their smartphones. With the showroom of LIXIL the LIXIL Group working to develop renovation demand as its Group company Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd., an intedomestic growth strategy, EDION will be a strong business rior fabric specialist, in the same building, a wealth of LIXIL partner in terms of expanding renovation sales channels. ideas for home building and interior design are available. Going forward, in addition to setting up large-scale renovation product sales ﬂoors in EDION stores, the two partners plan on achieving other synergies, such as joint development of products. Renovation product sales floor in an EDION store Exhibit floor space in LIXIL Showroom Osaka LIXIL Group Corporation Corporate Governance 45 Corporate Governance Creating a Highly Transparent and Objective System The LIXIL Group clearly separates its business execution and oversight functions. In 2011, to enable rapid business decisions by executive officers and to ensure business transparency, the Group converted to the company with committees governance structure. Aiming to provide value to stakeholders and remain a highly reputable corporate group, we are constantly working to strengthen our corporate governance. LIXIL Group Corporation 46 Message from the Chairman of the Board Message from the Chairman of the Board Yoichiro Ushioda Chairman of the Board LIXIL Group Governance —Where Are We Headed Next?— Let me begin with a few words about governance at the management that pours energy into the wrong ﬁelds. If that LIXIL Group. situation continues, damage to a company’s value is all but In my view, a board of directors has two key roles: to inevitable. At the LIXIL Group, scrutiny by the Audit consider management in terms of the “big picture” and to Committee and the Nomination Committee ensures that our self-correct. A company without these roles embedded cannot Board of Directors select the right management team. Good survive for long. The board of directors is a place for directors, communication with the CEO is especially important. along with a highly experienced team of outside directors, to At the Davos meeting of the World Economic Forum, examine management from a “big picture” perspective to which the LIXIL Group took part in as a Strategic Partner, there determine whether corporate operations are on the right track. was a closed-door meeting of non-executive chairmen. In The decision to tackle issues in a small way or to go all out attendance were founders and former CEOs of global corporawill transform management. When it comes to management tions now serving as board chairs. The tone of the meeting strategy, we focus on large social trends, rather than economic was relaxed, with those present swapping viewpoints on the conditions at hand. election and dismissal of CEOs, the selection of board memOn boards where the CEO serves concurrently as chair, bers, and other topics. In taking part, I was reminded again of replacing the management team can be a challenge, which just how much better the committee system is when it comes tends to leave the board’s ability to self-correct incomplete. to governance. And what that results in is management that is unable to create Population decline is, in the long run, the biggest problem anything new, and that leaves customers disappointed, and that Japanese companies face. As society shrinks, the prediction LIXIL Group Corporation Message from the Chairman of the Board 47 Composition of the Board of Directors (10 members) Directors who are concurrently Outside directors: 4 members Japanese females: serving as executive ofﬁcers: 1 member 3 members Directors / Outside Directors Diversity Executive Directors Directors who are not Internal directors: 6 members Japanese males: 9 members executive officers: 7 members is that this trend, before long, will cause whole cities, towns, The managers of overseas companies we acquire comprise and villages to disappear. The countercurrent to such times is another huge management asset for the LIXIL Group. In corthat, while many existing businesses will fade out, it will be an porate groups that have organizational uniformity and are opportunity at the same time for new businesses to emerge. deeply tied to homogeneous customers, like most Japanese Consequently, the need for the LIXIL Group to transform its ﬁrms, I felt that major change would be overwhelming and business model in Japan is also fast approaching. that they would prove brittle and fall to pieces. Under the The transformation of a business model requires an LIXIL Group’s new corporate culture, we are striving for a uncommon degree of effort. Nothing can be expected to come climate in-house where excellent ideas can move to action from a direction that breaks an organization down into tiny by working side by side with people from diverse racial, segments to eliminate risk. In all likelihood, we will need linguistic, and career backgrounds. to tolerate failures by in-house entrepreneurs eager to face At the Global Management Committee meeting the LIXIL new challenges in order to give them many chances to shine. Group hosted in Germany over several days in April 2014, we Seeking out a path different from past successes is a trial for brought the leadership of our core operating companies from management and can test patience, since it could mean holdaround the globe together to share objectives and values and ing onto businesses with no short-term prospects of proﬁtabilto discuss and debate their own important issues. Everyone at ity. From a governance position, I want us to take a step back the meeting recognized the enormous business opportunities from immediate proﬁts to watch over the kinds of business that the new LIXIL Group presents, and I can happily report start-up activity that this new society will need. that the meeting ended with conﬁdence that further growth If we turn our attention for a moment overseas, we can lies ahead. identify any number of high-growth markets. While interest In closing, I would like to thank you, our shareholders, for rates remain low and the yen retains its strength, we need to your continued warm support and guidance of the LIXIL Group. use M&A activity to expedite our efforts and quickly develop operations outside Japan. This step, however, is impossible for August 2014 companies that lack management strength. The reason why is that making rational M&A decisions, pursuing synergies after acquisitions, and demonstrating the powerful leadership needed to motivate staff from different cultural backgrounds are all highly difﬁcult tasks. Our Board of Directors has worked to reinforce management by inviting into the Company many talented human resources, including our current CEO. Yoichiro Ushioda Chairman of the Board LIXIL Group Corporation 48 Board of Directors Board of Directors (As of June 20, 2014) Nomination Committee Fumio Sudo (Head) Yoichiro Ushioda Hidehiko Sato Compensation Committee Takashi Tsutsui (Head) Yoichiro Ushioda Yoshiaki Fujimori Fumio Sudo Director, Chairman of the Board Director* Main Kohda Mr. Yoichiro Ushioda has been serving as Mr. Yoshiaki Fujimori has been serving as Audit Committee Chairman of the Board of the Company since President and CEO of the Company as well June 2012. He previously served as Executive as President and CEO of a subsidiary, LIXIL Yoshinobu Kikuchi (Head) Vice President in the Company from 2001 Corporation, since August 2011. He also and as Chairman, CEO, and Representative serves as the Representative Director of Tsutomu Kawaguchi Director from 2006. He also served as GraceA Co., Ltd. Prior to joining the Group, Hidehiko Sato Chairman and CEO of Tostem Corporation Mr. Fujimori worked for 25 years at General (now LIXIL Corporation) and LIXIL Corporation Electric Company (GE), where he was Senior in the past. Mr. Ushioda originally joined the Vice President and a member of the Corporate Company in 1977 and became Director and Executive Council. He served as President and General Manager of the Sales Planning CEO of various business divisions, including Department in 1980. Medical Systems Asia, GE Plastics, and GE Capital Asia, and as Chairman of GE Japan. Prior to joining GE, he worked for Nissho Iwai Corporation (now Sojitz Corporation) for 10 years. He has been Director in Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, since 2012. Keiichiro Ina Fumio Sudo Director Director (Outside) Mr. Keiichiro Ina has been serving as Director in Mr. Fumio Sudo has been serving as Outside the Company since June 2001. From 1998, Director in the Company since June 2010. he served as Director in INAX Corporation He has also been Head of the Company’s (now LIXIL Corporation), originally joining the Nomination Committee since June 2012 and company in 1974. a member of the Company’s Compensation Committee since June 2011. Mr. Sudo also serves as Chairman of Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, as an advisor of JFE Holdings, Inc., and as Director in Takeda Pharmaceutical Company Limited and Taisei Corporation. He was President and Representative Director of JFE Holdings from 2005 to 2010. LIXIL Group Corporation Board of Directors 49 Takashi Tsutsui Yoshizumi Kanamori Yoshinobu Kikuchi Director* Director* Director Mr. Takashi Tsutsui has been serving as Mr. Yoshizumi Kanamori has been serving as Mr. Yoshinobu Kikuchi has been serving as Executive Vice President and Director in the Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer and Director Director in the Company since June 2012 Company since June 2011. He is also Head of in the Company since June 2011, taking and is also Head of the Company’s Audit the Company’s Compensation Committee and responsibility for ﬁnance in April 2014. Committee. Previously, he also served as has been serving as Executive Vice President, Previously, he also served as Chief Financial Executive Vice President in a subsidiary, LIXIL Chief External Relations Ofﬁcer, and Director in Ofﬁcer in the Company and as Senior Corporation. He joined the Company in 1969. a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining Managing Executive Ofﬁcer and Director the Group in April 2009, Mr. Tsutsui served in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. He joined as President and CEO of Jasdaq Securities the Company in 1977. Exchange, Inc., from 2005. Prior to joining Jasdaq Securities Exchange, he worked for Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (now Nomura Holdings, Inc.), joining the company in 1974 and becoming Director in 2002 and Executive Ofﬁcer in 2003. Hidehiko Sato Tsutomu Kawaguchi Main Kohda Director (Outside) Director (Outside) Director (Outside) Mr. Hidehiko Sato has been serving as Outside Mr. Tsutomu Kawaguchi has been serving as Ms. Main Kohda has been serving as Outside Director in the Company since June 2011. Outside Director in the Company since June Director in the Company since June 2013. He is also a member of the Company’s Audit 2011. He is also a member of the Company’s She is also a member of the Company’s Committee and Nomination Committee, serves Audit Committee and serves as an auditor Compensation Committee. She has been a as Director in Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma of FreeBit Co., Ltd. Mr. Kawaguchi has been member of the NHK Management Committee Co., Ltd., and is registered as a lawyer. a registered certiﬁed public accountant since June 2010 and Outside Director in Japan Previously, Mr. Sato was the Commissioner since March 1974 and used to serve as Tobacco Inc. since June 2012. She is also General of the National Police Agency from Representative Partner for Grant Thornton a bestselling writer. Prior to joining the LIXIL 2002 to 2004, having held a variety of posiTaiyo ASG. Group, she worked for U.S. banks and securitions since joining the agency in 1968. ties companies and she has also served as a member of public advisory committees. * Indicates a director who serves as an executive officer LIXIL Group Corporation 50 Status of Corporate Governance Status of Corporate Governance Corporate Governance at the LIXIL Group LIXIL Group Corporation has adopted the company with comAs a pure holding company, the Company has formed the mittees corporate governance model as provided for under following meetings, committees, and councils to strengthen govJapan’s Companies Act. Under this governance system, the ernance over Group companies: Management Meeting, Internal Company separates the conduct of management from the Audit Committee, Compliance Committee, Risk Management surveillance of management with the objectives of creating Committee, Investment Strategy Council, Investment and Loan a system where the executive ofﬁcers can make management Council, CSR Promotion Committee, Reorganization Deliberation decisions quickly and efﬁciently while achieving and maintainCouncil, and New Business Deliberation (Acquisition) Council. ing management transparency. These committees discuss corporate strategy, consider mediumto-long-term policies, deliberate investments, and work to accelerate decision making while enhancing the effectiveness of governance. Governance Structure (As of June 2014) General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment LIXIL Group Corporation Appointment and Dismissal Determination Board of Directors of Director (Internal and Outside) Candidates Accounting Auditors (Collaborate with Internal Audit Committee and Internal Audit Division) Chairman of the Board Supervision Appointment and Dismissal Nomination Committee Appointment (Outside and Dismissal Compensation Committee directors form the majority) Board of Directors Report Audit Committee Company with Committees (Decision making and supervision) Appointment Compliance Compliance and Dismissal audit audit Report Audit Validation Validation audit audit Representative Executive Ofﬁcers and Executive Ofﬁcers (Decide on matters delegated by the Board of Directors, and execute business) Business Execution Executive Ofﬁcers Meetings and Various Committees Management Meeting, Internal Audit Committee, Compliance Committee, Risk Management Committee, Investment Strategy Council, Investment and Loan Council, CSR Promotion Committee, Reorganization Deliberation Council, and New Business Deliberation (Acquisition) Council Management Supervision Operating Companies General Meeting of Shareholders Company with Corporate Corporate Auditors Board of Directors Audit Auditors Management Meeting Divisions For further details regarding the Company’s corporate governance system, internal control systems, and other related matters, please access the following URL: http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/about/governance/system.htm LIXIL Group Corporation Status of Corporate Governance 51 Messages from Outside Directors Fumio Sudo Hidehiko Sato Head of the Nomination Committee and Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee I am conscious of being a representative of all stakeAn organization in which highly skilled and experienced holders, and I will provide advice and recommendations personnel can ﬂourish and a corporate culture that strives that contribute to the creation of value. for reform and innovation form the bedrock of The vitality of a business stems from the continuous creation of management. new value. The Group operates with the philosophy of contributing to There is a need to encourage diversity. Reform and innovapeople’s comfort and lifestyles. Having accomplished business tion are necessary for any business, and that involves risk. Over integration in Japan, the Group is progressing with overseas the past two to three years, LIXIL Group Corporation has created expansion based on careful planning, and it is growing steadily. this type of environment for itself, and it is determined to ﬁnd a The roots of success lie in changing to an entity with a comway to thrive. mittee-based governance structure, choosing an efﬁcient execuLIXIL Group Corporation is making concerted efforts to tive system, creating effective governance that clearly separates broaden its outlook for the future. While expressing my respect execution and oversight, and proactively hiring highly experifor these efforts, I am acutely aware that, particularly at times enced personnel and making full use of their expertise. such as these, questions can arise over one’s value as an outside Furthermore, the creation of the Global Management Committee director. with the aim of becoming a truly global enterprise is putting to I strongly intend to contribute to LIXIL’s efforts by providing full use the abilities and experience of the management ranks. advice and recommendations on oversight in terms of goverDuring such times of change, it is essential that employees— nance and management from a different perspective to that of each of whom are important stakeholders supporting the the other directors and executive ofﬁcers. My standpoint is clear. Group—hold LIXIL in affection and with pride and build a corThat is, I am a representative of all stakeholders, including shareporate culture that strives determinedly for reform and innovation. holders, customers, and employees. I will carry out my responsiI would like to focus on the organizational roots that provide bilities wholeheartedly. a ﬁrm foundation for the Group and support its broad, ﬂourishing development. Tsutomu Kawaguchi Main Kohda Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee I will support LIXIL’s business development as a global Diversity in personnel generates ﬂexible viewpoints and enterprise by contributing to the maintenance and is a great asset for developing a business globally. improvement of the internal control system. The past ﬁscal year was one in which we saw promising signs In May 2014, we announced the new Medium-Term Business of the LIXIL Group trying to reinvent itself as a global enterprise. Plan LIXIL G-16. The Group aims to be a top-level global enterIt was also a year in which we were able to see the positive prise, and it will strive to achieve this plan and to integrate as a attitudes of every employee as they addressed themselves with global “One LIXIL.” sincerity to their work and careers, and we glimpsed some However, to realize these goals, it is vital that our global corresults of efforts aimed at the diversiﬁcation of human resources porate system of internal controls functions effectively. Since within the Company. trying to grow too hastily without a ﬁrm foothold is risky, I Diversity in human resources generates ﬂexible points of would like to pay close attention to maintaining and improving view in a company, and it provides a real boost to setting objecthe Group’s foothold, that is, the Group’s system of internal tives and values. In today’s global business environment, characcontrols, and to push forward with G-16. terized as it is by high levels of uncertainty, diversity is a great Additionally, we plan early adoption of International asset for businesses that need to respond to constant change. Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) from the next ﬁscal year, I can also venture to say that it forms the basis of a business’s and this is also part of our efforts to catch up with global stancompetitive strength. dards as a global enterprise. As an outside director, I intend to continue to provide I would like to concentrate on thorough disclosure and to support to everyone at LIXIL Group Corporation as they tackle effect a smooth transition from the Japanese standards used up various issues. until now. LIXIL Group Corporation 52 Status of Corporate Governance Composition of Committees and Position of the Chairman Number of Members Internal Directors Outside Directors Chairman (of the Committee) Board of Directors 10 6 4 (all 4 are Internal Director independent directors) Nomination Committee 3 1 2 Outside Director Compensation Committee 3 1 2 Internal Director Audit Committee 3 1 2 Internal Director Number of Meetings Held during the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 Made decisions on matters specified by law, basic management policies, and important management Board of Directors 16 matters as well as monitored the conduct of duties by the directors and executive officers (Meets once a month in principle) Made decisions on the content of proposals to be submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders regarding Nomination Committee 2 the election and dismissal of directors (Meets one or more times a year, as necessary) Compensation Discussed and made decisions regarding the content of compensation of individual directors and executive 8 Committee officers (Meets one or more times a year, as necessary) In addition to auditing the conduct of duties by the directors and executive officers, discussed and made decisions on auditing policy, auditing plans, and the content of proposals to be submitted to the General Audit Committee 14 Meeting of Shareholders regarding the selection and dismissal of the independent accounting firm (Meets once a month or more, as necessary, in principle) As the decision-making body responsible for the execution of business activities in accordance with the basic Executive Ofﬁcers policies approved by the board of directors, decided on important matters related to the execution of business 22 Meetings in the Company and the Group as a whole (Meets once a month in principle; holds extraordinary meetings as necessary) Investment Strategy Discussed Group strategy (investments, funding, M&A, overseas strategy, etc.) and set directions with the 13 Council objective of increasing the LIXIL Group corporate value Deliberated proposals made by the holding company and the operating companies that (1) are investments Investment and Loan that are closely involved with Group strategy, (2) investments that are related to more than one Group 16 Council operating company, and (3) investments that exceed the approval authority of the president of the relevant operating company (e.g., opening of new LIXIL Viva stores) CSR Promotion Formulated the CSR Policy for the overall LIXIL Group and provided oversight and guidance for the 4 Committee implementation of priority themes and activities based on that policy Reorganization Implemented early identification of unprofitable businesses to strengthen competitiveness and deliberated 2 Deliberation Council restructuring policies with an eye to business structural reforms when appropriate New Business Deliberated proposals made by the holding company and the operating companies that are (1) investments Deliberation (Acquisition) 2 that involve the establishment of a new company or are investments in an existing company and (2) Council investments for the acquisition, etc., of a business partner company of an operating company Risk Management In addition to forming a risk management committee in the holding company, also monitored the formation of 14 Committee such committees for risk management in Group companies and confirmed the status of risk management Provided guidance for structuring and operational management of compliance systems in Group companies Compliance Committee 4 and monitoring of the status of requiring compliance with laws and regulations Status of Auditing Activities Internal Audit Division The holding company and principal Group companies have formed internal auditing departments that periodically conduct audits internally, including audits of subsidiaries. The Meeting of Persons Responsible for Internal Auditing in Group Companies has been formed to share information on Group companies as well as the uniform auditing policies of the Group. This meeting is held, in principle, once a year in Japan and once every two years overseas. Accounting Auditors Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu LLC LIXIL Group Corporation Status of Corporate Governance 53 Corporate Officer Compensation Compensation paid to the Company’s corporate ofﬁcers in the year ended March 31, 2014, was as per the tables below. 1. Total Amount of Compensation by Corporate Officer Title, by Type of Compensation, and Number of Officers Receiving Total Compensation (Millions of yen) Number of Corporate Total Compensation by Type Corporate Officer Title Performance-Based Officers Eligible for (Millions of yen) Basic Compensation Stock Option Compensation Compensation Directors 329 168 — 160 3 (excluding Outside Directors) Executive Officers 1,294 672 130 491 14 Outside Directors 101 51 — 50 6 2. Total Compensation of Officers Receiving ¥100 Million or More Total Compensation by Type (Millions of yen) Corporate Total Compensation Name Company Performance-Based Officer Title (Millions of yen) Basic Compensation Stock Option Compensation Yoichiro Ushioda Director LIXIL Group Corporation 234 120 — 114 Director LIXIL INTERNATIONAL Pte. Ltd. 1 1 — — Yoshiaki Fujimori Executive Ofﬁcer LIXIL Group Corporation 335 150 70 114 Ryuichi Kawamoto Executive Ofﬁcer LIXIL Group Corporation 46 — 8 38 Director LIXIL Corporation 55 55 — — 3. Policy for Determining the Amount and Method of Calculation of Corporate Officers’ Compensation and Decision-Making Method for the execution of business operations, in order to reﬂect the Basic policy on compensation, etc. differences in their roles. In the case of a director who is conThe Company’s policy on the compensation plan for corporate currently serving as an executive ofﬁcer, the compensation ofﬁcers is to implement a fair compensation structure that will plan for executive ofﬁcers shall be applied. motivate each corporate ofﬁcer to execute his or her duties in order to meet shareholders’ expectations and fulﬁll the [Compensation structures for directors and executive ofﬁcers] Company’s business policy. ■ A director’s compensation shall consist of basic compensa■ The compensation system shall be performance-based comtion and stock options. pensation to allow for appropriate reﬂection of the Group’s ■ An executive ofﬁcer’s compensation shall consist of basic consolidated performance. compensation, performance-based compensation, and ■ To ensure the concurrence of interests between shareholders stock options. and corporate ofﬁcers, a stock option plan shall be adopted to allow for the reﬂection of continual medium-to-long-term [Description of compensation by type] enhancement of corporate value. ■ As ﬁxed compensation, basic compensation shall be main■ Performance accountability shall be clearly established, and a tained at an appropriate level through comparison with system shall be devised that will reward corporate ofﬁcers with objective external indicators. The basic compensation for appropriate compensation upon the achievement of a goal in executive ofﬁcers shall be structured such that a certain perorder to motivate corporate ofﬁcers to achieve the goals set. centage thereof ﬂuctuates in accordance with the level of ■ The Compensation Committee shall assess the Company’s achievement of business targets set for the relevant departcompensation level by comparing it with objective external ment in order to reward executive ofﬁcers for the achieveindicators and manage it to ensure that the level is commenment of goals. surate with the relevant duties and performance. At the same time, the level shall be set to be sufﬁcient to retain for the ■ Performance-based compensation shall be determined long-term competent human resources who are indispensin accordance with the position of the relevant executive able to the Company’s sustainable growth. ofﬁcer based on the operating income margin for the current ﬁscal period and allocated as an annual bonus. Compensation structure ■ Stock options, provided as a medium-to-long-term incentive Under the corporate ofﬁcers’ compensation structure, there in the interest of shareholders, shall be determined on the shall be separate structures for directors, who are responsible basis of corporate performance, the position of the relevant for governance, and executive ofﬁcers, who are responsible corporate ofﬁcer, and other criteria. LIXIL Group Corporation 54 Executive Officers Executive Ofﬁcers (As of June 20, 2014) (Standing, from left) Yoshiaki Fujimori Ryuichi Kawamoto Sachio Matsumoto, Yoshizumi Kanamori, President and CEO Representative Executive Ofﬁcer Shinichi Tanzawa, Yosuke Yagi, Takashi Tsutsui, and Executive Vice President Toshimasa Iue, Tadashi Arishiro, Haruo Shirai, Mr. Yoshiaki Fujimori has been serving as President Ryo Nihei, Katsuhiro Mamenari and CEO of the Company as well as President and Mr. Ryuichi Kawamoto has been serving as (Seated, from left) Representative Executive Ofﬁcer and Vice President CEO of a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation, since August Ryuichi Kawamoto, Yoshiaki Fujimori, Harumi Matsumura 2011. He also serves as the Representative Director in the Company since June 2012, taking responsiof GraceA Co., Ltd. Prior to joining the Group, bility for product development in April 2014. He is Mr. Fujimori worked for 25 years at General Electric also serving as Senior Executive Vice President, Company (GE), where he was Senior Vice President Chief Technology Ofﬁcer, and Representative and a member of the Corporate Executive Council. Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. He served as President and CEO of various business Mr. Kawamoto joined INAX Corporation (now divisions, including Medical Systems Asia, GE LIXIL Corporation) in April 1976. Plastics, and GE Capital Asia, and as Chairman of GE Japan. Prior to joining GE, he worked for Nissho Iwai Corporation (now Sojitz Corporation) for 10 years. He has been Director in Tokyo Electric Power Company, Incorporated, since 2012. LIXIL Group Corporation Executive Officers 55 Takashi Tsutsui Haruo Shirai Sachio Matsumoto Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Vice President Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Vice President Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Mr. Takashi Tsutsui has been serving as Executive Mr. Haruo Shirai has been serving as Executive Vice Mr. Sachio Matsumoto has been serving as Senior Vice President and Director in the Company since President in the Company since June 2012, with Managing Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since June 2011. He is also Head of the Company’s responsibility for Japanese sales. He is also serving as June 2013, taking responsibility for accounting in Compensation Committee and has been serving as Executive Vice President and Director in a subsidiary, April 2014. He is also serving as Senior Managing Executive Vice President, Chief External Relations LIXIL Corporation, as well as President of LIXIL Japan Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, and Director Ofﬁcer, and Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Company. He joined the Company in April 1974. in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining the Corporation. Prior to joining the Group in April 2009, Group, he was Corporate Vice President and Head Mr. Tsutsui served as President and CEO of Jasdaq of Finance and Treasury in Fuji Xerox Co., Ltd. Securities Exchange, Inc., from 2005. Prior to joining Yoshizumi Kanamori Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Jasdaq Securities Exchange, he worked for Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. (now Nomura Holdings, Inc.), Katsuhiro Mamenari Mr. Yoshizumi Kanamori has been serving as Senior Executive Ofﬁcer joining the company in 1974 and becoming Director Managing Executive Ofﬁcer and Director in the in 2002 and Executive Ofﬁcer in 2003. Company since June 2011, taking responsibility Mr. Katsuhiro Mamenari has been serving as for ﬁnance in April 2014. Previously, he also served Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since June 2011, Toshimasa Iue as Chief Financial Ofﬁcer in the Company and as with responsibility for home centers. He is also Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Vice President Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer and Director serving as President and Representative Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. He joined the in a subsidiary, TOSTEM VIVA CORPORATION Mr. Toshimasa Iue has been serving as Executive Company in 1977. (now LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION), since 2000. Vice President in the Company since June 2011, Mr. Mamenari joined the Company in April 1973. taking responsibility for marketing in April 2014. He is also serving as Executive Vice President, Chief Shinichi Tanzawa Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Marketing and Sales Ofﬁcer, and Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining the Group, Mr. Shinichi Tanzawa has been serving as Senior Mr. Iue held senior positions in SANYO Electric Co., Managing Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since (As of July 26, 2014) Ltd. He joined SANYO Electric in 1989 and was June 2011, taking responsibility for business transPresident from June 2005 until he became Adviser Kenji Uenishi formation in April 2014. He is also serving as Senior in the company in April 2007. Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Managing Executive Ofﬁcer, Chief Business Transformation Ofﬁcer, and Director in a subsidiary, Mr. Uenishi has been serving as Senior Managing Tadashi Arishiro LIXIL Corporation. Prior to joining the Group in 2010, Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since July 2014, Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Vice President Mr. Tanzawa served as Senior Executive Managing with responsibility for supply chain. He is also Director in FANUC Corporation, which he originally serving as Senior Managing Director, Chief Supply Mr. Tadashi Arishiro has been serving as Executive joined in 1983. Chain Ofﬁcer, and Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Vice President in the Company since June 2011, Corporation. Prior to joining LIXIL Corporation, taking responsibility for production in June 2013. He Ryo Nihei Mr. Uenishi spent 26 years with General Electric (GE). is also serving as Executive Vice President in a subExecutive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Beginning as an advanced R&D engineer for GE airsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Mr. Arishiro joined INAX craft engines in the United States, he served in sevCorporation (now LIXIL Corporation) in April 1980. Mr. Ryo Nihei has been serving as Senior Managing eral senior executive roles, including President of GE Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since June 2011, Energy Asia-Paciﬁc, with responsibility for its GE Yosuke Yagi taking responsibility for R&D and production process Power & Water, GE Energy Services, and GE Oil & Executive Ofﬁcer and Executive Vice President improvement in April 2013. He is also serving as Gas businesses, and CEO of GE Aviation-Japan. Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer in a subsidiary, Mr. Uenishi also worked at the NASA-Langley Mr. Yosuke Yagi has been serving as Executive Vice LIXIL Corporation. Mr. Nihei used to serve as Senior Research Center in the United States. President in the Company since April 2012, taking Managing Director in FANUC Corporation. responsibility for human resources and general affairs in April 2014. He is also serving as Executive Laurence W. Bates Vice President, Chief Human Resources Ofﬁcer, and Harumi Matsumura Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Executive Ofﬁcer and Senior Managing Director Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to Mr. Bates has been serving as Senior Managing joining the Group, he worked for GE Yokogawa Ms. Harumi Matsumura has been serving as Senior Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since July 2014, Medical Systems Limited (now GE Healthcare Managing Executive Ofﬁcer in the Company since with responsibility for legal. He is also serving as Japan) from 1999 to 2012, becoming Director in GE July 2011, with responsibility for public relations, Senior Managing Director, Chief Legal Ofﬁcer, and Japan from 2003 and leading all GE business in CSR, and environmental strategy and from June Director in a subsidiary, LIXIL Corporation. Prior to Japan and Asia as Senior HR Manager from 2002 to 2014 housing and service business. She is also joining the Group, Mr. Bates worked for 22 years at 2012. Prior to joining GE, he worked for Nippon serving as Senior Managing Executive Ofﬁcer and General Electric (GE) in the United States, where he Kokan for 19 years from 1980. Chief Communication Ofﬁcer in a subsidiary, LIXIL held positions of Senior Executive and on the Global Corporation. Prior to joining the Group, she was Leadership Council for many years. He served most President and Representative Director of Henri recently as General Counsel of GE Japan, from 1998 Charpentier Co., Ltd., from 2004 to 2011. She also until his retirement at the end of 2013. Prior to GE, served as a manager at major retailer Seibu he worked with international law ﬁrms Morrison & Department Stores, Ltd. (now Sogo & Seibu Co., Foerster, in Tokyo, and Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton Ltd.), which she originally joined in 1976. & Garrison, in New York and Beijing. LIXIL Group Corporation 56 Investor Relations Investor Relations Basic Investor Relations Policy External Evaluations (From April 2013 to March 2014) LIXIL Group Corporation regards investor relations as facilitatInstitutional Investors: ing communication with capital markets in Japan and overseas “The 2014 All-Japan Executive Team” and thereby helping enhance corporate value. Accordingly, the ■ Best IR Companies ranking: 59th overall Company’s investor relations activities convey messages from ■ Best CEO: Construction, LIXIL Group Corp., senior management to markets while providing senior manageYoshiaki Fujimori: Buy Side, No. 1; Sell Side, No. 2 ment with feedback from markets in an unﬂagging effort to ■ Best CFO: Construction, LIXIL Group Corp., boost corporate value. Yoshizumi Kanamori and Sachio Matsumoto: Buy Side, No. 2 Criteria for Disclosure LACP Vision Awards held by the League of American LIXIL Group Corporation is committed to developing business Communications Professionals LLC (LACP) activities that not only comply with legal requirements but ■ Gold award in the 2012 publication and meet the highest ethical standards. It is also committed to online annual report categories transparent and timely disclosure to shareholders and other ( July 2013) investors. Regarding the disclosure of important information, such as decisions, events, or information regarding accounts settlement, that affects investment judgments, the Company discloses the information based on the timely disclosure rules Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd. enacted by the Tokyo Stock Exchange. It is also the Company’s ■ “Internet IR Commendation Award” 2013 policy to disclose information that does not fall under the (November 2013) timely disclosure rules, as positively and fairly as possible, in order to better meet investors’ needs. NIKKEI Annual Report Awards 2013 “Quiet Period” ■ Honorable Mention ( January 2014) In order to prevent the leakage of information regarding the data for the announcement of the account settlement and to ensure fairness, LIXIL Group Corporation has established an New Index “JPX-Nikkei Index 400” ■ Selected as one of the constituents of the new “JPX-Nikkei approximately three-week “Quiet Period” prior to the announcement of the quarterly accounts. During this period, the Company Index 400” launched in January 2014 refrains from making comments on the accounts or responding to related questions. However, in the event that LIXIL Group Corporation ﬁnds a major discrepancy in relation to projections METI and TSE Jointly Announce LIXIL during the “Quiet Period,” the Company will disclose the relea “Nadeshiko Brand” Company for Fiscal 2013 vant information in accordance with the timely disclosure rules. In March 2014, the LIXIL Group was selected as one of the “Nadeshiko Brand” companies for the ﬁscal year ended March 2014. The selection is undertaken as a joint project between the Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry (METI) and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) that is part of the Japan Economy Support Project. Companies are ranked ﬁrst on their career support for women and second on their support of employees’ work-life balance, with the top scoring companies in individual business ﬁelds meeting IR Team (from left): certain ﬁnancial standards (ROE) being selected as Shizuka Fukushima “Nadeshiko Brand” companies. Daizo Motoyoshi (New York Representative) Yukiyo Uto Takashi Tsutsui (Executive Ofﬁcer in charge of M&A, Investor Relations, and External Affairs) Keishi Saito (Head, Investor Relations Ofﬁce) Emiko Ukon Yoriko Nakashima Investor relations site Web page on awards: http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ir/ http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/about/evaluation.htm (Japanese only) LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness 57 LIXIL Design Contest 2013 Gold Award “Villa Tomonoura” designed by Keisuke Maeda, UID; photo by Hiroshi Ueda Special Feature 2 Sustainability and Competitiveness We apply sustainable technology as a competitive advantage. The corporate philosophy of the LIXIL Group aims to have its “superior products and services contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles.” This section gives four examples of how our development of specific technology and systems reflects this corporate philosophy. Also, we report on the progress of LIXIL’s initiatives and Group companies’ initiatives in CSR categories. LIXIL Group Corporation 58 Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness STORY: 1/ 4 THEME: Better Living through Renovation and Passive Design Offering Living Styles We Are Uniquely Qualified to Facilitate We have unveiled model homes that allow customers to experience reliable, comfortable living styles that use the forces of nature effectively. The manager of this LIXIL project explains the aim of these homes and the benefits that energy-saving technology brings to everyday life. Katsuhiko Shia Tadashi Yoshida Senior Expert, Housing Planning Office Head, Housing Planning Office LIXIL Japan Company LIXIL Japan Company LIXIL Corporation LIXIL Corporation “The LIXIL Group drew on all of its “I want people to experience ﬁrsthand expertise to build the model homes, the beneﬁts of passive design, which incorporating structures that are still can enable comfortable living styles under development, airtight and therwithout depending completely on mal insulation technology, Tsufu-Sofu solar photovoltaic power generation cross ventilation and wind generation or air conditioners.” technology, and universal design.” We are giving customers the opportunity to experience insulation, airtightness, and Tsufu-Sofu cross ventilation and for themselves the energy-saving and comfortable living wind generation; wooden products sourced mainly from the styles that Passivefirst design makes possible. city of Toyota; and LIXIL products. Meanwhile, the second Toyota Ecoful Town is a cluster of facilities in the city of Toyota, model house is an example of a renovated home. Katsuhiko Aichi Prefecture, that showcase eco-living concepts and the Shia, who worked with Yoshida on the Toyota Ecoful Town latest environmental technology. The private sector and the city project, recalls, “Creating the renovation display was of Toyota have collaborated to develop the town as a model particularly difficult. It was a process of trial and error.” area where visitors can experience leading-edge smart houses He explains, “After the construction work is completed, a and transport systems that are kind to the environment. renovated home looks brand new. So, to let visitors visualize In the town, on April 25, 2014, we cut the tape on the LIXIL the home before and after renovation, we arranged the walls Passivefirst Pavilion, featuring a comprehensive array of our to make seismic retrofitting and insulating material visible.” environmental technology and products for homes. Tadashi Yoshida, head of the Housing Planning Office, The LIXIL Group creates environments where the elderly explains, “The idea for these model houses grew out of can live healthily and comfortably. discussions about how best to show our unique capabilities as Shia continues, “Initially, we considered a plan for an ideal a comprehensive living and housing solutions company.” In home based on universal design. However, moving pillars the model houses, LIXIL displays its Passivefirst home solutions, when renovating traditional wooden homes is often difﬁcult. which combine environmentally friendly and energy-saving So we decided to recreate slightly narrow hallways. As a result, features with advanced functionality. Yoshida continues, “Our a feature of the ‘Re-form Pavilion’ is that its design takes into approach is to make effective use of the forces of nature, such account the problems and restrictions faced in reality.” The as wind and light, to support comfortable living.” design envisions a home occupied by a married couple whose The completed LIXIL Passivefirst Pavilion has two model children have grown up and moved out. “In many cases, houses—“Gallery” and “Re-form”—as well as “Midterior” and people renovate to upgrade plumbing or replace other installa“Exterior” areas that connect the two homes. The first model tions,” says Shia. “However, quite a number of people menhouse features the latest environmental technology for thermal tioned that as they became older the coldness of winter was LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness 59 The LIXIL Passivefirst Pavilion comprises a “Gallery Pavilion” model house (above) and a “Re-form Pavilion” model house (upper right) as well as “Midterior” and “Exterior” areas. Middle right: The “Gallery Pavilion” harmonizes the latest environmental technology, natural materials, and LIXIL products. Lower right: The “Re-form Pavilion” displays LIXIL’s renovation technology. tougher to endure.” Excluding extremely cold regions, homes through the home,” says Yoshida with satisfaction. He explains in Japan are generally poorly insulated. In particular, there further, “You can realize comfortable living without using large tends to be a difference in temperature between living rooms amounts of the energy. To achieve this, it is important to and other areas in the home, leading to concern about the collaborate with a builder that is able to offer solutions based effect on health. Yoshida explains, “Improving thermal insulaon rigorous analysis of local climate, natural resources, and tion does not only save energy but also reduces temperature users’ way of life and is committed to solving end users’ differences in the home, making it a more comfortable, reasproblems. LIXIL’s strength is the ability as a comprehensive suring environment to live in.” living and housing solutions company to reflect customer feedback by offering solutions that combine an array of Our aim is to combine comfort and energy-saving products that contribute to comfortable and energy-saving features while addressing end users’ problems. living styles.” He sums up, “LIXIL’s mission is not to sell goods “Visitors to the LIXIL Passivefirst Pavilion remark that they are but to add value to everyday life.” impressed by the pleasant sensation of a slight breeze blowing “We offer solutions that make homes more comfortable by enhancing their basic functions and which use the forces of nature effectively to realize energy-saving living styles.” LIXIL Group Corporation 60 Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness STORY: 2/ 4 THEME: Importance of Passive Design in an Aging Society Providing Passive Design Benefits through Home Renovation Companies that design and build homes that reflect each end user’s preferences are important partners for LIXIL. An architectural designer explains that discussions with customers have helped her appreciate the value of passive design. Ms. Yuriko Koyama Manager, Designer Section Design and Construction Department OKUTA CORPORATION “Being directly involved in the process of catering to detailed needs that only a resident understands makes our work as renovators fulﬁlling.” LOHAS studio stores customize homes to reﬂect live in a three-generational household so that their elderly residents’ dilemmas and wishes. parents can live comfortably.” Headquartered in Saitama Prefecture, OKUTA CORPORATION is an architectural company boasting an impressive track In addition to universal design, which has become record; it has extended, reconstructed, or designed and built a matter of course, passive design is ideal for the homes more than 105,000 homes. The company has a network of 13 of the elderly. LOHAS studio stores, covering downtown Tokyo, Saitama As society ages, home renovation with a view to realizing Prefecture, Chiba Prefecture, and Kanagawa Prefecture, and everyday convenience and enjoyment has increased. However, uses such natural materials as solid wood and kieselguhr to universal design layouts incorporating ramps and handrails for build homes with outstanding thermal insulation and seismic ease of movement or toilets and bathrooms accessible by resistance. One of its architectural designers, Ms. Yuriko wheelchairs have become a given. In this context, Ms. Koyama Koyama explains, “Renovation differs from building new emphasizes that passive design is the key to homes for the homes because customers have a lot of problems and requests elderly. “Although many of the customers that visit us to based on the experience of living in the homes.” She adds, discuss renovation admit that their homes are too cold, “Having been involved in a number of home renovations, surprisingly few of them know about the importance of I now realize that renovating a home in light of the experience thermal insulation. Hearing about the large numbers of elderly of living in it truly makes it your own home.” people who die due to heat shock* in winter or due to sufferMs. Koyama points out that user attitudes to renovation ing from heatstroke indoors in summer, spurs me to spread have changed in recent years. “Previously, most customers passiv design even more.” preferred newbuilds. However, rather than a new home, the The passiv design concept—derived from passiv, the number of people opting for a living style tailored to their German word for passive—focuses on light and wind, thermal needs has been increasing. I think we are seeing a shift in insulation energy-saving features, natural materials, and enjoyvalues; more people want to renovate and continue living in ment, and guides LOHAS studios’ home design efforts. In other homes they have lived in for many years. Our job is to create words, LOHAS studios’ design philosophy has a strong afﬁnity homes that enable the living styles of people who, for with the LIXIL Group’s Passivefirst concept. By taking a passiv example, want to enjoy hobbies after retirement or want to design approach, LOHAS studios have independently developed LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness 61 a renovation method that realizes outstanding thermal insulation. Ms. Koyama explains enthusiastically, “Customers who have renovated to improve thermal insulation are surprised that even on days when the temperature is below freezing they do not need heating. Therefore, I want to communicate the beneﬁts of highly insulated homes to customers who still think being cold in winter is just something you have to put up with.” * Signiﬁcant physical stress resulting from rapid blood pressure ﬂuctuation due to sudden changes in temperature We serve as a home “doctor” searching for ways to enrich customers’ living styles. “Following renovation, customers are generally happy because their homes look better. Rather than this reaction, however, “Passiv design is the key to homes for I get encouragement from customers who after living in their renovated home for a time remark, ‘I am really glad we the elderly. I want to tell customers renovated.’,” says Ms. Koyama smiling. “We are a kind of home ‘doctor.’ In the process of talking to customers about who confess that they ﬁnd their their priorities and problems, vague concepts steadily become more concrete, and then we search for solutions that will homes too cold about the beneﬁts enrich customers’ everyday lives.” of good thermal insulation.” Right: Passiv design features natural materials, liberal use of wood’s warmth, and playfulness while realizing advanced thermal insulation and energy saving. Upper left: Wood ﬁber thermal insulation material manufactured using recycled newspapers. Lower left: A toilet and washstand featuring universal design for easy wheelchair access. LIXIL Group Corporation 62 Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness STORY: 3/ 4 THEME: Global Issue: Water Conservation Saving Water while Enhancing Beauty and Comfort LIXIL, American Standard Brands, and other companies of the LIXIL Group are differentiating products through water-saving technology. In this section, we provide a close-up on the latest initiatives of GROHE, a producer of sanitary fittings that have earned high acclaim in Europe’s premium market. Jan Peter Tewes Thorsten Meier Senior Vice President Vice President Global Marketing Research & Development GROHE AG GROHE AG “Rio de Janeiro’s Maracanã Stadium, “At the development center, we are a venue for FIFA World Cup 2014, advancing water reuse. We have includes more than 1,200 of our reduced the center’s annual water sanitary fittings.” usage from about 8,400m3 to 1,000m3.” GROHE’s tradition of seeking premium quality is the Head of the group’s research and development, Thorsten seedbed growing an array of technologies that lower Meier explains with conﬁdence, “If you think about the huge environmental burden. amount of energy needed to supply water to homes and workIn January 2014, LIXIL Corporation acquired a major stake in places, to provide hot water and keep it hot, and to process GROHE Group S.à r.l. (GROHE). GROHE’s stylish products, wastewater, water conservation technology does not simply featuring innovative technology, have established an enviable save water; it clearly makes a major contribution to reducing reputation among architects around the world. The group’s Jan energy consumption. Realizing sustainability without sacriﬁcing Peter Tewes puts this down to “an uncompromising pursuit of performance testiﬁes to our technology developmental capabilquality that has become part of GROHE’s DNA.” He explains, ities. Nowadays, users in developed countries are sensitive to “Long-lasting products avoid wasting the resources used for global environmental problems. That said, they are reluctant to raw materials and promote energy conservation in supply give up the pleasure of an effective shower. GROHE EcoJoy™ chains and manufacturing processes. A belief that long-lasting technology meets such users’ needs.” products lead to sustainability underpins our technology and products.” Our strengths are a comprehensive lineup of water-saving GROHE develops products that not only heighten comfort plumbing ﬁxtures and solutions that enable companies to and convenience but conserve water and energy. A good calculate cost-reduction beneﬁts. example is GROHE EcoJoy™ technology, which the group has As Tewes points out, “A differentiating feature of GROHE is been incorporating in a range of products since 2007. This that, while other companies have water-saving products, we original technology adjusts water ﬂow to save water while incorporate water-saving technology into all of our plumbing ensuring sufﬁcient water pressure. For example, showerheads ﬁxtures, including those for washstand cabinet units, bathincorporating GROHE EcoJoy™ technology can reduce water rooms, kitchens, and toilets.” He adds, “As part of marketing to consumption by approximately 40% compared with convencorporate clients, we have been focusing on ‘educating’ them. tional products. A family of four using a GROHE EcoJoy™ Speciﬁcally, we offer a service in which we dispatch a specialshowerhead saves roughly 30,000 liters of water a year, ist survey team to an ofﬁce building or operating base to conequivalent to a 260 euros reduction in their water bill. duct a ‘water and energy audit.’ By analyzing water and energy LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness 63 Left: While maintaining the performance of traditional equipment, this showerhead incorporating GROHE EcoJoy™ technology reduces water usage by up to 40%. Upper right: GROHE Blue® technology uses a ﬁlter to make delicious water. Lower right: GROHE’s water-saving technology satisﬁes user needs and enriches everyday life. use accurately, we can calculate how much energy our tech“GROHE Blue® is a revolutionary technology that is challengnology will save and, based on that, reductions in clients’ ing this status quo.” utility bills. In other words, lowering environmental burden Because they include a ﬁlter, GROHE Blue® products provides cost-reduction beneﬁts for clients.” enable customers to drink delicious water just by turning on the faucet. Moreover, top-of-the-range products can make GROHE contributes to energy reduction by offering prodcooled water and sparkling water. Meier concludes, “Being ucts that change lifestyles without compromising comfort. able to drink faucet water not only eliminates the inconveGROHE Blue® is the latest example of the group’s quest for nience and labor of going to buy heavy bottles of mineral sustainable, highly ﬁnished products. “Subject to extremely water; it also saves resources and energy consumption by stringent quality standards, faucet water in Germany is conreducing the use of plastic bottles and the transport of mineral trolled more strictly than mineral water. Despite this, people water from its source to bottling plants and then to homes normally drink mineral water.” says Meier. He believes that or workplaces.” “Realizing sustainability through reduced energy consumption and other beneﬁts—without compromising performance—testiﬁes to our technology developmental capabilities.” LIXIL Group Corporation 64 Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness STORY: 4/ 4 THEME: Development of New “Waterless” Market Popularizing Hygienic Sustainable Toilets in Regions Lacking Infrastructure In LIXIL, one employee is working particularly hard to promote the installation of safe, comfortable toilet systems in regions with chronic water shortage problems. This report is from Kenya, where preparations are under way for the creation of a commercial business. Yu Yamakami Junior Expert Faculty of Engineering Multidisciplinary Research Institute LIXIL Corporation “People around the world praise the cleanliness of Japan’s toilets. I want to popularize the etiquette of using toilets cleanly out of consideration for others.” We will create new products as part of systems that “When we held a display and presentation event for the can be used comfortably even in regions without toilet, participants asked me a rapid succession of questions. sewage facilities. Although some expressed reservations about composting With a population of more than 3.3 million*1, Kenya’s capital excreta, others were encouraging and said they would like to Nairobi is the largest city in the East African economic zone. work with me in taking on the challenge of building such a Nevertheless, according to Yu Yamakami, “Even in the system.” If this initiative succeeds, as well as enabling the capital’s high-end residential areas feed tanks are essential installation of hygienic, easy-to-use toilets in homes, it will items because of frequent water supply interruptions.” enable affordable hygienic treatment of excreta even in regions Pursuing R&D of toilets that do not require water or largewithout sewage treatment infrastructure. scale infrastructure, Yamakami adds, “Drought has become *1 CIA, The World Fact Book, 2009 survey results a particularly chronic problem in northern Kenya.” Regions with limited water resources naturally cannot By creating products that cater to local needs, we intend afford to spare water for toilets. However, Yamakami points to open up a new market centered on Kenya’s growing out that a lack of excreta disposal infrastructure is leading to middle-income segment. major problems. “Because only 30% of toilets in Kenya are “Recent years have seen increasing numbers of people connected to sewers or sewage treatment facilities, excreta who lived in slums while working in construction or retail is disposed of untreated or in ponds. This pollutes valuable use their savings to buy homes and move to the suburbs,” water resources and affects people’s health seriously.” says Yamakami. “We envision this growing middle-income Aiming to tackle this problem, Yamakami is taking on the segment as our target customers.” According to the African challenge of popularizing recycle-type waterless toilets. “It Development Bank, those who earn between US$4 and US$20 looks like a normal toilet, but it does not have a water flush. a day and comprise the middle-income segment accounted Its main feature is a unit at the bottom of the toilet bowl that for 16.8% of Kenya’s population in 2010. This percentage is separates excreta and urine. Separation curbs odor and projected to rise to 44.9% by 2030*2. In the context of the enables excreta storage.” Rather than as a stand-alone toilet, East African Community or the Common Market for Eastern Yamakami aims to commercialize this waterless toilet as part and Southern Africa, Kenya is an extremely attractive gateof a system that includes excreta collection and composting. way into East Africa, which has high GDP growth and a LIXIL Group Corporation Special Feature 2: Sustainability and Competitiveness 65 middle-income segment that is expanding rapidly, centered on the working population. “For this reason, we hope to open up the country’s market by focusing development efforts on creating products that are affordable, accessible, and appropriate. With this in mind, we intend to reﬁne the toilet to suit the climate in Kenya and reﬂect the preferences of its people. Also, we have to take supply chains into consideration and ensure that the toilet can be transported along any road, no matter how rough the terrain.” *2 CIA, The World Fact Book, 2011 estimate Our plan is to make a unique contribution to Kenya’s economic development and increase our presence. Travelling back and forth between Japan and Kenya to popularize the waterless toilet system, Yamakami embodies “My motivation increases when the LIXIL Group’s corporate philosophy of having “the Group’s superior products and services contribute to people say they want to work with improving people’s comfort and lifestyles.” She says with pride, “I think LIXIL is the only sanitary equipment me in taking up the new challenge manufacturer attempting to address the problem of toilets of waterless toilets.” in developing countries by creating a business. While contributing to Kenya’s economic development, I want to help enhance the value of the LIXIL brand.” Right: An installed recycle-type waterless toilet, which enables the hygienic disposal of excreta even in areas lacking infrastructure. Upper left: Gaining the understanding and cooperation of local residents as we proceed with installation work. Lower left: Providing local people with information about the waterless toilet system and its merits is another aspect of Yamakami’s work. LIXIL Group Corporation 66 Voice from Nairobi County, Kenya Voice from Nairobi County, Kenya In the challenge with LIXIL for sustainable development Mr. Tom Odongo Kenya Nairobi County Executive Committee Member for Lands, Housing and Physical Planning Nairobi County faces a serious challenge of water supply and access to improved sanitation. Our county is experiencing rapid growth and this has led to serious shortages of water and sanitation facilities. Our mandate in water and sewerage provision is to ensure that service delivery in the water and sanitation sector meets the efﬁciency intended to replicate other cities in the world. Our county is putting in place measures to guarantee enough water and improved sanitation through partnerships in service delivery. The LIXIL Group’s waterless toilet system and related sanitation technologies provide a solution to sanitation challenges in Nairobi. The waterless toilet is a great product and beﬁts the sanitation needs of our county residents. Being a waterless toilet, the system will help Nairobi residents to save water for other household purposes. In addition, the component of separating generated sanitation waste and decomposing it for use as a fertilizer will help to promote our sustainable development vision. LIXIL’s waterless toilet system is therefore a life changer to our people and leads to a turning point of the sanitation market in Kenya and in Africa. With these clear innovative technologies, our residents will be excited by the new product, and its expected beneﬁts. We however may experience some challenges in convincing our people to use the generated waste to produce fertilizer because our traditions and customs as well as our mindsets do not promote the use of human waste for agricultural production. This will change with time through creation of awareness and training. Based on the above, LIXIL comes into the market as the pioneer of waterless toilet systems and has the opportunity to grow and control the market before the growth of competitors. As a new product, and having a target of poor households, product pricing will be a major challenge as most households would want to buy the product for the lowest price possible. Nairobi County expects LIXIL to work with stakeholders to keep developing new products that meet the needs of our people and support Kenya’s sustainable development as outlined in “Vision 2030.*” * A national long-term development blueprint, formed in June 2008 to create a globally competitive and prosperous nation with a high quality of life by 2030, that aims to transform Kenya into a newly industrializing, middle-income country. LIXIL Group Corporation Group Companies’ CSR Initiatives 67 Group Companies’ CSR Initiatives Support for Philippine Typhoon Victims In March 2014, LIXIL and American Standard Brands responded to a request from UNICEF Philippines to donate 10,000 SaTo toilet pans to provide a temporary sanitation solution for victims of Typhoon Haiyan. The rebuilding of a conventional sanitation infrastructure would take many months, so the spread of disease soon became a critical issue. The SaTo, an abbreviation of “Safe Toilet,” includes a simple counterweighted trap door mechanism that seals pit latrines from passage of odors and ﬂying insects, effectively blocking a major path of disease transmission and providing for a more pleasant user experience. The SaTo toilet is also proving effective in improving sanitation conditions in Bangladesh, where more than 150,000 of the toilets are already in use. The simple pan-style SaTo toilet can be easily formed from a mold ISIS 2018—A Key Project Supporting UNICEF’s Global WASH Program On World Toilet Day (November 19, 2013), LIXIL launched ISIS 2018, a multi-year commitment to provide improved sanitation facilities and hygiene education to 2,018,000 children by the end of 2018. LIXIL also signed a partnership agreement with UNICEF committing to support its Global WASH Program, which, in turn, supports the United Nations Millennium Development Goal to “Halve, by 2015, the proportion of the population without sustainable access to safe In Kenya, new LIXIL toilets replace old toilets drinking water and basic sanitation.” In the ﬁscal year ended March 2014, LIXIL’s projects covered more than 60,000 children in more than 60 schools in China, the Philippines, and Kenya. The project in Kenya is the most complex, incorporating the partial rebuilding of the schools to house the toilets and a complete composting infrastructure, including tanks, special educators, and maintenance staff. Keeping hands clean Toilets provided to Chinese schools LIXIL VIVA Starts Community Disaster Readiness Initiatives As part of CSR activities, LIXIL holds “Community Dialogue” meetings that bring community residents and employees together at LIXIL Group factories, showrooms, and stores. “Community Dialogue” provides an opportunity to ask residents what their expectations are across a wide range of areas, such as products, services, disaster readiness, schools and education, transportation, and relationships with local neighborhood associations, with the aim of contributing to the community. LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION, the operator of Super Viva Home stores, has held “Community Dialogue” meetings at eight locations so far, including at its Itami and Teinetomioka stores. Initiatives being promoted by LIXIL VIVA for community disaster readiness include proposals for the opening of its stores as temporary evacuation sites “Community Dialogue” held on February 28, 2014, in the event of disaster. at the Super Viva Home Itami store LIXIL Group Corporation 68 CSR Management CSR Management The LIXIL Group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives are part of a process focused on realizing the Group’s corporate philosophy, which aims to have “the Group’s superior products and services contribute to improving people’s comfort and lifestyles.” Based on this corporate philosophy, we have set out CSR policies under three priority themes: innovation, sustainability, and integrity. We signed the United Nations Global Compact in July 2013. Aiming to respect the compact’s ten principles in four areas, we have established “Exercising due diligence for human rights” and “Promoting procurement based on CSR” as themes for CSR initiatives that we will begin advancing proactively in the fiscal year ending March 31, 2015. http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/sustainability/ CSR Categories, Tasks, Targets, and Results Category Task KPI Number of bases with newly acquired ISO 14001 Improve environmental management system*1 certiﬁcation Unify evaluation methods for energy-saving products*2 Check accuracy of evaluation methods Reduce global environmental burden Contribute to reduction of energy use in civilian sector Energy reduction contribution in Japan by advancing performance of products and (reduction of energy use for products versus 1990 level Build recycling society popularizing them*2 × sales volume) Enhance environmental performance Reduce total energy consumption in procurement, Total energy consumption (LIXIL Group’s medium-term environmental goal) manufacturing, sales, and waste disposal*1 Reduce CO2 emissions at operating bases in Japan*2 CO2 emissions at operating bases in Japan Reduce water use in manufacturing activities*1 Water use Percentage of transaction amount Supply chain management Establish common procurement policies and guidelines Japan: Procurement by operating bases Overseas: Procurement by operating bases Build supply chain taking into consideration labor conditions and resource allocation Conduct questionnaire survey and follow-up activities Percentage of priority surveyed items complied with Application percentage of product safety related To prevent occurrence or recurrence, reﬂect accident regulations information and quality information in designs and (accidents in which products are cause or conduct educational activities Product safety suspected cause) Establish system for development of safe products Hold discussions with experts and continue product Hold discussions about product safety safety initiatives and reform of systems and build product safety culture*2 Strengthen dissemination of information about Number of times information disseminated maintenance, product safety, and accident prevention to customers Percentage of women in managerial posts Percentage of women among regularly recruited Identify, train, and promote diverse talented personnel new hires Percentage of women participating in Cultivate corporate culture (Empower personnel) leadership training Encourage performance of diverse personnel and develop Holding of meetings platform to enable employees to perform to their full Promote understanding of diversity and create educational opportunities Activities of LIXIL Women’s Network potential and advance*2 Expand and improve support systems to advance Development of systems and rules Work-Life-Flexibility With local communities Hold dialogues with local communities Number of dialogues held Promote communication with local communities Tackle sanitation and hygiene problems globally Provide children with hygienic environments Collaborate with UNICEF’s Global WASH Program, Number of school toilets improved and children ISIS 2018 project provided with educational support which contributes to United Nations Millennium http://isis2018.info Development Goal (7) *1 Excluding companies that have been integrated for less than three years *2 LIXIL Corporation only LIXIL Group Corporation CSR Management 69 Establishing Promotional Systems and Identifying Materiality In the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014, under the manageby deciding the Group’s priority tasks. ment of the CSR Promotion Committee, four groups responsiAs of July 2014, taking into account business areas and ble for four stakeholder groups—customers, suppliers, sizes and value chains, we are identifying priority tasks that employees, and the environment—set targets and advanced reﬂect the opinions of external experts and preparing action initiatives accordingly. plans. Going forward, we intend to clarify CSR initiatives for In April 2014, to coincide with the launch of the Global the Group; for each country and region, including Japan, Management Committee (GMC), at which all members of the China, other parts of Asia, North America, and Europe; and senior management team convene, we reorganized systems for for each Group company. We will then disclose information promoting CSR initiatives. We will manage the four aboveappropriately on our website about the progress and achievementioned groups based on global networks. Meanwhile, in ments of these initiatives. the GMC, the senior management team will provide leadership FY2013 Targets FY2013 Results Our Evaluation FY2014 Targets 5 subsidiaries Increase acquisition of ISO 14001 certiﬁcation among Overseas manufacturing subsidiaries: 5 ○ China: 2 plants, Thailand: 2 plants, Vietnam: 1 plant logistics divisions in Japan Have third-party evaluate contribution to Extend environmental data covered by third-party reduction of GHG emissions from product use Warranty completed ○ warranty versus FY2012 1.3 times versus FY2010 level 1.34 times versus FY2010 level 1.5 times versus FY2010 level ○ (4,850,000 GJ) (5,030,000 GJ) (5,610,000 GJ) Reduced 8.5% versus FY2010 level (57,000,000 GJ) Reduce 9.0% versus FY2010 level Reduce 9.3% versus FY2010 level Improved on intensity basis, did not reach target × (56,700,000 GJ) (56,600,000 GJ) because production volume increased due to rise in new housing starts in Japan Reduce 49.0% versus FY1990 level Reduced 49.0% versus FY1990 level Reduce 50.0% versus FY1990 level ○ (411,000 tons) (411,000 tons) (403,000 tons) Reduce 1.0% versus FY2012 level Reduced 17.8% versus FY2012 level (12,481,000 m3) Reduce 1.0% versus FY2013 level ○ (15,033,000 m3) Reduced signiﬁcantly due to closure of Takaoka Plant (12,356,000 m3) Japan: 85% (Percentage of companies: 15%) Japan: 85% (Percentage of companies: 15%) Japan: 85% (Percentage of companies: 15%) ○ Overseas: Being calculated Overseas: 60% (Percentage of companies: 15%) Overseas: 62% (Percentage of companies: 16%) (Percentage of companies: 15%) Japan: 100%, 10 priority surveyed items 100% Paid follow-up visits to 50 companies in Japan ○ Japan: 85%, all 48 items Overseas: 100%, 11 priority surveyed items and 16 companies overseas Overseas: 85%, all 66 items 0 accidents 0 accidents ○ 0 accidents Once a year 2 times Held discussions themed on consumer ○ Twice a year education and LIXIL product safety initiatives 4 times Twice a year 2 times Held product safety seminars and distributed ○ Participate in product safety seminars, distribute safety pamphlets in Okinawa and Ehime maintenance information, etc. 3% 3.3% (76 employees: up 29 versus previous year) ○ 4% 30% 32.5% (April 2014 new hires) ○ At least 30% 21.7% (percentage of women among employees 15% ○ At least 15% dispatched for MBAs: 20%) 12 times 13 times ○ At least 12 times a year Nationwide conference: 1 time; Hold events ○ Hold events and expand network area forums, etc.: 8 times Introduced subsidy system for fees for extended Have special committee consisting of employee childcare, extended applicable period of short working representatives and management consider and ○ Entrench systems introduced and promote their use hours for child rearing, etc., increased and improved develop systems various measures Hold at 30 plants, 12 sales bases, and 2 stores Held at 24 plants, 7 sales bases, and 3 stores (revised during period due to change in number Held more than 69 preparatory meetings and held △ Hold at 13 plants, 18 sales bases, and 10 stores of bases) dialogues suited to sites Targets not set because announced in More than 60 schools and more than 60,000 children 164,000 children ̶ November 2013 and begun in December 2013 in China, the Philippines, and Kenya 2018 target cumulative total: 2,018,000 children LIXIL Group Corporation 70 Financial FAQ Financial FAQ (As of March 31, 2014) QUESTION 1 Could you please discuss the allocation of voting rights and the acquisition scheme employed for the acquisition of GROHE? ANSWER 1 The shares of GROHE Group S.à r.l. (GROHE Group) were Regarding funding for the acquisition, LIXIL provided a acquired by the LIXIL Group’s principal operating company, total of 730 million euros in funding to GraceA, consisting of LIXIL Corporation. This acquisition saw the establishment of a 385 million euros for shares of common stock and 345 million special-purpose corporation (SPC), GraceA Co., Ltd. The euros for preferred shares without voting rights. DBJ provided Development Bank of Japan (DBJ), a ﬁnancial institution fully funding of 385 million euros for preferred shares with voting funded by the Japanese government, holds 50% of the voting rights. Other Japanese ﬁnancial institutions and entities prorights in this SPC, with the remainder held by LIXIL Corporation. vided 345 million euros in funding for preferred shares without A wholly owned subsidiary of GraceA acquired 87.5% of voting rights. Borrowings of 1.27 billion euros by the GROHE GROHE Group shares. The remaining 12.5% continues to be Group were converted into non-recourse loans arranged by held by Cai GmbH (Cai), a shareholder of the GROHE Group. Japanese ﬁnancial institutions. Cai is a holding company owned by Jianshe Cai and Jilin Cai, Through this funding, LIXIL acquired 43.75% of GROHE the CEO and COO, respectively, of Frankfurt Stock ExchangeGroup shares, making the GROHE Group and its publicly listed Joyou AG (Joyou). Joyou is a member of the GROHE traded subsidiary Joyou equity-method afﬁliates of LIXIL. The Group, which holds 72.3% of voting rights of Joyou. total acquisition price for the purchase was 730 million euros. GROHE Group Acquisition Scheme Structure Financing Scheme LIXIL DBJ Other Japanese ﬁnancial LIXIL DBJ institutions Voting interest: Voting interest: Non-voting Common Voting Non-voting 50% 50% preferred stock preferred preferred shares: 345 shares: 385 shares: 385 shares: 345 GraceA Cai GmbH GraceA Cai GmbH 87.5% 12.5% GROHE Group GROHE Group Non-recourse loans: 72.3% 1,270 GROHE AG Joyou AG Banks Listed on Frankfurt Stock Exchange (€ million) QUESTION 2 The LIXIL Group announced that it will voluntarily adhere to International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). What is the schedule for adopting IFRS, and what changes, if any, will it cause? ANSWER 2 The LIXIL Group decided to voluntarily apply IFRS from the information in the capital markets. ﬁscal year ending March 31, 2016. In 2009, the Group acquired In line with IFRS adoption, we plan to disclose ﬁnancial American Standard Asia Paciﬁc, followed by the acquisitions of and earnings information based on IFRS from the ﬁscal year Permasteelisa in 2011 and American Standard Brands in 2013. ending March 31, 2015, in our annual report slated for publicaFurthermore, in 2014, the GROHE Group became an equitytion in August 2015; the ﬁscal year ending March 31, 2016, in method afﬁliate. As the LIXIL Group becomes increasingly our ﬁnancial report ( Japanese only) to be disclosed in June global, with operations in Asia, Europe, and North America, 2016; and the ﬁrst quarter of the ﬁscal year ending March 31, the decision to voluntarily adhere to IFRS reﬂects a desire to 2017, in our quarterly earnings report to be disclosed in improve the potential for international comparisons of ﬁnancial August 2016. LIXIL Group Corporation Financial FAQ 71 Ahead of the transition to IFRS, the LIXIL Group has on a consolidated basis, excluding the impact of the amortizachanged its basis for deciding cash dividends from the tion of goodwill. For the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014, EPS previous EPS to EPS before amortization of goodwill. The excluding the impact of the amortization of goodwill was ¥172 Company’s policy regarding the return of proﬁts to sharehold(¥91 in the previous ﬁscal year), and the payout ratio excluders and other investors is to set a payout ratio of at least 30% ing the impact of the amortization of goodwill was 31.9%. Schedule for the Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards Years ended / ending March 31 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Comparison with previous year Disclosure in August 2015 Annual report Official disclosure Disclose P/L as reference for IR from August 2015 from August 2016 Quarterly report Disclosure in June 2016 Financial report (Japanese only) QUESTION 3 What are the Company’s goals and progress regarding the cash conversion cycle (CCC)? ANSWER 3 Due to effects from the merger of our ﬁve principal domestic Presently, under the direction of the GMC’s Business companies in April 2011, as of September 30, 2013, the CCC Transformation Function, and with the participation of the for the LIXIL Group was 90 days. This ﬁgure is much higher Supply Chain Function, we are pursuing a range of improvethan the estimated average of about 55 days for our industry in ment measures. Speciﬁcally, we are reducing inventories Japan and resulted in a drop in capital efﬁciency. In response, through enhanced supply chain management and a more we have set a target CCC of 55 days to be reached by March sophisticated supply-demand management system, and collect31, 2017, and we are aiming to generate roughly ¥100.0 billion ing receivables faster through receivables management system in free cash ﬂow by March 2016. integration and innovation, among other initiatives. Success is already emerging, with the CCC down to 88.5 days (81.3 days on a quarterly basis) as of March 31, 2014. Improving the Cash Conversion Cycle Procurement Sales Payment receipt (Days) Inventory turnover period Receivables turnover period 88.5 90 90.3 Payment turnover period CCC of 90 days 80 75 Payment 70 Procurement Sales Payment receipt 61 60 55 Inventory turnover period Receivables turnover period 0 9/13 3/14 3/15 3/16 3/17 (M/Y) Payment turnover period CCC of 55 days Payment LIXIL Group Corporation 72 Consolidated 11-Year Summary Consolidated 11-Year Summary LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 Results of Operations Net sales ¥967,494 ¥ 986,214 ¥1,057,699 ¥1,124,078 ¥1,103,839 Operating income 42,749 37,863 43,805 57,026 35,737 Operating income ratio 4.4% 3.8% 4.1% 5.1% 3.2% Net income (loss)*1 32,617 30,624 22,124 35,199 17,709 Research and development expenses 14,457 13,928 16,181 15,438 15,656 Capital expenditures 32,907 56,459 41,747 37,521 35,418 Depreciation 31,693 30,876 33,000 31,773 32,570 Cash Flows Cash flows from operating activities 49,801 43,970 31,357 61,710 60,177 Cash flows from investing activities (34,721) (71,473) (36,519) (37,682) (47,480) Cash flows from financing activities (22,650) 17,375 15,397 (6,602) (40,359) Cash and cash equivalents, end of year 59,014 49,065 62,748 80,602 52,679 Financial Position Total assets 967,930 1,013,774 1,086,015 1,149,660 1,061,036 Total equity*2 519,425 531,157 561,408 594,265 556,118 Interest-bearing debt 155,178 192,692 224,060 225,943 229,575 Per Share Data Net income (loss) per share*1 ¥ 108.76 ¥ 104.92 ¥ 75.80 ¥ 119.64 ¥ 61.20 Total equity per share*2 1,768.84 1,828.20 1,913.12 1,998.58 1,983.79 Dividends per share 40 40 40 40 40 Key Ratios ROE*2 6.3% 5.8% 4.1% 6.1% 3.1% ROA 3.4 3.1 2.1 3.1 1.6 Total assets turnover (times) 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 Equity ratio*2 53.7 52.4 51.7 51.4 52.1 Dividend payout ratio 36.8 38.1 52.8 33.4 65.4 Debt-to-equity ratio*3 30.0 36.3 39.9 38.2 41.5 Number of employees 29,050 29,682 30,252 31,212 31,838 Stock Indicators Stock price (Closing), end of year (yen) ¥ 2,300 ¥ 1,968 ¥ 2,530 ¥ 2,555 ¥ 1,497 Market capitalization (millions of yen) 766,025 655,451 842,627 799,854 468,642 Price earnings ratio (times) 21.1 18.8 33.4 21.4 24.5 Price book-value ratio (times) 1.30 1.08 1.32 1.28 0.75 Market Data Total new housing starts (thousands of units) 1,174 1,192 1,249 1,285 1,036 Orders received by 50 biggest contractors (Commercial building construction) (trillions of yen) ¥8.7 ¥9.4 ¥9.7 ¥10.1 ¥10.3 *1 Figures are after amortization of goodwill. *2 “Total equity,” “Total equity per share,” and “Equity ratio” until March 31, 2006, are the figures for previous “Shareholders’ equity,” “Shareholders’ equity per share,” and “Shareholders’ equity ratio.” Figures for “ROE” until March 31, 2006, are the figures calculated based on the previous consolidated financial statement regulations. *3 Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated by Interest-bearing debt / Total equity. *4 U.S. dollar amounts have been converted at the rate on March 31, 2014. Recent M&As (figures as of the acquisition) July 2009 April 2010 April 2010 January 2011 August 2011 American Standard Shin Nikkei Company, Ltd. SUN WAVE CORPORATION Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall Kawashima Selkon Asia Pacific (Group) System Co., Ltd. Textiles Co., Ltd. Sales ¥23.5 billion Sales ¥110.0 billion Sales ¥85.0 billion Sales ¥12.0 billion Sales ¥41.0 billion Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition ¥2.2 billion and ¥17.6 billion ¥0.7 million ¥13.7 billion ¥3.2 billion cost cost cost cost cost share exchange Equity Equity Equity Equity Equity 100% 100% 100% 75% 100% owned owned owned owned owned ¥2.1 billion (net) ¥6.1 billion Goodwill Intellectual property: Goodwill ¥5.4 billion Goodwill Goodwill ¥0.5 billion Goodwill ¥1.7 billion (net) (negative) ¥3.5 billion LIXIL Group Corporation Consolidated 11-Year Summary 73 Millions of yen Millions of U.S. dollars*4 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2014 ¥1,046,854 ¥982,607 ¥1,214,939 ¥1,291,396 ¥1,436,395 ¥1,628,658 $15,825 25,603 25,984 40,409 17,915 50,485 69,080 671 2.4% 2.6% 3.3% 1.4% 3.5% 4.2% 475 (5,332) 15,780 1,868 21,347 44,756 435 15,978 14,756 13,688 15,350 14,025 17,380 169 35,088 30,844 45,779 52,107 73,795 64,321 625 35,158 32,916 36,289 39,370 44,736 49,168 478 63,927 68,074 48,680 33,979 28,432 83,533 812 (63,082) (27,334) (13,543) (142,067) (12,397) (218,333) (2,121) 21,914 (27,825) (41,687) 138,348 (31,753) 153,144 1,488 73,973 89,302 92,329 127,351 114,662 139,039 1,351 1,048,838 1,033,504 1,166,834 1,481,063 1,465,689 1,810,098 17,587 533,073 516,322 536,408 538,776 566,312 625,599 6,078 263,770 257,484 272,516 441,874 424,035 626,475 6,087 Yen U.S. dollars*4 ¥ 1.70 ¥ (19.12) ¥ 55.50 ¥ 6.49 ¥ 73.42 ¥ 153.93 $ 1.50 1,903.69 1,842.78 1,850.34 1,817.34 1,930.02 2,123.22 20.63 40 40 40 40 40 55 0.53 % 0.1% (1.0)% 3.0% 0.4% 3.9% 7.6% 0.04 (0.5) 1.4 0.1 1.4 2.7 1.0 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 50.6 49.7 45.2 35.7 38.3 34.1 2,352.9 — 72.1 616.3 54.5 35.7 49.7 50.1 51.7 83.6 75.6 101.49 32,700 35,976 41,090 48,163 45,602 51,419 ¥ 1,106 ¥ 1,903 ¥ 2,160 ¥ 1,733 ¥ 1,858 ¥ 2,846 346,238 595,742 676,197 542,523 540,221 827,426 650.6 (99.5) 38.9 267.0 25.3 18.5 0.58 1.03 1.17 0.95 0.96 1.33 1,039 775 819 841 893 987 ¥8.4 ¥7.3 ¥7.1 ¥7.4 ¥7.6 ¥8.8 October 2011 December 2011 August 2013 January 2014 HIVIC CO., LTD. Permasteelisa S.p.A. ASD Americas Holding Corp. GROHE Group S.à r.l. (ASB) Sales ¥24.4 billion Sales ¥116.0 billion Sales ¥82.0 billion Sales ¥180.0 billion Acquisition Share Acquisition Acquisition Acquisition ¥60.8 billion ¥30.5 billion ¥103.9 billion cost exchange cost cost cost Equity Equity Equity Equity 100% 100% 100% 43.8% owned owned owned owned €264 million US$401 million* To be Goodwill ¥1.4 billion Goodwill Intangible assets: Goodwill Goodwill (tentative) determined €269 million * Before allocation of goodwill and intangible assets LIXIL Group Corporation 74 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Management’s Discussion and Analysis LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries Business Environment In the ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014, While growth in new housing starts was also brisk throughout the year, and the Japanese economy experienced a slowed during the fourth quarter, starts with growth strong especially in the gradual recovery as consumption levels for detached and rental housing rose fourth quarter, as a result of the demand and corporate conﬁdence improved due strongly throughout much of the year, rush that preceded the consumption tax to the beneﬁts of government monetary leading to an overall increase in new hike, overall housing investment and ﬁscal policies. housing starts of 10.6% year on year, to remained ﬁrm. 987 thousand units. Renovation demand Business Performance In response to this business environMaterial Business, which saw particularly percentage points, to 23.3%. This ment, the LIXIL Group steadily advanced strong growth overseas. The Plumbing decrease was due to a higher ratio of the various measures set out in its Fixtures Business recorded sales growth overseas sales and the beneﬁts of the Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL G-15, of ¥64.2 billion, or 17.1%, due to contriC-30 Project. Consequently, operating launched in May 2013, as it pursued butions from newly consolidated subsidincome rose ¥18.6 billion, or 36.8%, year proﬁtable growth. In domestic operaiaries. Sales were up ¥21.7 billion, or on year, to ¥69.1 billion, and the operattions, the sales structure was reoriented 11.5%, in the Other Building Materials ing income ratio increased from 3.5% toward the renovation market, which and Equipment Business. In the to 4.2%. is expected to continue experiencing Distribution and Retail Business, the Net income was up ¥23.4 billion, strong growth into the future. Overseas, expansion of the home center business or 109.7%, to ¥44.8 billion. This increase we proceeded with strategic investments. and the Ken Depot business drove a reﬂected a ¥40.3 billion rise in income For example, LIXIL Corporation conrise in sales of ¥19.6 billion, or 11.2%. before income taxes and minority interverted North American company ASD Meanwhile, the Housing, Real Estate ests—resulting from the abovementioned Americas Holding Corp. (American and Other Businesses segment saw sales rise in operating income and a ¥21.7 bilStandard Brands) into a consolidated increase ¥4.9 billion, or 8.3%, due to lion improvement in other income— subsidiary. Meanwhile, LIXIL Corporation sales contributions from the launch which offset a ¥16.8 billion increase in acquired shares of Germany’s GROHE of cesibo EX-H energy-saving houses. income tax expenses. The improvement Group S.à r.l. (GROHE), which boasts Gross proﬁt increased ¥44.8 billion, in other income primarily resulted from strengths in terms of business developor 11.1%, to ¥447.8 billion. The gross a rise of ¥2.0 billion in equity in earnings ment in Europe as well as China. margin deteriorated 0.6 percentage of associated companies, following As a result of these activities, in the points, to 27.5%, because foreign improved performances by afﬁliates, as ﬁscal year ended March 31, 2014, the exchange inﬂuences fueled a rise in raw well as the absence of extraordinary facGroup recorded net sales of ¥1,628.7 bilmaterial prices and less proﬁtable overtors, such as the ¥32.7 billion early retirelion, up ¥192.3 billion, or 13.4%, year on seas sales constituted a greater percentment related loss recorded in the previous year. This increase was largely attributage of total sales. While we successfully ﬁscal year. The increase in income tax able to improved revenues in all busiachieved the cost reduction targets of the expenses was a result of the increase in ness segments due to our ability to C-30 Project, the beneﬁts were not able income before income taxes and minority capture robust housing-related demand to counteract these detractions. Selling, interests and Company’s effective tax rate through the continuous introduction of general and administrative (SG&A) rising to 38.6%, higher than the statutory new products. Looking at individual expenses were up ¥26.2 billion, to income tax rate of 37.0%, due to the business segments, sales increased ¥80.0 ¥378.8 billion, but the ratio of SG&A effects of disposal of idle land and billion, or 12.3%, in the Metal Building expenses to net sales declined 1.3 reorganizations of subsidiaries. Net Sales Operating Income / Operating Income Ratio Net Income (Loss) (¥ billion) (¥ billion) (%) (¥ billion) 1,800 1,628.7 80 69.1 6.0 50 44.8 4.2% 40 60 4.5 1,200 30 40 3.0 20 600 10 20 1.5 0 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 0.0 –10 10 11 12 13 14 Operating income Operating income ratio LIXIL Group Corporation Management’s Discussion and Analysis 75 Year-on-Year Comparison of Net Sales in Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 A breakdown of the change in net sales products relating to new homes, a success domestic market increased ¥103.5 billion, by business area is as follows. of our continual introduction of new or 8.4% year on year. LIXIL Corporation’s domestic business products. Sales were also up in the home Overseas, the sales contribution from recorded sales growth of ¥77.1 billion. center business, where the ongoing estabPermasteelisa S.p.A. increased ¥39.5 bilOne factor contributing to this growth lishment of large-scale home centers led lion, or 28.8%, year on year, and newly was a 14% year-on-year increase in sales to an increase in sales of ¥12.3 billion, or consolidated American Standard Brands of renovation products, a result of the 8.0%. Meanwhile, the Ken Depot business made a sales contribution of ¥29.1 bilemphasis placed on the renovation grew sales ¥7.3 billion, or 35.1%, as memlion. Sales in Asia and other markets market in management strategies and bership continued to rise steadily. Sales grew ¥20.2 billion, or 29.8%. As a result, resource allocation in consideration of the for other businesses were up ¥6.8 billion, total overseas sales were up ¥88.8 bilmedium-term business plan. Another conthanks to contributions from service busilion, or 43.3%. tributing factor was a 5% rise in sales of nesses. As a result, overall sales in the Net Sales (¥ billion) 1,650 +7.3 +6.8 ¥1,628.7 billion +12.3 +88.8 1,600 1,550 +77.1 1,500 1,450 ¥1,436.4 billion ＋¥192.3 billion 0 2013 LIXIL Japan Overseas Home center Ken Depot Other / eliminations 2014 Note: Years ended March 31 Year-on-Year Comparison of Operating Income in Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2014 A breakdown of the change in operating ¥23.4 billion on operating income, while the consolidation of American Standard income by business area is as follows. a rise in other expenses, which was a Brands during the ﬁscal year under In existing businesses, increased net result of expenses for rebuilding factoreview and the strong performance of sales had a positive effect on operating ries in Japan damaged by heavy snowfall the Asia business led global businesses to income of ¥22.6 billion, while the in early 2014 and higher wages, had a record a ¥0.6 billion year-on-year increase absence of expenses related to the negative effect of ¥23.6 billion. However, in operating income. Other businesses, severe ﬂooding seen in Thailand during the C-30 Project proceeded as planned, including the Ken Depot business with its fall 2011 had a positive effect of ¥5.8 bilbringing beneﬁts of ¥34.6 billion and higher earnings in the domestic market, lion. Conversely, operating environment resulting in an overall year-on-year saw growth of ¥2.0 billion in operating factors, such as foreign exchange inﬂuincrease of ¥16.1 billion in operating income. As a result, the total rise in operences and increased raw material and income for existing businesses. ating income for strategic growth busifuel prices, had a negative effect of In strategic growth businesses, nesses amounted to ¥2.5 billion. Operating Income (¥ billion) 100 +34.6 –23.6 90 +22.6 –23.4 80 +0.6 +2.0 ¥69.1 billion 70 60 +5.8 ¥50.5 billion 50 +¥18.6 billion 0 2013 Thai ﬂoods Sales increase Business environment C-30 Cost increase Overseas Ken Depot & other 2014 Existing business +¥16.1 billion Growth business +¥2.5 billion Note: Years ended March 31 LIXIL Group Corporation 76 Management’s Discussion and Analysis Financial Position Total assets at March 31, 2014, stood at Total Assets Equity Ratio ¥1,810.1 billion, up ¥344.4 billion from (¥ billion) (%) the end of the previous ﬁscal year. 2,500 60 Current assets increased ¥156.9 bil2,000 1,810.1 lion from the previous ﬁscal year-end, 40 to ¥942.5 billion, due to an increase in 1,500 34.1% cash and deposits and trade notes and accounts receivable resulting from higher 1,000 20 sales. Noncurrent assets were up ¥187.5 500 billion from the end of the previous ﬁscal year, to ¥867.6 billion, as a result 0 10 11 12 13 14 0 10 11 12 13 14 of an increase in investment securities following strategic investments, a rise Total Equity ROE / ROA in goodwill associated with newly (¥ billion) (%) consolidated subsidiaries, and the effects 800 8 7.6% of foreign exchange rates when translat625.6 6 ing values of foreign-currency denomi600 nated assets. 4 Total equity at the end of the ﬁscal 400 2.7% 2 year amounted to ¥625.6 billion, com200 pared with ¥566.3 billion at the end of 0 the previous ﬁscal year, and the equity 0 10 11 12 13 14 –2 10 11 12 13 14 ratio was 34.1%, compared with 38.3%, ROE ROA due to the impacts of acquisitions and other factors. Cash Flows Net cash provided by operating activities year. Major outﬂows included purchase and long-term loans of ¥189.5 billion increased ¥55.1 billion, to ¥83.5 billion of property, plant and equipment and and fund-raising in the form of proceeds from the previous ﬁscal year. Working intangible assets of ¥65.3 billion, primarfrom issuance of bonds of ¥50.0 billion, capital rose; however, this increase was ily for the construction of an aluminum which offset outlays including repayment offset by the ¥40.3 billion rise in income products manufacturing base in Vietnam; of interest-bearing debt of ¥68.6 billion before income taxes and minority interpurchase of investment securities of and cash dividends paid of ¥13.1 billion. ests; the absence of the previous year’s ¥115.3 billion, largely for strategic investAs a result, after taking into account provision for loss on disaster, associated ments; and purchase of shares of subsidthe effect of exchange rate change on with the fall 2011 Thailand ﬂooding; and iaries resulting in change in scope of cash ﬂows, cash and cash equivalents at outlays related to accepting applications consolidation of ¥33.3 billion. the end of the ﬁscal year stood at ¥139.0 for early retirement and changing penNet cash provided by ﬁnancing activbillion, up ¥24.4 billion from the end of sion plans. ities amounted to ¥153.1 billion, compared the previous ﬁscal year. Net cash used in investing activities with net cash used in ﬁnancing activities amounted to ¥218.3 billion, an increase of ¥31.8 billion in the previous ﬁscal of ¥205.9 billion from the previous ﬁscal year. This was a result of short-term LIXIL Group Corporation Management’s Discussion and Analysis 77 Trends in the principal indicators of ﬁnancial position are shown in the following table. As of and years ended March 31 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Shareholders’ equity ratio (%)* 49.7 45.2 35.7 38.3 34.1 (¥ billion) Shareholders’ equity ratio on a market 100 value basis (%)** 51.4 52.7 34.0 36.9 45.7 83.5 Interest-bearing debt divided by 75 cash flow (times)*** 3.8 5.6 13.0 14.9 7.5 Interest coverage ratio (times)**** 17.1 11.4 8.6 5.9 18.5 50 * Shareholders’ equity ratio: Shareholders’ equity / Total assets ** Shareholders’ equity ratio on a market value basis: Market capitalization / Total assets 25 *** Interest-bearing debt divided by cash flow: Interest-bearing debt / Cash flow **** Interest coverage ratio: Cash flow / Interest payments Notes: 1. All indicators are based on figures from the consolidated accounts. 0 10 11 12 13 14 2. Market capitalization is calculated by multiplying the closing stock price at the end of the period and the total number of shares outstanding at the end of the period (excluding treasury stock). 3. Cash flow is the cash flows from operating activities that is presented in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. Interest-bearing debt is the value of all liabilities presented in the Consolidated Balance Sheets on which the Group pays interest. Interest payments are the figures presented in the item Interest payments in the notes to Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in the Company’s Financial Report (Yuka Shoken Hokokusho). Liquidity The LIXIL Group strives to generate ﬂexibility, the Group works to diversify totaled ¥165.0 billion. Despite repayment operating cash ﬂows and consider a sources of funds, including bank borof long-term loans payable of ¥21.9 bilwide range of fund-raising methods to rowings and funds from other ﬁnancial lion, interest-bearing debt stood at procure a stable and ﬂexible supply of institutions, by arranging for a commer¥626.5 billion at ﬁscal year-end, followfunds necessary for its business activities cial paper issuance line, establishing ing an increase in short-term loans paywhile maintaining a sound ﬁnancial commitment lines, and implementing able of ¥65.8 billion and procurement of position. Regarding cash on hand, the initiatives for the securitization of trade ¥123.7 billion worth of funds through Group, in principle, maintains funds adenotes and the factoring of receivables. long-term borrowings. quate to cover the settlement of its liabilAs of March 31, 2014, cash and ities in an emergency. To ensure ﬁnancial deposits and marketable securities Outlook for Fiscal Year Ending March 31, 2015 For the ﬁscal year ending March 31, market shares, and drastically reducing In this environment, the LIXIL Group 2015, the outlook is uncertain. While costs and improving efﬁciency. intends to focus on developing operations ongoing recovery is expected in the As for the medium-to-long-term outin the renovation market and expanding domestic economy with the global econlook, Japan’s housing stock market is its business globally. The Group will omy also anticipated to pick up, the expected to see increased liquidity and pursue earnings growth accompanied by impacts of Japan’s consumption tax hike higher demand. Overseas, the Group is operational excellence as it works toward are unclear and the escape from deﬂacontinuing to expand the range of marthe realization of the LIXIL VISION mantion is not assured. kets in which it participates through agement target of becoming a global Bearing this in mind, the LIXIL M&A activities. Accordingly, we expect leader in the building materials and housGroup will advance the measures set out that the Group’s diverse business porting equipment industry. in its Medium-Term Business Plan LIXIL folio will present substantial opportuniG-16, launched in May 2014, which ties for growth. include expanding sales, increasing LIXIL Group Corporation 78 Business Risks Business Risks LIXIL Group Corporation and Consolidated Subsidiaries This annual report contains information were to result in a decline in growth currencies, the prices of goods and about business conditions, the ﬁnancial and earning potential. amounts of sales could also be situation, and other factors that may affected. These factors could have an inﬂuence investor decisions. Forwardadverse impact on the business perforlooking statements are based on the 4. Procurement Risk mance and ﬁnancial positions of the judgments of the LIXIL Group’s manThe LIXIL Group procures materials, LIXIL Group. agement as of March 2014. Statements parts, services, and other supplies as concerning the future and assumptions required for its production activities. are subject to uncertainty and risks, and There is a possibility that the amounts 7. Acquisition/Merger Risk actual results may vary signiﬁcantly. paid for these supplies will rise because The LIXIL Group may plan to expand of increased industry demand or its business operations through investincreasing raw material prices. There is ments, including corporate acquisitions 1. Economic Risk also a possibility that the reliability or and capital participation. To maximize Operating revenues of most companies reputation of the LIXIL Group’s prodthe beneﬁts of these acquisitions, the in the LIXIL Group are signiﬁcantly ucts will be adversely affected by LIXIL Group seeks to integrate them affected by domestic demand in Japan. defects in or stock-outs of materials, into its corporate cultures and manageIn particular, major ﬂuctuations in new parts, services, or other supplies. These ment strategies. However, there is no housing starts or the level of construcfactors could, in turn, adversely affect guarantee that the anticipated returns tion orders received could have a negathe Group’s business performance and and synergy beneﬁts will be realized. tive effect on business performance and ﬁnancial positions. It is possible that the business perforﬁnancial positions of the LIXIL Group. mance and ﬁnancial positions of the LIXIL Group will be adversely affected 5. Overseas Market Risk by these acquisitions and capital partici2. Competitive Risk The LIXIL Group engages in production pation activities. The LIXIL Group faces severe competiand sales activities overseas, in such tion in most of the markets in which it countries as China and Thailand in Asia operates. For this reason, it is difﬁcult as well as countries in Europe and 8. Business Restructuring Risk to always set prices at levels that are North America. The following latent In order to enhance management efﬁadvantageous to the LIXIL Group. risks exist in these countries. ciency and competitiveness, the LIXIL Although the Group takes pride in its 1) Major exchange rate ﬂuctuations Group may conduct business restructursuperior products and services that caused by currency policies ing, including withdrawal from unprofcontribute to improving people’s com2) Changes in export or import itable businesses; the realignment of fort and lifestyles, there is no guarantee regulations subsidiaries and afﬁliates, manufacturing that it will enjoy a competitive advan3) Dramatic increases in labor costs and bases, and sales and logistics networks; tage in terms of pricing. The LIXIL prices, etc. and the rightsizing of the workforce. Group’s products and services are 4) Interruption of production activities These measures could have an adverse exposed to intense price competition, due to strikes, etc. impact on the business performance and which could have a negative effect on 5) Unanticipated changes to legislation ﬁnancial positions of the LIXIL Group. business performance and ﬁnancial or ﬁnancial regulation and internapositions of the LIXIL Group. tional tax risks, such as transfer pricing legislation 9. Regulatory Risk 6) Other economic, social, and The LIXIL Group is subject to various 3. New Product Development Risk political risks ofﬁcial regulations, including the need to In its operations, the LIXIL Group is 7) Risks of the effects of natural obtain approvals and permits from the committed to providing exceptional disasters government or ofﬁcial agencies for its products and services to satisfy its cusThese factors could have an adverse business and investment activities, as tomers around the globe. The Group impact on the business performance and well as patents and other intellectual creates high-quality living spaces that ﬁnancial positions of the LIXIL Group. property rights, environmental regulaare healthy, comfortable, and safe by tions, and other requirements. Such ofﬁcontinually developing attractive prodcial regulations can be expected to ucts based on an accurate under6. Foreign Exchange Risk change over time, possibly creating standing of available technology and Exchange rate ﬂuctuations have the obstacles to business activities or imposconsumer needs. However, the Group’s potential to affect the yen equivalents ing additional costs relating to complibusiness performance and ﬁnancial of assets and liabilities resulting from ance with new ofﬁcial regulations. These positions could be adversely affected if the foreign currency denominated factors could have an adverse impact on a failure to respond appropriately to transactions of the LIXIL Group. Where the business performance and ﬁnancial changes in market or industry needs transactions are denominated in foreign positions of the LIXIL Group. LIXIL Group Corporation Business Risks 79 10. Product Liability Risk problems. These factors could have an affected if ﬁxed asset impairment losses There is a risk that defects will occur in adverse impact on the business perforare shown in the accounts. products and services supplied by the mance and ﬁnancial positions of the LIXIL Group, or that product recalls LIXIL Group. may be required. Major compensation 16. Retirement Benefit Risk claims or product recalls relating to The employee retirement beneﬁt oblimanufacturers’ liability issues could 13. Environmental Preservation Risk gations and costs of the LIXIL Group result in substantial payments and have The LIXIL Group, based on the Group are calculated primarily using actuarial a negative effect on the reliability and Environmental Basic Policy, engages in assumptions, such as discount ratios reputation of the LIXIL Group’s proda wide range of activities aimed at and expected rates of return on plan ucts. Such situations could have an global environmental preservation. assets. These actuarial assumptions adverse impact on the business perforHowever, the Group cannot guarantee must be reviewed annually. Any mance and ﬁnancial positions of the that it will be able to completely prechanges in the ratios could cause ﬂucLIXIL Group. vent or mitigate any risk of environtuation in business performance and mental pollution. Should serious ﬁnancial positions. The Group has environmental pollution occur as a taken steps to minimize this effect, 11. Risks of Lawsuits and Other result of the Group’s business activities, including the return to the government Legal Proceedings it could have an adverse impact on the of the substitutional portion of the penThe LIXIL Group conducts its business Group’s business performance and sion funds that it previously adminisactivities in Japan and in countries ﬁnancial positions. tered, and the adoption of deﬁned overseas. Accordingly, there is a risk contribution pension plans and cash that it may face lawsuits and legal probalance pension plans. However, the ceedings. When the LIXIL Group 14. Risk of Default on Receivables potential effect cannot be entirely elimibecomes the object of such legal In order to prepare for losses due to nated. Further declines in discount action, there is a possibility that this default on receivables by business partratios or deteriorating investment may result in major payments for damners, the LIXIL Group examines the returns could have a negative effect on ages. These circumstances could have recoverability of general receivables the business performance and ﬁnancial an adverse impact on the business perbased on historical default rates, and of positions of the LIXIL Group. formance and ﬁnancial positions of the speciﬁc doubtful accounts on a caseLIXIL Group. by-case basis, and records the amount considered to be uncollectible as an 17. Risk of Personal Information allowance for doubtful accounts. Leaks 12. Disaster and Accident Risk Should the actual default level signiﬁThe LIXIL Group handles a variety of Natural disasters, such as earthquakes cantly exceed these assumptions, the personal information, including cusand typhoons, could cause substantial allowance for doubtful accounts could tomer information, in the course of damage to the LIXIL Group’s production, be insufﬁcient. Moreover, as a result of its business operations, and stringent distribution, sales, and information manreviewing these assumptions due to the information management is essential. agement facilities. Also, in the occurworsening of overall economic condiInitiatives to strengthen personal inforrence of major workplace disasters or tions and uncertainty in the credit mation management include the estabequipment accidents, there is the possistanding of business partners, the lishment of an organizational unit bility that business activities will be disGroup could make additional providedicated to personal information mancontinued or restricted. The LIXIL Group sions to this allowance. These developagement, the formulation of related conducts regular disaster prevention ments could have an adverse impact on rules and regulations, and the ongoing activities and facility inspections. the Group’s business performance and provision of appropriate training. However, there is no guarantee that it ﬁnancial positions. However, the LIXIL Group could suffer will be possible to prevent or alleviate damage to its public reputation and the effects of natural disasters. In particincur substantial ﬁnancial costs if ular, many of the domestic production 15. Risk of Fixed Asset Value unforeseen circumstances result in the facilities for plumbing ﬁxtures of LIXIL Reduction leakage of personal information. Such a Corporation, a consolidated subsidiary, The LIXIL Group has applied ﬁxed situation could adversely affect the are located in the Tokai region of Japan, asset impairment accounting. The business performance and ﬁnancial where a major earthquake could occur. Group will continue to calculate future positions of the LIXIL Group. While earthquake countermeasures have cash ﬂows relating to its assets and to been implemented at these facilities, a recognize and estimate the impairment major earthquake in the Tokai region of those assets. It is therefore possible could cause a suspension in production, that the Group’s business performance delays in product deliveries, and other and ﬁnancial positions will be adversely LIXIL Group Corporation 80 Principal Group Companies Principal Group Companies (As of March 31, 2014) Consolidated Subsidiaries Equity owned Paid-in capital Name Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) Manufacture and sales of metal building materials, LIXIL Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 34,600 100 plumbing fixtures, other building materials, and housing structures Sales of daily necessities and DIY and LIXIL VIVA CORPORATION Ageo, Saitama 20,000 100 home improvement products Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd. 9,381 100 Manufacture and sales of interior fabrics Kyoto Strategic planning for homebuilding franchise chain busiLIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 1,250 100 nesses and operation of homebuilding franchise chains HIVIC CO., LTD. Oyama, Tochigi 551 100 Manufacture and sales of precut lumber JIO Corporation Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 1,000 100 Insurance for warranty against housing defects LIXIL REALTY, Corp. Chuo-ku, Tokyo 160 100 Real estate business and agency of company housing CLASSIS Corporation Chuo-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Residential real estate brokerage and sales LIXIL Group Finance Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 3,475 100 Financing services SUN WAVE CORPORATION Fukaya, Saitama 90 100 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, other LIXIL Total Hanbai Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 74 100 building materials and equipment, and housing structures Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Koto-ku, Tokyo 2,000 80 Manufacture and sales of other building materials Materials Co., Ltd. G TERIOR Corporation Setagaya-ku, Tokyo 315 100 Sales of exterior products LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION Toshima-ku, Tokyo 1,989 100 Manufacture and sales of shutters and related parts Ground investigation for houses and improvement work JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION Sumida-ku, Tokyo 205 100 for foundation of houses Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, and LIXIL Toyo Sash Shoji Co., Ltd. Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100 100 other building materials and equipment Dinaone Corporation Tokoname, Aichi 90 100 Sales of other building materials TM.S Corporation Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 60 99 Sales of plumbing fixtures and other building materials Suma-ku, Kobe, Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, and Kuwata Co., Ltd. 30 100 Hyogo other building materials and equipment SUN WAVE KITCHEN TECHNO Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 99 100 Sales of plumbing fixtures CORPORATION*1 LIXIL Building Remodeling Sales Co., Ltd Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Sales of metal building materials Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, and Oita Tostem Co., Ltd. Oita, Oita 50 100 other building materials and equipment Sales of metal building materials, plumbing fixtures, and Nishi Kyushu Tostem Co., Ltd. Saga, Saga 30 100 other building materials and equipment LIXIL Online Corporation* 2 Koto-ku, Tokyo 90 100 Sales of metal building materials and plumbing fixtures Tostem Management Systems Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 450 100 System and management support for sales agencies Installation, sales, and after-sales service of metal LIXIL Total Service Corporation*2 Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 building materials, plumbing fixtures, and other building materials and equipment LIXIL ENERGY Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Sales of solar photovoltaic systems After-sales services of residential homes, commercial LIXIL RENEWAL Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 50 80 buildings, etc. LIXIL INFORMATION SYSTEMS Development, operation, and management of information Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 CORPORATION systems INAX SUNWAVE Marketing Corporation Tokoname, Aichi 10 100 — GHS Corporation Koto-ku, Tokyo 100 100 Operation of homebuilding franchise chains MYROOMKAN Real Estate Management Mito, Ibaraki 10 100 Management of real estate Corporation MYROOMKAN Real Estate Sales Corporation Mito, Ibaraki 10 100 Sales of real estate Limited private company SUPER VIVA Chuo-ku, Tokyo Acquisition and management of beneficiary right — 100 ASSET and 3 other companies and other for real-estate trusts €6,900 Permasteelisa S.p.A. Veneto, Italy 100 Manufacture and sales of curtain walls thousand 41 affiliate companies of — — — Manufacture and sales of curtain walls Permasteelisa S.p.A. Pathumthani, Bt2,767 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd. 100 Manufacture of metal building materials Thailand million Pathumthani, Bt103 TOSTEM THAI MARKETING Co., Ltd. 100 Sales of metal building materials Thailand million US$19,115 Holding company of Chinese business of Shanghai Meite AMTRONIC Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 thousand Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd. US$21,310 Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 75 Manufacture and sales of curtain walls thousand Dalian, Liaoning, US$43,500 LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation 100 Manufacture of wooden interior furnishing materials China thousand LIXIL Group Corporation Principal Group Companies 81 Equity owned Paid-in capital Name Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) US$1,510 Holding company of Chinese business of American A-S CHINA PLUMBING PRODUCTS Ltd. Cayman Islands 100 thousand Standard Asia Pacific 5 affiliate companies of A-S CHINA PLUMBING — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures PRODUCTS Ltd. US$94,480 Holding company of Asian business of American LIXIL INTERNATIONAL Pte. Ltd. Singapore 100 thousand Standard Asia Pacific 8 affiliate companies of LIXIL — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures INTERNATIONAL Pte. Ltd. INR22,817 Star Alubuild Private Ltd. Haryana, India 70 Manufacture, installation, and sales of curtain walls thousand IDR42,772 PT. LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA Cileungsi, Indonesia 75 Manufacture and sales of metal building materials thousand US$300,000 Holding company of North American business of ASD Americas Holding Corp. New Jersey, U.S.A. 100 thousand American Standard Brands 19 affiliate companies of ASD Americas — — — Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures Holding Corp. US$38,100 LIXIL INAX VIETNAM Corporation Hanoi, Vietnam 100 Manufacture and sales of plumbing fixtures thousand LIXIL INAX DANANG Manufacturing Quang Nam, US$18,000 100 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Co., Ltd. Vietnam thousand US$12,000 LIXIL INAX SAIGON Manufacturing Co., Ltd. Vung Tau, Vietnam 100 Manufacture and sales of other building materials thousand LIXIL-Haier Housing Products (Qingdao) Qingdao, Shandong, CN¥194,082 51 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Co., Ltd. China thousand LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS Suzhou, Jiangsu, Manufacture of plumbing fixtures and other building 4,000 100 MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) CORPORATION China materials LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing (Suzhou) Suzhou, Jiangsu, 1,730 100 Manufacture of plumbing fixtures Corporation China US$34,500 LIXIL (China) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100 Sales of plumbing fixtures and other building materials thousand Won15,355 LG TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd.*3 Seoul, South Korea 50 Sales of metal building materials million NT$282,677 LIXIL TAIWAN CORPORATION Hsinchu, Taiwan 51 Manufacture and sales of other building materials thousand LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing Shenyang, Liaoning, 1,300 100 Manufacture of other building materials (Shenyang) Corporation China LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING VIETNAM US$40,700 Dong Nai, Vietnam 100 Manufacture of metal building materials Co., Ltd. thousand Equity-Method Affiliates Equity owned Paid-in capital Name Location by the holding Operations (¥ million) company (%) Designing and installation management of houses Sanyo Homes Corporation*4 Osaka, Osaka 5,945 24 and apartments Fukui Computer Inc.*4 Fukui, Fukui 1,631 27 Development and sales of designing systems GraceA Co., Ltd. Koto-ku, Tokyo 103,893 50 Management and operation of GROHE Group S.à r.l Permasteelisa Projects (Thailand) Ltd. Chonburi, Thailand Bt4million 48 Planning and management of building materials Gelderland, €143 Unifront B.V. 26 Development of curtain wall systems Netherlands thousand *1 As of May 30, 2014, LIXIL Corporation transferred all the shares of SUN WAVE KITCHEN TECHNO CORPORATION. *2 As of April 1, 2014, LIXIL Online Corporation was acquired by and merged with LIXIL Total Service Corporation. *3 The holding of shares in LG TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd., is less than 50%, but it is treated as a subsidiary because it is effectively controlled by the Group. *4 The company submits financial reports. LIXIL Group Corporation 82 Number of Sales and Manufacturing Bases Number of Sales and Manufacturing Bases (As of March 31, 2014) Kanto, Chubu, Chugoku, Kyushu, Hokkaido Tohoku Kansai Total Koshinetsu Hokuriku Shikoku Okinawa Sales Network LIXIL Corporation 5 7 31 13 13 10 10 89 Factories* LIXIL Corporation 2 2 13 15 2 2 4 40 * The factories in Mie Prefecture, grouped in Kansai in the annual report for fiscal year ended March 2013, are regrouped in Chubu, Hokuriku in the above data. Showrooms LIXIL Corporation 6 7 34 14 13 10 12 96 Home Centers Home centers (Super Viva Home, New Viva Home, Viva Home) 7 10 55 7 5 0 0 84 Ken Depot 3 5 37 4 3 3 7 62 Homebuilding Franchise Members Eyeful Home Technology Inc. 3 32 43 36 13 26 9 162 FiACE HOME 0 2 3 7 4 3 1 20 GL Home 0 5 5 5 0 0 0 15 Total 3 39 51 48 17 29 10 197 Renovation Franchise Members / Voluntary Chains Members 2012 2013 2014 LIXIL Reform Chain 414 377 376 LIXIL Reform Net 8,896 9,356 10,203 Total 9,310 9,733 10,579 Overseas Factories South Middle North Latin China Thailand Vietnam Indonesia India Europe Total Korea East America America Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd 2 2 LIXIL Building Materials Manufacturing (Shenyang) 1 1 Corporation LIXIL-Haier Housing Products (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. 2 2 LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing 1 1 (Suzhou) Corporation LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS MANUFACTURING 1 1 (SUZHOU) CORPORATION LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation 1 1 LIXIL INAX VIETNAM Corporation 7 7 LIXIL INAX SAIGON Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 1 1 LIXIL INAX DANANG Manufacturing Co., Ltd. 1 1 LIXIL GLOBAL MANUFACTURING VIETNAM Co., Ltd. 1 1 PT. LIXIL ALUMINIUM INDONESIA 1 1 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd. 1 1 LG TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd. 1 1 Star Alubuild Private Ltd. 1 1 Permasteelisa Group 2 1 1 1 2 5 12 American Standard Asia Pacific 4 2 1 1 1 9 American Standard Brands 9 4 13 Total 14 4 11 2 2 2 1 11 4 5 56 Note: Excluding factories of unconsolidated subsidiaries LIXIL Group Corporation History 83 History TOSTEM INAX 1923 The company is founded. 1924 Ina Seito Co., Ltd.*, is established as a 1949 Nihon Tategu Kogyo Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL Group Corporation) is established. producer of tiles, ceramic pipe, and terra cotta. 1966 Housing aluminum sash business commenced. 1945 Production of sanitary ware commenced. 1971 Toyo Sash Co., Ltd., is established after absorbing Toyo Door and four other companies. 1958 Production of Polybath commenced. 1974 Toyo Exterior Co., Ltd.*, is established. Housing exterior business commenced. 1967 Production of first integrated-type Japanese shower toilet. 1977 Viva Home Corporation (later TOSTEM VIVA CORPORATION) is established. Home center business commenced. 1968 Production of unit bathrooms commenced. 1984 Eyeful Home Technology Inc. (now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd.) is established. 1985 Company name is changed to Inax Homebuilding franchise chain operation commenced. Corporation*. 1985 Dai-ichi Mokko Co., Ltd. (later Bright Home and now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd.), Mitsui Light Metal Processing Co., Ltd., Nittetsu Curtainwall Corporation, and 1996 VINAX (now LIXIL INAX VIETNAM Nittetsu Sash Sales Corporation join the Group. Corporation), manufacturing joint venture for sanitary ware in Vietnam, is established. 1987 TOSTEM THAI Co., Ltd., is established. Overseas production of sashes commenced. Suzhou Inax Sanitary Fitting Co., Ltd. 1990 American Home Shield Japan Co., Ltd. (now JAPAN HOME SHIELD CORPORATION), (now LIXIL Sanitary Fitting Manufacturing is established. (Suzhou) Corporation), is established 1992 Toyo Sash Co., Ltd., is renamed to Tostem Corporation. in China. Tostem Foundation for Construction Materials Industry (now LIXIL JS Foundation) 1998 Suzhou Inax Building Materials Co., Ltd. is established. (now LIXIL BUILDING MATERIALS 1999 JIO Corporation is established. MANUFACTURING (SUZHOU) CORPORATION), a tile manufacturing 2000 Toyo Exterior Co., Ltd.*, Eyeful Home Technology Inc. (now LIXIL Housing Research company in China, is established. Institute, Ltd.), and Suzuki Shutter Manufacturing Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL SUZUKI SHUTTER CORPORATION), become wholly owned subsidiaries. 2001 Tostem Corporation is renamed to Tostem Inax Holding Corporation, becomes a pure holding company, and swaps stocks with Inax Corporation.* Tostem Corporation*, an operating company, is established through a corporate separation. 2002 Jyu-Tsu Corporation (now LIXIL REALTY, Corp.) joins the Group. Inax Corporation* establishes the investment fund Inax (China) investment Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL (China) Investment Co., Ltd.), in China. Production of wooden interior furnishings commenced at subsidiary Tostem Housing Products (Dalian) Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL Manufacturing (Dalian) Corporation), in Dalian, China. Century 21 Housing Research Institute Ltd. (now LIXIL Housing Research Institute, Ltd., after becoming Tostem Housing Institute) is inaugurated. 2004 Tostem Inax Holding Corporation is renamed to JS Group Corporation. 2005 Asahi Tostem Exterior Building Materials Co., Ltd., is established as a result of integration of Tostem Corporation* and Asahi Glass Co., Ltd. 2006 JS Group Senior Life Corporation (now a business of LIXIL Corporation) founded and enters fee-based senior citizens assisted-living home business. 2007 Inax Corporation* establishes the overseas tile company Inax Vietnam Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL INAX SAIGON Manufacturing Co., Ltd.). 2008 Inax Corporation* establishes Inax Vietnam Plumbing Fixtures Co., Ltd. (now LIXIL INAX DANANG Manufacturing Co., Ltd.), in Vietnam, which manufactures and sells water faucet fixtures. Jaxson S.P.I. Inc. becomes a subsidiary of Inax Corporation*. 2009 Tostem Corporation* establishes LG-TOSTEM BM Co., Ltd., jointly with LG Chem, Ltd., a LG group company in South Korea. American Standard Asia Pacific becomes a subsidiary of Inax Corporation*. LIXIL ENERGY Co., Ltd., is established, and solar photovoltaic systems business commenced. 2010 New Group brand “LIXIL” is introduced. SUN WAVE CORPORATION* and Shin Nikkei Company, Ltd.*, become subsidiaries. Business alliance is formed with the Haier Group, of China. 2011 Shanghai Meite Curtain Wall System Co., Ltd., in China becomes a subsidiary of Tostem Corporation*. Tostem, Inax, Shin Nikkei, SUN WAVE (not including the production division), and Toyo Exterior are integrated and LIXIL Corporation is born. Kawashima Selkon Textiles Co., Ltd., and HIVIC CO., LTD., become a subsidiary. Permasteelisa S.p.A., of Italy, becomes a subsidiary of LIXIL Corporation. 2012 JS Group Corporation renamed as LIXIL Group Corporation. 2013 INAX ENGINEERING Corporation and six other companies merge. The company is renamed LIXIL Total Service Corporation. ASD Americas Holding Corp., of United States, and Star Alubuild Private Ltd., of India, become subsidiaries of LIXIL Corporation. 2014 GROHE Group S.à r.l., of Europe, becomes an equity-method affiliated company of LIXIL Corporation. (The company acquires 87.5% of GROHE Group shares jointly with the Development Bank of Japan.) * Currently LIXIL Corporation LIXIL Group Corporation 84 Shareholder Information Shareholder Information (As of March 31, 2014) Number of Shares and Shareholders Distribution of Ownership among Shareholders Number of shares authorized 1,300,000,000 Treasury Number of shares outstanding 290,733,127 stock Financial 7.1% institutions (excluding treasury stock of 22,321,128 shares) 26.0% Number of shareholders 46,948 313,054 thousand shares Individuals and others 17.7% Domestic companies 6.9% Foreigners Major Shareholders 42.2% Number of shares held Percentage Name of shareholder (thousand shares) held Thousand shares The Nomura Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. (Trust Account) 9,196* 3.16% Financial institutions 81,443 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 8,556* 2.94% Domestic companies 21,525 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 8,275* 2.85% Foreigners 132,219 State Street Bank and Trust Company Individuals and others 55,545 (Standing proxy: Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd., Treasury stock 22,321 Settlement & Clearing Services Department) 8,242 2.84% Total 313,054 Goldman Sachs & Co. (Regular Account) 8,041 2.77% State Street Bank and Trust Company (Standing proxy: The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, Tokyo Branch) 7,562 2.60% The Dai-ichi Life Insurance Company, Limited 6,561 2.26% LIXIL Employee Stock Ownership Plan 6,493 2.23% NORTHERN TRUST CO. (AVFC) RE 15PCT TREATY ACCOUNT 5,931 2.04% The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd. 5,798 1.99% Notes: 1. In addition to the above, LIXIL Group Corporation holds 22,321 thousand shares of treasury stock. Shareholding calculations exclude treasury stock. 2. * indicates a trust service arrangement. 3. 9,196 thousand shares entrusted to The Nomura Trust & Banking Co., Ltd., are the trust property of Mr. Yoichiro Ushioda, who has voting rights for these shares. Monthly Stock Price Range (Tokyo Stock Exchange) Stock price Stock trading volume (¥) (Thousand shares) 4,000 160,000 3,000 120,000 2,000 80,000 1,000 40,000 0 4/10 4/11 4/12 4/13 3/14 0 For the years As of March 31, 2011 As of March 31, 2012 As of March 31, 2013 As of March 31, 2014 ended March 31 High (yen) 2,180 2,260 2,164 3,060 Low (yen) 1,430 1,397 1,374 1,732 Note: High and low share prices are from the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange. LIXIL Group Corporation Corporate Data 85 Corporate Data (As of March 31, 2014) Company Profile LIXIL Group Online Information In addition to a Group profile, CSR activities, and the Company Name LIXIL Group Corporation latest news, the LIXIL Group’s corporate website (JS Group Corporation renamed as also contains such features as a Special Topics LIXIL Group Corporation on July 1, 2012.) section covering recent business initiatives within the Group and an Executive Column in which the Group’s Established September 19, 1949 president explains important Group business themes. Registered Office 2-1-1 Ojima, Koto-ku, Tokyo 136-8535, Japan http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ Head Office 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6036, Japan Paid-in Capital ¥68.1 billion Fiscal Year Closing March 31 Employees 108 (Consolidated Employees: 51,419) Overview of Major The Company controls and manages domestic and Businesses overseas companies that operate housing related businesses and urban environment related businesses through acquisition or holding of stocks. Investor Relations (IR) Site Securities Traded Tokyo Stock Exchange LIXIL Group Corporation’s IR website offers enriched (Common Stock) Nagoya Stock Exchange content for shareholders and other investors, including information regarding financial results, Transfer Agent and Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation audio streaming of shareholder information meetings, and market data. A PDF version of the Special Management 1-4-5 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, most recent annual report and an online version of Accounts Tokyo 100-8212, Japan containing a video interview with the president are also available on the site. Annual Meeting Normally held in June in Tokyo, Japan of Shareholders http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ir/ LIXIL Corporation owns the copyrights for the product and installment example photographs on the cover, P10, P12, P13 (Interior furnishing materials, Tiles, and Housing exterior wall materials), P21 (second photograph from the right), P30, P31, P42, and P43. This annual report is printed with vegetable oil ink on FSC-certified paper made of wood materials harvested from well-managed forests. TSE Securities Code: 5938 36F, Kasumigaseki Building, 3-2-5 Kasumigaseki, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-6036, Japan http://www.lixil-group.co.jp/e/ Printed in Japan
