Sustainability Report 2013 Communication on Progress to UNGC CEO Message John Alexander, CEO As the world’s leading sustainability consultancy, ERM is positioned uniquely to contribute to the resolution of complex sustainability challenges. To this end, we are committed to implementing the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption, and advancing them within our sphere of influence. We have recently published our annual Sustainability Additionally, with ERM’s active involvement in shaping Report for fiscal year 2013 (1 April 2012 to 31 March sustainability thought leadership through our membership 2013), which also serves as our annual Communication in organizations such as the WBCSD, GRI and UNGC, we on Progress as signatories to the UNGC. This Report can offer the best advice and deliver the best outcomes for has been prepared in accordance with UNGC reporting our clients and the wider society. guidance and the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) new G4 Reporting Guidelines and is available online at Meeting changing needs www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2013 Our strategy provides us with the clear focus we need to Sustainability is not just part of our business. It is our drive long-term success in a changing and challenging business. Through our strategy One Planet. One Company. world. Throughout fiscal year 2013 (FY13), we helped a ERM., we are striving for sustainable best practices to be range of mining and oil and gas clients as they entered embedded within every layer of our operations. new markets in Africa, Asia and South America, and as they developed unconventional resources in these and As the World Business Council for Sustainable other parts of the world; we expanded the social and Development’s (WBCSD) Vision 2050 illustrates, our economic remit of environmental due diligence processes clients, and the world as a whole, are facing continued to address liabilities more effectively; and we assisted and escalating challenges with respect to sustainability. clients to understand and manage the risks associated With the world’s population expected to top nine billion with building, operating and closing complex industrial by 2050, the demand for energy, water, food and other facilities. We also worked increasingly with clients on essential commodities is increasing — along with the safety transformation, including both the technical/process fragility of our planet. ERM is at the forefront of helping safety and the non-technical risks associated with capital industries, corporations and investors respond to this new projects and our clients’ sustainable business strategies. operating landscape. With globally integrated and resourced teams, such as the Through our involvement in increasingly complex and, at newly created Global Water Network, we are able to deliver times, sensitive global projects, we are using our expertise the solutions our clients need. We combine international to help find solutions to the sustainability challenges and local expertise to provide full-asset life cycle solutions facing our clients. We have the strategic and technical across all sectors, anywhere in the world. capabilities to be able to support clients throughout the life cycle of their business needs, helping to balance the social, environmental and economic requirements of local communities, countries and regions. The world’s leading sustainability consultancy 1 developed key performance indicators (KPIs) and targets and implemented new software systems and other processes to track our performance more efficiently. Engagement across the organization is key to driving performance, and, therefore each ERM office prepared a sustainability action plan to respond to the global KPIs and targets, as well as to provide engagement with local initiatives. Through the hard work of our employees, we continued $1M to advance our culture related to safety performance and global collaboration, which enhances our ability to solve Over complex issues for our clients. We contributed over US$1 million of company funds to global sustainability initiatives, including The ERM Foundation, along with $0.2 million to global sustainability initiatives, in voluntary employee contributions. We made progress including The ERM Foundation in the implementation of a number of strategic global systems and processes including investing heavily towards achieving 100 percent completion of mandatory training in key areas. You can read in ERM’s Sustainability Report Acquisitions 2013 the specific actions we are taking to improve our performance against our targets in FY14 and beyond. This year, we continued to expand our operations and capabilities through two acquisitions. We were involved in the WBCSD Vision 2050 and Action2020 processes that look at shaping how we do We acquired the privately owned Canadian environmental business in a world with dwindling resources and growing consultancy Rescan, a 170-person company offering populations. I am honored to Co-Chair the Action2020 a wide range of services to the resource development process, supported by a team of ERM experts. We also industry. This will allow us to continue our strategy of participated in the Rio+20 UN Conference on Sustainable building a leading position in our key markets. We also acquired relevant assets of Zer01, Australia’s largest information solutions firm focused on health, safety and the environment. The Zer01 acquisition enhances ERM’s Sustainability Information Solutions business in Asia Pacific and adds to the firm’s global knowledge base and experience in key applications, to create a truly global delivery capability. Our commitment At ERM, our commitment to sustainability goes well beyond how we manage our own footprint around carbon, waste and water. This commitment includes ensuring the safety, health and professional development of our employees, upholding the highest standards of business conduct and ethics, and contributing to local communities. By identifying and prioritizing our material issues across all areas covered by our definition of sustainability, we 2 Development, where governments, business and civil society joined together to identify The Future We Want. We also took part in many sector focused events, including the mining conference Prospectors and Developers Association of Canada (PDAC), CERAWeek and energy conferences led by the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE). In the coming years, some of our greatest challenges will include the changing global economic conditions, increased scrutiny of natural resource developments and the socioeconomic challenges associated with industrial development as new economies emerge and populations grow and change. These will necessitate working more closely with businesses to respond boldly to these challenges and achieve longer-term success for their organizations. We also anticipate the need to continue engaging and up-skilling our employees so that they continue to develop and apply leading-edge approaches and tools to meet the very specific needs of our clients. our involvement in each project to ensure we meet our We are proud to have played a key role in driving change, Code of Conduct and Sustainability Approach, manage but there are still many challenges ahead, as the WBCSD’s our risks and provide balanced and independent input into Vision 2050 demonstrates. Sustainability is not a checkclient decisions. These are all fundamental to our longin-the-box activity; as new risks emerge and impacts term success. evolve, we must strive to find innovative solutions and to facilitate meaningful debate. At times, this means ERM appreciates our position as a leader in addressing we receive attention for our work on high-profile, and sustainability challenges through our work with clients, sometimes controversial, projects. We consider carefully our role as a thought leader, the way we manage our own impacts and pursue opportunities, and our support to local communities in which we operate. On behalf of the Board and management team, I would like to thank our clients for their continued support and all ERM employees around the world for their commitment, energy and passion, without which we could not do what we do — thank you. In FY14 and beyond, ERM will continue to deliver smarter solutions, to enable better outcomes for our clients and the planet. We will also continue to address the world’s most significant sustainability challenges and unlock tomorrow’s opportunities. We hope you will join us on that journey. John Alexander Chief Executive Officer 3 About ERM: We are a global provider of environmental, health, safety, risk, sustainability and social consulting services. Sustainability describes what we do, day in and day out, within our own operations and through the services we provide to our clients. With over 150 offices in more than 40 countries and territories, we are a truly global company that provides consulting services and innovative solutions in more than 160 countries that help clients improve how they understand, manage and reduce their impacts on the world. Our clients are from a wide range of sectors including oil and gas, power, mining, manufacturing, chemical, pharmaceutical, consumer goods, legal and financial institutions, and government. The Ten Principles of the UNGC closely align with ERM’s own values and principles, and our One Planet. One Company. ERM. business strategy, which places sustainability at the heart of our global activities. Links: Discover ERM’s Sustainability Report 2013 website — www.erm.com/sustainabilityreport2013 See our performance against sustainability KPIs and targets — click here Find the location of specific disclosures in the GRI and UNGC Content Indexes — click here Read the report launch announcement on erm.com — click here We welcome feedback on our Sustainability Report. Please submit any questions or comments to sustainability@erm.com The world’s leading sustainability consultancy 4
