H.E Ban Ki-Moon Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA January 15th, 2014 Subject: Second Annual COP Dear Mr. Secretary General, TigerPROFILES & INSULATION LLC, is a manufacturing company specialized in metal roofing and cladding systems and solutions. The company was established in the United Arab Emirates in 1993, and has since then grown to 60 staff and about 120 labor. We extend to our invaluable clients Design, Engineering, Manufacturing, Supply and Installation services thus enabling them to source prime, customized solutions to all their roofing and cladding requirements from us as their one ideal source. What our company, TigerPROFILES & INSULATION, stands for: Technology, Performance& Integrity, which also happen to be our acronyms (TPI) Technology is our passion: employing only the most advanced to enable us to revolutionize our production processes, methods and products in a manner that has greatly enhanced our standing as innovative users of state of the art machinery and technology. Performance is our motivating driver: improving it, surpassing our client expectations and generally excelling at it, is a key driver. Integrity is our binding law: high above all, it is the governance governing our every action. Our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility loud and clear – we are active members of the US Green Building Council, United Nations Global Compact and the Emirates Environmental Group. Our commitment is to put our customers first by providing excellent service & by focusing on them, our customers & being a responsible member of our communities, and thus producing a solid return for our company, while create meaningful work for ourselves & provide something of lasting value for society. We are pleased to confirm that TigerPROFILES & INSULATION has supported, and will continue to support the Global Compact’s ten principles in regards to human rights, labor standards, protection of environment and anti-corruption. Today we renew our commitment to continue to support these principles while seeking new ways to make our commitment more evident and have more of an impact in the area that we believe we have an influence. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is an annual submission of a Communication on Progress that describes our efforts to implement and uphold the ten principles. As such, we confirm that we support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress on an annual basis in adherence to the Global Compact COP Policy. In our second annual Communication on Progress enclosed here, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our available channels of communication. Sincerely, Bernard R Nasr CEO Page 1 of 3 HUMAN RIGHTS: ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We support the UNGC ten principles, and in particular the ones related to human rights. Our activities are governed first and foremost by our sense of integrity and compassion, and are always in line with the existing labor laws. Our HR Dept ensures that all grievances are dealt with in an appropriate manner, while in parallel, the CEO is available via open door management policy for any direct communications with the staff. The HR Dept counsels & advises employee, assists in putting problem in writing & visits with employee's manager(s), if necessary. We do not tolerate any form of discrimination including gender, race, religion or handicap. Implementation Implementation starts from the screening process of our employees and suppliers. We have in place an equal opportunity policy that states that “In order to provide equal employment & advancement opportunities to all individuals, employment decisions at TigerPROFILES will be based on merit, qualifications, & abilities. TigerPROFILES does not discriminate in employment opportunities or practices based on race, color, religion, sex, nationality, age, or any other characteristic protected by law. This policy governs all aspects of benefits & training. Upon hiring of the selected employee, an employee handbook which details rights, dues, obligations, support mechanisms, policies, procedures and our code of conduct is handed over to each employee. These apply to both staff and labor. All our suppliers are required to state and confirm that they respect and abide by the Human Rights principles and do not tolerate discrimination, child labor or abuse of any form. Outcome We are proud to say that our stand for equal employment opportunity has earned us the ability to hire and retain a diverse workforce consisting of more than 15 different nationalities from both genders. In the past year we are proud to confirm that we have not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. We continue to administer and review all employee satisfaction surveys. LABOUR: ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS TigerPROFILES recognizes the importance of providing a working culture based on respect and trust throughout the organization on all levels. We do not tolerate discrimination, child labor or abuse of any form. All employees are made aware of their rights and responsibilities along with compensation and benefits as per the labor laws of the UAE. Implementation An annual performance appraisal is scheduled to take place between the employee and their supervisor discussing goals, achievements and future goals. Employees are always given feedback and motivate to improve themselves and their performance. Outcome Our employees are satisfied and proud to be part of the company. Our operations are closely monitored by the HR and HSE Depts to ensure that government and company policies are abided to in all aspects especially those related to labor working hours, conditions and living conditions. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES: ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS In production we use the cleanest technology, and ensure that our foam insulated products are produced using ozone and global warming friendly, zero cfc products. All our waste is recycled in a manner reflective of the world’s highest safety and environment standards, and in line with our three certificates (ISO 9001: 2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007). Page 2 of 3 Implementation Within our operations all paper that is purchased for use is 100% recycled paper, and all paper that is consumed is sent for recycling together with our plastic and tin can waste. The level of waste is monitored on a regular basis. Outcomes The level of waste is monitored on a regular basis, and we have managed this past year to reduce the amount of waste by almost 35% by providing all possible means of recycling and implanting rules enforcing the minimizing of printing and paper usage. Our production waste is also monitored, and has shown reductions of upto 20%. In parallel, we are proud to state that we have not been subject to any investigations in regards to any harmful environmental activities, nor have we received any major non-conformances in regards to the audits carried out for renewal of our (ISO 9001: 2008, ISO 14001: 2004 and OHSAS 18001: 2007) certificates. ANTI-CORRUPTION : ASSESSMENT, POLICY AND GOALS It is TigerPROFILES commitment since inception to maintain the highest levels of integrity and transparence and to exercise as zero tolerance policy in regards to all its operations and dealing with stakeholders and third parties. The successful business operation & reputation of TigerPROFILES is built upon the principles of fair dealing & ethical conduct of our employees. Our reputation for integrity & excellence requires careful observance of the spirit & letter of all applicable laws & regulations, as well as a meticulous regard for the highest standards of conduct & personal integrity. Implementation TigerPROFILES complies with all applicable laws & regulations & expects its directors, officers, & employees to conduct business in accordance with the letter, spirit, & intent of all relevant laws & to refrain from any illegal, dishonest, or unethical conduct. Compliance with this policy of business ethics & conduct is the responsibility of every TigerPROFILES employee. Employees can raise concerns & make reports without fear of reprimand. Anyone found to be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action, up to & including termination of employment. TigerPROFILES & INSULATION LLC conduct its business honestly & ethically wherever we operate in the world. We constantly improve the quality of our services, products & operations & create a reputation for honesty, fairness, respect, responsibility, integrity, trust & sound business judgment. No illegal or unethical conduct on the part of officers, directors, employees or affiliates is in the company’s best interest. Employees of the company never permit their personal interests to conflict, or appear to conflict, with the interests of the company, its clients or affiliates. They are particularly careful to avoid representing TigerPROFILES in any transaction with others with whom there is any outside business affiliation or relationship. No bribes, kickbacks or other similar remuneration or consideration shall be given to any person or organization in order to attract or influence business activity. Employees avoid gifts, gratuities, fees, bonuses or excessive entertainment, in order to attract or influence business activity. Outcome TigerPROFILES and its employees have not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or any other incidents related to corruption or bribery. Page 3 of 3
