Corporate Social Responsibility 2013 Published: 7 February, 2014 Our approach At TDC, responsibility and sustainability are natural aspects of our business, based on our heritage and the important role we play in society as a leading technology and communications company. We appreciate that as part of society, we have an important role to play. Our approach to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) therefore begins in our business areas and reflects our ambition to actively use our core competencies and strengths to promote sustainable development in society. Our focus on CSR also supports our business by highlighting stakeholder needs and expectations, by reducing TDC's exposure to risks, and by supporting innovation and enhancing the company's reputation in society. Our strategic approach to CSR therefore allows us to create value for society at large as well as our business, based on awareness of the social challenges we face. TDC will use its core competences to promote sustainable development in society. Five focus areas At TDC, we believe that CSR initiatives should clearly reflect and match the company's profile; our activities and aspirations, the countries in which we operate, and our customers, employees and business partners. Page 1 of 15 Therefore, TDC's approach to responsibility and sustainability is structured around the five focus areas defined in our CSR strategy. These areas are strategically linked to TDC's core business and were chosen based on studies and dialogue with customers, employees, investors and other stakeholders as issues of most significance to our company and stakeholders, and where we can make the greatest difference. The five focus areas are:  Digital Denmark  Customer trust and safety  Climate and environment  Employee well-being and diversity  Social partnerships Our CSR strategy covers the entire TDC Group, including Danish and Nordic subsidiaries. This report describes the specific ambitions for the five focus areas, explains how these have been translated into concrete actions, and outlines the results that have been achieved. Results for 2013, future objectives and a more detailed review of TDC’s CSR activities are available in our online CSR Report 2013, which is accessible at tdc.com/csr2013. Commitment and Cooperation Many societal challenges today are global in their nature and since 2009 TDC has therefore been a participant in the UN Global Compact, the largest global initiative on corporate social responsibility and which is based on ten principles in four areas: human rights, labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. Participation in the UN Global Compact is also an important way for TDC to demonstrate its commitment to supporting and securing internationally recognised human rights, which address more specifically as integral aspects of our five CSR focus areas, without however having a separate policy on human rights. The principles of the Global Compact also serve as inspiration for TDC's CSR strategy, for example, in the areas of sustainability and responsibility in the supply chain. TDC engages in discussions on societal challenges of relevance to our business areas through a number of forums at national, European and global levels. These include the Telecoms Industry Association (TI), The Danish IT Industry Association (ITB) and Danish ICT and Electronics Federation (DI ITEK) in Denmark, the European Telecommunications Network Operators' Association (ETNO) at the European level, and the Global eSustainability Initiative (GeSI) at an international level. Page 2 of 15 1. Digital Denmark With the 'Digital Denmark' focus area, TDC wishes to promote a clear digital agenda and support digitalisation throughout society. We wish to secure Denmark’s continued development as a leading digital country – for the benefit of citizens, businesses and society at large. We are therefore maintaining our ambitious investments in digital infrastructure and from DKK 3.5bn in 2012, our annual investments in infrastructure increased to DKK 3.7bn in 2013, allowing us to provide even more people with access to faster connections and more services. TDC is also committed to promoting greater use of telemedicine and digital solutions in other welfare services. Consequently, TDC is helping to develop digital welfare services to benefit the Danish population, while also preparing society to deal with future challenges and developing business opportunities as new technologies become available. Finally, TDC is focused on developing and promoting digital content services that support a culturally diverse production environment by securing artists payment for their work, and reinforcing the future basis for films and music in Denmark. Even stronger digital infrastructure As our society becomes increasingly digitised and access to telephone and data connections anywhere and anytime has become a fundamental expectation, more will be demanded of the digital infrastructure required to keep us all connected. At the same time, access to mobile telephony and broadband is helping to promote productivity in society by making daily life more convenient and opening up for new opportunities. TDC plays a crucial role in this context, as we have a fixed network with over 280,000 km of fibre-optical, copper and coax cables as well as a strong mobile network with broad coverage spanning the 2G, 3G and 4G technologies. Together, these networks are the foundation that allows us to keep Denmark digitally connected in all directions. And in Scandinavia, our fibre-based network covers Sweden, Norway and Finland, allowing us to provide advanced communications solutions to businesses across the Nordic region. In 2013, TDC continued significantly upgrading and expanding its mobile network; at 336 sites in Denmark, we either erected a new mobile mast or upgraded the existing masts with increased capacity and new technologies. This provides greater geographical coverage as well as increased capacity, which in turn ensures higher data speeds and better stability for improved customer experiences. This applies especially to the expansion of the 4G/LTE mobile network as our 800 MHz frequencies are playing an increasingly important role by reaching further into the countryside and into buildings. In addition, the 4G data speeds will typically more than double the speed of the current 3G mobile network. Altogether, this will significantly Page 3 of 15 improve access to mobile broadband – particularly in parts of Denmark where internet access is currently not strong. TDC is the only telecommunications company in Denmark that has committed to providing mobile broadband via 4G to the most thinly populated areas by the end of 2015. Naturally, such expansion requires enormous efforts. In 2013, we therefore launched the biggest and fastest initiative to date involving expanding the mobile network, and in 2014 we will be making massive efforts in order to furnish 3,500 existing mobile masts with new equipment and erect an additional 150 new masts, which will improve both coverage and capacity for the 3G and 4G networks. TDC also continued investments in expanding and upgrading its cable-based networks (fibre-optic, coax and xDSL) in order to provide increased data speeds for end users. In fact, during the course of 2013, we upgraded and expanded our cable-based networks in over 800 locations throughout Denmark. Our xDSL network, which provides access to broadband through the telephone socket, reaches 99% of all Danish households and businesses, and together, TDC and YouSee can provide broadband connections at speeds of 100 Mbps to 49% of all Danish households and enterprises. By continuing to invest heavily in our networks, we aim to extend this coverage to about 65% of the population by the end of 2015. Telemedicine and welfare technology Pressure on the Danish health service will rise as over the years, larger parts of the population will require treatment. Similar scenarios exist for other welfare services including education and care for senior citizens, where there is a societal ambition of ensuring the highest quality for the available resources. At the same time, digital communication can allow welfare tasks to be solved in a more flexible and efficient manner, e.g. by enabling citizens to monitor their physical condition and receive medical advice in the comfort of their own homes. Consequently, TDC is committed to promoting telemedicine and welfare technology solutions across Denmark. We see a bright future in using technology to provide smarter welfare services within healthcare and related areas to potentially improve citizens’ quality of life, while making everyday life easier for carers and reducing wasted time, the need for transportation, and healthcare costs. In 2013, TDC launched a new product called TDC Telemedicine Subscription. With this package solution, TDC can provide fast delivery and installation of equipment in patients’ homes, while the health service is in charge of purchasing the equipment and providing instruction for equipment use. TDC also participated in a number of telemedicine and welfare technology projects, including a large new telemedicine project covering 300 users in the Greater Copenhagen area. The 150 patients suffering from COPD (Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease) and 150 pregnant women participating in the project will receive Page 4 of 15 an integrated TDC solution covering logistics, installation of a broadband connection and a tablet computer together with wireless monitoring equipment. As another example, TDC participated in the large-scale TeleCare Nord project together with the North Denmark Region, a project covering a telemedicine home-care solution for COPD patients in North Jutland. Patients are provided with a monitor, an oxygen flow meter and a blood pressure meter in the comfort of their own homes, and can thus monitor lung function, pulse, oxygen saturation in the lungs, blood pressure, etc. General practitioners, hospitals and home care personnel – as well as the patients – can then monitor their condition and intervene in due time. In 2013, TDC installed telemedicine connections for over 500 patients as part of this project, and more than 600 additional patients are expected to be connected in 2014. In the years ahead, TDC will continue its efforts to spread telemedicine solutions to more user groups as the political and financial frameworks support digitalisation of welfare services. Sustainable content services The digital world has given us many new opportunities to enjoy music, films and other cultural experiences. However, the new digital services have also prompted new challenges in relation to securing viable cultural production environments where artists are secured payment for their work, and where content for relatively minor languages and cultures, including Denmark and the Nordic countries as a whole, is also accessible. Consequently, for a number of years, TDC has strived to develop and promote sustainable and user-friendly digital content services that support a culturally diverse production environment. For example, in 2008, TDC launched the music service 'TDC Play' – the first service in the world of its kind with legitimate music downloads, and in 2010, music streaming was added. In 2013, we upgraded the service to also provide access to streaming of films, TV series and a choice of TV channels. In 20013, we also launched the streaming service, YouBio, providing access to films and TV series on the internet, either by renting and streaming individual films or taking out a monthly YouBio subscription. In order to offer even more customers access to legitimate streaming of more than 20 million music tracks, we launched the 'YouMusic' service for YouSee customers and 'Telmore Music' for Telmore customers in 2013. As a consequence, the number of users of the TDC Group's music services as well as the number of music tracks played more than doubled compared with 2012. Through our cooperation with industry partners, TDC also helped initiate the 'Share With Care' campaign, which aims to promote legitimate use and sharing of digital content such as music and films. Through 'Share With Care', which also involves the Ministry of Culture and copyright owners, various surveys have been carried out, and innovation camps as well as targeted information campaigns were held on legitimate content services. The activities will continue in the first half of 2014, and the gathered Page 5 of 15 experience and information will be used to promote the use and development of legitimate digital content services. Finally, TDC has continued its support for Danish film and television production through YouSee. The objective is to ensure a continued production of high quality cultural content, despite Denmark being a small country. We have aimed to achieve this through e.g. support for the CPH PIX film festival, the Shortlist by Ekko Film Magazine as well as through support for the Danish Film Academy's Robert Prize . TDC is also active in 'Filmpolitisk Forum' under the Danish Film Institute, where future models of a sustainable Danish film environment are discussed. And for some years, TDC has aimed to support the production of film and television in our neighbouring countries across language barriers by ensuring wide distribution of TV channels from these countries, and through a non-profit collaboration project on producing Danish subtitles for five TV channels (ARD, ZDF, NRK1, SVT1 and SVT2) from these neighbouring countries. These subtitles create windows to Sweden, Norway and Germany that allow viewers in Denmark to follow politics, society, languages and culture from these neighbouring countries. 2. Customer trust and safety At TDC, as our work revolves around our customers, it is essential that our customers trust us as a company and feel safe and secure when using our products and services. We therefore make sure that our products score top marks on safety, and have specified requirements concerning sustainability and human rights in relation to our suppliers. And we strive to communicate with our customers in a clear and trustworthy manner so that they feel well-informed on how to enjoy full, safe use of our products. Safe use of TDC products At TDC, we help our customers to enjoy the full potential of their products in a confident and safe manner by prioritising customer dialogue. This is of particular importance as the digital world entails a number of risks concerning data safety, privacy protection and IT crime. At TDC, we take general responsibility for general security by applying a wide-ranging Group Security Policy based on the ISO27001 standard covering e.g. security of customer data as well as protection of customers' privacy and personal data. Unfortunately, TDC cannot guard its customers against all risks or security threats on the internet, but we can ensure that our own products are safe to use, and we can advise our customers on digital security through e.g. electronic newsletters and our online security portal, which offers advice on how to handle viruses, spam, phishing and other kinds of fraud. Page 6 of 15 Security in TDC operations is naturally also continuously monitored, both on a daily basis and via internal and external audits. TDC's general spam and virus filters stop many millions of unwanted and malicious e-mails before reaching our customers’ inboxes. We also offer our customers a choice of products with extra security and safety features, such as TDC Secure for broadband and the app TDC Mobile Security. And as part of our contract signed in 2013 with Huawei, TDC's new partner in building and operating a world-class mobile network, we have set high requirements concerning IT security and coordinated closely with the relevant authorities. In surveys, our customers score us 80 out of 100, confirming that they feel safe with our IT security when using our products, and we believe this reflects our focus on security challenges. As a special initiative in 2013, TDC, together with other parties in the industry and the Media Council for Children and Young People prepared a guide on mobile phones for parents of children aged approx. 9-12 years. The guide is available free of charge online, and will also be available in TDC's shops free of charge as a printed booklet. With this guide, TDC wishes to increase parents’ awareness of a number of potential challenges that may arise when children e.g. text with others, write updates on social media or share photos. In this way, TDC wishes to help parents prevent the risk of digital bullying, ringing up huge bills or unintentional sharing personal data etc. In 2013, TDC was also active on the board of the Council for Digital Security, which aims to create a solid and wide-ranging platform for qualified debates and policy proposals on how Denmark can continue to benefit securely from the opportunities afforded by digitalisation. Over the past few years, TDC has also demonstrated proactive responsibility by focusing on the safe use of mobile phones in traffic in a three-year cooperation project with the Danish Road Safety Council under the heading 'Kør bil, når du kører bil' ('Focus on driving when you're driving'). A survey showed that 88% of all respondents had seen the 2013 campaign, and as many as 86% of them could recall the campaign messages unaided. Value-chain responsibility When buying products from TDC, customers should feel sure that attention has been paid to responsibility throughout the entire value chain in relation to e.g. human rights and environmental sustainability. Consequently TDC makes demands on its suppliers, who in turn make demands on their suppliers. This is implemented through a Code of Supplier Conduct and in our supplier contracts. The requirements are based on the UN Global Compact, of which TDC has been a member since 2009, and in 2013 we updated and further specified the criteria in our supplier contracts. We have also implemented a procedure for examining potential tools and procedures to strengthen the screening, monitoring and dialogue regarding responsibility and sustainability in our supply chain. Page 7 of 15 Furthermore, through membership of the organisation 'Global e-Sustainability Initiative' (GeSI), TDC addresses a number of global challenges together with other telecommunications operators, equipment producers and organisations such as EICC, UNEP and WBCSD. This involves compliance with human rights and improved sustainability in global value chains in particular. Finally, in 2013, TDC adopted an Anti-Corruption Policy that sets out clear expectations and guidelines for employees, customers, business partners and public authorities. The policy is communicated to all employees through various in-house channels, and we are continuing to increase the familiarity with in-house precautions through targeted communication at departments working with major contracts. Although TDC operates only in the Nordic markets, which are characterised by a low level of corruption, and have not had any such cases, we chose to clarify to all our stakeholders that TDC does not tolerate corruption of any kind. Attentive customer dialogue We rely on our dialogue with customers as an important tool for safeguarding trust and safety. That is why TDC continuously strives to maintain an attentive and trustworthy dialogue with customers based on their needs and expectations. We accomplish that through our customer services, electronic newsletters and social media, including Facebook and Twitter, where we invite customers and the general public to give us input feedback on our products and services. Throughout 2013, we continued to successfully strengthen the dialogue through e.g. Facebook, where the TDC Group went from having around 100,000 to around 159,000 users who 'like' our brands. In this way, we can keep even more users informed of new initiatives and products or in case of security treats, while also providing service updates. In 2013, we also restructured TDC's 50 shops to allow our customers to explore our products better using a concept with emphasis on creating an inviting ambience with a lay-out of natural materials and lots of colours, space and light. Preliminary results indicate that our customers are pleased with the new concept, among other reasons because it allows them to touch and try out the products for themselves. In 2013, we continued our special initiative on customer dialogue featuring guidance on the use of smartphones under the heading 'Kom godt i gang' ('Off to a good start'). Customers can book a free training session in any of our TDC Shops across Denmark, where staff will advise them on how to set up apps, mails and surf the internet on their phones. We have also expanded our online advice on mobile telephony, particularly smartphones. Since more than 90% of the mobile phones currently sold by TDC are smartphones, this enables us to take responsibility for ensuring that our customers enjoy full use of the many functions these products offer. On the whole, at TDC we have a strong focus on customer satisfaction, which we continuously monitor by measuring specific parameters. In fact, since 2009, we have worked with the Group transformation programme TAK, 'Tag ansvar for kunden' (take responsibility for the customer), and have achieved impressive progress. Our customer Page 8 of 15 satisfaction score has thus increased from 67 in 2009 to 75 in 2013, on a 100 point index. As part of this programme, we have a cross-organisational team following up on the results and co-ordinating our efforts to strengthen customer satisfaction using seven programme themes covering e.g. increased accessibility of customer service, making invoices easier to understand and safeguarding unique product quality. As an example of the latter, in 2013 we launched 'Mix it yourself' broadband from YouSee, the new version of TDC Play, increased choice in the composition of TV packages, and other products that give our customers increased freedom of choice and improved customer experiences. Our efforts to achieve customer satisfaction appear to have paid off, as in 2013, we achieved an increase in the number of customers recommending us to others, across the TDC Group. However, this does not keep us from continuing our efforts with unabated strength to achieve higher customer satisfaction. 3. Climate and environment We have only one planet to share and our environment is currently challenged by climate changes and high levels of human activities. Consequently, at TDC, we constantly work to minimise our impact on the climate and environment, both in terms of our own activities and those of our customers when using TDC products. We do so due to our joint responsibility for the environment, and because it helps save valuable resources. We have drawn up a sustainability policy with four dimensions: focus in-house (reduced consumption of electricity, water, heating and fuel), focus on customers (environmentally and energy friendly products), focus on society (reduced energy consumption and climate impact through communication technologies) and focus on the supply chain (sustainability requirements throughout the value chain, from cradle to cradle ). We also monitor our energy and resource consumption based on the principles of the ISO14001 environmental standard and report annually to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project). Our efforts to become more environment-friendly cover not only in-house initiatives, as we also use our size and business potential to help and encourage others to care more for the environment and climate. Telephony, internet and video conferencing can often replace long car and plane journeys, and our products can provide society at large with more eco-friendly solutions. For all these reasons, environmental concerns are given high priority throughout TDC, and have been for many years. At TDC, we have set an ambitious target: to reduce our CO2 emissions by a total of 40% compared with 2010. At year-end 2013, with emissions reduced by just over 20%, we are well on our way to achieving this goal. We will continue focusing our work on reducing both our consumption of electricity for networks and technology as well as our consumption of fuel for vehicles. The challenge is to become more energy-efficient while at the same time expanding our networks and increasing connection speeds to Page 9 of 15 benefit customers and society at large. Naturally however, expanding our 4G mobile network while reducing our energy consumption represents a challenge. We are proud that our targeted climate efforts, which combine both an in-house focus with an eye for the wider perspectives for society, were honoured at the CSR Awards 2013 in Denmark, where TDC was awarded the CO2 Reduction Prize. We will use this recognition as a catalyst for continuing our efforts with renewed strength. In-house initiatives In 2013, we focused in-house on projects to ensure optimisation and replacement of the most energy-consuming parts of our network and to continually adjust to the needs of our customers. This applies especially to our PSTN network (traditional telephony) where we can achieve significant energy savings by consolidating active subscriber lines on fewer network units. In 2013, we thus achieved savings of just under five million kWh at an annual rate. We also combined our work on optimising our PSTN network with recruiting people from the ranks of the long-term unemployed. By doing so, TDC has aimed to take responsibility for helping individuals to rejoin the labour market while at the same time securing the labour required to solve a task that benefits the environment. In 2013, we also installed GPS systems with two-way communication in our many technician vans to ensure the most optimal transportation between customer visits and installation tasks – to benefit both the environment and our financial performance. Although the system was not installed until the second half of 2013, it helped to reduce our total energy consumption for technician vans by 6% or 785 tons of CO2. At TDC, we utilise the technologies we work with to reduce our own transportation needs, especially through video conferences and home offices. Besides reducing our CO2 emissions, these solutions optimise our efficiency and can increase employee satisfaction by minimising the number of days spent travelling instead of being with family and friends. In the light of this, we noted that for the fourth consecutive year, we have succeeded in cutting our transportation costs, so that over the last four years we have cut costs by almost 40% and significantly reduced our CO2 emissions at the same time. As a new initiative in 2013, we decided to join forces with the online service Gomore.dk to encourage even more car-pooling among TDC employees. Overall, our emissions of CO2 in 2013 fell by 6.7% compared with 2012, and by 20.2% in relation to 2010. TDC is also continuing its efforts to minimise the use of natural resources and ensure that a high percentage of our waste is recycled. For example, for the third year in a row, TDC has now reduced its consumption of paper by around 25%. This means that we now consume only 4% of the quantities we used in 2003. Looking at our total waste, we managed to sort 62% for recycling and thereby achieved our recycling goal for 2013, which we feel is appropriate for a business of our type. Page 10 of 15 External initiatives Externally, we take responsibility for minimising our customers’ environmental impact in a number of ways, for example by signing a 'Code of Conduct' stipulating requirements for the equipment we buy from suppliers. In this context, it is particularly important for us to focus on minimising the electricity consumption that our products incur on our customers. It is also vital that the equipment we use is cutting-edge with regard to both national and international requirements. In 2013, we geared up our efforts to collect old mobile phones from customers and make them available for recycling and reuse as this benefits both the environment and users in developing countries. For example, the ‘Byt til Nyt’ (‘Swap for New’) initiative in TDC's shops enables customers to trade in their old mobile for a discount on a new model. A total of 1,798 old mobile phones were collected via this initiative in 2013, which is significantly more than in 2012. Some of these phones were passed on for reuse, and others were handed in for waste treatment to allow for recycling of individual components. The remaining waste was handled in an environmentally safe manner. TDC also takes general responsibility for collecting and safe handling of electronic waste through contributions to the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment system. In addition, the information and communications technology (ICT) at the core of TDC's business represents huge potential for both the environment and climate. E.g. through increased use of video conferencing, which reduces the need for transportation, or through machine-to-machine (M2M) technology, i.e. telecommunication between machines allowing for monitoring processes in real time or measuring on machines that are difficult to access, thus increasing production efficiency and reducing consumption of natural resources. The social and environmental value of this technology is not generally appreciated, but the organisation 'Global e-Sustainability Initiative' (GeSI) – of which TDC is a member – has published a report explaining how ICT can enable global reductions of up to 16.5% in CO2 emissions. By collaborating with GeSI, we can also strengthen our dialogue with global suppliers in order to ensure compliance with human rights and improved sustainability of the products we purchase. Finally, in 2013, TDC began looking more closely at a number of tools that can illustrate the environmental and business potential of ICT for our key business customers, e.g. based on TDC's own good experience with video conferences, home offices, M2M technology, etc. 4. Employee well-being and diversity At TDC, taking responsibility for our employees' well-being and professional development is a natural part of our business. Our markets are highly competitive and constantly changing, and this demands a lot of our employees' performance and ability Page 11 of 15 to be ready for change. In turn, TDC is careful to ensure that its employees are thriving despite the challenging circumstances. That applies during day-to-day work, when developing employee competencies and when training our managers. In recent years, our high employee satisfaction score has reflected our continuing targeted efforts to ensure that our employees are thriving and feel both dedicated and motivated. Meanwhile, we pay close attention to the physical and mental working environment and prevention of work-related accidents. For many years, TDC has endeavoured to be a diverse workplace that welcomes all types of employees. Diversity is on our agenda because we value having a diverse and competent workforce irrespective of gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation and functional capacity. Since TDC is a company that deals with all types of customers, we want our staff to reflect the society in which we operate. Employee well-being At TDC we prioritise that our employees thrive and feel comfortable at work, as that is a prerequisite for the quality of our customer service. We therefore maintain an extensive working environment system including certification in accordance with the international OHSAS 18001 standard. This provides us with a systematic approach to prevent workrelated accidents, procedures to improve our work environment, regular working environment inspections and clear focus on a number of issues including work life balance. We also have various health schemes including health insurance, quit smoking courses, access to counselling on substance misuse, emergency counselling and psychological therapy. Finally, over a number of years we have built a well-established, structured and constructive dialogue with our employees' professional associations and unions, which help ensure that employees' concerns are discussed and that the parties work together to find solutions to challenges. For some years, general employee satisfaction has increased considerably, and in 2013, TDC Group achieved an overall employee satisfaction score of almost 80 points out of 100. This score is slightly lower than in 2012, which is probably due partly to the large-scale organisational changes in 2013, but it is still a high score compared both with our own track record and comparable enterprises. We have achieved this through e.g. prioritising day-to-day dialogue, paying continuous attention to collaboration in teams and units, and focusing on developing individual employee’s competencies. TDC’s strong commitment to improving customer satisfaction and driving innovation also contributes to increased day-to-day job satisfaction and encourages pride in being part of TDC’s achievements. We are also continuing our efforts to secure a good physical and mental working environment. Through our working environment organisation, we continuously focus on reporting on challenges seen and experienced by our employees so that the entire organisation can learn from the challenges and solutions devised. In 2013, the frequency of job-related accidents was 5.2 per million working hours (TDC A/S, Page 12 of 15 excluding subsidiaries), which is slightly lower than in 2012 (5.4) and level with recent years. However, naturally the goal is always to avoid accidents all together, which is why each accident is analysed to avoid similar cases in future. In this year's psycho-social workplace evaluation, prepared in collaboration with representatives from the professional associations and unions, the focus was on social capital (trust, justice and co-operation), and the result was an overall average score of 85 out of 100. In future, we wish to continue our work on training and educating the work environment groups, providing new heart starters in workplaces and focusing on safe traffic behaviour through an in-house campaign that highlights employee groups with the best results. Diversity TDC has worked with diversity management for many years, and has achieved positive results from the company's initiatives such as paid parental leave (Father's Hug scheme), flexibility in work planning involving home offices, schemes for senior employees, ethnic diversity and retention of employees with reduced working capacity. For a number of years, TDC has focused on increasing diversity through gender equality, and regarding the approx. 300 top managers in the TDC Group, the share of women increased from 23.5% at the end of 2012 to 24.8% by the end of 2013. In 2013, TDC adopted a gender equality policy for the Board of Directors and all management levels in the company below the Executive Committee. Firstly, TDC has set the goal that before year-end 2015 at least 25% of the board members elected at the annual general meeting should be women. Consequently, gender is one of the diversity parameters taken into account when recruiting board members. At the end of 2013, the board members elected at the annual general meeting were comprised of six men (86%) and one woman (14%). However, this is a more equal distribution than at the end of 2012, where there were ten men (91%) and one woman (9%). Furthermore, TDC has a defined as a goal that the number of female managers at all management levels below the Executive Committee should reflect the proportionate distribution of women in the company. This goal applies to the entire TDC Group in Denmark incl. subsidiaries. At the end of 2013, 30% of all employees at TDC Group in Denmark were women, and 29% of all managers were women. TDC intends to reach these goals before year-end 2015. To support this goal, we place special emphasis on securing women as candidates in the selection procedures for management positions. As part of our in-house communication, we also make use of female managers as spokespersons and role models, whose career paths can inspire others. And when we establish employee and management development programs along with professional networks, there is a focus on ensuring a proportionate participation of women. Page 13 of 15 TDC also focuses on equal opportunities irrespective of gender in relation to parental leave, by means of the 'Fars Kram' (Father’s Hug) scheme, for example, which allows all fathers to take up to 13 weeks of paternity leave with pay. Approximately 80% of new fathers happily accepted this offer last year. By supporting paternity leave, TDC also wishes to contribute towards greater gender equality in society in general. TDC has also continued its cooperation with 'The Specialists', an enterprise that employs people with autism spectrum disorders to solve special tasks with a zero error tolerance level for TDC. Some of them test mobile phones, and others process orders using TDC's IT systems or send letters containing SIM cards and other important materials to customers. This work is of great value to TDC, as the consultants from The Specialists are highly focused and have an exceptional eye for detail that our customers appreciate. TDC has cooperated with The Specialists since 2004, when the enterprise was founded by a former TDC employee. 5. Social partnerships As part of society, we are committed and keen to contribute positively to its development. Consequently, TDC has established partnerships with a number of organisations to activate our core competencies and resources in order to address major social challenges. By investing our personal engagement and competencies in these partnerships, we can contribute what we do best, while both TDC and the organisations can benefit and learn from the cooperation. The Danish Red Cross In 2013, TDC continued working with the Danish Red Cross. This cooperation began in 2009, and aims to support the organisation's work in disaster areas around the world, as well as with vulnerable population groups in Denmark. The partnership also includes providing warehouse capacity at TDC for storing and maintaining Red Cross emergency equipment to be sent at short notice to disaster areas around the world. Such measures were taken in 2013, e.g. in connection with the Haiyan typhoon in the Philippines. On that occasion, TDC chose to provide free local calls or calls to Denmark in the period November 16-30 for all our mobile customers in the Philippines. A subsequent analysis showed that more than 150 of our customers who were in the Philippines at the time were able to benefit from this, which resulted in more than 5,000 minutes of free telephony. Denmark's Collection As in previous years, in 2013 TDC contributed towards setting up and holding ‘Danmarks Indsamling’ (Denmark's Collection); an annually recurring nationwide event that raises funds for specific humanitarian purposes and development projects. TDC Page 14 of 15 employees volunteered and TDC technology was contributed free of charge for the fund-raising event, which involves collecting donations made by SMS and phone call. TDC thereby played a role in helping to collect almost DKK 76 million for refugees in a range of African countries. The Danish Cancer Society TDC has collaborated on projects with the Danish Cancer Society for many years. In 2013, the cooperation involved providing the telephone solutions, including call centres, required to launch an ambitious collection campaign called 'Knæk Cancer' (Break Cancer), which raised more than DKK 143 million for research, prevention and counselling on cancer. Ældre Sagen (DaneAge Association) In autumn 2013, TDC and the DaneAge Association held two joint events, one in Aarhus and one in Copenhagen, to benefit more than 300 of the association's IT volunteers. A number of experts from TDC held presentations on IT security, mobile coverage, social media, TV in the future and telemedicine. Afterwards, TDC hosted a dinner for those attending these special events, which were also meant to express our gratitude and appreciation of the work performed by the association's IT volunteers, who help others become familiar with computers and the digital world. Post & Tele Museum Since 1996, TDC has joined forces with Post Danmark to finance the operations of the Post & Tele Museum, which is located in central Copenhagen and is Denmark's national museum of post and telecommunications. Apart from the museum's permanent collection, there are also temporary exhibitions such as Into the Mobile , which was unveiled in 2013 and invited guests to learn about the new functions of mobile phones and how mobile networks work. The museum has free admission for all visitors and is also accessible to the disabled. In 2013, the museum had over 265,000 visitors. Further information Results for 2013, future objectives and a more detailed review of TDC’s CSR activities are available in our online CSR Report 2013, which is accessible at tdc.com/csr2013. Page 15 of 15
