TRAVEL WITH PURPOSE™ CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012-2013 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT TRAVEL WITH PURPOSE Table of Contents TRAVEL WITH PURPOSE INTRO 3 CEO MESSAGE 7 BUSINESS OVERVIEW 9 APPROACH 14 PERFORMANCE 28 CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 31 STRENGTHENING COMMUNITIES 44 CELEBRATING CULTURES 56 LIVING SUSTAINABLY 67 GRI INDEX 84 2 What does my hotel’s presence mean for Malaysia’s youth? OPPORTUNITY MY PURPOSE To support our country’s youth in developing skills to ensure growth within the hospitality industry into the future. Our hotel has partnered with a local college for over seven years to offer learning through threemonth, hands-on internships. I’m happy to report that 28 of our interns are now Hilton Worldwide Team Members. We will continue to create opportunities for the next generation of youth. Zurina Rahmat Lokman, Hilton Kuching Kuching, Malaysia 3 How can my hotel have a positive impact in Cartagena, Colombia? BY SHOPPING LOCAL MY PURPOSE To bring our guests the best local products available in Cartagena so that every dish and drink we serve has a bit of my country’s flavor. We locally purchase more than 90 percent of the goods used in our hotel. Our support helps local suppliers improve quality standards, grow their businesses and promote over 85 small companies in the area, strengthening my community and providing excellent guest experiences. Elizabeth Sucre, Hilton Cartagena Cartagena, Colombia 4 How can our guests get firsthand exposure to local culture? WITH THE LOCALS MY PURPOSE To welcome guests to our country and introduce them to our unique fishing traditions. Through local village tours, guests engage with the locals to see our markets and learn about boat building while visiting our property. Our local tours allow our Team Members and guests to celebrate cultures through travel. Magomba Magunila, DoubleTree Resort by Hilton Hotel Zanzibar – Nungwi Zanzibar, Tanzania 5 How does one of the world’s most iconic properties enhance the way it operates? SUSTAINABLY MY PURPOSE To find creative ways to improve sustainability performance in over 1,500 hotel rooms at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City. We’ve done this through projects such as planting roof gardens and putting in bee hives, updating our operating equipment, starting a recycling program and installing energy efficient lighting, to name a few. Living sustainably improves our performance while also reducing our impact on natural resources. David Garcelon, Waldorf Astoria New York, New York 6 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CEO MESSAGE A Message From Our President and Chief Executive Officer An inherent part of being a global leader is tackling challenges and seizing opportunities that are bigger than you are. As you’ve read on the preceding pages, many of our Hilton Worldwide Team Members find ways to extend their daily work toward a higher purpose. In doing so, they inevitably create shared value both for our business and society. This concept is core to how we operate as a global hospitality leader; when we create value for our business and society, we contribute to these issues in a way that is sustainable into the future, and we inevitably impact an issue that is far greater than our own business. A few of my favorite examples include: Christopher J. Nassetta President and Chief Executive Officer •S  aving an estimated US $253 million since 2009 through efficiency projects that reduced energy and water use, as well as our carbon dioxide and waste output. • L aunching the Center for Sustainable Procurement to help our own and other global business procurement managers integrate sustainability into their purchasing decisions by providing a unique set of research and information on increasingly available product sustainability data. • L aunching our first ever Global Week of Service that contributed more than 100,000 volunteer hours to over 800 community service projects in 51 countries, all of which helped to strengthen the collaborative culture of the company and our passion for service. •A  nnouncing a three-year partnership with the International Youth Foundation to connect our global expansion with opportunities for youth within our industry, which is just one of the ways we can create a pipeline of future Team Members for our organization while also helping to address the needs of the world’s 75 million unemployed youth. • Advocating for governments to implement smart visa policies, which stimulate global travel, create new jobs and spur economic development — a win-win for our business and every community in which we are located today and in the future. These examples demonstrate not only how we have created shared value during the past year, but also how we are executing against our global commitment to corporate responsibility, Travel with Purpose™. In the two years since its launch, we’ve made tremendous progress aligning Travel with Purpose with our strategic priorities as we have rolled out numerous programs and initiatives. The platform also has been a key tool for advancing our Values of Hospitality, Integrity, Leadership, Teamwork, Ownership and Now. These Values are an integral part of uniting the more than 300,000 Team Members in 90 countries around a common culture and strategy. In doing so, we are better positioned to realize our mission to be the preeminent global hospitality company — the first choice of guests, Team Members and owners alike. 7 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CEO MESSAGE Throughout this report, our second annual corporate responsibility publication, you will read how Travel with Purpose takes the best of what our industry and Hilton Worldwide have to offer to increase the reach of our social, economic and sustainability impact. At Hilton Worldwide, we feel very fortunate to work in a business that presents us with so many opportunities to be part of millions of people’s lives, invite them into our hotels and to be a good neighbor to thousands of communities around the world. We’re committed to capitalizing on these opportunities to affect real and meaningful change. We appreciate your interest in our journey and look forward to updating you on our progress. Christopher J. Nassetta President and Chief Executive Officer September 2013 8 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Hilton Capital Grand Abu Dhabi, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E. Business Believing that travel and tourism are engines of global progress, we seek opportunities to create shared value in the communities where we live, work and travel. 9 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT BUSINESS Business Profile Since our founding in 1919, Hilton Worldwide has been a leader in the hospitality industry. Today, we are comprised of more than 300,000 Team Members who work in our more than 4,000 owned, managed or franchised hotels in 90 countries and territories. We serve 125 million guests annually across our 10 distinct hotel brands. Collectively, we aspire to remain a beacon of innovation, quality and success for the hospitality industry. This continued leadership is the result of our staying true to our Vision, Mission and Values. OUR VISION To fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality. OUR MISSION To be the preeminent global hospitality company — the first choice of guests, Team Members and owners alike. OUR VALUES HOSPITALITY We’re passionate about delivering exceptional guest experiences. INTEGRITY We do the right thing, all the time. LEADERSHIP We’re leaders in our industry and in our communities. TEAMWORK We’re team players in everything we do. OWNERSHIP We’re the owners of our actions and decisions. NOW We operate with a sense of urgency and discipline. 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT BUSINESS Business Profile (Continued) OUR BRANDS (as of June 30, 2013) The ten Hilton Worldwide brands that comprise our business portfolio span the lodging sector to meet the needs of our guests — from the pinnacle of luxury to extended-stay suites to focused-service hotels. Though each brand has its own unique attributes and value proposition, all Hilton Worldwide brands strive to offer an exceptional experience for business and leisure travelers with the finest in accommodations, service, amenities and value. Extraordinary places. The luxury of being yourself.™ The global leader of hospitality. Where the little things mean More reasons to stay.® A singular experience. everything.™ Properties 23 Properties 23 Properties 551 Properties 351 Properties 213 Countries 9 Countries 17 Countries 79 Countries 30 Countries 5 We speak success.™ We love having you here.® Make yourself at home.® Free to be you.™ This is the life. Properties 572 Properties 1,914 Properties 325 Properties 18 Properties 41 Countries 19 Countries 14 Countries 3 Countries 1 Countries 3 PROPERTIES BY REGION (as of June 30, 2013) 4,041 Total Properties Americas Europe Middle East & Africa Asia-Pacific 3,622 254 61 104 Our Independent hotels are not included in the Brand breakout but are included in the Regional totals. HILTON WORLDWIDE 2012 ACHIEVEMENTS & RECOGNITION 11 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 4,041 BUSINESS Total Properties Americas Europe Middle East & Africa Asia-Pacific Business Profile (Continued) 3,622 254 61 104 HILTON WORLDWIDE 2012 ACHIEVEMENTS & RECOGNITION • Best Company for Hourly Workers, Working Mother • Green Power Partner of the Year, U.S. Environmental magazine Protection Agency • Best Companies for Diversity, HispanicBusiness Magazine • ISO 9001 Certification for Quality Management Systems and ISO 14001 Certification for Environmental Management • Top 50 Companies For Latinos to Work, LATINA Style Systems, International Organization for Standardization (ISO) Magazine • Project ICARUS Gold Medal Supplier, Global Business Travel • Top 100 Companies in Orlando (FL) for Working Families, Association, Institute of Travel and Meetings Orlando Sentinel • Top 50 Corporations for Supplier Diversity, U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC) • Top 50 Organizations for Multicultural Business Opportunities, DiversityBusiness.com 12 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT BUSINESS Ethics Arizona Biltmore, A Waldorf Astoria Resort, Phoenix, Arizona Legal compliance is the absolute minimum we expect from our Team Members, partners and suppliers. With Integrity as one of our six core values, Hilton Worldwide is committed to upholding the highest standards of business conduct. We hold ourselves accountable to our Global Code of Conduct, which defines our responsibilities to our stakeholders and guides our decision-making. Our Team Members around the globe are bound by this Code. We encourage people to check whenever they are unsure of the right thing to do. Hilton Worldwide provides standards, governance structures, training, communications, and reporting and investigation procedures to promote legal compliance and ethical behavior globally. In 2012, we continued the training and rollout of our Code, with more than 20,000 Team Members completing the online Code of Conduct training module. Our Ethics Hotline is now available globally, with the exception of six countries with works council/privacy registrations requirements, which are in progress. Hilton Evian Les Bains, Evian Les Bains, France 13 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Conrad Maldives Rangali Island, Rangali Island, Maldives Approach Travel and tourism are engines of global progress. Our approach to corporate responsibility balances the long-term sustainability of our business with current and future social, economic and sustainability needs of the communities where we live, work and travel. 14 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Corporate Responsibility Strategy Our approach to corporate responsibility is built on our founder Conrad Hilton’s fundamental belief that travel and tourism are powerful engines of progress. This belief, combined with the scale and reach of our industry, means that Hilton Worldwide and its peers possess significant potential to affect positive change for our society and OUR BUSINESS OUR EXPERTISE OBJECTIVES AND ASSETS planet. To appreciate the true magnitude of this potential, consider the following travel and tourism industry statistics: SHARED VALUE • One billion global travelers in 2012 as estimated by the United Nations World Tourism Organization (UNWTO). • US $6.6 trillion total GDP contribution to the global economy in 2012 as estimated SOCIAL AND by the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC). SUSTAINABILITY ISSUES • 260 million jobs globally supported by travel and tourism industries according to the WTTC 2012 annual report. As we transform this potential into action, our goal is to create shared value for our business, and the communities in which we live, work and travel. Creating value for our business and communities is core to how Hilton Worldwide operates as a global hospitality company. When our Team Members are happy, our guests receive excellent service; when the needs of communities are taken into account, the construction of new hotels goes more smoothly and when our sustainability impacts are actively managed, we experience material cost savings. We believe there are endless opportunities for Hilton Worldwide to generate economic value for our business, our customers and our owners while simultaneously producing value for society by addressing the social, economic and sustainability issues that impact us all. Conrad Sanya Haitang Bay, Sanya, China “ Our Journey to Date The basic principles of responsibility and Assume your full sustainability have long been an inherent part of how we operate and are reflected share of responsibility in our values. During the past five years, we for the world in which have taken an increasingly strategic, formalized approach to responsibility and sustainability you live.” to deliver value to our business to maximize our societal impact. –Conrad Hilton This effort began in 2009 when we introduced our five-year goals to reduce our consumption of energy, carbon emissions, waste output and water use. In 2010, we unveiled LightStay™, a proprietary system to measure and analyze our sustainability performance. In 2011, we unveiled Travel with Purpose™ — our global corporate responsibility commitment. Travel with Purpose strives to advance Hilton Worldwide’s business goals while improving life for those who live, work and travel in our operating communities. 15 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Corporate Responsibility Strategy (Continued) Strategy Development We developed Travel with Purpose by identifying core issues that impact our company and stakeholders and that we can affect through the application of our hospitality expertise and resources. As a global company, the primary issues we identified were continued investments in our people to deliver great guest experiences, community sustainability, freedom to travel and the improvement of our use of natural resources. The resulting Travel with Purpose framework focuses on four key areas: •C reating Opportunities for current and future Team Members to achieve their full potential. • Strengthening Communities by working with our hotels around the world to increase the economic and social benefits we offer our local communities. •C elebrating Cultures by facilitating commerce and cultural connections by welcoming the world to our hotels in the spirit of our founder’s vision of world peace through international travel and trade. • L iving Sustainably by meeting the needs of our business today while positively influencing tomorrow through the measurement, analysis and improvement of our use of natural resources. A distinctive attribute of our approach is its focus on fully integrating corporate responsibility strategy into our business operations. As we execute this strategy, we have the opportunity to deliver business value by increasing profitability through cost savings, mitigating certain risks, strengthening Team Member engagement and driving customer preferences. In the process, we create the shared value upon which Travel with Purpose was conceived and that will drive its ultimate success. Another key consideration in the development of Travel with Purpose was the ability to develop a strategy that would be meaningful throughout our global enterprise while providing the flexibility for hotels to address their most relevant local needs. This flexibility is especially critical for an organization such as ours in which the vast majority of our Hilton Glasgow Hotel, Glasgow, United Kingdom properties are owned independently. Consequently, we employ a variety of strategies such as implementing new brand standards, offering flexibility and providing tools and resources to make achieving shared value as turnkey as possible for our hotels. As an example, our global partnership with the International Youth Foundation is established at the enterprise level to provide subject matter expertise and program design, but many of the partnership’s initiatives are executed at the local level through hotel internships, mentoring programs and relationships with local universities. By taking this global-local approach, we ensure that Travel with Purpose is positioned to achieve its maximum impact across our business and around the world. 16 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Corporate Responsibility Governance Embassy Suites Phoenix – Biltmore, Phoenix, Arizona Corporate responsibility at Hilton Worldwide starts at the top of the organization with our President and Chief Executive officer, who is responsible for the development of our global business strategy and the execution of our strategy throughout our organization. Our vice president of corporate responsibility is responsible for developing the corporate responsibility strategy and specific programs and initiatives across the company in partnership with our senior leadership team and functional experts. This position also works across business functions, collaborating closely with our general counsel, chief human resources officer and our vice president of sustainability. Hilton Worldwide Team Members are kept informed of corporate responsibility programs and initiatives through a variety of channels, including website content, intranet postings, blogs, executive speeches, Community Committees at the corporate and property levels, multiple surveys and external outreach. All of these actions promote a culture of responsibility, where every Team Member is empowered to contribute to our long-term success. Because the majority of properties in the Hilton Worldwide portfolio operate through independent franchises, we leverage our investment in corporate responsibility across the full portfolio, while providing flexibility for hotels to adapt to their unique local context. Conrad Hilton built the company on the principle of bringing world peace through international trade and travel. 17 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Reporting Practices The purpose of our corporate responsibility reporting process is to explain our strategy in detail; discuss relevant issues, opportunities and challenges related to the execution of our strategy; demonstrate progress and set future expectations in as transparent a manner as possible. Though we are committed to best reporting practices, we are still evolving many of our reporting processes. This is the second Hilton Worldwide corporate responsibility report. A summary report was issued in April 2013. With the publication of this comprehensive report, our intent is to establish an annual reporting cycle going forward. Content for this report is based on a materiality assessment in which we mapped all issues that could be impacted by our business, and then ranked them based on our influence and how critical they were to our business operations and relevant stakeholder groups. In addition, we have engaged with both internal and external stakeholders to identify their interests and concerns. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 reporting framework also has informed content inclusion. Though we have included a GRI content index in the report, we have not reported to an application level, since GRI is in the process Hilton Dubai Creek, Dubai, U.A.E of transitioning to GRI 4.0 and a new application system. This report has not received third-party assurance, but we will evaluate an assurance process for future reports. The editorial content of this report generally covers subject matter from 2012 through approximately mid-2013 and includes discussion of programs and strategies across our organization, owned and operated properties, as well as our independently owned franchises. All metrics in the report refer to the calendar year ended December 31, 2012. LightStay™ metrics include owned, managed and franchised properties. Business data highlighted in our profile section is through June 30, 2013. Reporting parameters of other metrics are defined through footnotes. To confirm the effective implementation and validity of LightStay, Hilton Worldwide commissioned DEKRA Certification Inc. to perform third-party audits and validate results. DoubleTree by Hilton Cedar Rapids Convention Complex, Cedar Rapids, Iowa 18 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Industry Leadership Hilton Worldwide seeks to play a leadership role in our industry through participation in a variety of forums, including: • American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA) Green Task Force: Hilton Worldwide holds a seat on AH&LA’s Green Task Force which has developed comprehensive, sustainable greening guidelines designed expressly for the hotel industry. These guidelines provide hotel owners and operators with a variety of options in which to create an environmentalfriendly and sustainable hotel. • International Tourism Partnership (ITP): Ian Carter, our President of Development, is the Chairman and a founding member Conrad Bali, Bali, Indonesia of the International Tourism Partnership, Partnering is critical to and as a member of ITP’s working groups on carbon measurement, water, sustainable supply chains and youth careers, Hilton Worldwide enjoys over 20 years of collaboration advancing Travel with to drive sustainable change within our industry. Hilton Worldwide also participates in Purpose. the Youth Career Initiative, a program of ITP, focused on providing disadvantaged young people opportunities in the hospitality sector. • Real Estate Round Table: Chris Nassetta, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a member and past Chairman of the organization that brings together leaders of the nation’s top public and privately-held real estate ownership, development, lending and management firms with the leaders of major national real estate trade associations to jointly address key national policy issues relating to real estate and the overall economy. Hilton Worldwide also participates in the Sustainability – Energy, Environment Working Group. • World Economic Forum (WEF): Hilton Worldwide is an industry partner of the World Economic Forum and participates in the Aviation and Travel Group. It is also a member of the Global Agenda Council on New Models of Travel & Tourism and Youth Unemployment. Over the past year, our President and Chief Executive Officer has worked closely with other Aviation and Travel companies on freedom of travel and The Connected World Project. • World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC): Chris Nassetta, our President and Chief Executive Officer, serves on the Executive Committee of the organization that works to raise awareness of Travel & Tourism as one of the world’s largest industries. The organization works toward the shared pursuit of long-term growth of the sector. 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Memberships & Affiliations Waldorf Astoria, New York, New York Hilton Worldwide belongs to or affiliates with many organizations that support our focus areas: • American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA), a national organization dedicated to serving the interests of hoteliers on the front line, behind the scenes and on Capitol Hill • American Hotel & Lodging Educational Foundation, the nonprofit, charitable-giving, and fundraising affiliate of the American Hotel & Lodging Association (AH&LA) • American Resort Development Association (ARDA), a trade association representing the vacation ownership and resort development industries (timeshares) • A sian American Hotel Owners Association (AAHOA), promotes and protects the interests of Asian-American hotel owners through programs and initiatives in advocacy, industry leadership, professional development, membership benefits and community involvement DoubleTree by Hilton Chongqing Wanzhou, Chongqing, China • A ssociation of Corporate Contributions Professionals (ACCP), an advocacy, information and continuing education organization open to corporate contributions, community relations and employee volunteerism professionals • Business Civic Leadership Center (BCLC), a program of the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Foundation and a leading resource for businesses dedicated to making a difference • Business in the Community, the largest business-led charity of its kind — committed to building resilient communities, diverse workplaces and a more sustainable future • Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a global nonprofit organization that helps member companies enhance business performance while respecting ethical values, people, communities and the environment • Catalyst, a nonprofit organization with a mission to expand opportunities for women and business through research, tools, events, awards and services • Committee Encouraging Corporate Philanthropy (CECP), a membership organization that draws together and empowers senior executives of the world’s leading companies to achieve unprecedented progress on society challenges while driving business performance 20 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Memberships & Affiliations (Continued) • Center for Corporate Citizenship at Boston College, a membership-based research organization associated with the Carroll School of Management that is committed to helping businesses leverage their social, economic and human assets to ensure both their success and a more just and sustainable world • Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), a forum that convenes global leaders to devise and implement innovative solutions to some of the world’s most pressing challenges — maximizing their efforts to alleviate poverty, create a cleaner environment, and increase access to health care and education • Cornell University, The Center for Hospitality Research, Sustainability Roundtable, an interactive forum for global hospitality leaders that addresses emerging sustainability issues in the hospitality and travel & tourism industries •C  SR Asia, an organization that builds capacity in companies and their supply chains to Hilton Moorea Lagoon Resort and Spa, Papetoai, French Polynesia promote awareness of corporate social responsibility in order to advance sustainable development across the region • ECPAT USA, a leading policy organization working to end the commercial sexual exploitation of children • EPA Green Power Partnership, a voluntary program that encourages organizations to use green power as a way to reduce the environmental impacts associated with conventional electricity use • IAVE Global Corporate Volunteer Council, a network for leaders of international employee volunteer programs • International Gay & Lesbian Travel Association (IGLTA), leading global travel network dedicated to connecting and educating LGBT travelers and the businesses that welcome them • International Tourism Partnership (ITP), a forum that brings together the world’s leading international hotel companies to provide a voice for environmental and social responsibility in the industry • T he Latino Hotel & Restaurant Association (LHRA), seeks to represent the business interests of Latino hotel and restaurant owners, operators and developers • League of United Latin American Citizens (LULAC), advances the economic condition, educational attainment, political influence, health and civil rights of Hispanic Americans through community-based programs • Meridian International Corporate Council, a global forum for preparing emerging leaders for the international stage • National Association for Advancement of Colored People (NAACP), works to ensure the political, educational, social and economic equality of rights for all persons and seeks to eliminate race-based discriminations for all • National Association of Black Hotel Owners, Operators & Developers (NABHOOD), increases the number of African-Americans developing, managing, operating and owning hotels; increases vendor opportunities and executive level jobs for minorities in order to create wealth within the African-American community 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Memberships & Affiliations (Continued) • National Business & Disability Council (NB&DC), a resource for employers seeking to integrate people with disabilities into the workplace and companies seeking to reach them in the consumer marketplace •N ational Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC), a nonprofit business advocate between lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) business owners, corporations, and government, representing the interests of LGBT businesses and entrepreneurs • T he National Minority Supplier Development Council (NMSDC), a direct link between corporate America and minority-owned businesses, which provides increased procurement and business opportunities for minority businesses of all sizes •N  ational Veteran-Owned Business Association (NaVOBA), a national, nonprofit organization creating opportunities for America’s veteran-owned businesses •N  ational Urban League (NUL), dedicated to economic empowerment in order to elevate the standards of living in historically underserved urban communities •N  et Impact, a leading nonprofit that empowers a new generation to use their careers to drive transformational change in the workplace and the world •P  artners for a New Beginning (PNB), a global coalition of prominent business and civil society leaders who are committed to advancing economic opportunity in the focus areas of entrepreneurship, education and innovation by catalyzing and convening networks of global leaders •P  oints of Light Corporate Service Council, the premier global platform for advancing corporate volunteerism •U  nited Nations Global Compact, a voluntary and strategic policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption •U  .S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce (USHCC), a structured organization that works to advocate, promote and facilitate the success of Hispanic business •U  .S. Pan Asian American Chamber of Commerce (USPACC), a national, nonprofit, nonpartisan organization representing all Asian American and Asian American-related groups in business, sciences, the arts, sports, education, public and community services •W  omen’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC), the largest non-profit, third-party certifier of businesses owned, controlled and operated by women in the United States • World Economic Forum (WEF), an independent, nonprofit foundation committed to improving the state of the world by engaging societal leaders in partnerships to shape global, regional and industry agendas •W  orld Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), the forum for business leaders in the Travel & Tourism industry, represented by chief executives of some 100 of the world’s leading Travel & Tourism companies 22 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Stakeholder Engagement & Partners The successful execution of our corporate responsibility strategy is very much dependent upon ongoing dialogue with our stakeholders. We engage with stakeholders in a wide variety of ways, both formally and informally. We strive to identify key stakeholders who are in a position to support or impact our corporate responsibility areas of focus and shape our thinking on material issues. We are deeply appreciative of our stakeholders and partners around the world who are helping Hilton Worldwide advance our responsibility and sustainability goals. Strategic Partnerships We believe there is huge value in partnering with organizations that have expertise in the issues on which we focus through Travel with Purpose. Partners bring their experiences to these issues, while we contribute our knowledge of hospitality, guest service and operations. The result is an opportunity to work in a public/private partnership approach to address societal issues. We seek partnerships at all levels to address the needs of our business and communities as effectively as possible. We work closely with partners to understand the context in which they are working and how a partnership approach can help us be more impactful in addressing issues such as improving the outcomes of volunteer service, repurposing waste, creating youth opportunities, preventing child trafficking and innovating around sustainable procurement, to name a few. BSR works with its global network of nearly 300 member companies to build a just and sustainable world. In 2012, BSR and Hilton Worldwide launched the Center for Sustainable Procurement (CSP) to help global business procurement managers integrate sustainability into their purchasing decisions. We provide a unique set of research and information that will help make sense of the increasingly available product sustainability data. The Center is developing research, case studies and surveys on topics including incentives for category managers; metrics analysis that focuses on integrating sustainability into existing approaches such as “total cost of ownership”; educational guidelines, webinars and web content for companies to share with internal sourcing teams; and one-on-one and collaborative consulting projects for a small group of BSR members to examine current purchasing processes, develop solutions for integrating sustainability into decisions and share lessons collectively. In 2013, CSP released the findings of its first year of research on sustainable purchasing. In 2013, Hilton Worldwide joined BSR’s Sustainable Lifestyles Frontier Group, a group of leading companies which are performing research and developing a framework for business to use in developing products and services that promote sustainable lifestyles. The EPA Green Power Partnership is a voluntary program that supports the organizational procurement of renewable power by offering expert advice, technical support, tools and resources. Partnering with the EPA helps organizations lower the transaction costs of buying alternative sources of power, reduce carbon emissions and communicate leadership to key stakeholders. Hilton Worldwide has been a member of the EPA partnership for the last few years and purchased over 300 million kWh of renewable power in 2012 — the equivalent of the annual carbon dioxide emissions from electricity use of over 42,000 passenger cars and nearly 27,000 average American homes. Currently, Hilton Worldwide is ranked in the top 10 purchasers of sustainable power in the United States, and is purchasing enough renewable power to meet 94 percent of our electricity use. In 2012, Hilton Worldwide announced multi-year partnerships with Feeding America and The Global FoodBanking Network to secure food and reduce hunger in communities where we operate around the globe. These collaborations will enable Hilton Worldwide hotels to collect safe, surplus food from conferences and daily food and beverage operations and make it available to those in need. Feeding America and The Global FoodBanking Network will connect Hilton Worldwide hotels with local food banks and their networks of local community agencies to facilitate food delivery to school feeding programs, food pantries, soup kitchens, hospices, after-school programs and other community programs that provide food to families in need of nourishing meals. Pilot projects are underway in seven cities across the United States, Egypt and Israel. In the first six months of our partnership with Feeding America and The Global FoodBanking Network, our hotels donated more than 17,000 pounds of food, equivalent to over 16,500 meals. Hilton Worldwide also works with Feeding America and The Global FoodBanking Network to provide volunteer opportunities with local food bank partners through its Global Team Member Volunteer Program, and tracks food donations through LightStay™, its proprietary sustainability measurement system. 23 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Strategic Partnerships (Continued) GlobalGiving is a leading international charity fundraising website that connects donors to global organizations and supports the exchange of funds needed to improve communities around the world. Each organization in GlobalGiving’s database is vetted by a team of global experts against rigorous standards to ensure it has the capacity to manage financial contributions and make a measurable difference in local communities. Hilton Worldwide partners with GlobalGiving to facilitate donations from Team Members and provide Hilton HHonors members with opportunities to donate cash or points to projects that align with our Travel with Purpose focus areas. A key focus of our partnership is providing donation channels for disaster relief; and between 2011-2013, Hilton Worldwide Team Members and guests responded with more than US $2 million to emergencies in Turkey, Thailand, Japan and the United States. As part of Hilton Worldwide’s commitment to living sustainably and reducing our waste output by 20 percent by 2014, we work with the Global Soap Project (GSP), a nonprofit organization that recovers and repurposes soap from hotels that would otherwise end up in landfills. The Global Soap Project collects unused bars of soap from hotels around the world and reprocesses them into new bars that are given to populations at risk of sanitation and hygiene-related disease. In addition to donating soap from across our portfolio of hotels, Hilton Worldwide is investing US $1.3 million and providing our operational expertise and understanding of global supply chains to help expand the Global Soap Project’s processing and distribution capabilities. As a member of the Global Soap Project’s Board of Directors, we also are actively participating in the development of the organization’s strategy and growth. In 2013, the Global Soap Project’s operating partner, Soap Cycling, began collecting soap from our hotels in Japan. Since 2011, more than 700 properties have contributed over 270,000 pounds of soap to the Global Soap Project and other recycling organizations, which has been processed into over 1 million new bars of soap. In 2012, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Business Civic Leadership Center named our partnership with the Global Soap Project a Best Partnership finalist in its Corporate Citizenship Awards. Our partnership with Good360™, the world’s largest donation marketplace, allows us to connect surplus items from our properties to community organizations in need. Through Good360, more than 22,000 charities have the opportunity to claim items. Our hotels enter available items, such as towels, blankets or office supplies that we recover during renovations or that have reached the end of their commercial life, but are still usable, into LightStay, our proprietary sustainability performance management system. Hilton in the Community Foundation is an independent registered charity and grant-making trust focused on supporting interventions in education and health. The aim of Hilton in the Community Foundation is to create brighter futures for young people, particularly those who face barriers due to their circumstances. Through the provision of equipment, training, support and opportunities, the Foundation supports small local charities across Europe. Hilton in the Community Foundation works closely with Hilton Worldwide through our Global Team Member Volunteer program and supports the activation of Bright Blue Futures in Europe. 24 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Strategic Partnerships (Continued) The Institute of International Education (IIE) is among the world’s largest and most experienced international education and training organizations, and is committed to delivering international exchange program excellence to a diverse range of participants, sponsors and donors. IIE manages the Fulbright Scholarship and has worked with numerous corporate partners to implement international education programs. In 2013, Hilton Worldwide with IIE created the Hilton HHonors Teacher Treks program, a grant competition that recognizes teachers who build awareness of cultural diversity within the classroom. The program provides selected educators with an opportunity to see the world and bring their experiences back to their students. In our inaugural year, we sent 15 educators abroad to study cultural issues, which they will then discuss with students in order to celebrate cultures in the communities where they teach. The International Youth Foundation (IYF) is a global organization that seeks to realize the power and promise of young people and, since its founding in 1990, has prepared nearly 16 million young people to learn, work and lead. In 2012, Hilton Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer Chris Nassetta joined the IYF Board of Directors, and the company announced a three-year, US $3 million partnership designed to connect the company’s global expansion strategy with our commitment to creating opportunities for youth in the hospitality industry. IYF and Hilton Worldwide are partnering to provide economic opportunities to youth in communities across the globe. In recent years, the world has seen a staggering “youth bulge” — an overwhelming number of young people around the world who lack basic human necessities and stable employment, particularly in developing nations. The hospitality industry is a significant employer in the world, accounting for roughly one-tenth of global employment, with youth making up the majority of the industry’s labor force. To address this growing unemployment rate, IYF is building upon Hilton Worldwide’s commitment by developing tools and resources, implementing global youth workforce development programs and advancing thought leadership for the sector. Points of Light empowers people to make a meaningful difference by providing access to tools, resources and opportunities to volunteer. In 2011, 4.3 million volunteers and 77,052 partners in 20 countries around the globe were mobilized through Points of Light. Hilton Worldwide partners with Points of Light to support our Global Team Member Volunteer Program, including project development and management for our annual Global Week of Service, Team Member volunteer resources and recognition. Hilton Worldwide is also a member of the Corporate Service Council and supports several initiatives including A Billion + Change, What Will You Bring to the Table? and Good & Ready. In addition, we are working with Points of Light and the Taproot Foundation to bring Hospitality + Service to the nonprofit community. Hospitality + Service is a first-of-its-kind initiative based on Hilton Worldwide’s leading culture and service training programs. Hospitality + Service curriculum, workshops and leadership training equip nonprofit organizations with the tools, skills and knowledge to build enduring cultures of hospitality and client service and align this new culture with their organizational mission and values. In 2011, Hilton Worldwide became the second U.S. hotel company to sign ECPAT’s Tourism Child-Protection Code of Conduct supporting its voluntary principles to prevent child sex tourism and trafficking. As a subscriber to ECPAT’s Code, Hilton Worldwide implements policies that condemn child trafficking and exploitation and provides training to help Team Members identify and report illicit activities. We also look for ways to raise awareness about ECPAT and the Code among customers and other stakeholders. Hilton Worldwide partners with Polaris Project to support our training in key markets across the United States. 25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH Strategic Partnerships (Continued) In 2012, Hilton Worldwide became the hotel industry partner of Room to Read, a global organization dedicated to promoting and enabling education through programs focused on literacy and gender equality in education. Room to Read believes all children, regardless of gender or background, have a right to education, and by empowering children through education, they help people around the world achieve their full potential. Hilton Worldwide’s support has helped create opportunities for young people in India, Laos, Cambodia, Vietnam and Nepal. Together with Room to Read, we’re funding girls’ education, publishing local language books for young people and building dozens of school libraries in India and Sri Lanka over the next three years. In addition, we partner with Room to Read to develop training and career exposure opportunities for its beneficiaries, and donate complimentary room nights to Room to Read staff across our hotel properties in Asia Pacific. The Sundance Institute is a global, nonprofit organization dedicated to the discovery and development of independent artists and audiences in film and theater. As part of Hilton Worldwide’s efforts to educate and engage our guests about sustainability, we are partnering with the Sundance Institute to support the Hilton LightStay™ Sustainability Award. The Award, named after LightStay™, our proprietary system of sustainability performance management, supports the Sundance Institute Documentary Film Program, and awards grants on an annual basis to up to five documentary film projects focused on the global opportunities and challenges of sustainability. Since 2001, Taproot Foundation has proven that pro bono service is a viable and reliable tool for strengthening nonprofit organizations. In 2013, Hilton Worldwide partnered with Points of Light and the Taproot Foundation to develop Hospitality + Service, a first-of-its-kind initiative based on Hilton Worldwide’s leading culture and service training programs. Hospitality + Service workshops and leadership training equip nonprofit organizations with the tools, skills and knowledge to build enduring cultures of both hospitality and client service, and later align this new culture with organizational mission and values. Taproot Foundation will develop a Leadership Training program and translate Hilton Worldwide’s customer service evaluations into tools that can be utilized by the nonprofit sector. In 2013, Hilton Worldwide and Vital Voices Global Partnership announced that they have joined forces to help end child trafficking. Together, they launched the Global Freedom Exchange, an innovative, multi-faceted educational and mentoring program targeting emerging and established women leaders. Global Freedom Exchange is intended to create an international network of activists by bringing together a select group of 26 women leaders from 13 countries to participate in a two-week interactive learning and networking program. This training program spanned three U.S. cities: Washington, D.C., New York City and Dallas, Texas — areas that have strong national and international resources focused on addressing human trafficking. Activities included opportunities to meet with government officials, donors and other NGO leaders to provide program participants with knowledge about funding, other support needs and to learn about collaborating with local law enforcement. 26 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT APPROACH White Papers & Resources Hilton Garden Inn Kutahya, Kutahya, Turkey As part of our strategy development and program implementation process, we periodically author reports and white papers on issues pertaining to our industry. We are pleased to share the following work with all of our stakeholders and other interested parties. Creating OppOrtunities fOr yOuth in hOspitality International Youth Foundation J a n u a r y 2 0 1 3 INTERNATIONAL YOUTH HOSPITALITY + SERVICE CENTER FOR SUSTAINABLE COUNTRY WHITE PAPERS FOUNDATION: CURRICULUM PROCUREMENT: Balancing Russia’s Tourism Creating Opportunities for Year 1 Findings and Insights Deficit: A Report on the Future Youth in Hospitality of the Industry Defining Soft Skills Hilton SOAS Blue Paper: How Requirements for Entry-level the Rise of Chinese Tourism Service Sector Jobs Will Change the Face of the European Travel Industry 27 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Millennium Hilton Bangkok Hotel, Bangkok, Thailand Performance Included are at-a-glance snapshots of our goals, performance metrics and snapshots from our properties around the world. 28 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE Goals GOALS: • Nurture a safe, healthy, diverse and CREATING inclusive workplace that reflects the OPPORTUNITIES global communities where we live, work and travel • Support individuals to gain access to education, training and employment at our hotels GOALS: • Respect human rights in the workplace, our communities and throughout our supply chain • Bring our hospitality expertise to the STRENGTHENING communities where we live, work and travel COMMUNITIES GOALS: • Welcome the world to our hotels and CELEBRATING enable experiences that celebrate diverse CULTURES global cultures and leave a positive economic contribution in our backyard communities • Facilitate freedom of travel through global policies and advocacy GOALS: • Reduce energy consumption by 20% • Reduce carbon consumption by 20% • Reduce waste output by 20% LIVING • Reduce water consumption by 10% SUSTAINABLY 29 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT PERFORMANCE By the Numbers 64,000 CELEBRATING CULTURES Donated new jobs added STRENGTHENING US $25 million/ by opening new 100,000 hours 1 billion COMMUNITIES Hilton Worldwide properties between via corporate contributions, 2008 and 2012 in-kind donations, Team Member volunteer hours people traveled outside their own countries and cause marketing in 2012 promotions in 2012 More than 1,000 9% rise in visitors to Hilton Worldwide properties from countries other than their own GMs and department heads trained on human trafficking awareness CREATING OPPORTUNITIES 12.8% 24.9% 12.2% 10.2% reduction of reduction of reduction of reduction of carbon output waste output energy use water use LIVING SUSTAINABLY More than 100,000 Team Members US $253 4,000+ hotels Number of Hilton Worldwide from 80 countries were recognized in our million properties that are ISO 14001 and ISO 9001 certified “Catch Me At My Best” program Estimated utility cost savings 450 million since 2009 through improved sustainability and economic performance by LightStay™, Hilton Worldwide’s proprietary kilowatt hours of renewable power Hilton More than sustainability management Worldwide purchased US $500 program through December 31, 2012 million Amount Hilton Worldwide spent with Minority and 10,000 27,000 homes could be 8,000 best practice projects 3,400 properties sharing Women-Owned Veterans powered by energy shared in best to be hired in reductions resulting LightStay™ practices Business suppliers the next five years from LightStay™ since 2010 through Operation: Opportunity 42,000 cars’ carbon output saved as a result of our carbon reduction in 2012 1,700+ product SKUs 7,688 Over 540 million analyzed, households’ number representing worth of 2,500 square feet US $170 million waste of learning in spend reduced programs of build space tracked in 270,000 LightStay™— an amount Hilton Worldwide University offers to greater than all the office our Team Members to continue training space in New York City and development pounds of soap donated and ten times all the to the Global Soap Project hotel rooms in Las Vegas 30 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Hilton Millennium Bangkok, Bangkok, Thailand Creating Opportunities It takes a great team to create great guest experiences. One of our highest organizational priorities is to create opportunities that engage and develop our Team Members to realize their full potential. 31 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Overview U.S. WORKFORCE AT-A-GLANCE* Hourly 86% Salaried 14% Doubletree By Hilton Zagreb, Zagreb, Croatia We recognize that great guest experiences are directly tied to creating great opportunities Full-time 82% for our Team Members. That simple concept is the basis for our approach to fostering Part-time 18% a culture in which Team Members worldwide feel appreciated, valued, respected and are encouraged to reach their full potential. The ability of our business to grow is linked inextricably to the personal and professional growth of our Team Members. To this end, we are committed to offering continued opportunities for our Team Members that align with our global footprint. In the past decade, Hilton Worldwide has We have more than evolved to become one globally integrated 300,000 organization with a common Vision, Mission Male 48% and set of Values. In the process, we have Female 52% invested a significant amount of time and resources into maintaining a globally consistent Team Members who and meaningful culture. This helps to keep our global network of properties — spanning 10 work in our corporate brands and 90 countries around the world — offices and our 62,400 aligned around the same priorities and values. owned, managed At the same time, our culture also is dedicated to fostering an inclusive and supportive workplace and franchised hotels in which diverse backgrounds and experiences TOTAL U.S. ASSOCIATES, around the world. are valued. Our differences, in fact, help us to INCLUDING PUERTO RICO serve a diverse world and marketplace. The success of our commitment to creating opportunities for Team Members is evident *Approximate Team Member counts for owned and managed hotels and corporate staff as of December 31, 2012 in the results of the annual Hilton Worldwide Global Team Member Survey. The most recent survey showed that 89 percent of Team Members felt that Hilton Worldwide is a great place to work and that they are proud to work for our company. 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Opportunities in Action OPERATION: OPPORTUNITY UNITED STATES In 2013 we launched a campaign to hire 10,000 veterans, transitioning military and their families over the next five years. To strengthen our military recruitment outreach, we introduced a customized career site for military personnel, as well as an internal boot camp to educate our own recruiters and human resources Team Members about military recruitment. CAREERS@HILTONLIVE EUROPE The second annual Careers@HiltonLive event took place in mid-2013 across Europe. Two hundred hotels hosted over 320 events, reaching an estimated 20,000 young people. Events were aimed at raising the profile of hospitality as a career choice for young people through careers advice, employability and life skills. Events ranged from a business school competition to a careers speed dating event and a careers and advice fair. The event also saw the launch of the Schools Work Experience program in the UK as part of Hilton Worldwide’s European Youth Strategy. HILTON WORLDWIDE Hilton Worldwide has partnered with over 30 universities around the globe to build a talent pipeline for the next generation of hospitality leaders. Through our university partnerships we do campus visits and events, as well as identify candidates for a variety of internships and management development programs at hotels and corporate offices. HILTON PETALING JAYA, HILTON KUALA LUMPUR, AND DOUBLETREE BY HILTON KUALA LUMPUR MALAYSIA In partnership with Taylor’s University in Malaysia, Hilton Worldwide is supporting the Student Employment Program (STEP). Designed to help prepare students for a career in hospitality, the program provides participants with specialized education, training sessions and real-life work experiences at three of our properties. HILTON MEXICO CITY REFORMA MEXICO CITY, MEXICO Each year, more than 100 students participate in Hilton Mexico City Reforma’s Preparing Our Future program, where they receive individually tailored, hands-on training from department managers and directors. The threeto six-month internship program supports 30 students at a time in various departments such as Front Desk, Housekeeping, Engineering, and Food and Beverage. This hotel also participates in the Youth Career Initiative, which provides disadvantaged young people life and work skills. 33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Recruitment Like most companies, we strive to find the best and the brightest talent to join our team, but finding the best fit with our organization is equally as important. This starts with proper recruiting. Our new hire philosophy focuses both on achieving company goals and furthering individual careers. We look for individuals with relevant experience, as well as qualities important to our unique service culture — qualities such as friendliness, warmth, authenticity and thoughtfulness. Partnerships with universities around the world are an effective channel for tapping into future talent who have an interest Student checking out AVP, Hilton Liverpool, Liverpool, England. in a hospitality career. Campus visits to educate students in degree programs focused on hospitality are a priority, and we have numerous programs in place around the world — campus ambassadors, internships and a graduate management training program among them — to put us on the “front lines” of the next generation of talent. Our Management Development Program (MDP) addresses the need for a competitive corporate program to attract top hospitality students from key colleges and universities to join our Hilton Worldwide team. The MDP focuses on hiring top hospitality students through early job offers and placing them in effective management training programs that lead to long-term job placement. The result is an opportunity to provide qualified hospitality graduates with hands-on, accelerated training in all areas of hotel management and to bolster Hilton Worldwide’s success by investing in the training and development of our future leaders. We also select students from MBA and Business Hospitality undergraduate programs each year to participate in corporate internships. This coordinated effort across our corporate offices provides students with the opportunity to experience a career at Hilton Worldwide. During the eightto tenweek program, we provide students with unparalleled access to leaders, including President and Chief Executive Officer Chris Nassetta, and the opportunity to work on projects that have tangible outcomes and enable working interactions with the widest range of Team Members. Operation: Opportunity — Veterans Recruitment We have a long history of hiring military veterans and their spouses. Veterans are a natural fit for our culture because military skills align with many of our positions and with our Values, particularly integrity, ownership and leadership. In 2013, we launched Operation: Opportunity — Veterans Recruitment, a company-wide strategic initiative to hire 10,000 veterans, transitioning military and their families over the next five years. To strengthen our military recruitment outreach, we launched a customized career site for military personnel, as well as an internal boot camp to educate our own recruiters and human resources Team Members about military recruitment. Further, we have created a Team Member Resource Group for veterans at Hilton Worldwide that will promote professional growth and provide perspective to the company from their unique vantage point. Learn more about careers at www.hiltonworldwide.com/careers. 34 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Youth Opportunity In 2012, our flagship brand Hilton Hotels & Resorts launched Bright Blue Futures, a program dedicated to addressing the challenges and opportunities faced by youth around the world. As part of Hilton Our annual Careers@Hilton Live event in Europe is focused on raising the profile of hospitality as a career choice for young people. In 2013, Worldwide’s global commitment to 200 hotels hosted over 320 events that reached an estimated 20,000 young people with career advice and employability and life skills. youth opportunity, and in partnership with the International Youth Foundation, With more than 75 million unemployed youth around the world and a growing need for Room to Read and the Hilton in the talent within the hospitality industry, an initiative to bring the two together is a natural Community Foundation, we are dedicated fit for us. Accordingly, we entered into a US $3 million, three-year strategic partnership to providing stability and hope to young with the International Youth Foundation (IYF) in 2012 to develop the potential of people in the more than 550 Hilton Hotels young people around the world. IYF is a leading global organization that maintains a & Resorts communities around the community of businesses, governments and civil society organizations committed to world. In May 2013, during our inaugural empowering youth to be productive and engaged citizens. Our partnership is designed celebration of Youth in Hospitality Month, to provide the growing number of young people in developing communities around more than 300 hotels held over 700 the world with access to life skills, education and employment opportunities within the events focused on career guidance and hospitality industry. In further support of the partnership, Hilton Worldwide President mentoring for youth resulting in nearly and Chief Executive Officer Chris Nassetta joined IYF’s board of directors. 20,000 volunteer hours and impacting nearly 30,000 young people. One of our first projects with IYF has been to launch its Passport to Success® (PTS) program in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, with the additional support of the King Khalid Foundation. PTS equips young people, ages 18 to 25, with a range of skills to help them stay in school and acquire the skills necessary to succeed in life and the workplace. In Saudi Arabia, PTS is targeting several youth groups, one of which includes Hilton Worldwide junior and entry-level staff at out hotels in Jeddah, Makkah, Madinah and Riyadh. In addition to playing our part in providing employment opportunities for youth in the country, this initiative will support our growing workforce needs as we develop new hotels throughout the kingdom over the next few years. We also are working with IYF on tools to measure the success of such programs. One tool is the Global Youth Wellbeing Index (GYWI), an initiative of IYF and the Center for Strategic and International Studies (CSIS) Youth Prosperity and Security Initiative. Currently there is no holistic, comparative measure of youth well-being globally. The Index will provide governments, business leaders and nongovernmental organizations with the tools to focus and measure their contributions to youth development initiatives. Ultimately, the Index can elevate young people on national and global agendas, and provide public and private sector decision-makers a simpler way to understand the big picture, guide actions and investments, and drive progress over time. As a complement to the Index, we are developing the Hospitality Industry Impact Framework, a tool that will help focus hospitality sector investments and provide a mechanism for reporting progress. It is our hope that the framework will become a model for other industries and unlock a new set of resources and expertise in support of young people. 35 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Global Talent Management We offer a wide array of learning opportunities, from on-the-job training to leadership development, in order to ensure our Team Members are not only better equipped to serve our guests, but also have the opportunity for ongoing personal and professional growth. Hilton Worldwide University (HWU) is our internal university for learning across all of Hilton Worldwide. By leveraging the best thinking and learning programs from across our organization, HWU helps our Team Members develop their talents, challenge themselves professionally, and enhance their knowledge base in ways that can help them grow within our industry. HWU allows us to elevate our best learning programs and effectively apply them across our enterprise. HWU delivers its curricula through five unique colleges, which all have an assigned executive sponsor and dean. Collectively, the five colleges offer more than 2,500 courses delivered in a variety of ways, including classroom training, e-learning, webinars and e-books. In addition, we provide educational assistance in the form of tuition reimbursement to Team Members for courses that are either directly related to their current job, taken to prepare for additional responsibility, or required for completion of a degree from an accredited college or university. Conrad Bali, Bali, Indonesia Cross-cultural training is offered for Team Members who transfer abroad. Training components include addressing the unique challenges they face by providing targeted information, coaching and advice. Participants gain a heightened understanding of the values and attitudes of the specific culture, leading to better strategies for accomplishing business and personal objectives. In addition to cross-cultural training for specific individuals, we have easily accessible cultural databases available for all Team Members. With our continued global growth, it is important that we build an understanding of doing business within different markets and cultures. While this understanding is important for our Team Members who visit other countries, it is especially beneficial to the guests who reap the benefits. The databases include China, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, India, Japan, Russia, Turkey, United States and United Kingdom. DoubleTree by Hilton Palm Beach Gardens & Executive Meeting Finally, all of our Team Members are encouraged to develop a Personal Development Center, Palm Beach Gardens, Florida Plan, which is created and updated around the annual performance review cycle. This Plan helps to identify areas an individual may need and/or want to work on during the year. It can involve focusing on areas of improvement, as well as building on areas of strength or exploring new skills and knowledge. 36 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Diversity & Inclusion Waldorf Astoria Orlando, Orlando, Florida With a global workforce of more than 300,000 Team Members spanning more than 4,000 owned, managed and franchised hotels across 90 countries and territories, we understand the importance of diversity and inclusion. It is critical to our company’s continued success that we understand and utilize our Team Members’ unique personal and cultural perspectives. Our approach to diversity and inclusion is driven by our Mission to become the preeminent global hospitality company. Through collaboration between our business areas and human resources, we have created a system that ensures diversity is embedded into our Key Strategic Priority of “aligning our culture and organization.” We serve guests from all parts of the world and from all lifestyles and as a global company, it is important that our commitment to diversity is a prominent component of the way we engage with Team Members, guests, owners, partners and suppliers. This process begins with our Executive Diversity Council (EDC), which is chaired by our President and Chief Executive Officer and comprised of the company’s most senior leaders. The EDC highlights our ongoing support and commitment to diversity, and oversees our overall diversity strategy. Senior leadership is committed to investing in business strategies that leverage diversity, including our culture, talent and marketplace initiatives. Creating an inclusive work environment is an integral part of our Talent Management strategy and we foster a culture that is inclusive of diversity of background, opinion and thought. In the United States, we have built relationships with select leading historically Trianon Palace Versailles, A Waldorf Astoria Hotel, Paris, France black colleges and universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-serving institutions (HSIs) to recruit top talent within hospitality programs. In addition, we have a long-standing relationship with the National Society of Minorities in Hospitality (NSMH), one of the premier professional organizations for diverse hospitality students. This organization allows us to reach students in local chapters at colleges and universities nationwide. Our leadership team also has taken positions with many professional associations on university and organizational boards or advisory councils. 37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Diversity & Inclusion (Continued) Team Member Resource Groups Team Member Resource Groups (TMRGs) further diversity and inclusion throughout our company, promote professional growth through networking and development, and provide perspective to the company from each group’s vantage point and leverage key insights as we market to diverse customers and owner segments. Currently, we have five TMRGs organized for Women; Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender (LGBT) & Friends; African Americans; Hispanic/Latinos; and Asians and Pacific Islanders. The groups were established in our largest corporate sites and are sponsored by senior leadership to Waldorf Astoria Naples, Naples, Florida ensure commitment from the top. Twenty chapters were formed in 2012 alone, and the HILTON WORLDWIDE MINORITY program continues to grow. In 2013, we launched People with Disabilities and Veterans BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (MBE) AND TMRGs. A TMRG Steering Committee meets quarterly to provide strategic direction to WOMEN’S BUSINESS ENTERPRISE the chapters with guidance from the Executive Diversity Council. (WBE) SPEND US Dollar Amounts Shown in Millions Ownership Diversity We were the first major hotel company in 2004 to develop an effective outreach program to further educate minority and female entrepreneurs on becoming owners $157.7 of our properties. These efforts continue today. We also promote ownership through the National Association of Black Hotel Owners, Operators & Developers (NABHOOD), $79.1 an organization of which we were a founding sponsor and remain a long-term supporter, the Latino Hotel & Restaurant Association (LHRA), and the Asian American Hotel $50.5 $115.3 $91.0 Owners Association (AAHOA). $57.0 MBE WBE Supplier Diversity $107.5 $170.1 $273.0 With great pride, we source products for our properties from a wide range of vendors 2010 2011 2012 and suppliers. Through our award-winning Supplier Diversity Program, which began nearly a decade ago, we have cultivated relationships with more than 4,400 womenand minority-owned businesses. Our goal is to forge supplier relationships that reflect the cultural diversity of our portfolio of hotels. Since 2010, we have spent more than US $500 million with Women and Minority Business Enterprises. Learn more about Diversity & Inclusion at www. hiltonworldwide.com/diversity. 38 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Health & Well-Being Essential to our mission to be the preeminent global hospitality company is the health and well-being of our Team Members. Though our benefits vary around the world according to local practices and regulation, as well as property ownership, benefit packages are aligned with the Values that unite our Hilton Worldwide network. Accordingly, we have developed a wellness strategy at our Corporate locations and some of our largest hotels that includes development of a wellness champion network, health and wellness activities, and Hilton Worldwide Health & Fitness Day. We also have an informational campaign that provides Team Members with tips to protect their health and the health of their family members. We partner with our health care vendors to offer myriad resources to promote a different health and wellness theme each month. Flexible Working Arrangements A healthy work-life balance also is critical to Team Members’ overall well-being. We are committed to offering opportunities to Team Members who seek balance between their professional and personal lives. Flexible Work Arrangements (FWAs) are an example of this commitment and are enabled by open and supportive partnerships Hilton Pattaya Hotel, Pattaya, Thailand between managers and Team Members. By supporting our Team Members’ abilities to address their personal needs, we are better able to attract, motivate and retain committed Team Members and become an employer of choice. We seek to provide flexibility in work options to support our Team Members’ scheduling needs. As a result of our efforts, in 2012 we were awarded the “Best Company for Hourly Workers,” Working Mother magazine. Most of our call center agents can work from home offices, allowing for schedules that are flexible to meet the needs of the agent. The program was launched in early 2007 and the Work-From-Home Agents make up almost 75 percent of our total agent population. We believe the success and appeal of the program are reflected in relatively low overall turnover in our call centers, averaging below 30 percent for the last three years. 39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Engagement & Recognition Hilton Singapore Hotel, Singapore Team Members who have the resources they need to do their jobs well and to grow and develop with the company are more engaged at work, more responsive to our guests and more likely to stay with us. In order to understand the needs of our Team Members, we have developed a variety of tools that enable them to share their thoughts and concerns. The most active method for getting feedback from our Team Members is our annual Global Team Member Survey, which directly impacts decisions and policy changes at the company. As a result of past feedback, for example, we have made improvements to the Team Members’ annual review process and performance management tools, and to our approach to learning and development, as well as our recognition programs. To ensure Team Members understand that their feedback matters, we communicate when a change is made in response to Team Member survey feedback. Additional communication tools include town-hall-style meetings led by our President and Chief Executive Officer to review the company’s progress; our internal communications portal featuring the latest news from across the company, as well as resources for Team Members and owners; opportunities for Team Members to provide feedback to supervisors or general managers anonymously; and print newsletters so that information can be shared with Team Members who may not have computer access. Conrad Bali, Bali, Indonesia 40 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Engagement & Recognition (Continued) Team Member Recognition In order to treat our guests well, we must first treat our Team Members well. We understand the importance of Team Member recognition. We value the contributions our Team Members make, and we encourage our leaders to show their appreciation on a regular basis. To help foster a culture of recognition, we have built a robust library of formal and informal recognition tools and programs. These materials are made available to all Team Members, and they are regularly added to and updated. The following is a sampling of some of these programs and tools: CEO LIGHT & WARMTH AWARD / THE SPIRIT AWARD The CEO Light & Warmth Award is our company’s highest honor. This annual award recognizes elite Team Members from across all brands who consistently exceed expectations and live the Hilton Worldwide values. Winners receive US $10,000, company-wide recognition and much more. The Spirit Award is brand-specific. This monthly award spotlights Team Members within each brand who regularly go above and beyond, live the brand pillars and positively impact guests, the hotel and the community. Winners receive US $350, brand-wide recognition and more. CATCH ME AT MY BEST For over 20 years, Catch Me at My Best has been one of our biggest and most exciting annual recognition initiatives. Each year, from June to August, guests, managers and peers are encouraged to recognize Team Members for acts of hospitality that align with Hilton Worldwide’s vision “to fill the earth with the light and warmth of hospitality.” The focus of this award-winning program is a comment card, or “catch,” available in 11 languages. Once filled out, managers are prompted to recognize Team Members who have been “caught.” In 2012, more than 100,000 Team Members from 80 different countries were recognized with more than 1,000,000 catches. DEPARTMENT-SPECIFIC RECOGNITION Each month we put the spotlight on a different department within the hotel, making sure that no team is left out. Hotels can download department-specific recognition tools, such as customizable certificates and thank you cards, along with tips and best practices for recognizing each team. As part of this effort, each September we encourage hotels to celebrate International Housekeeping Week. In 2012, over 1,000 Housekeeping teams were inducted into an online ‘Wall of Fame’ and over 25,000 items were downloaded to recognize this valuable behind-the-scenes team. “RECOGNITION MATTERS!” RESOURCE LIBRARY This robust website is our one-stop shop for all things related to Team Member recognition. In addition to accessing information about the programs listed above, Team Members can download materials, send email recognitions to other Team Members, subscribe to monthly newsletters and share best practices with one another. In 2012, over 150,000 Team Members visited the website almost 250,000 times. 41 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Global Snapshots — Opportunities Hilton Worldwide properties are integrating Travel with Purpose into their daily operations and creating shared value in our communities around the world. Our strategy focuses on empowering these hotels to advance our corporate responsibility commitments, and every day our more than 4,000 properties are taking action in their communities. These grassroots initiatives are a critical part of our company’s impact, and these next pages share snapshots from our properties around the world. AMERICAS Hilton São Paulo Morumbi Hampton Inn & Suites Mobile/Downtown Historic District São Paulo, Brazil Mobile, Alabama Developed a youth hotel apprentice program for the children Partnered with Vital Link, a nonprofit organization dedicated of Team Members and representatives from the São Paulo to improving local public schools in the area, by having students community. The year-long program helps develop the next intern at the hotel and rotate through each department. generation of the workforce by providing them with practical, hands-on experience to prepare them for a career of service. Hilton Mexico City Reforma Hilton Worldwide Mexico City, Mexico Miami, Florida Runs Preparing Our Future program for more than 100 students Helped create the Miami Hospitality Institute, a workforce each year, offering individually tailored, hands-on training from development initiative designed to provide inner-city residents with department managers and directors. The threeto six-month training and job opportunities in the local hospitality industry. internship supports 30 students at a time in various departments Several Hilton Worldwide properties, including the Hilton Bentley such as Front Desk, Housekeeping, Engineering, and Food and the DoubleTree Grand Miami, are actively engaged in the and Beverage. This hotel also participates in the Youth Career program and have hired and mentored recent graduates. Initiative, which provides disadvantaged young people life and work skills. ASIA-PACIFIC Hilton San Diego Bayfront Millennium Seoul Hilton San Diego, California Seoul, South Korea The Hilton San Diego Bayfront has a culinary internship program General Managers organize visits with local college students in partnership with USS Ronald Reagan and USS Independence to introduce them to working at a hotel and encourage them to train naval culinary professionals to make healthier meals for to pursue a career in hospitality. Across the company, there are the men and women at sea. To date, 40 culinary professionals dozens of other properties engaged in similar activities, and have completed the program. The hotel also has 14 veterans Hilton Worldwide is currently working to develop a program to currently employed as Team Members. scale and support them in their endeavors. 42 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT OPPORTUNITIES Global Snapshots — Opportunities (Continued) ASIA-PACIFIC (CONTINUED) Hilton Addis Ababa Hilton Beijing Wangfujing Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Beijing, China Grants hospitality students real-time exposure to, and training Participated in the Western Academy of Beijing’s World of for, careers in the industry through its Hotel School Trainee Work program, hosting two students who rotated through Programme, which also serves as a prominent recruitment tool eight different departments in the hotel. Students were given for future Team Members. Every year, the hotel, in partnership full days to learn about each department within the hotel and with Hawassa University, grants more than 150 hospitality receive an introduction to working in the hospitality industry. students with a three-month apprenticeship, contributing to their professional development, training and skills enhancement. Hilton Colombo The program gives students a competitive edge in the hospitality Colombo, Sri Lanka industry and creates a highly skilled workforce to help grow Runs a three-year Kitchen Apprentice Program designed for budding Ethiopia’s economy. chefs. This program has groomed more than 100 apprentices, some of whom have become sous chefs and executive chefs in top hotels Hilton Windhoek and resorts. Hilton Colombo is the first and only hotel in Sri Lanka Windhoek, Namibia currently approved to accept Culinary, Baking and Pastry Externs When Namibia’s first five-star hotel, Hilton Windhoek, opened, by the Culinary Institute of America, giving these students a the owners made it clear that hiring locally was a priority. With a foundation for their growth as culinary and pastry professionals. desire for the hotel to reflect Namibia and its culture, and to help address poverty and unemployment in the community, the Hilton Hanoi Opera hotel’s recruiting policy was to hire as many local employees as Hanoi, Vietnam possible, including students and graduates of the polytechnic and Took part in the Youth Career Initiative, a six-month education specialized hospitality programs at the University of Namibia. program that provides disadvantaged young people with life and work skills. The program reserved 20 percent of its spots for Hilton Worldwide human trafficking survivors and hopes to increase participation Germany, Austria, Switzerland and engagement in 2013. Currently runs three-year apprenticeships, with approximately 600 participants in Germany and approximately 90 in both Austria Hilton Queenstown and Switzerland. Apprenticeships are provided across front-ofQueenstown, New Zealand house, chef/kitchen and restaurant service. Job Guarantee 3+, a Currently engaged with two local youth organizations, including new initiative launched in 2012 to extend the program, guarantees Queenstown Resort College (QRC), a hospitality school through a permanent, full-time career with Hilton Worldwide to apprentices which the hotel provides two to four student internships each who graduate with at least a 3+ grade. term. Interns gain work experience in several departments over a period of nine months. More than 10 students have successfully Hilton Worldwide – Careers@HiltonLive completed their internships and graduated from QRC, and Europe five of these graduates continued employment with Hilton The second annual Careers@Hilton Live event took place in May Queenstown after their internship. 2013. Two hundred hotels across Europe hosted over 350 events, reaching an estimated 20,000 young people. Events were aimed EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA at raising the profile of hospitality as a career choice for young people through careers advice, employability and life skills. London Hilton on Park Lane London, England Hilton Worldwide – Hilton Apprenticeship Academy Offers disadvantaged individuals training and opportunities United Kingdom for a front-of-house career in some of the most prestigious Launched in 2012, the Academy has provided more than 100 hospitality businesses in London through a program called people across the UK with the opportunity to train with Hilton Galvin’s Chance. Since its launch in 2009, almost 80 students Worldwide through six 12-month apprenticeships that offer have participated in the program, and nearly half have secured on-the-job training from experts, on-site mentors, development ongoing employment in hospitality. workshops and master classes. This entry-level introduction to the hospitality industry is fully funded, including tuition fees and travel expenses, and participants receive a salary while in the program. 43 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Hilton Worldwide Team Members volunteer in their communities during the first annual Global Week of Service, November 2012. Strengthening Communities From helping develop local economies to volunteering our time and talents, Hilton Worldwide Team Members are committed to leveraging the same spirit of hospitality that defines our culture to help strengthen the communities we serve. 44 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Overview Guests explore in Istanbul, Turkey. Companies that support and invest in the communities in which they operate create value for both the business and society by contributing to stable local economies, developing talented local workforces and fostering local relationships that help ensure success. At Hilton Worldwide, we are committed to growing shared value where we live, work and travel around the world, recognizing that when a community prospers, so does our business. We shape economies and strengthen communities by providing employment and income to local residents, as well as by making local purchases and contributing to the tax base. We also engage in community initiatives that leverage the talent and expertise of our Team Members and the knowledge of our industry to increase our impact. We focus these efforts in four broad categories – economic impact, community hospitality (food, shelter and caregiving), human rights and relief to disaster recovery. We encourage all of our hotels to join our community initiatives and provide them with the flexibility to support our global priorities in local ways. In addition, we deliver the tools and resources they need to make it as easy as possible to strengthen their communities. Team Member volunteerism allows us to build important local relationships in our communities, increase morale, promote teamwork and foster skills development. By investing the resources of our global hospitality business and the expertise of our Team Members in the communities in which we operate, we maximize the role of our hotels as economic catalysts and leverage what we do best: serve others and extend our unique spirit of hospitality. Hilton Worldwide Team Members work on construction projects during Global Week of Service, November 2012. 45 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Communities in Action HILTON WORLDWIDE In 2011, Hilton Worldwide became the second U.S.-based hotel company to sign the Tourism Child-Protection Code of Conduct. By signing the Code, we committed to educating and training our Team Members about how to identify potentially illegal relationships involving children in their hotels, and how to take action. Thus far, Hilton Worldwide has reached over 1,000 General Managers and 13 cities through child trafficking awareness training at hotels in 11 cities, and is developing an e-learning module and additional training resources for individual properties in 2013. HILTON SAN FRANCISCO SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA Committed to serving the community surrounding the hotel, the property’s dedicated Community Projects Manager interfaces with 10 to 12 nonprofit organizations on a daily basis, and manages relationships with about 100 nonprofits each month. Team Members engage on a regular basis through community service projects, donations of food, soap or soft goods such as linens or towels, and by offering meeting and event attendees the option of volunteering as part of their event. HILTON GARDEN INN STATEN ISLAND STATEN ISLAND, NEW YORK The HGI Staten Island housed numerous residents, insurance agents, disaster recovery staff and volunteers, and workers from government agencies for months after Superstorm Sandy. Our Team Members worked around the clock, providing support for customers’ needs during the first three days after the storm and demonstrating Hilton Garden Inn’s “You Can Count On Us” approach to guest service. And in April 2013, more than 30 Hilton Garden Inn Team Members came together in Staten Island to repair damage caused by Superstorm Sandy. HILTON WORLDWIDE CAIRO, EGYPT; ALEXANDRIA, EGYPT In partnership with The Egyptian Food Bank in Cairo, Hilton Worldwide hotels in Egypt are collecting and donating surplus food from company hotels and making it available to those in need. Contribution to the campaign initially involved three Cairo-based properties – Conrad Cairo, Hilton Pyramids Golf Resort and Ramses Hilton – with the long-term aim of bringing on board more of the company’s 19 Egypt-wide properties. Since the launch of the program they have donated over 12,000 pounds of food in Egypt. HILTON BRISBANE BRISBANE, AUSTRALIA The Hilton Brisbane has established a win-win relationship with Oz Harvest, an organization that picks up excess food and meals from the hotel to distribute to local food banks in need. Additionally, Oz Harvest is now collecting and reusing out-of-commission towels from the property, reducing the amount of waste from the hotel. With the help of Oz Harvest, the Hilton Brisbane is achieving triple-bottom-line results from their sustainability efforts. 46 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Local Economic Impact Conrad Cairo, Cairo, Egypt The hospitality industry can have a profound impact on a local economy, from providing job opportunities to enhancing tourism to sourcing products locally. We are committed to partnering with our local communities to deliver shared value. Despite lingering economic challenges around the world, growth in travel and tourism was robust in 2012, according to the World Travel and Tourism Council. The total contribution of travel and tourism to the world gross domestic product grew by 3 percent, faster than the world economy, which grew at 2.3 percent. Hospitality is a major contributor to these positive numbers, both directly through the construction and staffing of hotels and indirectly by supporting local suppliers and enabling the growth of complementary businesses such as tour operators and restaurants. In 2012, we helped grow local economies around the world as we added 171 new hotels Homewood Suites, Frisco, Texas with more than 28,000 rooms. These hotels brought with them over 10,000 new jobs in our owned, managed and franchised hotels and corporate offices in positions ranging from housekeeping to technology to management. The majority of staff in our hotels are HILTON WORLDWIDE HOTEL OPENINGS local Team Members, which not only supports the economy of the area, but also helps our hotels reflect the culture of their locations. Local Economic Impact Study To better understand our direct and indirect impacts on local developing economies, New Hotels New Rooms we commissioned George Washington University to conduct a study in two of our 2010 178 24,731 hotels in Colombia. 2011 170 29,430 From this study, we concluded that our hotels provide a variety of benefits to the local economy. For example, the Hilton Cartagena in Colombia sources 99 percent of its 2012 171 28,000 products locally. This has led to the opening of new local businesses that have created more than 260 indirect local jobs in addition to the 245 direct jobs created within the hotel. The hotel’s vegetable sourcing alone involves over 30 agricultural cooperatives. Local suppliers credit Hilton’s business for improving the quality of their products and services, as well as legitimizing their business with other companies. 47 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Community Hospitality At Hilton Worldwide, hospitality is more than our business. We are dedicated to sharing our spirit of hospitality with our local communities and encourage our Team Members to contribute their time, talent and resources to help our neighbors in need. In 2012, our contributions of cash, in-kind donations and Team Member volunteer activities around the world totaled US $25 million and more than 100,000 volunteer hours valued at over US $2.2 million.* Global Team Member Volunteer Program and Local Engagement To support and facilitate the efforts of our employees, we launched the Global Team Member Volunteer Program in 2012. The program recognizes volunteer commitments already underway and makes it easier for Team Members to become involved in their communities with one-stop access to local engagement opportunities. To support the Team Member Volunteer Program, we also launched the Purpose Portal, an online tool that helps Team Members find and plan volunteer opportunities, as well as measuring and tracking service hours and monetary contributions across our global footprint. An additional part of the Global Team Member Volunteer Program is our Global Week of Service, an annual celebration of community service that celebrates the hospitality Our CEO and Executive Team paint benches for a youth center and generosity of our Team Members year-round. Launched in November 2012, every in Watford, UK, for the first annual Global Week of Service, November 2012. Hilton Worldwide office and hotel is encouraged to host or participate in hands-on volunteer activities. In our inaugural year, we participated in more than 800 projects with more than 660 local organizations across 51 countries. In addition, we created a network of Community Committees in each of our 18 corporate offices around the world, providing tools and resources to support volunteer and community engagement. This network of Champions complements our Community and Sustainability Champions at more than 1,100 properties at our Hilton Hotels & Resorts, DoubleTree by Hilton, Embassy Suites and Waldorf Astoria brands around the world. Committee champions Community Committees and members Network of Community receive comprehensive training on and how to develop community projects, find a community partner and Sustainability recognize Team ChampionsMembers for their volunteer service. We also support volunteer projects and community engagement at internal business meetings 18andcorporate functions.offices At our new General Manager orientations, for example, we include a community project as part of the learning 1,100 properties curriculum. Recently, General Managers have properties at our Hilton Hotels & Resorts, mentored high school students studying hospitality DoubleTree on their by Hilton, Embassy career Suites and development, conducted mock interviews, and provided résumé-writing Waldorf Astoria brands around the critiques. world. than 300 General Managers More have participated in these community service projects since the program launched in 2012. HOW WE SUPPORT VOLUNTEER AND COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT Community Committees Network of Community and Team Members at our Memphis campus celebrating Global Week Sustainability Champions of Service. 18 corporate offices 1,100 properties at our Hilton Hotels & Resorts, DoubleTree by Hilton, Embassy Suites, Conrad and Waldorf Astoria brands around the world. *Reporting in our Purpose Portal to capture our overall contributions is voluntary. The monetary value of volunteer time is based on the Independent Sector's 2012 estimate of US $22.14. 48 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Community Hospitality (Continued) The Travel with Purpose Action Grant program was launched in 2013 to support innovative community collaborations and projects developed by our global portfolio of offices and hotels. Hilton Barbados, Bridgetown, Barbados The Travel with Purpose Action Grant program was launched in 2013 to support innovative community collaborations and projects developed by our global portfolio of offices and hotels. The winning applicants receive a US $5,000 grant toward their community partner for a project that involves Team Members, addresses local issues within our Travel with Purpose focus areas and has the potential to be scaled across our global portfolio. We also engage our Team Members to help address local and global challenges in communities in their backyards. We work with a group of volunteer organizations, including Points of Light in the U.S., Hilton in the Community Foundation across Europe and Business in the Community to access a range of organizations that help us address local issues and identify ways to make a difference. We also engage our nonprofit partners around the globe to identify volunteer opportunities within their organizations. Our Team Members’ engagement and successes are monitored and tracked through the Hilton Fukuoka Sea Hawk Hotel, Fukuoka, Japan Purpose Portal, allowing us to learn from and evolve our commitments and recognize our Team Members’ achievements. Hospitality + Service We also seek to share our hospitality expertise with community organizations through Hospitality + Service, a curriculum created in partnership with Points of Light and the Taproot Foundation to bring exceptional service to the nonprofit sector. Hospitality + Service translates Hilton Worldwide’s own Team Member training and development programs into a curriculum that equips staff and volunteers to improve the culture of hospitality in their organizations and enhance client service. Learn more about Hospitality + Service at www.hiltonworldwide.com/hospitality+service. 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Community Hospitality (Continued) HANDS-ON HAMPTONALITY Our Hampton Hotels unique and delightful service culture of Hamptonality inspires Team Members to put their unique spin on our four Hampton values — friendly, authentic, caring and thoughtful. This culture extends into our local communities, doing what we do best, through Hands-On Hamptonality. Our mission is to help build stronger communities by inspiring acts of volunteer service, both large and small, in the spirit of hospitality. LEVERAGING OUR NEWEST BRAND TO CONNECT COMMUNITIES Our newest brand, Home2 Suites by Hilton, strengthens local communities through Your2 Hands, a volunteer program implemented at each Home2 Suites hotel. Your2 Hands aims to help our hotels connect communities on a deeper level to make the biggest impact and provide aid where it is most needed. In 2012, Home2 Suites celebrated the one-year anniversary of its first hotel opening by announcing a partnership with the Mid-South Food Bank. Home2 Suites currently has 14 local and regional nonprofit partnerships. EMBASSY SUITES MAKE IT MATTER Our Embassy Suites service culture, Make a Difference, represents the best of our brand — a gracious, engaging and caring friend to the community. In 2013, we celebrated the important role our Embassy Suites Hotels play in their local communities through the launch of Make it Matter, a program that helps build stronger families and resilient communities through volunteerism and community engagement. CREATING SOCIAL IMPACT WITH HILTON GARDEN INN Today, more than one in five children in the United States are at risk of hunger. We know that breakfast is critical to starting a child’s day off right. To support our company-wide commitment to addressing hunger, in 2012, our Hilton Garden Inn brand launched Breakfast with Heart and Holidays with Heart booking promotions in partnership with Feeding America to address childhood hunger in the United States. By booking our Breakfast with Heart room rate, guests received a complimentary breakfast and helped provide meals to families in need. Through both of these promotions, the brand helped provide more than 1.4 million meals to families in need. BRINGING LITERACY TO COMMUNITIES Our Homewood Suites by Hilton partners with early childhood education nonprofit Books for Kids Foundation to open libraries for at-risk children, providing access to reading programs and other educational tools that serve as building blocks for early literacy skills. The program has helped open six libraries in Phoenix, Washington, D.C., Memphis (2), Chicago and Irving, Texas. More than 300 of the brand’s North American hotels participate in literacy events in their communities. 50 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Disaster Recovery When disaster strikes anywhere around the world, we are able to draw on our expertise in the hospitality industry to provide resources, support and compassion to our Team Members, guests, partners and communities. We reach out to affected hotels to determine what they need to care for guests and Team Members. In addition, we partner with GlobalGiving to provide a place where Team Members and Hilton HHonors members can make disaster relief donations. In 2012, we donated more than US $798,000 in cash and in-kind donations to support those affected by disasters. Superstorm Sandy represented one of our most significant relief efforts during the past year. Through an HHonors promotion with the American Red Cross, we generated US $685,000 in donations, including a US $100,000 match for victims of Sandy. In addition, our hotel teams delivered supplies and assembled more than 5,000 relief kits and distributed over 1,000 blankets. The Hilton Garden Inn Staten Island, New York, in particular, had a significant response role to play. Our Team Members worked around the clock to provide service and support guests’ needs immediately after the storm, demonstrating Hilton Garden Inn’s “You Can Count On Us” approach to guest service. The majority of the hotel team worked more than 12 hours per day to ensure the hotel was fully stocked, the kitchen stayed open, and housekeeping and guest service could manage the increased volume and wide range of guest needs. In the months following, the property housed numerous residents, insurance agents, disaster recovery staff and volunteers, in addition to workers from the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and the Department of Health and Human Team Members volunteered at PS57X Crescent Elementary School Services. Beyond the hotel, more than 30 Hilton Garden Inn Team Members came together in the south Bronx to help beautify the school, work with the in April 2013 in Staten Island to repair damage caused by Sandy, including the rebuilding students on literacy and crafts programs, and design and stuff Superstorm Sandy disaster relief tote bags and kits. of South Beach Park. Lastly, we are constantly monitoring disasters that are smaller in size, but still important to the communities where we live, work and travel. As a company, we offer Team Members opportunities to support those impacted by disasters through internal giving tools available on the Purpose Portal. Recent examples included Colorado fires, Boston Marathon Bombing and the European floods. 51 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Human Rights Ensuring and protecting basic human rights is everyone’s responsibility. We support human rights for all people and are committed to protecting individuals from abuse and exploitation. Human trafficking, in particular, is of special concern to the travel and tourism industry as hotel properties can be used as locations for these criminal activities. We have a responsibility to our Team Members and our guests to do everything possible to ensure that our properties are safe and secure. Our Global Code of Conduct includes language condemning and forbidding all forms of human trafficking and commercial exploitation. Team Members, as well as our business partners, are expected to maintain these standards. Hilton Grand Vacations Club at Craigendarroch Suites, Ballater, United Kingdom Protecting human rights is too large and complex to attempt to address on our own. It is essential for us to collaborate with outside organizations that are focused on preventing abuses such as human trafficking and can help us create the best strategy Ensuring and protecting and methods to protect children and other victims. basic human rights is In 2011, Hilton Worldwide became the second U.S.-based hotel company to sign the ECPAT Tourism Child-Protection Code of Conduct, which focuses on the protection of everyone’s responsibility. children from sexual exploitation in the travel and tourism industries. We support human rights By signing the code, Hilton Worldwide committed to educating and training our Team for all people and are Members on how to identify potentially illegal relationships involving children in their committed to protecting hotels, and how to take action. Hilton Worldwide has reached more than 1,000 General Managers and department heads through child trafficking awareness training at hotels in individuals from abuse Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Indianapolis, London, Miami, New Orleans, Orlando, and exploitation. Seattle, St. Louis, Toronto and Washington, D.C. We are developing an e-learning module and additional training resources for individual properties. In 2013, we launched a partnership with Vital Voices to support a global network of NGOs working to stop child trafficking. The Global Freedom Exchange is an innovative, multifaceted educational and mentoring program targeting emerging and established women leaders. Program participants are on the forefront of global efforts to prevent and respond to the crime of child trafficking. Global Freedom Exchange is intended to create an international network of activists. Hilton Garden Inn, New Delhi, India 52 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Human Rights (Continued) As a fundamental element of the Global Freedom Exchange, Hilton Worldwide and Vital Voices brought together a select group of 26 women leaders from 13 countries to participate in a two-week interactive learning and networking program. This training program spanned Washington, D.C., New York City and Dallas, three cities that have strong national and international resources focused on addressing human trafficking. Participants had the opportunity to meet with government officials and NGO leaders to share information about funding and support needs, and to learn about collaborating with local law enforcement. We also are members of the gBCAT (Global Business Coalition Against Trafficking), an organization committed to mobilizing the power, resources and thought leadership of the business community to end human trafficking, including all forms of forced labor and sex trafficking, as well as the human trafficking working group of the International Global Freedom Exchange participants spent two weeks together Tourism Partnership. sharing ideas and best practices for combating human trafficking. United Nations Global Compact To further underscore our commitment to supporting human rights, we signed the United Nations Global Compact in 2012. This strategic policy initiative is for businesses that are committed to working toward common goals with the U.N. in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. With more than 10,000 corporate participants and other stakeholders from over 130 countries, it is the largest voluntary corporate responsibility initiative in the world. 53 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Global Snapshots — Communities Hilton Worldwide properties are integrating Travel with Purpose into their daily operations and creating shared value in our communities around the world. Our strategy focuses on empowering these hotels to advance our corporate responsibility commitments, and every day our more than 4,000 properties are taking action in their communities. These grassroots initiatives are a critical part of our company’s impact, and these next pages share snapshots from our properties around the world. AMERICAS Hilton San Francisco Union Square Palmer House Chicago San Francisco, California Chicago, Illinois The property is deeply committed to serving its community, with The restaurant and catering menus are focused on locally farmed a dedicated Community Projects Manager for the last 24 years and raised products. Meats, poultry, eggs, dairy and produce are who interfaces with 10 to 12 nonprofit organizations daily and procured from local growers and farmers, and most of these manages relationships with about 100 nonprofit organizations products are organic or chemical free. The hotel also features each month. Hotel Team Members engage regularly through local spirits and sources local honey from bee hives on its roof. service projects and donations of food, soap or soft goods such as linens or towels. Hampton Inn Neptune Neptune, New Jersey Hilton Garden Inn Evansville In the fall of 2012, Superstorm Sandy devastated the Jersey Evansville, Missouri Shore, leaving many without shelter or a place to call home. Helped strengthen the community in the wake of the Joplin, Team Members came together to serve the community in a Missouri, tornadoes in 2011. The hotel served as a hub for the time of crisis, opening the hotel doors before the planned grand community to drop off donations, while Team Members and opening to welcome more than 250 displaced residents and community members came together to help fill trucks that emergency aid workers. Hampton Team Members went above delivered relief goods to those in need. and beyond to accommodate guests, partnering with the Hilton Garden Inn Red Cross to provide meals each night, as well as hosting Staten Island, New York Thanksgiving and Christmas dinners. Housed numerous residents, insurance agents, disaster recovery Hilton McLean staff and volunteers, and workers from FEMA and the U.S. DepartMcLean, Virginia ment of Health and Human Services, for months after Superstorm The hotel’s Lifestyle & Farmers Market showcases local Sandy. Our Team Members worked around the clock, providing businesses, the region’s best fruit and vegetables, and artisan 24/7 support for customers’ needs during the first three days after food products. The Market takes place every Saturday from the storm and demonstrating Hilton Garden Inn’s “You Can Count May through October in partnership with the McLean On Us” approach to guest service. And in April 2013, more than 30 Chamber of Commerce and INOVA. Hilton Garden Inn Team Members came together in Staten Island to repair damage in their community caused by Superstorm Sandy. 54 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT COMMUNITIES Global Snapshots — Communities (Continued) ASIA-PACIFIC EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA Hilton Bangalore Residences Maple Court Watford Bangalore, India Watford, United Kingdom Hotel chefs embarked on a journey to learn more about their The European corporate legal team at the Maple Court Watford community’s unique offering of food products in order to deliver has partnered with LawWorks to provide pro-bono legal advice a hotel-wide, farm-to-plate program. The hotel saw an opporsince June 2012. Most of this work involves acting on behalf of tunity in its community to take advantage of its access to a charities in negotiating agreements for leases and ancillary wide array of locally grown and produced food to supply their documents for commercial space across England. The team hotels with products that deliver high-quality, authentic cuisine. was nominated “Member of the Month” by LawWorks in Hilton Brisbane Hotel March 2013, demonstrating their commitment to this important Brisbane, Australia pro-bono work. Partners with Oz Harvest, an organization that picks up excess Hilton Stockholm Slussen Hotel food and meals from the hotel to distribute to local food banks Stockholm, Sweden in need, as well as collecting and reusing out-of-commission The restaurant and catering menus are focused on locally farmed towels from the property, reducing the amount of waste from and raised products. Meats, poultry, eggs, dairy and produce are the hotel. Thanks to this partnership, the hotel is achieving tripleprocured from local growers and farmers, and most of these bottom-line results from their sustainability efforts. products are organic or chemical free. The hotel also features Hilton Grand Vacations several local spirits. Tokyo, Japan Hilton Garden Inn Florence Novoli In the spirit of collaboration, the Hilton Grand Vacations Sales Florence, Italy office in Japan combines efforts with local properties to support Team Members organize a number of activities in partnership youth in the communities where they live and work. In 2012, Team with Banco Alimentare della Toscana Onlus, an association Members not only volunteered their time in Tokyo and Osaka that collects food surplus and redistributes it to third-party with the American Chamber of Commerce of Japan, but alonglocal charity associations involved in assisting and providing side Team Members from five different properties. They raised meals to people in need. a total of JPY 360,000 to support local non-profit organizations. Hilton Worldwide Hilton Guam Resort & Spa Egypt Guam In Egypt, Hilton Worldwide uses its expertise in hospitality to Supports locally grown produce and purchases several hundred benefit the Ana Al-Masry Foundation, an organization that runs pounds of fruits and vegetables weekly from local farmers. For local homeless shelters. Teams from hotels in Egypt provide a tiny, isolated island like Guam, most basic groceries such as milk, technical support and training in areas such as food and beverage, eggs, cereals and bread must travel almost 6,000 miles from housekeeping and procurement to help improve the Foundation’s California just to get to local supermarket shelves. Nevertheless, operations. some local farmers continue to market and sell fresh produce, even Hilton Worldwide though air-flown items are generally cheaper to the consumer. Egypt Hilton Sydney In partnership with The Egyptian Food Bank in Cairo, Hilton Sydney, Australia Worldwide hotels in Egypt are collecting and donating surplus Launched a new program in 2012 that brings local fresh produce to food from company hotels and making it available to those in need. guests and Team Members at the property’s Zeta Bar. Guests can Contribution to the campaign initially involved the Conrad Cairo, wander through the market and build their own Farmer’s Mix, Hilton Pyramids Golf Resort and Ramses Hilton, with the handpicking seasonally fresh fruit, herbs and spices from the stalls. long-term aim of bringing on board more of the company’s Hilton Tokyo 19 Egypt-wide properties. Since the launch of the program, Tokyo, Japan they have donated over 12,000 pounds of food in Egypt. Following Japan’s triple disaster in March 2011, Hilton Tokyo formed a close collaboration with NGO partner IsrAID to support community rebuilding efforts in the affected region that continue today. Hilton Tokyo provides accommodations for therapists in transit to and from Tohoku, and hosts trainings and events for local therapists. In Tohoku itself, Team Members regularly support on-site activities such as counseling, music, art and therapy projects in the area’s temporary housing and schools. 55 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Exploring by elephant in Bali, Indonesia Celebrating Cultures Every trip — no matter how near or far from home — represents the chance to bring the world a little closer. We help transform this aspiration into reality by offering guest experiences that celebrate local culture, as well as advocating for public policies that facilitate global travel and commerce. 56 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Overview Conrad Dublin, Dublin, Ireland More than 1 billion people traveled outside their own countries in 2012, the largest number of travelers ever to experience a different culture in one year. Creating human connections and experiences is at the center of our business and essential to global progress. We strive to facilitate travel that results in the exchange of ideas and fosters an openness to diversity and inclusion. At Hilton Worldwide, we welcome the world to our hotels and help facilitate the cultural experiences of these explorers by offering enriching opportunities in our hotels and supporting local heritage initiatives in our communities. Our founder Conrad Hilton saw international trade and travel as powerful tools to contribute to world peace. We continue to build on this legacy every day by offering places for travelers to connect and experience thousands of local communities around the world. Conrad Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan 57 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Cultures in Action HILTON ANATOLE DALLAS, TEXAS The art collection at the Hilton Anatole has long been considered the most acclaimed collection of any hotel in the country. The atrium lobby is adorned with some of the hotel’s valuable 1,000-piece art collection, styled to an Asian theme with soothing reflecting ponds. Well-known pieces include Nebula, a 100-foot-long, undulating crystal sculpture suspended from the atrium ceiling; The Gossips sculpture by noted Danish artist Bjorn Wiinblad; and The Right Light bronze sculpture by Seward Johnson. The hotel recently added the One-Mile Art Walk for guests, including printed guides and an audio tour. EXCLUSIVELY WALDORF For unique travel around the globe, Waldorf Astoria brings the history and heritage of each destination into the guest experience. With unique opportunities for adventure, education and relaxation. Each landmark destination inspires its own singular experience, like desert tours with a nature photographer, hikes with a geology expert, gladiator training with authentic weaponry and a real castaway experience on a deserted island. HILTON WORLDWIDE In 2011, we introduced Hilton Huanying, a new Hilton Worldwide welcome program for Chinese travelers. Taking its name from the Mandarin word for “welcome,” Hilton Huanying helps meet the cultural needs and expectations of Chinese travelers. With this new program, Chinese travelers find familiar comforts in three key touch points of the on-property experience – arrival, guest room and breakfast. Currently, 70 Hilton Worldwide hotels in 23 countries participate in the program. HILTON WORLDWIDE CARIBBEAN & LATIN AMERICA Hilton Hotels & Resorts and DoubleTree by Hilton properties in the Caribbean and Latin America offer “authentically local” packages, which provide cultural experiences specific to each hotel, including dance lessons, cooking classes, cocktail tastings and boat tours. Additionally, guests can learn local languages by wearing a pin that signifies to hotel employees to speak to guests in the native language. Culture consultants on the properties are available to tailor guests’ experiences. 58 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Cultures in Action (Continued) DOUBLETREE BY HILTON HOTEL CARIARI SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA The DoubleTree by Hilton Hotel Cariari, San Jose, Costa Rica, offers a collection of eco-packages that cater to guests seeking to experience eco-adventures such as exploring the rainforest or a local coffee farm. HILTON HOTELS & RESORTS UNITED KINGDOM Hilton Hotels & Resorts properties throughout the United Kingdom offer History Weekend Breaks, enabling guests to easily explore the UK’s most iconic cultural sites, museums and galleries. From a historical holiday in Yorkshire to a cultural excursion in London, these special weekend packages can include dinners in local venues, famous speakers and exclusive private visits to historical locations. 59 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Global Commerce Travel is the foundation of global commerce and is estimated to contribute US $6 trillion to the global economy — about 9 percent of total worldwide GDP — and to support 260 million jobs worldwide. Increasing numbers of travelers translate into job creation and economic growth. We support this opportunity by encouraging political leaders to facilitate travel and trade through improved visa processes. The World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) estimates that G-20 countries could see an increase of up to 112 million international travelers per year, simply by improving visa processes. In turn, faster and more efficient travel visas could translate into an incremental US $206 billion in tourism exports and 3.1 million new tourism-related jobs by 2015, according to the WTTC. We have long advocated, in partnership with our industry peers, for improving visa processing for foreign tourists and business people coming into the United States and, Conrad Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan have seen improvements. In 2011, Congress passed legislation aimed at reducing the backlog of visa applications, and, in 2012, U.S. President Barack Obama signed an Executive 37% In 2012, we witnessed a rise in visitors from China, and 9% globally from other countries, with Hilton Dalian, Dalian, China particularly sharp increases from countries such as Order directing faster visa processing and creating the country’s first national travel Japan, Brazil and Spain. and tourism strategy. These initiatives have reduced visa wait times and increased travel into the U.S. In 2012 we witnessed a 9 percent rise in visitors from other countries, with particularly sharp increases from China (37 percent), Spain (31 percent), Japan (21 percent) and Brazil (20 percent). More progress, however, can be realized through smart visas. These types of visas refer to safe, secure and sustainable solutions Hilton Sukhumvit Bangkok, Bangkok, Thailand that promote mobility, maximize the use of technology and expand programs that facilitate travel. With smart visas, more data is collected and shared across borders, enhancing security, reducing government spending through improving efficiency and providing a better customer experience. In early 2013, we joined forces with our colleagues at Marriott International at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland, to urge governments to move quickly to adopt smart visa policies. Working together with the World Economic Forum Governors for the aviation, travel and tourism industry, we are advocating for global action toward smart visa policies regionally by 2015 and globally by 2020. 60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Global Commerce (Continued) Entering New Markets We have a long history of firsts when it comes to entering emerging and developing markets around the world. Our decision in 2013 to open the Hilton Yangon in Kyauktada Township, Yangon, Myanmar, continues this tradition. The Hilton Yangon will be the first Hilton Worldwide property and also the first Hilton Hotels & Resorts branded hotel in Myanmar when it opens in 2014. Visitor arrivals to Myanmar have grown nearly 50 percent following recent social and economic reforms, and the lifting of sanctions by the United States and United Kingdom. With Yangon poised to grow faster than many other emerging Asian markets, the Hilton Yangon will be well-positioned as a destination for both business and vacation travelers. With 300 rooms, this hotel will bring over 200 direct new jobs to the city and will be the first multinational hotel to enter the country. The hotel’s guests will support many more jobs indirectly, in local restaurants, at tourist attractions and through services such as transportation. In addition to jobs, the hotel will tap into the local economy to source goods such as food and beverage, linens and uniforms for the hotel on an ongoing basis. The hotel is ideally situated for leisure visitors to enjoy cultural sites such as the beautiful golden pagodas throughout the city, Kandawgyi Lake with its Royal Barge, numerous museums and well-preserved examples of grand Colonial architecture. 61 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Welcoming The World “Stay Hilton. Go Out.” In March 2012, the Hilton Hotels & Resorts brand launched “Stay Hilton. Go Out.” as its first lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) traveler engagement campaign and today offers unique packages to more than 460 properties. The package welcomes LGBT travelers to experience the rich history, culture and nightlife of top gay destinations around the world. Further, Hilton Hotels & Resorts sponsored top LGBT events around the U.S., including San Francisco Pride, Capital Pride in Washington, D.C., and Northalsted Market Days in Chicago. Hilton Huanying While our properties always strive to incorporate elements of their local culture and environs, we also aim to celebrate the cultures of our guests by understanding their home cultures and integrating critical components into their stay. This is the idea behind Hilton Huanying. Taking its name from the Chinese word for welcome, Hilton Huanying enables Chinese travelers to find familiar comforts at more than 87 hotels in 27 countries. As the number of Chinese travelers increases around the world, our Hilton Huanying program continues to grow to meet their needs. Elements of the Hilton Huanying experience include a front desk Team Member fluent in Mandarin; guest room amenities such as Chinese teas, slippers and a television station with Chinese programming; and a breakfast menu that includes congee, dim sum, fried rice and noodles. At participating hotels, room night bookings have increased by over 100 percent since year to date in 2011. U.S. Paralympics Team In early 2013, Hilton HHonors renewed its sponsorship of the U.S. Paralympic Teams through 2016 to include the 2014 Winter Games in Sochi, Russia, and the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. As the official hotel sponsor of Team USA, Hilton HHonors provides discounted hotel rates to Paralympians, giving these athletes a comfortable space to relax and rejuvenate after a long day of training. 62 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Cultural Experiences Conrad Hilton believed that a hotel should reflect the culture, food and people of its location, and we strive to live up to that legacy. Today, we remain committed to creating opportunities for our guests to immerse themselves in local cultures and experiences. Many of our properties bring this legacy to life through local architecture and artwork integrated throughout the hotel. Properties also commonly provide opportunities for guests to experience local dancing, traditional celebrations or local menu items through ongoing partnerships with cultural organizations that provide these opportunities in the hotel. Some examples of how we incorporate local culture into the décor, food service and guest experience offered at our Batang Ai Longhouse Resort, Lubok Antu, Malaysia hotels include: Conrad Hilton believed • Hilton Hawaiian Village® Waikiki Beach hosts exceptional art exhibits by some of that a hotel should reflect Hawaii’s most prestigious artists, including John Young, Hiroshi Tagami, Michael Powell, Herb Kane, James Hoyle, Luigi Fumagalli, Daniel Van Zyle and Dale Evers. the culture, food and The Village also features the renowned sculptor, Kim Duffett, who created the people of its location, life-size bronze statue of ‘Iolani Luahine, the legendary hula dancer. and we strive to live up • Hilton Chennai is decorated using a blend of contemporary and traditional Indian to that legacy. décor that incorporates local touches in the form of warm color palettes, stone inlay work in the lobby floor and regional textiles as wall panels in the guest rooms. •H ilton Queenstown contains a stunning art collection featuring prominent New Zealand artists. Additionally, the hotel incorporated local wood and stone into its design, as well as floor-to-ceiling windows that capture natural sunlight and the scenery of the region. • Hilton Marsa Alam in Egypt is specifically designed to celebrate and reflect the ancient history and heritage of Nubian culture in the region. Hilton Marsa Alam Nubian Resort, Marsa Alam , Egypt 63 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Cultural Experiences (Continued) Teacher Treks Providing teachers with the tools to enrich the lives of their students and inspire them to explore the world is the goal of the Teacher Treks Travel Grant Competition, supported by Hilton HHonors. The program, which we developed in partnership with the Institute of International Education (IIE), enables fifteen K-12 teachers to travel to the country of their choice to experience first-hand the subject that they teach. In addition, winning teachers receive training and support upon their return to enable them to better share their experiences with their students. Through Teacher Treks, teachers studied environmental impacts of invasive species in the Galapagos Islands, the musical and cultural influences present in Mongolia, and historic sites and temples of India, to name a few. Teacher Treks sent 15 teachers on the trip of a lifetime to study cultures of their choice and return to share their findings in the classroom. 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Global Snapshots — Cultures Hilton Worldwide properties are integrating Travel with Purpose into their daily operations and creating shared value in our communities around the world. Our strategy focuses on empowering these hotels to advance our corporate responsibility commitments, and every day our more than 4,000 properties are taking action in their communities. These grassroots initiatives are a critical part of our company’s impact, and these next pages share snapshots from our properties around the world. AMERICAS Hilton Shanghai Hampton Inn & Suites – Centro Historico Shanghai, China Mexico City, Mexico For Hilton Shanghai’s 25th anniversary celebrations, Team Members An historic building located in the heart of Mexico City that displayed a collection of archival photographs and records in underwent a three-year building restoration supervised by the a special photography exhibition. The exhibition spanned six National Museum of Anthropology and History, and the National months, and shared with guests the hotel’s unique legacy since Museum of Fine Arts. it first opened its doors to the public a quarter of a century ago as one of the city’s first international five-star hotels, and the ASIA-PACIFIC first Hilton hotel in China. Hilton Queenstown Resort & Spa Waldorf Astoria Shanghai on the Bund Queenstown, New Zealand Shanghai, China Contains a stunning art collection featuring prominent New Located in what was formerly the celebrated Shanghai Club, Zealand artists and incorporates local wood and stone into the Waldorf Astoria Shanghai on the Bund now occupies this its design, as well as floor-to-ceiling windows that capture original neoclassical building built in 1910. Exquisite furnishings natural sunlight and the scenery of the region. and original fixtures, including the city’s last triangular manual elevators and distinctive Chinese accents, combine to resurrect the authentic ambience of ‘Old Shanghai.’ In addition, the legendary 1930’s drinking club, the Long Bar, has been meticulously recreated from archive photographs and features a replica of the famed 34-meter bar counter to make this property a living piece of history. 65 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CULTURES Global Snapshots — Cultures (Continued) EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA Hilton Hurghada Resort DoubleTree Resort by Hilton Hotel Zanzibar – Nungwi Hurghada, Egypt Zanzibar, Tanzania Hilton Hurghada Resort offers its guests a wide variety of ways Offers weekly village tours to take guests through a local to engage in the local culture through traditional dance shows, fishing village. cooking and dancing classes, local cultural tours and local menu items served daily at breakfast and dinner. Transcorp Hilton Abuja Abuja, Nigeria Hilton Marsa Alam Nubian Resort Partners with the Mashiah Foundation, an association of local Marsa Alam, Egypt widows, providing monetary support and, on special occasions, Specifically designed to celebrate and reflect the ancient history space in the hotel to display local handicrafts and artwork for and heritage of Nubian culture. guests to purchase. Hilton Sharm Waterfalls Resort Hilton Addis Ababa Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt Addis Ababa, Ethiopia Hilton Sharm Waterfalls Resort holds an annual date festival The Hilton Addis Ababa provides guided tours for guests to in which dates are harvested from local trees and guests enjoy explore the local markets and city’s many notable churches a variety of food and beverage offerings with dates incorpoand museums, as well as the Menelik Palace. The Hilton Addis rated into the menu. The Hilton Sharm Waterfalls Resort Date Ababa is also the longest operating Hilton in Africa and has a Festival idea won the “Most Creative F&B Idea Hilton Egypt rich tradition in hosting heads of state and key world leaders. and Levant 2012.” 66 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Roof garden at the Palmer House, Chicago, Illinois Living Sustainably Sustainability is simply good business. Since Hilton Worldwide brands touch thousands of communities and millions of people every day, it’s important for us to lead our industry with sustainable practices that deliver great guest experiences and protect the world in which we live. 67 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Overview 2009-2013 GOALS & PROGRESS TO DATE* Goal: 12.2% 20% reduction of energy use Goal: 12.8% 20% reduction of carbon output Goal: 24.9% 20% reduction of waste output Hilton Salalah Resort, Salalah, Oman As one of the largest hotel companies in the world, we have a vested interest in operating efficiently. Water, energy, food, commodities and waste requirements impact the economics Goal: 10.2% reduction of of everything we do. For this reason, Living Sustainably is a business imperative and a 10% water use cornerstone of our Travel with Purpose™ commitment. In 2009, we developed sustainability goals to reduce energy consumption, carbon and waste output by 20 percent, and water use by 10 percent, by the end of 2013. In fact, we have already achieved our waste and We set four 5-year sustainability goals in 2009. Already, we have water reduction goals ahead of schedule. achieved our waste and water goals ahead of schedule, and are making progress toward our other goals. A Flexible Approach *Results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay (estimated savings adjusted for weather and occupancy against the Though there is ample business rationale for making sustainability a business priority, 2008 baseline). Results are third-party audited and approved. there also are business realities that can create challenges. A major consideration for us is the variety of properties that operate within our portfolio. Our properties range from resort properties operating within some of the world’s most unique ecosystems to hotels with more than 1,000 rooms in the largest cities in the world. Further, with more than 4,000 hotels in 90 countries, we operate in a wide range of climates around the world. ESTIMATED UTILITY As a result, our global sustainability strategy must be flexible enough to be applied across COST SAVINGS 2009–2012* a wide span of variables. US Dollar Amounts Shown in Millions To help us address sustainability issues against this backdrop, we have elevated sustainability as a performance metric and a brand standard across all of our hotels, raising it to the same level of importance as quality, service and revenue. To support our sustainability goals, we created LightStay™, our proprietary system to measure, analyze and report on sustainability data. Our approach to sustainability management involves a variety of stakeholders across our company. Led by our sustainability team, it is supported by our supply management group that procures products and services used throughout our hotels, our engineering $29 $74 $147 $253 2009 2010 2011 2012 and operations teams that support regional and global operations, and our hundreds of thousands of Team Members who drive performance at hotels. As a result, these teams *Results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay (estimated savings adjusted for weather and occupancy against the support sustainability performance at the local, national and regional levels through a 2008 baseline). Results are third-party audited and approved. combination of property-level projects that enhance efficiency and regional partnerships or initiatives that are designed to improve efficiency across the portfolio. 68 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability in Action HILTON FORT LAUDERDALE BEACH RESORT FORT LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA Hilton Fort Lauderdale Beach Resort is changing its rooftop landscape by adding six wind turbines to the 25-story, all-suite resort located just feet from the Atlantic Ocean. The 374-suite resort has been committed to saving energy since opening in 2007, and was the first hotel in Fort Lauderdale Beach to be awarded a Florida Green Lodging designation. Installing wind turbines is a continuation of the hotel’s commitment to going above and beyond environmental regulations and voluntarily implementing hotel conservation programs. HILTON STOCKHOLM SLUSSEN HOTEL STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN The introduction of a sophisticated waste management system resulted in a 70 percent reduction in waste volume sent to a landfill. Other initiatives include converting approximately 4 tons of waste monthly to biogas production; sending residue to agricultural fields; recycling more than a ton of cardboard weekly; recycling worn-out equipment and furniture and using 100 percent biodegradable waste bags. Also, when rooms are renovated, the décor is replaced with recyclable materials. HILTON ATLANTA ATLANTA, GEORGIA The Hilton Atlanta is the most active participant in soap recycling with the Global Soap Project. This partnership allows the hotel to donate partially used bars of soap to be recycled and redistributed to populations at risk of hygiene-related disease. In just six months, the hotel donated almost 2,400 pounds of soap. DOUBLETREE BY HILTON DURANGO DURANGO, COLORADO The 159-room hotel is the city’s sixth-largest water user, consuming about 800,000 gallons monthly. By switching all of its toilets to low-flow models, the hotel expects to save about 1 million gallons of water per year, while the sink aerators installed in every guest room conserve a gallon-and-a-half per minute. The hotel has lowered its water consumption by 24 percent over the last four years and has set a goal of reducing consumption by 35 percent. HOTEL SYDNEY SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA In 2012, the Hilton Sydney retrofitted 3,350 lamps and drivers, saving around 80,000 kWh per month, equivalent to 7 percent of the hotel’s total electricity consumption. It also separates organic waste from general and mixed recycling streams, and recently installed a composting facility to compost bio waste on-property. In total, the hotel recycles over 50 percent of its waste and achieves a 68 percent landfill diversion rate. As a result, the hotel avoids the release of over 150 tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions into the atmosphere. *Results third-party validated. 69 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY LightStayTM We are one of the first major multi-brand hospitality companies to make sustainability measurement a brand standard, equal in importance to quality, service and revenue. We require measurement and corrective action from all of our brands as well as performance toward sustainability goals. Development of our sustainability tracking tool began in 2002 for our largest properties; and we now require each of our properties, whether owned, managed or franchised, to use LightStay to measure sustainability performance. Through LightStay, Hilton “ London Hilton on Park Lane Hotel, London, England Worldwide is able to calculate and analyze the company’s aggregate sustainability performance across more than 200 indicators. It … We are proud to measures multiple utility and operational metrics such as energy, water, carbon, paper work with a company product usage, waste, chemical storage, air quality and transportation. like Hilton Worldwide, Meeting Calculator which, by earning the While the cost savings associated with improving energy efficiency or water use are obvious, LightStay also has important revenue implications. The system helps support ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 our sales channels through a Meeting Calculator feature that computes the sustainability certifications, reinforces impact of meetings or events at our properties. This calculator provides many of our business customers with the data they need when sustainability is an important criterion their commitment to of their purchasing decision. As part of Connect+, our meeting planning site, we have quality and sustainmade the LightStay Meeting Calculator function available to meeting planners when ability—and therefore booking with Hilton Worldwide. a commitment to Sharing Best Practices Among Properties In addition to these measurement, performance and sales tools, LightStay also includes their customers.” a social media platform that allows properties from around the world to “neighbor” each other, Steve Spicer, Hospitality Division, share best practices and compare performance. This communication and collaboration Senior Executive, Procter & Gamble tool means that often our best solutions to sustainability challenges are not mandates Networking Functionality from the top, but, rather, bottom-up ideas communicated through the program. The system currently has over 3,400 neighbors and tracks more than 8,000 improvement projects that highlight different approaches to common sustainability challenges. As part of the collaboration, our engineers provide information on best practices, return on investment and overall cost of each project. 70 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY LightStayTM (Continued) Donations Tracking LightStay also provides functionality to connect hotels with charitable partners that accept donations such as soap, linens or soft goods, or leftover items from conferences. Our partnerships with the Global Soap Project and Good360 both utilize LightStay functionality to connect them with charitable partners around the globe and track donations from our hotels. Sustainability Training & Resources An important component of LightStay is the training that supports our Team Members to become more educated on sustainability performance. We offer multiple classes through Hilton Worldwide University that focus on how to utilize LightStay to improve sustainability performance. Since the launch of LightStay, over 8,000 Team Members have participated in sustainability training. We also have information available for our United World College students in Singapore discuss soap recycling possibilities for Asia. sales teams to help them communicate a hotel’s sustainability performance using the Meeting Calculator functionality. Finally, we have information on certifications and sustainable development tools such as an Energy Star calculator, so hotel staff can educate themselves on the various sustainability tools available. ISO Certifications Due to our advancements in quality assurance and sustainability standards, Hilton Worldwide and our portfolio of 10 hotel brands has earned ISO 9001 certification for Quality Management Systems and ISO 14001 certification for Environmental Management Systems. With these certifications, Hilton Worldwide becomes one of the first multi-national organizations to certify its entire system globally, achieving one of the largest-ever volume certifications of commercial buildings. ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 are international standards that provide a set of standardized requirements for quality and environmental management systems. Companies gain certification by implementing policies, procedures and systems that follow and meet NEED PHOTO ISO standards, which are assessed by a third-party certification body. As part of the Hilton Worldwide certification process, DEKRA Certification, Inc. performed a series of audits and will continue ongoing assessments to monitor compliance. 71 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Energy ENERGY REDUCTION 2009–2012* 4.9% 7.4% 9.7% 12.2% 35.6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 Reflects annual percentage change in consumption per floor area as compared to Base Year 2008. Energy consumption normalized for weather and occupancy. Conrad Macao will switch off its stunning crystal chandelier, the centerpiece of its dramatic lobby lounge and bar, and operate by romantic candlelight for one hour each month. The initiative is part of the luxury hotel’s 2013 Green Resolution. Energy is essential to every operation in a hotel, from mechanical systems that produce TOTAL MBTU TOTAL kBTU air conditioning to the lighting systems throughout the building to room appliances 2011-2012* PER OCCUPIED that directly enhance guest experiences. Moreover, our hotels have a vested interest in Amounts Shown ROOM 2011–2012* identifying ways to reduce consumption of energy as it is among the top three expenses in Millions for the average hotel. As the travel and tourism industry continues to expand around the world, we increasingly seek ways to reduce energy consumption while delivering great guest experiences. In the U.S., we purchased more than 450 million In the U.S., we kilowatt hours of green power through December 31, 2012. These purchases were purchased more than enough to meet 94 percent of the annual 450 million electricity use in our owned hotels in the 4.9% 7.4% 9.7% 12.2% 35.6 34.7 335.2 317.5 11 United States. They also were2010 2009 the equivalent 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2 of avoiding an estimated 80 million tons of kilowatt hours of carbon dioxide, equal to emissions from 43,000 passenger cars. Our leadership in, and impact green power through on, the green power market led the EPA to kBTU PER SQUARE FOOT 2009–2012* December 31, 2012. name Hilton Worldwide as one of only four Green Power Partners of the Year in 2012. Other energy-reduction efforts often include investments in more efficient appliances, operating equipment and infrastructure. A significant energy-reduction initiative in MEA started as a partnership with Royal Phillips Electronics and South African utility company Eskom to replace traditional lighting in our South African hotels with more than 17,000 LEDs. In 2012, we expanded the program to include more than 75 percent of our Middle East and Africa4.9% properties. 7.4% 9.7% When12.2% the program is fully 35.6 integrated 34.7 335.2 the317.5 across 110.3 107.4 104.7 101.9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 MEA portfolio, we will save more than 20 million kWh per year, offsetting more2011than 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 20,000 tons of CO2 emissions. In North America, we provide a range of resources for hotels to help them maximize their *Normalized results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay. Results third-party validated. energy use and reduction. These services include partnerships that offer our hotels comprehensive energy management services such as energy audits, support for purchasing Renewable Energy Certificates or green power, certification support and global carbon management services. Further, we have developed a program in partnership with three of our suppliers to perform lighting audits for our properties. This program requires every owned and managed property to complete a lighting audit to determine the best combination of lighting fixtures and bulbs to drive energy efficiencies and cost savings. 72 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Carbon CARBON REDUCTION 2009–2012* 5.4% 8.5% 10.9% 12.8% 4.64 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 Reflects annual percentage change in carbon emissions from energy consumption per floor area as compared to Base Year 2008. Hilton Pyramids Golf Resort, Cairo, Egypt Through LightStay, our sustainability measurement system, we give all of our properties CO2 TONS OF CO2 EMISSIONS, the tools to track and help reduce their carbon footprint. At the corporate level, we TOTAL OUTPUT POUNDS PER also are working to reduce emissions, as well as collaborating with other hospitality 2011–2012* OCCUPIED companies to reduce our industry footprint. Amounts Shown ROOM 2011–2012* in Millions We have joined with 22 hotel companies, along with the International Tourism Partnership (ITP) and the World Travel & Tourism Council (WTTC), to form the Carbon Measurement Working Group in order to standardize and evaluate the environmental impact of hotels. Through this partnership we have created the Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative (HCMI) 1.0, to calculate the carbon footprint of hotel stays and meetings. HCMI also has been integrated into LightStay™, further enhancing the measurement systems’ value as a sales generator for our hotels. Approximately 25,000 hotels are using HCMI 1.0 and participation continues to increase. 5.4% 8.5% 10.9% 12.8% 4.64 4.54 87.5 83.2 3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2 At select properties across Australasia, Japan and Southeast Asia, we have in place a carbon-offset program for events and meetings. The program uses the LightStay Meeting Calculator to track and measure the carbon generated by events at 33 properties in Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore and Thailand. Once the carbon CO2 EMISSIONS, POUNDS PER SQUARE output is calculated using the LightStay Meeting Calculator, carbon credits are purchased FOOT 2009–2012* to offset the environmental impact of the meetings. All of this is done at no cost to our guests because hotels absorb the cost of the offsets. Working with carbon-offset solutions providers, credits are used to fund rainforest protection projects in Malaysia and Australia, renewable energy projects in China and India, as well as enable energy-efficiency program roll-outs in Japan and Cambodia. In the United Kingdom, Carbon Saver Ltd. has recognized the effective carbon reduction and management of our hotels in that country over the past three years with its Carbon Saver Gold Standard award.5.4% 8.5% 10.9% The Carbon Saver12.8% 4.64 Standard provides 4.54 verification external 83.2 87.5of our 30.7 28.1 27.4 26.8 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 strategy and efforts to measure, manage and minimize carbon emissions. We achieved this status as a result of our holistic approach to sustainability and carbon management in addition to our global goals and the use of LightStay to monitor our progress. *Results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay. Results third-party verified. 73 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Waste A combination of initiatives and strategic partnerships with organizations around the world have enabled us to exceed our waste reduction goal a full two years earlier than anticipated. While we are proud of this achievement, we continue to evolve our waste reduction strategy to reinforce our commitment to minimize waste and repurpose it for community needs. Hilton Worldwide has developed partnerships and initiatives at national and regional levels, which continually help us reduce our aggregate waste across the portfolio. We developed a partnership with Waste Management Sustainability Services (WMSS) in North America and Puerto Rico. In 2013, WMSS has begun managing the hauling of Hilton Worldwide’s waste at all of our owned and managed properties. This partnership will support hotels in reducing their waste by providing scalable waste hauling solutions across our portfolio. The partnership also will introduce food waste reduction strategies and make recommendations for the recycling of cardboard, plastics, lights and glass throughout daily operations over the next three years. A similar partnership was negotiated for our owned and managed properties in the United Kingdom and Ireland in January 2013. This partnership will involve extended waste separation and recycling capabilities, Team Member training and engagement at all levels, and diversion of remaining waste from landfill into energy generation where possible. Food waste is among the waste streams targeted, and will be used to produce compost and fertilizer and, in some cases, generate energy in specialist facilities. The goal of this partnership is to move toward a zero-waste-to-landfill, or as close as possible, Our partnership with USA Today offers guests in North America a free digital newspaper, cutting down on paper waste from our hotels. scenario. In addition, these partnerships will allow our properties to have more control over their waste, encourage increased recycling, reduce the impact on the environment, reduce costs and ensure compliance with the latest waste legislation. An average of 30 percent of the newspapers available for guests are thrown out every day across the portfolio, creating unnecessary waste and increased costs for hotels. We are addressing this situation through a partnership with USA Today to offer guests staying with any Hilton Worldwide brand hotel in North America free access to USA Today digital content. The partnership provides guests 24-hour access to customized digital content. 74 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Waste (Continued) Our partnership with Good360™, the world’s largest donation marketplace, allows us to connect surplus items from our properties to community organizations in need. Through Good360, more than 22,000 charities have the opportunity to claim items. WASTE REDUCTION 2009–2012* Our hotels enter available items into LightStay such as towels, blankets or office supplies that we recover during renovations or that have reached the end of their commercial life, but are still usable. The Global Soap Project (GSP) works with hotel partners to recover and recycle soap for delivery to vulnerable populations around the world. The soap is sorted, processed and remolded into new bars before being delivered to refugees, orphans and disaster victims to help prevent disease. Hand washing with soap is among the most effective and inexpensive ways to prevent diarrheal disease and pneumonia, which are responsible for more than 3.5 million child deaths each year. 9.3% 18.8% 23.3% 24.9% 248,000 2 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 As part of our partnership with GSP, we are investing US $1.3 million in financial and Reflects annual percentage change in waste output per floor area operational support to the organization and have taken a position on its Board of as compared to Base Year 2008. Directors. Since 2011, more than 700 properties have contributed over 270,000 pounds of soap to GSP and other recycling organizations, which has been processed into over one million new bars of soap. In 2012, the U.S. Chamber of Commerce Business Civic TONS OF TOTAL WASTE INTENSITY, Leadership Center named our partnership with GSP a Best Partnership finalist in its WASTE OUTPUT POUNDS PER Corporate Citizenship Awards. 2011–2012* OCCUPIED ROOM 2011–2012* One of the biggest challenges for hotels trying to reduce waste is the disposal of mattresses that have reached the end of life. Because mattresses are large and hard to crush or incinerate, they consume a relatively large portion of landfill space. Mattresses also cannot be reused or donated. Through a partnership with DH Hospitality and Serta, we have developed a solution to mattress waste in the United States. DH Hospitality installs and removes mattresses and box springs at all of our United States properties, and recycles 85 percent of the materials into such products as tools, car parts, flooring and carpet padding. To date, we have recycled over 9,200 mattresses 9.3%9.3%18.8% from 23.3% 23.3% 18.8% 14 hotels24.9%24.9% 248,000 242,800 248,000 242,800 6.2 6.2 5.9 5.9 2. 2009 2009 20102010 2011 201120122012 2011 2011 20122012 2011 201120122012 20 and another 50 hotels have been contacted or provided proposals to participate in the coming year. Also in 2012, we entered into partnerships with Feeding America (FA) and the Global WASTE INTENSITY, POUNDS PER FoodBanking Network (GFN) for programs to reduce food waste while nourishing the SQUARE FOOT 2009–2012* communities we serve. GFN is an international organization committed to creating, supplying and strengthening food banks throughout the world, while FA is the leading hunger-relief organization in the United States. Our work with these groups enables us to collect safe, surplus food from conferences and daily operations and make it available to those in need. The nonprofits connect our hotels with local food banks and their networks of community agencies to facilitate delivery to schools, food pantries, soup kitchens, hospices, after-school programs and more. Pilot projects are underway in seven cities across the United States and in Egypt and Israel. In the first six months of our partnership with FA and GFN, our hotels donated more than 17,000 pounds of food, 9.3% 18.8% 23.3% 24.9% equivalent to over 16,500 meals. 248,000 242,800 6.2 5.9 2.3 2.0 1.9 1.9 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 In 2013 we launched RePurpose, our comprehensive waste program to support hotels in finding ways to dispose of waste through recycling or donating items instead of sending them to landfills. By thinking creatively about how we manage our waste, RePurpose *Results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay. Results are third-party verified. will help our hotels achieve triple bottom line results by reducing their impact on natural resources, reducing the cost of waste disposal, and supporting the communities where we live, work and travel. 75 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Water WATER USE REDUCTIONS 2009–2012* 4.0% 4.5% 7.5% 10.2% 25.45 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 Reflects annual percentage change in consumption per floor area as compared to Base Year 2008. Water consumption normalized for weather and occupancy. Conrad Maldives Rangali Island, Rangali Island, Maldives TOTAL WATER GALLONS PER CONSUMPTION OCCUPIED We are committed to reducing water use across the enterprise and support initiatives (CCF) 2011–2012* ROOM 2011–2012* at individual properties that may one day inform company-wide processes. LightStay™ Amounts Shown provides properties with the tools to measure water usage and progress, and capture in Millions and share key insights on water management. In addition to utilizing LightStay, we work to identify opportunities for hotels to utilize new products or technologies that are cost competitive and support our water reduction goals. Hilton Worldwide has partnered closely with our suppliers to identify sustainable solutions for laundry and housekeeping practices at our hotels. We have developed several partnerships that offer improved laundering technologies, which can reduce water use by up to 45 percent, energy use by up to 43 percent and extend linen life by up to 40 percent. Further, we have developed sustainable housekeeping supplies that4.0% can reduce 4.5% the 7.5%amount 10.2% 25.45 24.72 207.7 196.4 7 of water used in cleaning processes by up to 30 percent, as well as2009 improve2010efficiency 2011 2012 and 2011 2012 2011 2012 2 reduce the number of toxic chemicals used for cleaning. In addition to laundering technologies, we also have examined how different products GALLONS PER SQUARE FOOT can contribute to sustainability performance. For example, we have identified new lines 2009–2012* of towels that are engineered to be lighter weight and more durable than standard towels. Using these towels, our hotels can launder more towels per load and the product will last longer than standard towels, thereby requiring fewer loads of laundry and producing less waste over time. Many of our hotels have invested significant effort to engage Team Members in reducing water use. Installation of water restrictors and displacement devices has been a common practice for hotels in recent years. In addition, a number of properties are implementing innovative solutions for water reuse such as rain capture and other water-efficient technologies such as smart4.0% irrigation. 4.5% 7.5% 10.2% 25.45 24.72 207.7 196.4 78.8 78.4 76.0 73.8 2009 2010 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 *Normalized results for 2,263 Hilton Worldwide properties using LightStay. Results are third-party verified. 76 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Supply Chain Our commitment to sustainability extends beyond the walls of our hotels and offices to the supply chain. Hilton Worldwide’s Sustainable Purchasing Policy encourages our organization and our hotels to increase the use of sustainable products and services where feasible and to be proactive in examining opportunities to improve our sustainability performance across our supply chains. Supply chain sustainability is a complex issue for a global hotel company as our suppliers extend across 90 countries in which we purchase everything from food and beverage, to heavy equipment, to linens and pillows, to Hilton Millennium Bangkok, Bangkok, Thailand personal soap and shampoo. Our suppliers span a huge number of industries, countries, Supply chain sustainability legal contexts and even infrastructure challenges. In many countries, we procure the majority of goods for our hotels locally, but our success depends largely upon the maturity of local is a complex issue for a markets and their ability to support a multinational hotel brand with the quantity and global hotel company as quality of supplies necessary. our suppliers extend across As such, we’ve developed a sustainable purchasing policy that provides our hotels with the 90 countries in which we flexibility to procure the goods they need to operate and guidance on how to encourage suppliers to factor sustainability into their operations. Further, the Hilton Supply purchase everything from Management team continuously develops partnerships to identify sustainable products food and beverage, to and services to hotels that are comparable in price and quality to traditional products. heavy equipment, to linens Center for Sustainable Procurement and pillows, to personal As product sustainability data has become more readily available, our procurement soap and shampoo. teams have sought to understand how to integrate the data into everyday purchasing decisions. As part of LightStay we analyzed nearly 1,700 SKUs to determine which products are more sustainable, but faced challenges making the determination because of a lack of information and variety of products available. The initiative studies in more detail nearly 100 different product factors, including core life-cycle assessment components such as inputs, manufacturing, packaging, logistics, use and end-of-life disposal for our original 1,700 SKUs across multiple product categories that represent over US $165 million in spending. To help tackle this challenge we have partnered Hilton Puerto Vallarta Resort, Puerto Vallarta, Mexico with Business for Social Responsibility (BSR) to launch the Center for Sustainable Procurement (CSP) initiative to ultimately help hospitality industry procurement professionals make informed purchasing decisions based on the best available sustainability information. 77 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Supply Chain (Continued) eforea: spa at Hilton featuring products from the LI’TYA organic product line. LI’TYA products draw on the revitalizing and restorative powers of Australia’s native resources for a holistic spa experience. The research draws lessons from three year-long pilot projects with AT&T, Best Buy and Dell, as well as from Hilton Worldwide’s proprietary LightStay platform. The CSP is developing tools and approaches for sustainable procurement that will benefit the wider network of companies interested in integrating this factor into their overall sustainability priorities. In addition, the CSP will build on these early results and insights by continuing to work with individual companies to embed sustainability into procurement decisions, and use this evolving body of work to create tools and guidance that others can learn from and adapt for their own use. Local Sourcing We work closely with suppliers to identify opportunities to source goods locally when possible. In the Americas, for example, our team and suppliers identify food products that could be sourced locally and form relationships with area farmers to collect and distribute products to our hotels. As part of this process, our team has worked with suppliers to develop unique training for farmers related to handling and safety guidelines and insurance requirements–all of which are needed to supply our properties. Outside the Americas, properties procure goods in country when possible and seek to develop the Many of our properties have installed bee hives on the roofs of their capabilities of local suppliers to meet their needs from a volume and quality standpoint. properties to provide fresh local honey to our menus. In addition to working closely with suppliers, we look for best practices, such as on-site gardening, that can be shared across the portfolio to improve efficiency or contribute to the farm-to-table movement. One of our properties started a trend by planting a garden on site and bringing in bee hives to support daily restaurant operations with fresh herbs, vegetables and honey. We shared the success of this project with other hotels in our portfolio, and many other hotels have followed suit, including the iconic Waldorf Astoria in New York City. 78 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Engagement and Awareness Much of our sustainability focus to date has been on developing tools to support our global portfolio of hotels in managing their sustainability performance. We recognize, HILTON WORLDWIDE however, the need to support initiatives that go beyond our company through Team PARTNERS WITH SUNDANCE Member engagement and investments that enable sustainable growth for our industry. The LightStay Sustainability Film Award, In line with our commitment to sustainability, in 2008 we created our global Sustainability a partnership with the Sundance Institute Policy, which commits our company to improving our performance toward a sustainable Documentary Film Program, honors up future while enhancing Team Member and guest experience at our hotels. Our policy to five documentary film projects each outlines our commitment to continuously focus on goals, measurement, analysis and year that showcase the connections continual improvement by utilizing LightStay. It also focuses on sharing best practices and between sustainability, economic growth collaborating with our suppliers and business partners to drive performance. Further, our and community development. Through policy commits us to publishing our performance on a regular basis. The Sustainability this project and partnership, we seek to Policy is available for all Team Members through our internal intranet platform. identify impactful sustainability work and to provide a platform for filmmakers to tell stories that catalyze change around critical global issues. 2013 Winners The Revolutionary Optimists, 2013 Winner: Completed Feature Documentary Amlan Ganguly doesn’t rescue children living in slums; he empowers them to become change agents, battling poverty and transforming their neighborhoods with dramatic results. The Revolutionary Optimists follows Amlan and these children on an intimate journey through adolescence as they fight for the better future he encourages them to imagine is deservedly theirs. Hungry, 2013 Winner: In Process Feature Conrad Centennial Singapore, Singapore Documentary Hungry documents the eroding biodiversity Team Member Involvement in Sustainability of our global food crops and the potentially While it is critical for us to measure our sustainability performance, we recognize it is dire consequences this will have for global unlikely to improve without directly engaging our Team Members to drive progress. We agriculture in a new era of climate change. have an intense focus on sustainability training and sharing best practices among Team Pioneer Cary Fowler ardently tries to Members, especially for our owned and managed portfolio of hotels. When we identify conserve crop diversity forever in gene practices that work, they are shared with the General Manager as well as with the relevant banks around the globe. Meanwhile, a departments through daily meetings to support hotels in driving performance improvegroup of indigenous Peruvian farmers tries ments. All of our full-service properties are required to have a sustainability champion to save the vast diversity of the world’s as a brand standard. In our luxury properties, the brand standard calls for a sustainability third most important crop: the potato. committee dedicated to driving sustainability performance and identifying sustainability projects to improve performance at their hotels. As a result of this standard, more than Jungle Fish, 2013 Winner: Completed Short 1,000 Team Members have been designated as sustainability champions or have joined a Documentary sustainability committee to drive results in our hotels. These groups have been critical in Follow three expert fishermen as they identifying best practices that are shared throughout our portfolio via LightStay’s social undertake a two-week voyage deep into media functionality. the heart of Guyana’s rain forest, to a small village named Rewa. Their mission: to demonstrate that the arapaima can be caught with a fly rod. If they succeed, 79 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Engagement and Awareness (Continued) For example, in EMEA we developed the Environmental Awareness Initiative, which it will prove that the country’s fledgling launched in 2005 in the UK and Ireland and expanded to Europe and Africa in 2006. The sport fishing industry is viable. And that program empowers Team Members to make sustainability changes both in their hotels will mean a brighter future for the native and at home by setting targets and measuring performance against four sustainability peoples, the rainforest they call home, issues – energy efficiency, waste reduction, water efficiency and chemical use. Our chief and the endangered arapaima. aim was to drive a culture change that would enable Team Members to improve their hotels’ performance. The first phase of the program involved over 16,000 employees 2012 Winners and created hotel-specific action teams. The results included reduced energy and water The Island President, 2012 Winner: consumption, helped prevent a total of 28,600 tons of CO2 from entering the atmosphere Completed Feature Documentary and avoided utility costs of US $16 million, of which more than half was attributed to President Mohamed Nasheed of the changes in Team Member behavior. We are examining ways to expand best practices Maldives is confronting the survival of from this program to other regions in the coming years. both his country and his people as rising sea levels threaten to submerge the 1,200 Earth Hour islands that make up the nation. Nasheed’s Hundreds of Hilton Worldwide hotels marked Earth Hour 2012 from 8:30-9:30 p.m. local first year in office and his struggles to time on Saturday, March 31, 2012, as people and organizations around the world turned save his country are the subject of off their lights in support of action on global climate change. Many hotels offered The Island President. activities such as candlelit dinners, turned off lights in public areas and developed special menu items in honor of the event. The idea for Earth Hour itself was conceived over lunch Solar Mamas, 2012 Winner: In Progress at a Hilton property in Australia. Organized by World Wildlife Fund, Earth Hour began in Feature Documentary 2007 as a way for individuals to show how simple steps can make a significant impact Three tenacious grandmothers leave their on reducing greenhouse gases and addressing climate change. More than 2.2 million respective remote villages in Africa and the people took part in the first Earth Hour in Sydney, Australia, and it has since turned Middle East on a quest to India’s Barefoot into a movement with more than 7,000 cities and towns in 152 countries and territories and College to learn more about solar engihundreds of millions of participants across seven continents. It continues to demonstrate neering and acquire new skills that they the new era as members go “Beyond the Hour” to commit to lasting action for the planet. can take back to their homelands in an effort to combat the energy crisis. University of Virginia Easy Like Water, 2012 Winner: In Progress The University of Virginia School of Architecture is one of the preeminent architecture Feature Documentary programs known for its interdisciplinary, collaborative “action” research on such issues as In rural Bangladesh, where persistent global human health, community engagement, infrastructure and cultural preservation. flooding has increasingly isolated the For decades, sustainability — a shared dedication to meeting today’s needs without region and its inhabitants, visionary compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs, balancing architect Mohammed Rezwan is building issues of ecology, economy and social equity — has been central to the School’s mission. floating schools to turn the front lines of In 2013, Hilton Worldwide awarded a US $80,000 grant to support the School’s Minor in climate change into a community of Global Sustainability to finance faculty, course materials, guest lecturers and scholarly learning. Easy Like Water shows how conferences. Hilton Worldwide is currently the first and only corporate philanthropic Rezwan’s creative “design for good” partner with the Global Sustainability program. projects are recasting Bangladesh’s rising rivers as channels of communication and transforming lives in the process. DOUBLETREE BY HILTON TEACHES KIDS TO CARE ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY Our DoubleTree by Hilton brand has reached more than five million kids through our unique sustainability education program, Teaching Kids to Care. The program focuses on showing CARE for the planet and our communities by educating and engaging our Team Members and kids around the world to take action on local sustainability environmental issues. By partnering with local community organizations, our Team Members work with kids on projects such as planting trees, cleaning up public spaces or growing gardens and learning important sustainability lessons along the way. 80 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Global Snapshots — Sustainability Hilton Worldwide properties are integrating Travel with Purpose into their daily operations and creating shared value in our communities around the world. Our strategy focuses on empowering these hotels to advance our corporate responsibility commitments, and every day our more than 4,000 properties are taking action in their communities. These grassroots initiatives are a critical part of our company’s impact, and these next pages share snapshots from our properties around the world. AMERICAS DoubleTree Guest Suites by Hilton Paracas Pointe Hilton Tapatio Cliffs Resort Paracas, Peru Phoenix, Arizona Developed a wastewater reclamation plant specifically for the Replaced three lakes on its 18-hole championship golf course with hotel that is entirely independent of the area sewage system and new hazard complexes comprised of native desert areas, and has cleans wastewater to a quality that can be used for watering the saved an estimated 10 million gallons of water annually as a result. hotel garden areas. Hilton Americas, Houston Embassy Suites Chicago Downtown/Lakefront Houston, Texas Chicago, Illinois Converted to biodiesel as a preferable fuel, allowing the hotel Features a 720-square-foot, eco-friendly living green wall in the to recycle 14,000 pounds of kitchen oil and divert seven tons of hotel’s sky lobby. The green wall, also called a living wall or vertical oil-based food waste from landfills. garden, employs a tray system featuring energy-efficient, computer-controlled irrigation. It reduces noise levels and improves DoubleTree Resort by Hilton Hotel Central Pacific – Costa Rica energy efficiency by moderating indoor temperatures and Puntarenas, Costa Rica humidity levels, and the oxygen it provides is equivalent to that Received the Certification in Sustainable Tourism (CST) given by produced by 16 large trees. the Costa Rica Board of Tourism, a program that seeks to certify tourism companies according to the degree to which its operations Embassy Suites San Luis Obispo comply to a model of sustainability. San Luis Obispo, California One of the top 25 donors to the Global Soap Project in 2012 DoubleTree by Hilton Seattle Airport, DoubleTree by Hilton Suites among Hilton Worldwide’s global portfolio of 10 brands. Seattle Airport, Hilton Seattle Airport Seattle, Washington Hampton Inn Baltimore/White Marsh Team Members at these three Seattle properties have partnered Baltimore, Maryland with Food Lifeline Food Bank to incorporate regular donations of One of the top 25 donors to the Global Soap Project in 2012 food from their restaurants and banquet operations. In just four among Hilton Worldwide’s global portfolio of 10 brands. months the teams have donated almost 3,000 pounds of food, reducing waste and supporting their local community. 81 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Global Snapshots — Sustainability (Continued) AMERICAS (CONTINUED) Hilton Garden Inn Richmond Hilton Austin Airport Richmond, Virginia Austin, Texas Recycles nearly 2,000 pounds of food every month as part of Operates an extensive recycling program, collecting items from a composting program launched in 2011, the first such program operations departments, front and back office, public areas utilized by any hotel in the region. Recycling bins and signage and rooms for a total of 58 tons of recycled material in 2012. are placed throughout the hotel, and hotel staff and vendors In addition, food scraps from kitchen, banquet and restaurant are working to reduce the amount of waste generated during operations are separated and composted by Organics by Gosh, daily operations. which produces organic compost for the property to use in its ASIA-PACIFIC garden. The property features self-grown produce in restaurant and banquet operations. Conrad Maldives Rangali Island Maldives Hilton Bogota The primary sponsor of the Maldives Whale Shark Research Bogota, Colombia Programme (MWSRP) since 2005. Teams from the MWSRP are Leading an environmental reforestation project in the Carrera based at the resort for up to six months every year, researching, Séptima, one of the main avenues in the city. Includes planting learning and furthering community outreach projects. The resort trees and brush, creating civic conscience in Team Members, was instrumental in persuading the government to register the civil education in the area and campaigns in the city, supported by nearby areas of ocean as a Marine Protected Area. the mobility authority. The initiative aims to improve environmental conditions and reduce the impact of pollution, as well DoubleTree Resort by Hilton Phuket-Surin Beach as protect and ensure the well-being of pedestrians. Phuket, Thailand Produces its own organic compost, saving an estimated Hilton Los Cabos 2,000 Thai Baht per month. Team Members in the Engineering, Los Cabos, Mexico Gardening and Kitchen departments collect leftover fruits, Committed to protecting over 10,000 olive ridley sea turtles vegetables and leaves from the garden to be put into every year from July to November. The hotel is certified by the a compost pond to ferment for three months, after which Semarnat y Profepa environment agency, an accreditation the resulting compost is used in the hotel garden. earned through constant training and continuing education. Hilton Nagoya Hotel Hilton Minneapolis Naka–Ku, Japan Minneapolis, Minnesota Offers its guests a complimentary bicycle service called “Smart Installed an Ozone Laundry System that reduces daily hot water Ride-On.” Part of the hotel’s commitment to reduce its carbon use per load of laundry from 198 gallons to 89 gallons via ozone footprint, the program offers guests an eco-friendly, convenient injection – resulting in a 55 percent savings. The hotel’s annual way to travel around the city and enjoy local culture. To date, carbon footprint has been reduced by more than 200,000 pounds. Smart Ride-On has seen hotel guests clock some 97,000 hours. Hilton New York Hilton Sydney New York, New York Sydney, Australia Uses a fuel cell power system to provide electric power and hot In 2006, Andy Ridley and his team conceived the idea for Earth water to the hotel. The fuel cell system produces approximately Hour, which has inspired millions of people to turn off their lights 1.75 million kWh per year. and reduce their energy consumption for one hour. The Hilton Hilton Orlando Sydney was one of the first of our properties to participate Orlando, Florida and now our entire Asia-Pacific region has taken hold of the Team Members partnered with Second Harvest Food Bank to Earth Hour movement, with many of our hotels participating incorporate regular donations of food from their restaurants year after year. and banquet operations. In just four months the team donated over 5,500 pounds of food, reducing waste and supporting their community. Hilton Vancouver Vancouver, Canada Installed carbon dioxide sensors that turn off heating and cooling systems in empty rooms and hallways. The sensors enable the hotel to run on 30 percent less energy than local codes require. 82 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT SUSTAINABILITY Global Snapshots — Sustainability (Continued) EUROPE/MIDDLE EAST/AFRICA Hilton South Africa Properties Adana HiltonSA South Africa Adana, Turkey Introduced more than 17,000 energy-saving lights since 2011. Installed solar thermal technology, with 20 solar panels and two LEDs installed at Hilton Sandton Hotel, Hilton Durban Hotel 1,000-liter tanks that allow the hotel to produce 27 percent of and Hilton Cape Town City Centre Hotels are estimated to their hot water through solar power. This saves about €5,500 a reduce their energy consumption by more than 2.6 million kWh year on heating costs, avoiding nearly 20,000 kg of CO2 emissions annually. In 2012, we made this switch in all of our hotels in the every year. Middle East and Africa region. Hilton Amsterdam Hilton and Hampton by Hilton St George’s Park/Burton Upon Trent Amsterdam, Netherlands Needwood, United Kingdom Installed 1,300 master LED lights in the hallways, bathrooms Utilizes a 2,500 cubic meter rainwater collection tank on the and general toilets, reducing its energy output by 80 percent roof of the hotels. The water is pumped to a filtration tank with per light bulb annually. a 10,000-liter capacity inside the hotel and used to irrigate the grounds and for toilet flushing. Over the course of the first year Hilton Europe of its operation, the system provided over 800 cubic meters of Europe water for the two hotels. A number of Hilton hotels across Europe are recycling their used cooking oil through a company that transforms it into Hilton and Hilton Garden Inn Rome Airport biodiesel. In the 26 hotels where data is recorded, they are Rome, Italy currently producing about 9,000 liters of cooking oil on a Installed nearly 2,000 solar photovoltaic modules on top of their monthly basis. The resultant fuel is 98 percent biodegradable, parking lots, which were estimated to have produced about and therefore, less damaging to the environment if spilled. 327,000 kWh to the Hilton and 220,000 kWh to the Hilton Garden It also improves air quality, releasing less carbon monoxide Inn each year – 6.2 and 14 percent of annual electricity requireand greenhouse gas emissions than conventional diesels. ments, respectively. The two properties were also fitted with solar thermal cells. Hilton London Heathrow Airport T4 London, England Hilton Garden Inn Davos Invested in the Waste2O™ system. This innovative technology Davos, Switzerland converts soft food waste into greywater, which can be safely Outstanding green credentials include a solar panel system disposed of via existing drains. The Waste2O system has been located on the roof and a wood chip heating system designed operational at Hilton London Heathrow Airport T4 since to minimize CO2 emissions. The hotel also recycles its warm air mid-2011, and has saved the hotel in excess of £30,000 in waste through a mechanical ventilation process in order to conserve management costs. energy by reducing the need for heating and cooling. Hilton Malta Hampton Hotels Malta Worldwide Designed to minimize impact on the limited natural resources of Piloted the replacement of plastic and styrofoam™ plates and a small island, this car-free development produces its own water, utensils with TaterWare™, a material made from potatoes. In recycles over 16,000 cubic meters of wastewater for toilets and the first year of use alone, Hampton properties collectively irrigation, utilizes solar shading and pale colors for heat reflection, diverted nearly 40 million pieces of styrofoam from entering includes sea water cooling of the hotel air conditioning system the waste stream. and incorporates lighting controls. Hilton Northampton Northampton, UK Installed infrared-coated lamps in its meeting rooms, producing the same type of light as their standard equivalent and achieving 30 percent in energy savings. Hilton Sofia Sofia, Bulgaria A diesel fuel boiler alone produced 8 cubic meters of hot water daily to meet guests’ needs, until the installation of 45 rooftop solar panels that can produce 5 cubic meters of hot water per day. The panels are expected to save about 142,000 kWh per year and avoid the emissions of 35,900kg of CO2 emissions every year. 83 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Strategy and Analysis CEO Message, pages 7-8 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, Opportunities, page 31; Communities, and opportunities page 44; Cultures, page 56; Sustainability, page 67 Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization Business Profile, pages 10-12 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services Our Brands, page 11 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, Business Profile, Our Brands, including main divisions, operating companies, pages 10-12 subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters McLean, Virginia 2.5 Number of countries where the organization Our Brands, page 11 operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 2.7 Markets served (including geographic Our Brands, page 11 breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization Business Profile, pages 10-12 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting Local Economic Impact, page 47 period regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Achievements/Recognition, page 12 84 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for Reporting Practices, page 18 information provided 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) Reporting Practices, page 18 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual/ biennial, etc.) Reporting Practices, page 18 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the www.hiltoncrr.com/feedback.php report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content Reporting Practices, page 18 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, Reporting Practices, page 18 divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers) 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary Reporting Practices, page 18 or the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, N/A subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the basis Sustainability Overview, page 68; of calculations, including assumptions and Energy, page 72; Carbon, page 73; techniques underlying estimations applied to Waste, pages 74-75; Water, page 76 the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements N/A of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, natures of business, measurement methods) 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting N/A periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report 85 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE GRI Content Index 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard GRI Index, page 84 Disclosures in the report Assurance 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to Reporting Practices, page 18 seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, explain the scope and basis or any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting organization and the assurance provider(s). Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, their function within the organization's management and the reasons for this arrangement) 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization's performance (including social and environmental performance) 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance Ethics, page 13 body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 86 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organization's strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission Business Profile, pages 10-12 or values, codes of conduct, and principles Ethics, page 13 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives 4.11 Explanations of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, Memberships & Affiliations, and social charters, principles, or other initiapages 20-22 tives to which the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry Industry Leadership, page 19; associations) and/or national/international Memberships & Affiliations, advocacy in relevant organizations pages 20-22; Strategic Partnerships, pages 23-26 Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by Strategic Partnerships, pages 23-26 the organization 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Strategic Partnerships, pages 23-26 stakeholders with whom to engage 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 87 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised Strategic Partnerships, pages 23-26 through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Economic Disclosures Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government Market Presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on Local Economic Impact, page 47 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operations EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Indirect Economic Impacts EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure Community Hospitality, investments and services provided primarily pages 48-50 for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant Local Economic Impact, page 47 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 88 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Environmental Disclosures Materials EN1 Materials used by weight or volume N/A EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled N/A input materials Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Energy, page 72 source EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Sustainability Overview, page 68; efficiency improvements Energy, page 72 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or Energy, page 72 renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Energy, page 72 consumption and reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water, page 76 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity 89 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Carbon, page 73 emissions by weight EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Carbon, page 73 emissions and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal Waste, pages 74-75 method EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of water and runoff Products and Services EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Sustainability Overview, page 68; of products and services, and extent of impact Energy, page 72; Carbon, page 73; mitigation Waste, pages 74-75; Water, page 76 EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization's operations, and transporting members of the workforce Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Social Disclosure: Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, Opportunities Overview, page 32 employment contract, and region LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Labor/Management Relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA5 Minimum of notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational Health and Safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities by region 91 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, Health & Well-Being, page 39 and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious disease LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Training and Education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee category LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong Global Talent Management, page 36 learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular Global Talent Management, page 36 performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership , and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employment category Social Disclosure: Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies Ethics, page 13; and procedures concerning aspects of human Human Rights, pages 52-53 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 92 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child Labor HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk Human Rights, pages 52-53 for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Forced and Compulsory Labor HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Human Rights, pages 52-53 organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations Indigenous Rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken Social Disclosure: Society Community SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any Local Economic Impact, page 47 programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in Human Rights, pages 52-53 organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 93 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in Global Commerce, pages 60-61 public policy development and lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country Anti-Competitive Behavior SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Social Disclosure: Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety N/A impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance N/A with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 94 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL REPORTING INDEX Fully Partially Not Reported N/A Not Applicable INDICATOR DESCRIPTION REPORTED LOCATION/RESPONSE Product and Service Labeling PR3 Type of product and service information N/A required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance N/A with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing Communications PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Aspect: Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services 95 Your input and insights are invaluable to helping us further develop our corporate responsibility initiatives and report on them. Please email us at CorporateResponsibilityInquiries@hilton.com with your thoughts. © 2013 Hilton Worldwide
