Our vision, values and impact UN Global Compact 2013 Table of contents 19 Supporting our clients, our profession and our marketplace 20 Exceptional client service 22 Supporting entrepreneurs 27 Increasing opportunities for women in business 03 About EY 32 Strengthening our profession 33 Internal rigor and anti-corruption policies 05 Introduction 36 Increasing the sustainability of our planet 37 Supporting clients 38 Carbon footprint 39 Changing behavior 06 Supporting our people 07 High-performing teams 08 Diversity and inclusiveness 10 Learning and development 12 Empowering leaders 40 Upholding the UNGC principles 15 Our workplace 41 Human rights 16 Listening and communicating 41 Labor 17 Awards 42 Environment 18 Policies and frameworks that 42 Anti-corruption set a strong foundation 43 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. Our combined global revenues for the financial year ending 30 June 2013 were US$25.8 billion. With a total headcount of 175,000 people (as at 30 June 2013), EY operates in more than 150 countries around the world. Read our Global Review 2013, which can be found at www.ey.com/globalreview, to learn more about our financial performance and for further information about EY. 3 The Communication on Progress 2013 provides brief highlights UN Global Compact of actions that EY is taking on a global basis to address United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The 10 principles are listed below, and throughout the report you will see how EY upholds them. Read pages 40-43 for an overview of each UN principle and the correlating EY activity. Human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labor • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility • Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery www.unglobalcompact.org 4 Introduction In 2013, we launched Vision 2020, which sets out EY’s purpose, ambition and strategy. In creating Vision 2020, we spent time looking at the world around us, speaking with people inside and outside of EY: leading thinkers, clients and our people. In the process, we realized that our purpose is clear – building a better working world. We believe that everything we do – every audit, every tax return, every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client or colleague – should build trust and confidence and make the working world better than it was before. We know that building a better working world is an ambitious objective, and we know that we can’t do it on our own. We also understand our obligation to look beyond our self-interest and engage with our stakeholders – investors, clients, regulators and other governmental bodies, and not-forprofit organizations – to collaborate to create positive change. As part of this commitment, we are proud to be members of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). The 10 principles outlined by the UNGC align closely with our own purpose and values, and we share a desire to build a sustainable and inclusive global economy that delivers lasting benefits to people, communities and markets. In this report, you can read about how EY is building a better working world and upholding the UNGC principles in the areas of human rights, labor, anti-corruption and environment. Additional information about EY can be found in our Global Review 2013 (www.ey.com/globalreview), Global Transparency Report 2013 (www.ey.com/transparencyreport) and EY Global Code of Conduct (www.ey.com/codeconduct). Mark A. Weinberger Global Chairman and CEO 5 Supporting our people As a professional services organization, our success is dependent on the quality and commitment of our people and how they team together. That is why creating the highest-performing teams – attracting, developing and inspiring the best people and promoting a culture that supports them in working together – is central to EY’s strategy. We know that bright, talented people are keen to develop personally and professionally. We are passionate about helping our people reach their goals and ensuring that their time at EY is valuable in terms of what they learn, the experiences they get and in building their own personal brand. Reflecting this, we have developed a unique proposition for our people. We promise that whenever they join EY, however long they stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts a lifetime. Supporting this promise, we are committed to: • Creating a valuable recruiting experience through initiatives such as global internship programs • Providing the best learning and development through training, mentoring and on-the-job experience • Promoting an inclusive culture that celebrates diversity in the workplace • Giving our people flexibility and choice in their work arrangements • Ensuring the safety, health and well-being of our people around the world In this section, you can read about our award-winning culture, our commitment to developing our people and how we are evolving to meet the changing needs of our workforce. 6 “Building a high-performing team depends on a work culture that encourages collaboration and respects difference. Our clients come to us with complex challenges that no single person can fix. The best answers come about through combining the right people, who can look at those challenges from different angles. We work hard to create an inclusive culture that really helps our diverse mix of people bring out the best in each other.” – Mike Cullen, Global Managing Partner, Talent, EY Creating high-performing teams losing focus and by welcoming diverse views. They consistently use best-in-class approaches, tools and As the most globally integrated organization in our methodologies; undertake learning, experience and profession, we are proud of our culture of teaming. coaching; and are always focused on delivering the best Whether our teams are local or cross-border, our results, rather than on where, when or how the work people are committed to achieving goals and delivering gets done. great results for our clients. To support these teams, we are committed to providing We know from experience and research that our bestour people with training that develops their skills, performing teams are made up of highly engaged challenging client opportunities, a diverse workplace, individuals from a diverse range of backgrounds. These flexibility and choice, and a framework to guide their teams excel by being adaptable and flexible without career development. The exceptional EY experience At EY, we want the relationships people make and the experiences they have – whether they stay 3 years or 30 – to last a lifetime. We work hard to attract people who are curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in international teams and who have a global mindset. We want the time people spend at EY to be more valuable than time spent with any other employer. If and when people choose to leave EY, we don’t see this as an end to the relationship, just the next stage. Whether they go on to work with a client or a competitor or start their own business, they will be a welcomed lifelong member of the EY alumni network. To demonstrate what we mean by the exceptional EY experience that lasts a lifetime, we created a short film for our potential recruits called Maria’s story: the exceptional EY experience available at www.youtube.com/user/ErnstandYoungGlobal. 7 “Inclusive leaders try to understand what the world looks like to someone else, and they integrate that diverse perspective into their decision-making.” – Beth Brooke, Global Vice Chair, Public Policy, EY Celebrating and supporting our The workforce has never been more diverse and, as a global organization, we are undertaking: diverse talent • Training We have worked hard over the years to build a • We have Enhanced Cultural Intelligence Training culture that celebrates and encourages diversity for teams in EY that work across cultural borders and inclusiveness (D&I), and our senior leaders set on a day-to-day basis. This training explains the a positive tone from the top. importance, and advantages, of greater D&I. Defining D&I • We all bring social stereotypes and cultural experiences into how we make decisions, but it is Diversity at EY means the mix of people within our possible to improve decision making by recognizing workforce, including differences in gender, ethnicity, the possible unconscious biases that might be national cultures, subcultures within countries, sexual at play. To help our people do this, we have orientation, disability and generation, among others – developed an unconscious-bias toolkit and related and this mix varies from one EY location to another. training, which more than 11,400 employees have Inclusiveness means the way we make that mix work. completed to date. Put simply, it is about creating an environment where • Diversity recruitment each person feels valued, is part of the community and EY was the first of the Big Four to assign full-time, is able to perform at their best. partner-level leadership to diversity recruiting. We are committed to embedding D&I into our recruiting Inclusive leadership practices. For example: Our leaders take overall responsibility for D&I within • In the US, we are focused on attracting women EY. They are accountable for driving this through and ethnically diverse students and professional the business – through hiring, succession planning hires and on outreach to lesbian, gay, bisexual and and promotion – and in leading by example. We have transgender (LGBT) people, veterans and people produced a toolkit to help our leaders communicate the with disabilities. importance of leading inclusively to our people, which shows how to turn the diversity of our global organization • Many of our regional offices, like Belgium and the into competitive advantage and how working inclusively Netherlands, run workshops to focus on genderwill help them build vital leadership skills. neutral recruitment and removing bias, aimed at continuing to increase the representation of female In addition, our Leadership Matters Program develops talent at all levels of the organization. These the inclusive leadership capabilities of our most senior workshops include members of the campus and executives. The program explores the impact of experienced hire recruitment teams. unconscious bias, develops inclusive behaviors, and inspires our current and future leaders to practice inclusive leadership. 8 • Active support of internal and external networks • We have sponsored the annual Precious Awards EY has networks that help encourage and support for six years. These UK awards recognize and different groups of employees. These include celebrate talented women of color in business, who women’s networks, LGBT networks, black networks, have demonstrated exceptional determination, EY parents’ networks, disability working groups, faith innovation and entrepreneurial skills. networks, Far East networks, South Asian networks, • In the UK, we are supporting the local Latino networks and Pan-Asian networks, as well as representative for UN Women in their mission networks that support people affected by cancer, for gender equality and the empowerment of caregivers and members of military families. women through education and awareness, along • Sponsorships and collaboration with lobbying governments and raising funds and • We were proud to sponsor the first LGBT global support for worldwide UN Women projects. summit held by Out & Equal organization. This • Providing tools event brings together delegates from the world’s We provide tools that support D&I at work. These largest businesses to discuss making workplaces include GlobeSmart®, which provides businesssafe and equitable for LGBT people and to share related cultural information on more than 65 ideas for the future. countries, helping our people in their day-to-day • We co-sponsored the European Diversity, Business interactions with colleagues, clients and others from and Inclusion Congress – an international gathering other countries. of senior corporate managers, human resources • Enabling mobility and cross-border opportunities and corporate responsibility managers, D&I Many of our people undertake international experts and practitioners, government and nonassignments or transfers in order to fill a business government organizations (NGOs) officials, and need and to develop their careers. academics. We are also committed to building diverse leadership teams by increasing the number of senior women leaders. While there is more work to be done, we continue to make progress in terms of representation: • In 2013, 26% of our 520 new partners were • Our Global Advisory Council (GAC) is women. This is our highest percentage made up of partners from all of our intake yet and represents a steady increase geographic Areas. Of its 40 members, from 19% in 2008. 11 are women, of which 2 are nonexecutive directors. • Our Senior Leadership team includes seven women. 26% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 9 In addition, we have developed programs and networks to help our high-performing women achieve their goals. For example: • Career Watch program Senior leaders act as advocates for high-potential women and minorities of either gender. They ensure participants receive mentoring and are given challenging client assignments and opportunities to network with other senior leaders. Career Watch operates in Austria, Belgium, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS), Germany, India, the Mediterranean area, the Netherlands, the Nordics, Switzerland, the UK and the US. • Navigator program Despite the strong representation of women joining EY at graduate entry level, our profession still struggles to retain women at manager level and above. To address this we developed the Navigator program, which creates opportunities for female managers to develop their networks and to debate the issues they face in advancing their career. • Creating internal networks Networking is one of the best ways women can overcome barriers to success. Our EY women’s networks exist to share best practices, successes and ideas; create opportunities to connect with sponsors and role models; and bring a sense of community. We run these networks around the world — for example, in Australia, Africa, Belgium, Canada, China, India, Italy, Ireland, the Nordics, the Netherlands, Poland, the UK and the US — and we continue to expand. Tracking progress Setting targets and tracking our progress helps keep Developing and supporting our people our focus on increasing D&I. Reflecting this, each of our geographical areas is looking at its D&I metrics and through world-class learning actively looking at leadership and partner pipelines and Helping our people to learn, develop and lead is promotion processes around the world. fundamental to creating value for our people and our clients. We have a unique global career development More broadly, we measure how people feel about framework called EYU, which stands for “EY and You” our work culture through our biennial Global People and focuses on learning, experiences and coaching. Survey. In 2013, 78% of respondents in our Global People Survey felt that EY created an inclusive Monitoring and strengthening performance environment where people with diverse backgrounds and experiences can succeed. EYU links to our global Performance Management and Development Process (PMDP). PMDP helps our people monitor and direct their performance and align their efforts to our strategic priorities. The most important element of PMDP is the conversations our people have with their counselors as they build their careers at EY. 10 Our people took part in over 8.5 million hours of learning. (Fiscal year 2013) Tailored training This year, we launched our World-Class Learning Program so that our people receive the same baseline We provide our people with access to high-quality level of high-quality learning across the globe. One formal learning through a structured organizationglobal team is now responsible for developing a wide curriculum that contains technical content. It is learning curriculum that is relevant across our entire accessible in a variety of formats, including: organization, as well as specific programs for each • Face-to-face: through case studies, lectures and of our service lines. The program blends classroom, simulations mobile, electronic and social learning. • On-the-job training Coaching • Virtual: through web-based, videos, webcasts In addition to technical content, our people develop Our web-based global learning management system through coaching. We encourage as many coaching enables people to flexibly organize their learning. They conversations as possible throughout the year, and our can use it to search for content, to identify where gaps global coaching curriculum enables people to develop in their learning might exist, and to develop a “learning their coaching skills as they progress within EY. map” to meet future needs. 11 Developing leaders • The Global New Partner Program (GNPP), 2013, brought together more than 500 attendees in Developing leaders is fundamental to our future Miami, Florida, and combined celebration and success. We are committed to developing our inspiration with goal setting, orientation and people and nurturing lifelong relationships: creating learning. outstanding leaders who bring their vision and skills to EY and who may then go on to other roles in industry, • Implement strong leadership programs government and academia, joining our alumni network We deliver tailored programs to develop our leaders, of more than a million EY brand ambassadors. including: • Global NextGen – a two-year program that gives For example, we: potential partners the opportunity to respond • Organize milestone events to a series of challenges that will develop their Newly promoted to senior, manager, senior manager leadership and entrepreneurial skills. It prepares or executive director ranks are invited to milestone them for their role as partners in a motivating and events. These face-to-face events follow a global structured way and provides transparency around format and combine a mixture of learning and the partner promotion process. celebration. Members of the leadership team, right • Global Exchange Program – provides highup to our Chairman and CEO, play an active role at performing seniors and managers the opportunity these events. For example: to go on 18to 24-month international • Over 2,600 new senior managers participated in assignments before returning to share their milestone events within their Areas last year. learning with colleagues. • Our program for newly promoted managers and • New Horizons – gives high-performing seniors assistant directors brought together over 2,300 the chance to undertake a three-month period of participants at both last year’s EMEIA event in the employment in another country. Netherlands and the Americas event in Orlando. Other events took place across Asia-Pacific and Japan. 12 Identifying and supporting future leaders • Internship Program – around the world in 2013, our 12,500 EY interns gained practical experience As part of our commitment to building a better working of working in business – helping them build their world, we also engage, develop and learn from young credentials and networks. The culmination of our people who we believe will become future leaders – internship program is EY’s International Intern within or outside of EY. For us, this is not only about Leadership Conference (IILC) – a four-day annual helping those who will join EY, it is about reaching as event open to EY interns from around the world, broad a group of high-school and university students as where they have the chance to network and hear possible. presentations from senior EY leaders, including the Through a variety of opportunities, we are helping the Global Chairman and CEO. future workforce and future leaders develop the skills • EY scholarships for university students – we and characteristics required to enable businesses and are helping young students through a variety of societies to thrive. For example, around the world we bursaries, scholarships and, in some countries, paid run skills workshops or leadership development training work experience alongside financial support. These at schools and universities. At the same time, we are scholarships are run locally in China, India, New also mentoring young people who may be at risk of Zealand, Russia, Singapore, Taiwan, the UK, Ukraine dropping out of education to better understand their and the US for talented and ambitious students. opportunities and to see their future in a different way. • EY Degree – is run in collaboration with a UK Examples of our programs for young people include: university and provides accountancy students with a bursary, paid work-experience, and the chance • Campus activities – we have developed a global to complete some of their chartered accountancy toolkit to help those involved in recruiting on-campus examinations – helping them make a head start in explain to students EY’s values and the opportunities their career. and lifelong experiences available at EY. And, with around 24,000 graduates hired in FY13, we • Discover EY – is an innovative two-day program run know how important it is that these future leaders specifically for university students. It provides an understand and share our EY values. insight into what a career in audit or tax has to offer through interactive workshops, case studies and oneto-one networking opportunities with EY people. • EY Young Tax Professional of the Year Program – is aimed at finding the tax leaders of tomorrow. The worldwide competition gives participants the chance to make connections with tax and business leaders, to understand the key trends and challenges for the profession, and to share experiences with people from a range of backgrounds. • Programs or scholarships for those joining EY from high school • In Mexico, our assurance practice offers scholarships to high-potential students to support their education during the last year of their high-school education as they train for full-time positions at EY. • In the UK, our School Leaver Program provides the chance for young people to join the workplace after high school, where they can develop valuable technical skills and gain a professional qualification over a five-year training program. 13 Helping young people explore options for The College Mentoring for Access and Persistence their future (MAP), US, targets economically challenged highschool students who have the potential to succeed Our people act as mentors, coaches and buddies in college but need support creating the “MAP” that around the world – helping young people stay on track will take them there. We work with College For Every and raise their aspirations. For example: Student (CFES), a nonprofit organization committed to Smart Futures, UK, helps disadvantaged young people raising the academic aspirations of such students and at school. Developed in-house by our people, the helping them to prepare for, gain access to and succeed program identifies ambitious and motivated young in college. students from underprivileged backgrounds who have Through a national team-mentoring program, our the academic ability and raw talent to make it at EY but volunteer mentors are matched with groups of local who hadn’t considered that kind of career option. high-school students for monthly sessions focused on As part of the 10-month program, students take part awareness (of college opportunities and the lifelong in a wide range of activities designed to increase their benefits of higher education), financial readiness chances of securing employment. They also gain three (demystifying the process of applying for financial aid weeks’ paid work experience at EY and are given a and paying for college), and persistence (providing mentor, networking opportunities and links to our coaching on the life skills that will help a student recruitment channels. The program aims to help young complete a four-year degree). people see their future differently, and our mentors are The Technology, Enterprise and Mathematics (TEAM), there for them every step of the way. Many apply to join Australia, was created by our people in response to EY when they complete their education. Australian students dropping mathematics as a highThe Edge Education Foundation’s Program for After school curriculum subject at a historically high rate. Class Enrichment (PACE), Malaysia, our people Our people mentor students and run sessions that mentor, teach and act as role models for young people show how mathematics and technology are part of from economically disadvantaged backgrounds in everyday and working life, with the goal of encouraging collaboration with The Edge Education Foundation. them to continue studying these subjects. Through specially designed lessons, our people teach students basic financial literacy and entrepreneurial skills. And to promote additional engagement and awareness, we have invited the PACE students and their parents to the EY office to understand the benefits of continuing education and the opportunities and possibilities available to them. Read more about how we are developing the workforce of the future in: “Empowering our people, strengthening our communities – 100 examples from around the world,” www.ey.com/cr. 14 “We know that it is only by creating flexibility and choice that our people can work in a way that is right for them and for EY, while also delivering exception client service.” – Justine Campbell, Global Talent Team Leader, EY A dynamic and flexible work each other more easily than ever before. For example, videoconferencing will be possible from individuals’ environment laptops or mobile devices with just a few clicks of a High-performance teaming relies on creating the right button, and cloud technology will support enhanced environment for our people – one that encourages and instant access to global information, networks and collaboration and is flexible enough to meet the knowledge. This means our people will have increasing demands of the modern workforce, allowing people to flexibility around where and how they work and a work seamlessly across borders and manage their time greater ability to adapt their working patterns to meet effectively. their client and personal commitments. In response, we are developing a trust-based, workSupporting health and well-being anywhere environment: introducing new IT and At EY, our health and well-being programs around communications technologies, redesigning and the world are not just about keeping fit – they cover repurposing our offices, and supporting the health and broader issues relating to work-life balance. In 33 well-being of our people. These activities fall under our countries we run assistance programs tailored for the Workplace of the Future (WOTF) initiative and help us local market, over half of which provide counseling improve the way we team, connect and perform across and lifestyle support. In the US, for instance, we have teams and borders. a program called EY Assist, which covers fitness and wellness, academic coaching, convenience services, Ultimately, these changes will help us to continue to legal support, and clinical assessment and referral. deliver the quality service that our clients expect and support a culture of flexibility and empowerment that Safety helps to attract and retain great people. Wherever our people are located – at our EY offices Flexibility and choice or at a client site – their safety is our priority. Our dedicated team oversees EY’s rigorous and clear Flexibility is an increasingly important issue for our policies, which have been developed to protect our people and potential recruits – specifically the ability to people and assets against reasonably foreseeable combine a career with other aspects of their lives such threats that might result in injury, loss, damage or as family commitments, volunteering in the community impairment. or sports, for example. Seamlessly connecting our people Providing our people with flexible work practices requires us to support them with the right technology – and our Messaging and Collaboration Program is doing just that. By accessing new and exciting technological capabilities, our people can connect with 15 Listening, sharing, recognizing and Sharing, listening and responding rewarding We are committed to engaging our people, understanding their views, asking for feedback and Engaging with employees means listening, sharing, acting on it. recognizing and rewarding them for their energy and commitment. We do this in a variety of ways – locally Listening tools and globally. Our biennial Global People Survey (GPS) is one way we listen to our people. As part of the survey, we ask all Valuing and rewarding our people our people how they think EY is doing. Questions cover EY operates in more than 150 countries worldwide, our strategy and leadership, quality, recognition and and we believe in providing our people with highly rewards, inclusiveness, development and corporate competitive compensation in keeping with local needs, responsibility. The survey has been in place for 10 years the prevailing employment market circumstances and and provides our leadership with valuable feedback on relevant business conditions. what is working and what we can improve on. Although compensation is a local matter, we have In addition to the GPS, we keep the lines of deployed a global compensation administration tool communication open by asking for feedback through to 80 countries to enable a more accurate comparison face-to-face meetings, spot surveys, polls and focus of pay data. This is a significant step forward in how groups. we maintain a fair and efficient reward process for our Transparent communications people. By housing all our employee reward data in No organization can engage its people without one place, the tool allows our reward professionals and communicating with them clearly and regularly. At EY, managers to determine and apply salary increases and sharing information through various communications bonus payments more efficiently than in the past. channels is important because we believe in being transparent with our people. And in turn, we expect our Recognizing achievements people to demonstrate this culture of transparency with Through our Chairman’s Values Award (CVA), we their stakeholders. Some of the ways we connect with celebrate those who live our values in their day-to-day our people around the world include: lives. Through a nomination process, our people have • Your EY Daily News: our daily internal email newsfeed the chance to acknowledge their inspiring colleagues around them who have gone the extra mile for their • Magazines published by our service lines clients, their colleagues and their communities. • Internal newsletters targeted at specific global groups • Frequent opportunities to engage with our colleagues and leaders Since 2006, more than 17,000 nominations have been submitted and 444 extraordinary people 81% of respondents to our from across our global Global People Survey feel organization have been proud to work for EY recognized as champions for their achievements. 16 Almost 94,000 business students from the world’s top academic institutions recognized us as the world’s most attractive professional service employer. Our commitment to our people and our workplace has been recognized through various Awards awards. In 2013, Universum named EY as the world’s most attractive professional services employer – and second most attractive employer overall, as chosen by almost 94,000 business students from the world’s top academic institutions in the largest 12 economies by GDP. We were also ranked as the leading professional services organization in 6 out of 12 markets and were featured as one of the top 15 employers overall in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, India, Italy, Russia, the UK and the US. Around the world, we have been recognized by: • Australian Human Resources Institute’s Diversity Award • Business Disability Forum’s Best Talent Award (EY UK and Ireland) • Catalyst Award, for EY’s dedication to the recruitment, development and advancement of women • Corporate Research Foundation Institute’s Best Employers (EY South Africa) • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Diversity for seven consecutive years • DiversityInc’s Top 10 Companies for Executive Women • ET Now’s Diversity Impact Award and Talent Leadership Award (EY India) • FORTUNE’s 100 Best Companies to Work For list® for 15th year • InBusiness Best Workplace in Cyprus • Great Place to Work Institute’s Top 25 World’s Best Multinational Workplaces • Great Place to Work Institute’s Best Companies to Work (EY Mexico and EY UK) • MediaCorp’s Best Diversity Employers for five consecutive years for EY Canada • Opportunity Now and Race for Opportunity Top 10 private sector organizations for both gender and Black and Minority Ethnic (BME) diversity and inclusion • Stonewall’s European Diversity Award • Stonewall’s Top 100 public and private sector employers for gay, lesbian and bisexual employees (EY UK and Ireland) • The National Association for Female Executives Top 10 Companies for 2014 • The Times Top 50 Employers for Women for EY UK and Ireland • The Equal Opportunity for Women in the Workplace Agency’s Employer of Choice for Women for 11 consecutive years (EY Australia) • Universum’s Europe Top 50: Europe’s Most Attractive Employers • Working Mother’s Best Companies for Multicultural Women • Working Mother’s Top 10 Companies for Working Mothers; 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers for 15 consecutive years 17 17 EMEIA Japan 84,224 6,856 people people Americas 53,835 Asiapeople Pacific 29,893 people A strong foundation Code of Conduct Our Global Code of Conduct provides a clear set of Like any responsible and sustainable business, we are the standards that guide our actions and our business built on the strong foundation of our values. Our senior conduct. Organized into five categories, the Code leaders set the tone from the top, and our values are contains principles that are to be followed by everyone shared by our people. Our Code of Conduct and policies within EY: provide guidance on how we should behave and what we should expect from others. • Working with one another • Working with clients and others Shared values • Acting with professional integrity Our shared values inspire our people and guide them to do the right thing, and our commitment to quality is • Maintaining our objectivity and independence embedded in who we are and in everything we do. We • Respecting intellectual capital are: • People who demonstrate integrity, respect and EY/Ethics hotline teaming We have a hotline operated by an external organization that provides confidential and anonymous reporting • People with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to services. This enables our people, clients and others to lead report activities that may be unethical, improper or in • People who build relationships based on doing the violation of professional standards or do not meet the right thing standard set out in EY’s Global Code of Conduct. When a report comes into the EY/Ethics hotline, it receives immediate attention. Depending on the type of issue, people from Risk Management, Human Resources, Legal or other functions are involved to address it. www.eyethics.com For more information, read page 10, EY Global Transparency Report 2013, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. 18 Supporting our clients, our profession and our marketplace We are committed to delivering exceptional service to our clients and to meeting the needs of both our clients and the public interest with transparency and professionalism. Our commitment to building a better working world reflects our view that the services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets, which ultimately leads to more sustainable economic growth. Underlying our efforts to support our clients, our profession and our marketplace is collaboration. By working together with stakeholders – governments, policymakers, nonprofits or regulators – we can create positive change. We also believe that we can help support economic growth and job creation that is driven by entrepreneurs and the increased participation of women in business. 19 Building a better working world • Our Advisory service line focuses on improving clients’ performance by helping them to translate through our services their strategy into reality through better risk Our people, through every audit, every tax return, management, improved finance functions, and better every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a supply chain and customer management. client or colleague is making the working world a better Our standing in the market has been recognized by place than it was before. And our services are helping external organizations, with EY named: to build trust and confidence – directly and indirectly. For example: • European Tax Compliance and Reporting Firm of the Year and European Tax Policy Firm of the Year – • Through our Assurance service line we help build International Tax Review confidence to stakeholders. Auditors play a vital role in the efficient functioning of our capital markets • Leading global brand for sustainability services – by promoting transparency and supporting investor Verdantix confidence. • Number one in the mergermarket league tables – • Our Transaction Advisory Services help our clients mergermarket raise, preserve, invest and optimize capital – and to • Winner of Most Admired Knowledge Enterprise work more efficiently and effectively. Award for 14th year by Global Most Admired • Our Tax service line is dedicated to helping clients Knowledge Enterprise (MAKE) – Most Admired meet their complex tax obligations around the globe Knowledge Enterprise and to understand risks associated with their tax decisions. 20 Tackling fraud and managing risk Helping clients report transparently Every day, our more than 2,000 fraud investigation Around the world, we are helping clients with and dispute professionals around the world are helping sustainability reporting. This often requires companies clients deal with complex issues of fraud, regulatory to measure processes and impacts not done before. compliance and business disputes. We do this by In addition to creating greater transparency, this assembling the right teams who bring their broad can also help in efforts to reduce the use of natural sector experience, their deep subject-matter knowledge resources, increase efficiency and improve operational and the latest insights from our work worldwide. performance. Transparent reporting can also help By helping our clients manage their fraud risk and companies to strengthen their reputation, increase compliance exposure better, we are helping to build access to capital, and meet the expectations and trust in the marketplace. increase the trust of their stakeholders. At EY, we recently introduced a global sustainability report template, promoting greater transparency and consistency in our own reporting. 21 Supporting entrepreneurs EY has supported entrepreneurs for decades and we are proud of our role in helping them succeed and grow sustainably. Entrepreneurs drive innovation and create jobs and wealth for their community, which results in broader economic growth and other social benefits in the marketplace. It is for this reason we are helping entrepreneurs – big or small – achieve their potential. Entrepreneur Of The Year™ As the first and only truly global award of its kind, Our awards program is in our program celebrates those who are building and leading successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing them through regional and national awards programs in over 145 cities in more than 60 countries. Each nation’s winner then competes for the title of over 145 cities in more than 60 World Entrepreneur Of The Year. The program’s continued expansion to new cities countries. and countries demonstrates the importance of entrepreneurship around the world. Our Global Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation’s annual survey for 2013 highlights the impact of the winners on local and global economies. Two hundred winners from 35 countries shared their plans for job creation – with In 27 years, it has recognized and 70% of respondents planning to hire in their domestic market and 47% intending to hire abroad. celebrated the achievements of tens of thousands entrepreneurs around the world. 22 An inspiring business that reinvests in the EY centers and academies community EY has created centers and academies that draw on Hamdi Ulukaya, the Founder, President and CEO of our 30-plus years of experience of working with the Chobani, was named World Entrepreneur Of The Year, world’s most dynamic and ambitious companies – from 2013. Chobani – a US company with 3,000 employees start-ups and emerging enterprises to rapid-growth – is the country’s best-selling yogurt brand. It also sells companies and market leaders. The centers serve both its products in Australia and the UK, with annual sales established entrepreneurs and those just starting out approaching US$1b. and include our: Chobani’s impressive growth in only six years is • Global Center for Entrepreneurship and Innovation testament to the entrepreneurial spirit of Ulukaya. And – an online platform that provides guidance to Chobani’s commitment to reinvest in the community is entrepreneurs and innovators on planning for the clear – the company donates of 10% of its profits to its future and growth and how best to access funding. charitable body, the Shepherd’s Gift Foundation. The platform includes details of entrepreneurial programs, conferences and forums, and it provides access to an extensive global network. Fast-growing In addition to creating employment and opportunity, companies can also use the platform to connect and many EOY entrepreneurs are creating goods and share perspectives and experiences. services that directly improve the lives of their • Global Family Business Center of Excellence – customers and local communities. designed to support family businesses, their owners and their managers. It brings together advisors Making a social impact in the Philippines from around EY to share knowledge and insights for Jim Ayala’s commitment to raising the standard of family-owned companies, wherever they operate in living through technology in his native Philippines the world. won him the EY Entrepreneur Of The Year Philippines • EY Junior Academy Program – a unique one-week Award. Ayala, who heads up Hybrid Social Solutions, training event designed for young successors in supplies solar-powered and other technologies to family businesses held around the world. We know remote communities in the Philippines. that to succeed for generations, family businesses The company is introducing solar-powered village must ensure that the pioneering values shared by access centers that provide communities outside the those who established the business continue to energy grid with safe water, phone charging, lights and flourish down the generations. Now in its sixth year, power tools, internet access, life-saving medical devices with more than 250 alumni, the Junior Academy and banking services. These centers are making a helps young people from family businesses accelerate difference to more than 25 million people who still live their potential and develop as visionary leaders. without electricity, water and health care and are a Read more from our Global Center for great example of the positive effect social enterprises Entrepreneurship and Innovation, have in some of the poorest communities. Additionally, www.ey.com/thecenter. in the aftermath of Typhoon Haiyan, HSS deployed over 1,200 solar lights to disaster areas, helping search and rescue teams, hospitals, evacuation centers and disaster management sites. 23 Programs for entrepreneurs At EY, we believe in supporting entrepreneurs at their many stages of development through programs delivered by our people, and in some cases designed by them. These programs, highlighted below, support small and medium-size entrepreneurs, including the smallest microentrepreneurs, high-impact entrepreneurs in emerging markets, and even budding student entrepreneurs. The benefits of these programs flow both ways. By sharing their time, experiences and skills, our people help entrepreneurs to make a difference to their businesses and their communities. At the same time, we recognize that our support of mediumand small-scale entrepreneurs enables our people to develop new skills and experience how a business operates in its entirety. Endeavor Helping high-impact entrepreneurs gain the skills they need We encourage our people to work with promising entrepreneurs in emerging markets to help them accelerate their businesses and build sustainable economic value. Working with Endeavor, a nonprofit organization that develops high-impact entrepreneurs in emerging markets, we enable our people to spend up to seven weeks with an entrepreneur, helping them develop their business, build their skills and acquire a global mindset. Our people have supported entrepreneurs in Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Egypt, Jordan, Lebanon, Mexico, South Africa, Turkey and Uruguay. Endeavor-supported businesses experience a compounded average growth rate of 68% in the first two years of engaging with the organization, making these entrepreneurs a force for positive economic and social change as they create jobs, drive innovation and revitalize their communities. www.endeavor.org Endeavor-supported businesses experience an average growth rate of 68% in the first two years of engaging with the organization 24 Programs created and delivered by our people Enterprise Growth Services (EGS) Helping entrepreneurs increase efficiencies EGS is a program that helps mediumand small-scale entrepreneurs in emerging markets sustainably improve their productivity, profitability and growth potential – and in some cases, their social impact. EY is working with a public-private consortium that tackles sleeping sickness, a disease that has a devastating impact across sub-Saharan Africa. Affecting between 300,000 and 500,000 people, it causes the loss of 1.5 million “disease-adjusted life years” every year (years of potential life lost due to premature death, plus years of productive life lost due to disability). EY is helping the consortium develop additional revenue-generating products and services; to define a five-year business plan; and to operate in more standardized, scalable ways. EGS has also helped a Ghanaian mining-supplies company. Despite a healthy operating margin, the company’s cashflow was severely constrained by excessive working capital. Our people identified changes to governance, processes, roles and information management that led to increased growth. Accelerate Developing the most promising social enterprises Accelerate is a learning forum developed by our people in the UK, which provides skilled support to social and young entrepreneurs through a series of workshops and mentoring. Now in its third year, Accelerate is a successful forum for social enterprises, young people starting out in business and those facing a particular challenge in starting their business. The course structure is tailored to reflect the participants’ experience. We facilitate access to 1:1 support — including EY business advisors and co-mentoring by clients/EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ alumni mentors — and we also run networking events and secondments. 25 Network for teaching entrepreneurship Inspiring and engaging the next generation We are proud to support the Network For Teaching Entrepreneurship (NFTE), an organization that has, over the past 25 years, provided entrepreneurship education to more than 500,000 young people worldwide at risk of dropping out of school. NFTE helps students see the relevance of their studies through a series of fun and engaging activities that teach the concepts of entrepreneurship and business. Mentored by our people, students create business plans for their ideas and take part in classroom, city-wide and national competitions. Our people volunteer their time – whether mentoring students, supporting teachers by acting as guest speakers, judging business plan competitions or participating on the NFTE board. We have supported NFTE in Belgium, Chile, China, Colombia, Germany, India, Ireland, Israel, New Zealand, Saudi Arabia and the US. To date, EY has granted college scholarships to top NFTE US graduates, totaling nearly US$125,000 and we have provided US$1.2 million cumulative support since 1998. www.nfte.com Enactus Using the power of entrepreneurial action to transform lives Enactus is a global community of students, academics and business leaders that uses the power of entrepreneurship to transform lives and build a more sustainable world. Through Enactus, university students deliver community outreach projects to help people in need, while at the same time gaining leadership skills. They are guided by academic advisors and people from EY and other businesses. EY has been a platinum sponsor for several years, playing a key part in Enactus’ annual national competitions where young students showcase the life-changing projects they have completed. For example, in 2013, our people were on the judging panels for the semifinals and finals in Russia. We also sponsored and participated in Enactus’ two-day national competition in the UK. www.enactus.org Kiva Changing the lives of millions We know the smallest micro-entrepreneurs are keeping themselves out of poverty, feeding their families and supporting their local communities. This is why we support Kiva, a nonprofit that connects people through lending money to alleviate poverty. As the world’s first and largest person-to-person micro-lending organization, Kiva enables individuals to lend as little as US$25 to entrepreneurs from developing and emerging economies, via their website. EY has made a commitment to provide in-kind support valued at US$1m. www.kiva.org For more information on how EY people are supporting entrepreneurs, read Empowering our people, strengthening our communities – 100 examples from around the world, www.ey.com/cr. 26 Increasing opportunities for women in business The total income generated by women around the world increased by nearly US$4 trillion to US$9.8 trillion between 2002 and 2007. By 2017, women’s income will jump by almost US$6 trillion to US$15.6 trillion, according to our own research.* Undoubtedly, women have the potential to play a making process, and in a way that reflects the gender greater role in the world’s economic and social success balance within society. than they currently do. Over the next decade they will have an enormous influence on business, politics We are helping to address this gender imbalance and society – as producers, entrepreneurs, employees through: and consumers. Given that women typically invest a • Our Worldwide Women Public Sector Leaders significantly higher percentage of their income back Network, which gives women leaders in the public into their families and communities, it follows that sector visibility of each other, enabling them to economically empowering them will lead to long-term connect with other women in similar positions at social and economic growth. a global level, and facilitates exchange on leading practices. We believe that by sharing best practices, EY is proud to support and convene inspiring women these leaders can identify increased opportunities for around the world through collaboration, sponsorship women in the public sector. and networks, covering the public and private sector. And even before women begin their career, we are • Our research – the Worldwide Index of Women as helping girls access the right skills so that they can Public Sector Leaders has identified certain actions become inspiring young women and future leaders. that, when taken together, seem to lead to greater In this section, you can read how we are helping to representation of women in leadership roles. empower women and also upholding the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Global Women in Business Advisory Council (GWBAC) Public Sector Leaders Network We have launched GWBAC, a network that helps to Women are now seen as the next big emerging market promote, support and better understand women in – and one that governments around the world need to business. Women business owners and leaders are able account for. However, our research shows that despite to benefit from: women constituting a significant part of the overall • Access to capital public sector workforce in many countries, they are • A forum to exchange ideas and experiences significantly underrepresented at leadership levels – with only 20% of women holding cabinet positions • Mentoring opportunities worldwide, according to our own research. Given public • One-to-one coaching sector leaders make decisions affecting the welfare of • Access to a wide network of peers and thought millions of citizens, it is imperative that women public leadership relevant to them sector leaders are an integral part of this decision*Women make all the difference in the world, www.ey.com/global 27 Entrepreneurial Winning Women™ Program Created in 2008, the program identifies women entrepreneurs with established, successful businesses and clear growth goals. It then connects them to an influential network of entrepreneurs, corporate leaders, investors and advisors, as well as potential partners, strategic alliances, customers and suppliers who can help them think bigger and scale their companies. Now rolled out in several countries, including Australia, Brazil, Canada, Indonesia and the US, the program has made a significant difference through its strategic support of women entrepreneurs. In 2012, independent research conducted by Babson College explored the impact of our program in the US over its first three years, as well as its implications for women entrepreneurs elsewhere. The findings were impressive – program participants’ companies grew at almost 50% each year on average, with a corresponding average annual job growth rate of more than 25%. To read more, visit www.ey.com/us/thinkingbig. The program will soon expand to Hungary, across our Middle East/North Africa (MENA) region practices, and in South Africa and Ukraine. 28 Research shows our US program participants’ companies grew at almost 50% each year on average, with a corresponding average annual job growth rate of more than 25%, between 2009 and 2012. Building infrastructure and changing Using commercial acumen to help rural economies communities Finding a successful female role model in general and Alcione de Albanesi runs one of the most successful civil contracting is rare, but Canadian entrepreneur lighting businesses in Brazil, and her work to build the Kelsey Ramsden has proved it is possible. Building first LED lamp factory in the country secured her a roads, dams, bridges, airports and buildings is a place in Entrepreneurial Winning Women Brazil’s Class passion for Kelsey – and her company, Belvedere of 2013. With a strong turnover, the company has Place Development (BPD), has grown from strength to grown from strength to strength in the past 11 years. strength over the past nine years. Wanting to use her business skills to help the poorest The company is now focusing on emerging markets like communities in Brazil’s semi-arid northeast, Alcione North Africa and the Caribbean, where infrastructure created a charity, Amigos do Bem. A businesswoman improvements are fundamental to sustained economic at heart, she is determined to help locals build a growth. Kelsey believes that by expanding her sustainable community through initiatives rather than company, BPD can deliver key infrastructure projects donations – by helping local men farm cashews, for and also develop local talent. example, or by engaging local women to make and sell Kelsey’s success in the Entrepreneurial Winning Women handicrafts, and creating schools to help educate local class of 2013 is a testament to her own philosophy of children. It is this long-term strategic approach that using determination, strategic vision and passion to has ensured Alcione’s business and Amigos do Bem embrace challenges and convert them into positive are both successful – and a great example of how our outcomes. program participants are making an impact in their communities. “The program has changed my business and has clearly showed me that my goals can be stretched further and more often.” – Kelsey Ramsden, Entrepreneurial Winning Women participant, Canada 29 “By uniting the power of government, nonprofits and corporates with highpotential women entrepreneurs, we can use the power of collaboration to create positive social change. That’s what building a better working world is all about.” – Mark A. Weinberger, Global Chairman and CEO, EY The Women Athletes Global Leadership prepare women for entering into large corporate supply Network chains through initiatives such as mentoring and providing access to networks. We believe that elite female athletes possess unique leadership traits and skills learned through sport that We are strengthening our ongoing relationship with the enable them to pivot successfully into the business Women in Parliaments Global Forum (WIP), which aims world. Through our new Women Athletes Global to advance society by using the collective strength and Leadership Network, we use our experience to harness ability of more than 9,000 female parliamentarians the potential of female athletes after they retire from across the world. sport, connecting them with business leaders and entrepreneurs around the world to mentor, open doors As a founding member, we have supported the and create next-chapter opportunities. expansion of WE Connect International – an organization committed to helping women Supporting civic and business organizations entrepreneurs around the world gain access to global supply chains. We are also local members in Canada, We support a wide range of organizations and Europe and India. initiatives that work to improve opportunities for women around the world. For example: We support Vital Voices, a nonprofit that works alongside government, corporate and NGO executives At World Economic Forum, Davos, EY hosted a highto train and mentor emerging women leaders from profile event celebrating women’s leadership in the more than 144 countries in Africa, Asia, Eurasia, Latin world economy, attended by several of the people America, the Caribbean and the Middle East. named on the Forbes 100 Most Powerful Women list (2012). We are a founding member of the Third Billion Campaign, a global alliance of corporations, As members of the Clinton Global Initiative, we governments, nonprofit organizations, academic announced our participation in a new multi-stakeholder institutions and individuals helping to prepare women commitment in 2013 to support the development to more fully participate in the global economy. and advancement of women-owned businesses. The commitment supports the development of 15,000 For more information, read pages 8-10, Women: The women entrepreneurs outside the US and an increase next emerging market, www.ey.com/women. in corporates’ supply chain spend with women-owned businesses by at least US$1.5b annually. We will help 30 Empowering the next generation of female leaders in Africa Our NextGen program is designed to create a network of support for the next generation of women leaders in Africa. It provides leadership skills training, extra tutoring, mentoring and financial assistance for tertiary education. So far, 81 schoolgirls (aged between 15 and 18) have been selected based on their overall grades and leadership skills. The curriculum prepares girls for university and beyond and includes an innovative three-part experience, which consists of “leadership camp” courses. Our people are involved at every step, and we believe the program will create a network of innovative, ethical leaders with a passion for the continent’s development. The program currently runs in the Gauteng and KwaZulu-Natal provinces of South Africa and will be launched in Cape Town in February 2015. Research and analysis As part of our commitment to leading the dialogue around the advancement of women, we have been prolific publishers of research papers dealing with women’s workplace and business issues, including: • Women: The next emerging market, www.ey.com/women • Unleashing the power of women entrepreneurs, www.ey.com/womenentrepreneurs • Worldwide Index of Women as Public Sector Leaders, www.ey.com/womenleadershipindex • High achievers – Recognizing the power of women to spur business and economic growth, www.ey.com/highachievers • Women of Africa – a powerful untapped economic force, www.ey.com/womenofafrica 31 Strengthening our profession • Participating as an active member and sponsor of the International Corporate Governance Network. By engaging with our stakeholders, including • Regularly meeting with and responding to governments, policymakers, regulators and standard policymakers on key issues affecting our profession setters, we are playing our part in building a better – for example, mandatory audit firm rotation or working world by promoting transparency and trust. tendering and enhanced auditor reporting. Through open dialogue with these stakeholders, we provide our perspective and seek to better understand • Joining with organizations like the World Economic their points of view. We encourage improvements in Forum and Transparency International to help find corporate governance, financial reporting and other ways to address social and economic challenges. matters that affect our capital markets. For example, • Sponsoring Transparency International’s Corruption we are: Perception Index. • Increasingly engaging with the Financial Stability • Signatories to the World Economic Forum Partnering Board, the International Forum of Independent Audit Against Corruption Initiative (PACI). PACI’s mission Regulators and the Basel Committee on Banking is to develop multi-industry principles and practices Supervision. that will result in a competitive and level playing field • Actively participating in global forums that bring based on integrity, fairness and ethical conduct. together thought leaders on issues important to Our organization is built on strong internal structures us and our stakeholders, ranging from promoting and frameworks. These include policies, check diversity to supporting entrepreneurship. and balances that set the foundation for us as an • Holding dialogue dinners with investors and other organization. They guide the behavior of each EY stakeholders from around the globe. Through a person, help us limit risk, ensure independence and series of dinners, convened since 2011, we are support measures like anti-corruption. fostering discussion about ways to improve corporate governance. • Continuing to participate in the Global Auditor Investor Dialogue, an informal network of leading global institutional investors and major global auditing networks, to exchange views on current financial reporting and auditing issues. 32 Internal rigor At EY, our structure aims to mitigate risk and promotes a high level of global integration. Our global approach helps to strengthen the quality of our member firms’ performance. It allows for more effective implementation of our global strategy and helps our member firms deliver better, more consistent quality, enhancing their ability to serve global clients. Other benefits include a greater scale of resources, greater opportunities for our people and enhanced consistency in service methodologies. EY’s global organization structure includes: • Global Advisory Council • Global Executive • Global Executive Committees • Global Practice Group • EYG member firms Read more about EY’s global organization structure on pages 5-7, EY Global Transparency Report 2013, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. Our Code of Conduct EY’s Code of Conduct, explained in detail earlier in this report, sets out our principles and guides our behavior across all areas of activity. More detailed information is provided on page 18 of this report. Our stance consistently has been that no single client is more important than professional reputation — the reputation of EY and the reputation of each of our people. 33 Our independent non-executive Global risk management representatives (INEs) Our global risk management team focuses on key EY has asked world-class leaders in related fields to areas such as enterprise risk, ethics, compliance, serve as independent non-executive representatives legal requirements, policy issues and independence. (INEs) on the Global Advisory Council. They provide They oversee the tools and processes deployed to an independent voice to the highest levels of help our people meet local and global compliance management, offer insight into the interests of EY’s responsibilities. key stakeholders and offer further objectivity within For more information, read page 58, EY Global Review its governance structures. EY follows the UK Audit 2013, www.ey.com/globalreview. Firm Governance Code model for INEs by selecting individuals who command respect and collectively enhance shareholder confidence by virtue of their independence, stature, experience and expertise to improve quality and thereby limit risk. EY’s INEs • Shyamala Gopinath • Sir Richard Lambert • Lim Hwee Hua • Klaus Mangold • Mark Olson For more information, read pages 2 and 8, EY Transparency Report 2013, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. 34 Tackling bribery and insider trading Anti-bribery Our global Anti-bribery Policy provides direction around certain unethical and illegal activities. It emphasizes the obligation of our people to comply with anti-bribery laws and provides greater definition of what constitutes bribery. It also identifies reporting responsibilities when bribery is discovered. Insider trading Our global Insider Trading Policy reaffirms the obligation of our people not to trade in securities with insider information, provides detail on what constitutes insider information and identifies with whom our people should consult if they have questions regarding their responsibilities. Internal quality control systems Independence practices Providing high-quality professional audit services Auditor independence is fundamental to the quality of independently, objectively and ethically is fundamental audits and investor confidence in financial reporting to the member firms’ success as independent auditors. and more broadly in the capital markets. We invest We continue to invest in initiatives to promote heavily in practices to make sure we are independent. enhanced objectivity, independence and professional Examples include: skepticism. For example, we have: • Our EYG Independence Policy – this sets out the • Designed a comprehensive set of global audit independence requirements for member firms, quality control policies and practices. These meet professionals and other employees. the requirements of the International Standards on • Global Independence System (GIS) – an intranetQuality Control issued by the International Auditing based tool that helps determine the listed entities and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). from which independence is required and the • A Client Acceptance and Continuance Policy that independence restrictions that apply to each. sets out principles to determine whether to either • Global Monitoring System (GMS) – an important accept a new client or engagement or to continue global tool that helps identify proscribed securities an existing client or engagement. These principles and other impermissible financial interests. are fundamental to maintaining quality, managing risk, protecting our people and meeting regulatory • Service Offering Reference Tool (SORT) – this requirements. includes guidance around which services can be delivered to audit and non-audit clients, as well as • A Global Audit Methodology (EY GAM) that provides independence and other risk management issues. a global framework for delivering high-quality audit services through the consistent application of For more information, read pages 20-21, thought processes, judgments and procedures in all EY Global Transparency Report 2013, audit engagements. www.ey.com/transparencyreport. • Supported audit partner rotation because it provides Supply chain rigor a fresh perspective and promotes independence from company management while retaining expertise We also look at our supplier relationships both to make and knowledge of the business. Audit partner our supplier base more diverse and to raise supply rotation, combined with independence requirements, chain standards. Our Global Procurement Policy enhanced systems of internal quality controls and includes a Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that independent audit oversight, helps strengthen those organizations that supply us with products or independence and objectivity; together they are services operate to the high standards that we expect important safeguards of audit quality. of ourselves. 35 Increasing the sustainability of our planet We believe the biggest contribution we can make to minimizing the negative effects of climate change is to support our clients and the market in moving toward a low-carbon economy. Through our Cleantech and Climate Change and Sustainability Services practice (CCaSS) we are helping our clients around the world operate more sustainably. At the same time, we are measuring and managing our own carbon footprint. 36 Supporting our clients on their lowerEngaging in the sustainability debate carbon journey As a leading provider of sustainability services, we continue to contribute to the sustainability debate Our Cleantech and CCaSS professionals help and share knowledge with our clients and the broader governments and organizations around the world business community. It is through these debates that address the environmental, social and economic we can positively influence change, working closely impacts of climate change. They help clients reach their with key regulatory bodies and industry standard sustainability goals and transition to a lower-carbon setters. For example: economy by providing a range of skills and services. For • EY is among a select group of organizations example: supporting the International Integrated Reporting • Our global CCaSS practice helps organizations to Council (IIRC) through our participation on the Board, understand the components of a sustainability the Council, working groups and secondments (with strategy and improve their performance in this an EY person serving as Deputy to the CEO). regard. We have developed best practices to help • We led the development of the “Value Creation – clients address the most important sustainability Background Paper for the IIRC” and have built on this factors, including managing risk in a resourcerelationship by holding joint EY/IIRC roundtables in constrained economy. France and Brazil. • We help clients identify their entire carbon footprint • EY contributes to technical sustainability working and help them prepare for, and respond to, risks groups aimed at standardizing definitions and around prolonged drought, sea-level changes and approaches, such as the Global Reporting Initiative adverse weather patterns. (GRI), Sustainability Accounting Standards Board • Our Global Cleantech Center comprises professionals, (SASB) and the American Institute of Certified Public drawn from across the world, in assurance, tax, Accountants (AICPA). transaction and advisory services who understand • We were a major sponsor of the Global Reporting the business dynamics of cleantech and help Initiative Global Conference. clients innovate in technology, business models, financing mechanisms, cross-sector partnerships and corporate adoption. • We also advise clients on meeting energy-use targets, helping to them to reduce carbon emissions and enhance their corporate reputation. We are proud to have been recognized externally. For example: • We were named the leading global brand for sustainability services by the independent analyst firm Verdantix in 2013. • EY Australia was recognized as a finalist in the Australian Carbon Market Institute’s inaugural annual award. 37 Measuring our carbon footprint As an organization, we challenge ourselves to work in EY’s carbon footprint an environmentally responsible manner and to find new is 800,000 tCO2-e or ways to reduce our carbon footprint. 4.87 tCO2-e/FTE. We have completed our first global carbon footprint, allowing us to set meaningful goals and reduction targets in the future. We know that nearly all our carbon output comes from two sources: office energy consumption and business travel, particularly air travel. EY’s emissions We now have a baseline against which we can compare our performance year-on-year. from office energy consumption are We continue to increase the energy efficiency of our offices, and although travel is critical to our business, 195,000 tCO2-e. we are investing in travel alternatives, like Telepresence videoconferencing and enhanced desktop and mobile options. Increasing efficiencies by globalizing EY’s total travel functions emissions are 605,000 By globalizing many of our core business functions, tCO2-e, of which 83% such as IT, real estate, procurement and travel, we comes from air travel. are increasingly able to share insights and progress around the world. This allows us to improve the environmental sustainability of our operations by sharing best practices to set global environmental goals and to measure progress through our newly created Further information in the explanatory notes below environmental scorecard for global functions. Explanatory notes 1. Our carbon footprint is calculated in line with the EYG Carbon Footprint Methodology, which is based on the WRI/WBCSD Greenhouse Gas Protocol. 2. We have used 2013 CO2 conversion factors published by DEFRA/DECC in the UK, or locally published factors where appropriate, to calculate our emissions. The conversion factors used to calculate emissions from air travel include the impact of “radiative forcing”. For further details please refer to http://www. ukconversionfactorscarbonsmart.co.uk/. 3. We collect activity data for our emissions using activity data from a selection of our global operations. This data is then extrapolated to provide an estimate of our total global emissions. Specifically: • Emissions from office energy consumption are estimated using activity data collected from 37 countries, representing 77% of our office portfolio. • Emissions from air travel are estimated using distance data that represents 81% of our spend on air travel. • Emissions from ground transportation (including rail travel and business travel in EY owned, rental and employee vehicles) are estimated using fuel consumption and distance data for approximately 73% of our employees (FTE). 4. We will continue to develop our approach to carbon reporting in FY14. In particular we will focus on our air travel emissions, our most material emissions source. 38 Changing our behavior through awareness Around the world, we are seeking to reduce our environmental footprint by engaging with and educating our people. Examples include: • EY offices participated in Earth Hour 2013 in Australia; Argentina; Bosnia and Herzegovina; Bulgaria; Canada; China (including Hong Hong), Croatia, Cyprus, the Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, India, Israel, Italy, Mexico, Montenegro, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Serbia, Singapore, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, the UK and the US. • In the Americas, our EcoCare network comprises more than 1,000 EY volunteers who constantly find new ways to make us greener. • In the UK, volunteers in almost every office, known as “environment champions,” educate their peers about leading practices relating to travel, energy use and reducing waste. • Local campaigns such as environment week or zero-waste initiatives engage our people to make small changes that have a big impact. • Working with NGOs like Earthwatch allows our people to increase their environmental awareness. Our people conduct scientific research on a weeklong expedition with Earthwatch and provide skill-based volunteer services to a local entrepreneur or organization. • Our sustainable meetings guidelines provide practical options and suggestions to ensure we are making our meetings more environmentally sustainable, wherever they take place. 39 Upholding the UNGC principles Throughout this report, we have shared many examples of how EY is upholding the UNGC principles of labor, human rights, environment and anti-corruption and fulfilling our purpose of building a better working world. Specifically: 40 Human rights UNGC principles: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC human rights principles Section Page EY Code of Conduct 18, 33 EY/Ethics hotline 18 Shared values 18 Health and well-being 15 Safety 15 Global Procurement Policy 35 Labor UNGC principles: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor, and the elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC labor principles Section Page EY Code of Conduct 18, 33 EY/Ethics hotline 18 Shared values 18 High-performing teams 7 Our people culture – the exceptional EY experience 7 Diversity and inclusiveness 8 Diversity and inclusiveness training, sponsorships, collaboration 9 Diversity recruiting 8 Learning and development opportunities 10 Empowering current and future leaders 12-14 Increasing opportunities for women 9-10 Safety 15 Health and well-being 15 Compensation 16 Workplace of the future 15 Encouraging flexibility and choice 15 Recognizing the achievements of our people 16 Listening, responding and sharing 16 Encouraging feedback 16 Sharing knowledge, creating transparency 16 Awards and recognition 17 41 Environment UNGC principles: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility, and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC environment principles Section Page Helping clients transition to a lower-carbon economy 37 Sustainability reporting 37 Engaging with stakeholders – regulators, governments and nonprofits 37 EY’s global carbon footprint 38 Creating a global scorecard for global functions 38 Changing our behavior 39 Educating our people and raising internal awareness 39 Creating a global sustainability report template 39 Verdantix award 37 Anti-corruption UNGC principle: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Please refer to the following sections to understand how EY upholds the UNGC anti-corruption principles Section Page Our structure 33 Independent non-executives 34 EY Code of Conduct 18, 33 Anti-bribery Policy 35 Insider Trading Policy 35 Quality control mechanisms 35 Independence practices 35 Limiting risk and promoting strong integration, globally 33 Global risk management 34 Engaging with stakeholders – regulators, governments and nonprofits 32 Supply chain rigor 35 Helping our clients tackle fraud and manage risk 20, 21 Sustainability reporting 21 42 UN Women’s Empowerment Principles EY is a signatory of the UN Women’s Empowerment Principles, a set of principles for business that offer guidance on how to empower women in the workplace, marketplace and community. They are the result of collaboration between the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women (UN Women) and the United Nations Global Compact. The principles are Section Page 1. Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality Diversity and inclusiveness 8 Awards 17 Tracking our progress 10 2. Treat all women and men fairly at work — respect and support human rights and non-discrimination Code of Conduct 18, 33 Our shared values 18 Global Procurement Policy 35 3. Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers Safety 15 Health and well-being 15 4. Promote education, training and professional development for women Diversity and inclusiveness 8, 9, 10 Increasing opportunities for women in business 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 5. Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women WE Connect 30 Clinton Global Initiative 30 Supply chain 35 6. Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy Diversity and inclusiveness – including UN Women UK 9 Increasing opportunities for women in business 27, 28, 29, 30, 31 7. Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality UN Global Compact www.ey.com/global Women: the next emerging market www.ey.com/women Tracking our progress 10 Awards 17 43 Areas and Regions Americas South America EMEIA Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Chile, Canada Africa Colombia, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, East Central (US) Angola, Botswana, Cameroon, Uruguay, Venezuela Chad, Congo, DR of the Congo, Financial Services Organization Southeast (US) Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, Bahamas, Bermuda, British Virgin Aruba, Barbados, Jamaica, Ghana, Guinea, Ivory Coast, Kenya, Islands, Cayman Islands, United Curacao, Trinidad and Tobago Madagascar, Malawi, Mauritius, States Mozambique, Namibia, Nigeria, Southwest (US) Israel Rwanda, Senegal, Seychelles, South West (US) Africa, South Sudan, Tanzania, Mexico and Central America Uganda, Zambia, Zimbabwe Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, BeNe Mexico, Nicaragua, Panama Belgium, Netherlands Midwest (US) Central and Southeast Europe Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Northeast (US) Bulgaria, Croatia, Cyprus, Czech 44 Republic, Estonia, Greece, Hungary, India Asia-Pacific Kosovo, Latvia, Lithuania, FYR Bangladesh, India Asean of Macedonia, Malta, Moldova, Mediterranean Brunei, Cambodia, Guam, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Italy, Portugal, Spain Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Maldives, Serbia, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey Middle East and North Africa Myanmar, N. Mariana Islands, CIS Afghanistan, Bahrain, Egypt, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Thailand, Vietnam Georgia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Libya, Oman, Pakistan, Palestinian Financial Services Organization Russia, Ukraine, Uzbekistan Authority, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Greater China Financial Services Organization Syria, United Arab Emirates China, Mongolia, Taiwan Framalux Nordics Korea Algeria, France, Luxembourg, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Monaco, Morocco, Tunisia Sweden Oceania Australia, Fiji, New Zealand, Papua GSA UK and Ireland New Guinea Austria, Germany, Liechtenstein, Republic of Ireland, United Kingdom Switzerland Japan 45 EY | Assurance | Tax | Transactions | Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit ey.com. © 2014 EYGM Limited. All Rights Reserved. EYG no. FY0003 ED None This material has been prepared for general informational purposes only and is not intended to be relied upon as accounting, tax, or other professional advice. Please refer to your advisors for specific advice. Nicky Major Global Corporate Sustainability Leader, EY Tel: +44 20 7951 1132 Twitter: @nickymajor Email: nmajor@uk.ey.com
