2013 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2013 3 ABOUT THE REPORT Anadolu Efes believes that the foundation of a fashion, the historical progress of our operational sustainable future depends on the establishment of scope has been considered during the calculation of honest, transparent, and accountable communication data presented in this report. Therefore, data regarding with our stakeholders in order to cooperate in finding production locations in Russia and Ukraine operations solutions to common issues. Through the sustainability that were taken over from SABMiller were included in reports that we have issued since 2010 as a first step in the 2013 data while data for the periods before 2013 this direction, an objective and comprehensive portrait was calculated based on our actual operational scope of the social, environmental, and economic impacts of during these years. Thus, this expansion in production our operations has been presented. This report follows locations is also the underlying reason for the increase in this vein by detailing Anadolu Efes’ commitments to observed in certain performance parameters. its sustainability priorities, performance improvement in these areas, and future targets. The information We will continue our efforts to improve our reporting disclosed in this report covers the performance practices and sustainability studies that we conduct in recorded during the period between 1 January 2013 and line with the Efes Positive Impact Plan. To this end, we 31 December 2013. will review our sustainability priorities and targets with regard to our expanded operational geography and As in previous years, we continued our progress during developments in these markets; we will also improve the reporting period in improving our sustainability our reporting practices in line with new GRI Reporting reporting practice, which encompasses brewery Guidelines. operations. While previous reports covered Anadolu Efes Turkey, Anadolu Efes Russia, Anadolu Efes The document titled “Anadolu Efes 2013 Sustainability Kazakhstan, Anadolu Efes Georgia, and Anadolu Efes Reporting Index,” featuring additional numeric details Moldova operations, this year’s report also includes on our sustainability performance and use of the new production locations in Russia and Anadolu Efes GRI and UNGC reporting principles, can be found Ukraine operations, which were integrated into our on the corporate website, www.anadoluefes.com. operations as a result of a partnership with SABMiller. Sustainability practices and performance outcomes regarding Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş., a subsidiary of Anadolu The Anadolu Efes 2013 Sustainability Report has been Efes, can be found in corporate responsibility reports issued in compliance with the Level B application of published on the website www.cci.com.tr. the G3.1 Guidelines published by the Global Reporting Initiative. The indicators shown on the G3.1 Guidelines have been taken into account in preparing the data that comprises the main content of this report, while GRI-recommended methods and techniques have primarily been used in monitoring the quantitative performance indicators. Sector-specific performance evaluation methods and the set of Communication on Progress (CoP) principles defined by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), which we signed in 2011, have also been taken into consideration in the preparation of the report’s content. In order to demonstrate the actual impacts of Anadolu Efes’ operational expansion on sustainability performance in an accurate and comprehensive 4 PRESIDENT’S STATEMENT “Anadolu Efes believes that sustainability conditions, we successfully carried out projects that management means creating a better life together allowed us to continue steadily decreasing our water, with the communities in which we operate and energy, and packaging-materials use as well as our ensuring sustainable growth as a leading brewing greenhouse gas emissions. In line with our studies on company across our entire operating territory. As part enhancing our value chain, we successfully brought our of this journey, we are taking effective action through Agriculture Support Program to our Moldova operation our Efes Positive Impact Plan to seize all opportunities following its introduction in Turkey. While continuing and mitigate all risks in the social, economic, and our studies regarding community development and environmental spheres. This sustainability report, product responsibility, we have introduced new the fourth that we have published, portrays our practices in order to improve our operational reliability achievements thus far and lays out a perspective for and employee development. We have also launched the future in line with our sustainability strategy.” infrastructure studies with an eye toward improving our sustainability performance measurement and More than 300 million people live in the areas in evaluation system. which Anadolu Efes operates, a territory comprising many dynamic and emerging economies. Through its Climate change poses significant risks for the brewing 45 years of experience, Anadolu Efes operates in this sector due to its environmental and social impacts. highly competitive geography by adhering to its goals During the most recent reporting period, Anadolu Efes of generating value for stakeholders and ensuring the continued taking proactive steps to effectively mitigate continuity of the company’s sustainable development. these risks and create new opportunities. Along with We have once again successfully fulfilled these goals our practices for consuming fewer resources and in the year 2013, despite challenging market conditions generating less emissions and waste, we launched created by regulatory changes. This past year, we studies that aim to develop our relationships with integrated the operations we took over in Ukraine related NGOs and initiatives in order to cooperate on and Russia during the previous reporting period, while generating mutually beneficial solutions. To that end, also preserving our profitability by adapting quickly to we will continue to work together with study groups a changing market environment. As a result, Anadolu from Global Compact Turkey and the Sustainable Efes ended the reporting period as the world’s 10th Development Association of Turkey and further largest and Europe’s 5th largest beer producer. enhance our cooperation. As of 2014, we will also be a signatory party to the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water In 2013, we also received highly favorable feedback on Mandate. the sustainability management studies that we have been conducting under our Efes Positive Impact Plan. Our most significant achievement during this reporting I strongly believe that we will continue progressing period was becoming the first and the only Turkish in the upcoming period toward the goals we set in company to be listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability line with our sustainability strategy, thus continuing Index (DJSI), in its Emerging Economies Category. Being the development of Anadolu Efes along with that of included on what is regarded as one of the most credible the communities in which we operate. I express my sustainability indices demonstrates the success of the gratitude to all of our esteemed stakeholders, notably sustainability program carried out by Anadolu Efes. our Board of Directors, our employees, our investors, dealers, suppliers, and business partners, for their trust The success we have achieved has spurred us to in us and their support for the principles and practices continue our efforts in order to further develop our we have adopted in order to achieve this goal. performance on our sustainability priorities. Despite the challenges presented by changing market Damian Gammell Beverage Group President and Anadolu Efes CEO 5 Sustainability Progress Chart* Wa ter Priorities and Commitments We are producing more beer using less water. Ma nagemen Achievements Compared to 2008, we: t consumed 19 percent less water in beer production and 24 percent less water in malt production generated 24 percent less wastewater in both beer and malt production. saved more than 460,000 m3 of water through improvement projects. Goals In 2015 we will reduce specific water consumption per unit product in breweries by 35 percent compared to 2008. We will reduce wastewater discharges in line with water consumption reduction targets. We will continue developing water saving and recovery projects. We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives related to the protection of water resources. Priorities and Commitments We are reducing our carbon footprint by using energy resources more efficiently. Ener Achievements gy Compared to 2008, we consumed 10 percent less energy and generated 10 percent fewer a issions M emissions per unit product in our breweries. Em Compared to 2012, we consumed 5 percent less energy and generated 5 percent fewer emissions an per unit product in our malt production facilities. For the first time in the past five years, we nd reduced our energy consumption and emissions level below 2008 figures. Goals In 2015, we will reduce specific energy consumption and specific emissions per unit product in our breweries by 25 percent compared to 2008. en We will continue with practices that increase efficiency in our distribution operations. em We will continue with the procurement of cooler devices with reduced environmental impacts t ag and extend this practice in all country operations. We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives for combating climate change. We will search out opportunities to employ renewable resources in our energy portfolio. Priorities and Commitments In order to generate more added value, we are enhancing our value chain. Enh Achievements a We continued our business development efforts with suppliers, dealers, and distributors. nc We launched research initiatives to model suppliers’ sustainability performance ing assessments. the Value C We expanded our agricultural support program to our Moldova operations. Goals We will continue our business development efforts together with suppliers, dealers, and distributors. ha We will start developing practices to evaluate our suppliers’ sustainability performance. We will continue our agricultural support programs in Turkey and Moldova. in Priorities and Commitments Pro We are working to create a consumer base that enjoys beer responsibly and is familiar with d beer culture. uc Achievements tR We worked to improve our quality systems. es p o ns We continued our responsible consumption campaigns as part of country operations. i b Goals We will carry out studies to increase quality systems certification rates across all operations. il ity We will continue to improve our practices in regard to promoting a culture of responsible consumption of beer. 6 Priorities and Commitments In order to be a reliable neighbor, we conduct safe and environmentally friendly operations. y ilit Achievements al Reli tion We increased the rate of our facilities certified with ISO 22000 or HACCP to 91 percent. We improved our OHS data reporting systems. ab We achieved an injury rate of 1.63. a r We recovered 94.6 percent of solid waste generated. Goals By 2015 we will complete the certification process for ISO 22000 or HACCP in all our Op facilities. e We will continue our operations with a target of zero accidents. We will increase our performance in recycling and reuse of solid waste. Priorities and Commitments We care about the expectations of the communities in which we operate and support their ent development. pm Achievements ty Deve We increased our local procurement rate calculated by expenditure from 66 percent to 78 uni percent. lo We conducted projects and sponsorships in the areas of environment, education, health, and arts and culture. Goals m We will continue to develop our local procurement practices. We will continue to conduct projects to increase the quality of life for the communities in Com which we operate. t en Priorities and Commitments In order to become an employer of choice, we provide a fair work environment where our m employees’ talents are valued. anage Achievements Compared to 2012, we increased our training hours per employee by 10 percent, to 24.4 hours. tM Through various programs, we offered development opportunities for employees at every len level. a Goals T We will continue to provide our employees with broader development opportunities. Priorities and Commitments ent We reduce material consumption through greener packaging practices. m Achievements e g Ma n a g PET weight per product sales decreased in one-way packaging practices while glass weight increased in line with our changed product portfolio due to new operations. Compared to 2012, the weight of one-way packaging waste reclaimed increased by 22 percent. ag in Goals We will continue with our practices aiming to reduce packaging weight per product sold. ck We will give preference to greener packaging applications. Pa We will work to further develop our recovery performance. * All commitments, achievements, and targets indicated on this chart have been calculated and disclosed within the limits of country operations in the reporting scope. In upcoming periods, these indications may vary according to possible changes in the reporting scope. 7 ANADOLU EFES BREWERY OPERATIONS ANADOLU EFES BREWERY ‘‘ OPERATIONS rope Eu 5. Anadolu Efes pursues its activities with the vision of becoming the most admired beer company in all of the countries in which it operates and adding flavor to life with its responsibly consumed products, while at the same time continuing to expand its operational geography through its sustainable-growth-oriented management strategy. W A s of 2013, Anadolu Efes has 18 breweries and 7 malt production facilities in six countries and an annual beer production capacity of 43.7 mhl . We 10. orld deliver our products under more than 40 beer brands in our countries of operation as well as in over 70 export markets, making Anadolu Efes Europe’s fifth largest and the world’s 10th largest brewer.** In this reporting period, the most significant development with regard to the brewery sector within Anadolu Efes’ MARKET OUTLOOK operational geography is the market shrinkage observed Anadolu Efes pursues its operations in a vast geography due to pressure put on sales by tighter legal regulations seen as a growth region by the world’s largest brewers on alcohol. In response to these new market conditions, and comprised of developing economies and a dynamic which have also had a negative impact on the capacity population of more than 300 million people; despite the utilization rates of brewers in general, optimization varied circumstances in this region, we are maintaining our measures aimed at increasing productivity are expected continuous development trend throughout this territory. to be undertaken in our operational geography. ANADOLU EFES TURKEY As of 2013 year-end, Anadolu Efes Turkey has maintained its leading position with a 76 percent share of the Turkish market, which offers great potential with its population of 76.7 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 11.4 liters. The Anadolu Efes Turkey operation carries out its production activities in five breweries*, two malt production facilities, and one hops 5 2 1 processing facility. * Suspension of brewery and maltery operations was decided for Moscow Factory in Russia effective by the 1st January 2014, of brewery 8 operations for Rostov Factory in Russia during the first quarter of the year and for Lüleburgaz Factory in Turkey effective 1st May 2014. ** Company’s estimation. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA Russia constitutes the world’s fourth largest beer market with its population of 141.4 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 61 liters. The Anadolu Efes Russia operation, our largest operation in terms of production volume, carries out its production activities with eight breweries, five malt production facilities and one preform production facility. As of 2013 year-end, the Anadolu Efes Russia operation is the fourth largest beer producer in the market with a 14 percent share. 8 5 ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN Kazakhstan is one of the prominent markets in its region with its population of 17.2 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 30 liters. The Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan operation carries out production activities in two breweries and is in a leading position 2 with a 58 percent market share. ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA Moldova is a promising market with its population of 3.6 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 38 liters. With production activities carried out in one brewery, Anadolu Efes Moldova is the largest brewer in the country and the market leader with a 72 percent share. 1 ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA Georgia is one of the strategic markets for Anadolu Efes with its population of 4.9 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 22 liters. Anadolu Efes Moldova is the market leader with a 55 percent share, with production activities carried out in one brewery. 1 ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE The most recent country to be included in the operational geography of Anadolu Efes, Ukraine is estimated to be the world’s 13th largest beer market with its population of 45.5 million and annual beer consumption per capita of 57 liters. The Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation carries out its production activities in one brewery, and holds the fourth place in the 1 market. * Suspension of brewery and maltery operations was decided for Moscow Factory in Russia effective by the 1st January 2014, of brewery operations for Rostov Factory in Russia during the first quarter of the year and for Lüleburgaz Factory in Turkey effective 1st May 2014. 9 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT ‘‘ W ith the motto “To Sustain a Better Life” at its core, the “Efes Positive Impact Plan” forms the strategic infrastructure for Anadolu Efes Sustainability Management. Thanks to the practices implemented thus far, we have managed our sustainability priorities efficiently and maintained our holistic, comprehensive, and powerful strategic stand during the latest reporting period. We believe in the need to cooperate with EFES POSITIVE IMPACT PLAN stakeholders to sustain a better life. We Supporting the goal of sustaining a better life for future generations, the Efes Positive Impact Plan is guided focus our business strategies on creating a by four main behavioral patterns: emphasizing values, sustainable positive impact. focusing on priorities, energizing stakeholders, and sustaining achievements. Efes Positive Impact Plan Emphasize Values We believe in people, knowledge, entrepreneurship and synergy Water Energy & Product Packaging Consumption Emissions Responsibility Focus on Priorities Enhancing Talent Operational Community Value Chain Management Reliability Development Energize Stakeholders Stakeholder Dialogue Sustain Achievements Corporate Policies Systems & Processes 10 PERFORMANCE EVALUATION STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT In line with the Efes Positive Impact Plan, we monitor Anadolu Efes meets stakeholder expectations and the performance delivered in our priority areas through works toward achieving common goals thanks to its objective indicators compatible with GRI Guidelines, studies undertaken through a collective initiative. and share the results achieved in sustainability reports. Many of these priority areas constitute the fundamental More detailed information on the Efes Positive Impact components of our corporate performance evaluation Plan and sustainability management is available on the process. Our sustainability goals have become part of corporate website, www.anadoluefes.com. both individual and corporate performance evaluations and our achievements in meeting our sustainability targets influence the remuneration of employees at every level. ANADOLU EFES: THE FIRST AND ONLY TURKISH COMPANY ON DOW JONES SUSTAINABILITY INDICES Published since 1999, Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) are the first global index study to assess management quality and potential future performance of the world’s leading companies by integrating sustainability criteria with traditional financial analyses. Covering many different standards including innovation, supply chain management, climate strategy, and stakeholder relations, the DJSI seek to provide objective benchmarking points for investors regarding social, environmental, economic, and financial performances of companies. They thereby support investors in making better-informed decisions as they manage their investment portfolios. The DJSI are formed through an assessment featuring thousands of companies with the highest financial performances on global and regional scales. As a result of this annual study, companies with the highest sustainability performances are added to the DJSI listing. Thanks to its sustainability management model and continuous performance, Anadolu Efes took its place on the DJSI in the Emerging Markets Category in 2013. In becoming the first and only Turkish company to be added to the indices, it demonstrated its leadership among sustainability-focused corporations on a global scale. UNGC TURKEY LOCAL NETWORK BOARD MEMBER We believe that sustainability management ensures that we possess the talents and methods to develop and continue creating added value in social, economic, and environmental areas. The UN Global Compact (UNGC), which was signed by Anadolu Efes in 2011, is among our leading sustainability management instruments and one that we develop further day by day. Membership in the UNGC is a way to express our commitment to safeguarding human rights; providing a fair work environment; upholding ethical, transparent, and accountable management principles; forming an environmentally sensitive business model; and constantly creating value for stakeholders. In addition to our studies to implement UNGC principles at every level of the value chain, Anadolu Efes also promotes efforts to make those principles widespread throughout Turkey as a UNGC Turkey Local Network Board member. 11 WATER MANAGEMENT WATER MANAGEMENT ‘‘ We are aware that more sources of clean water will be required to sustain a better life in the future. Through our efforts to reduce the amount of water used in our breweries and malteries, we protect our most significant raw material for ourselves as well as for society. I n 2013, Anadolu Efes continued its water efficiency Anadolu Efes was measured at the level of 4.5 hl/hl, with studies, which are part of our ongoing improvements the largest improvement in specific water consumption in this area. During the reporting period, which saw recorded at the Anadolu Efes Georgia operation, with a changes in market conditions and the completion of work 6.3 percent reduction. The Anadolu Efes Turkey operation to integrate the Russia and Ukraine operations, Anadolu achieved the lowest specific water consumption values Efes succeeded in maintaining the trend of declining water across the company’s breweries, with a rate of 4.0 hl/hl. consumption as a result of our efficiency practices. Within the reporting period, the downtrend in water consumption seen at Anadolu Efes malt production WATER CONSUMPTION In 2013, Anadolu Efes breweries continued with the facilities since 2008 was maintained, with specific water water consumption trend seen in 2012. In this reporting consumption in malt production houses reduced by 3 period, an increase in total amount of water consumption percent, to 6.2 m3/ton, in 2013. accompanied the increasing number of breweries and a decreasing capacity utilization rate as a result of changing Anadolu Efes has saved more than 400,000 m3 of water market conditions. Though this had a negative impact on through projects involving practices such as process the specific water consumption performance, we managed improvement, increase in recovery, and preference for to maintain the ongoing downtrend of recent years in more efficient equipment. This resulted in an additional water consumption performance through our efficiency savings of 200,000 m3 of water in our breweries during the practices. In 2013, the specific water consumption of 2013 reporting period. OUR AIM IS TO REDUCE WATER CONSUMPTION 35 PERCENT BY 2015 AS COMPARED TO 2008. AS OF 2013, WE HAVE GONE 53 PERCENT OF THE WAY TO ACHIEVING THIS GOAL. 12 WATER CONSUMPTION TREND IN BREWERIES WATER CONSUMPTION TREND IN MALTERIES 5.3 7.5 7.4 4.8 4.6 4.5 4.5 6.9 6.4 12.0 11.5 11.6 2.0 2.0 6.2 10.6 10.1 1.8 1.6 1.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific Water Consumption (hl/hl) Specific Water Consumption m3/ton) Total Water Consumption (million m3) Total Water Consumption (million m3) ANADOLU EFES TURKEY: WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT CIP OPTIMIZATION PROJECT Anadolu Efes ensures efficiency in water consumption The CIP Optimization Project, which was through wastewater management, while also minimizing implemented in all breweries affiliated with its environmental impact. The guiding principles for the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation, has wastewater management at Anadolu Efes consist enabled more than 100,000 m3 of water of the reduction of wastewater and pollution loads savings annually in the boiling, filtering, and generated during production processes, at the source filling units. With this project, CIP procedures through improved efficiency and recovery practices, and consisting of seven phases were reduced their discharge in accordance with limit values set by to three phases through the monitoring of legal regulations. cleaning and rinsing durations, the efficiency control of water consumption, and the In the year 2013, the downward trend of specific replacement of existing products with more wastewater discharge values at Anadolu Efes breweries innovative ones. In addition to water savings, was continued with a rate of 3.1 hl/hl. In this period, approximately 200,000 kWh of electricity and the highest improvement rate was achieved in the CIP duration were also saved. Anadolu Efes Georgia operation with 11 percent, while the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation realized the lowest wastewater discharge value with a rate of 2.6 hl/hl. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA UFA BREWERY: WATER REUSE Within this period, the downtrend seen since 2008 During the reporting period, the Anadolu in Anadolu Efes malt production facilities’ specific Efes Russia Ufa Brewery managed to wastewater discharge values was continued, with a 6 recover 40,000 m3 of water annually through percent reduction over 2012, at the level of 5.0 m3/ton. a project aimed at reusing the water utilized for rinsing empty bottles during the packaging process. ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA VITANTA BREWERY: WATER RECOVERY IN CIP FACILITIES In 2013, an opportunity for water recovery emerged through the improvement practices conducted at the Vitanta Brewery in Moldova. As a result of these studies, 2,400 m3 of hot water were recovered and 652 GJ of heat energy saved in 2013. It is expected that this practice will result in 2,500 m3 of water recovery in 2014. 13 WATER MANAGEMENT WASTEWATER TREATMENT FACILITIES By treating the wastewater generated by production processes to high quality standards, Anadolu Efes discharges this wastewater without having a negative WASTEWATER TREND IN BREWERIES impact on the environment. Continuing unit investments 3.9 for this purpose are determined by criteria that ensure 3.5 both minimal environmental impact and also financial 3.3 3.2 3.2 sustainability. To further improve our environmental 8.9 impact reduction, we also conduct modernization 8.4 8.2 studies in existing units in line with new technologies, 7.6 7.1 even if the units are currently in compliance with the performance expected by environmental regulations. When planning new investments, new technologies with less environmental impact are given preference even if their cost is higher. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In the reporting period, construction of the wastewater treatment facility installed at the Anadolu Efes Moldova Specific Wastewater Discharge (hl/hl) Total Wastewater Discharge (milyon m3) Vitanta Brewery was completed to be put into use in the first quarter of 2014. The wastewater treatment facility at the Anadolu Efes Georgia Natakhtari Brewery was also completed and put into operation. This facility WASTEWATER TREND IN MALTERIES is the most modern of its kind in Georgia, featuring the highest-level technology to reduce wastewater pollution 6.1 6.0 loads to a minimum in line with Anadolu Efes standards, 5.4 5.3 5.0 and offers informative services on this topic to the 1.6 1.6 visiting public and private sector representatives. 1.4 1.3 1.0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific Wastewater Discharge (m3/ton) Total Wastewater Discharge (milyon m3) 14 ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE DONETSK PLANT: RENEWAL OF WATER PROCESSING TECHNOLOGIES Thanks to the high-tech membrane practice utilized in the Donetsk Brewery water processing facility, 33,000 m3 of water was saved in the five-month period from the completion of the project until the year-end. It is expected that the annual savings amount will be more than 70,000 m3. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: RENEWAL OF WATER SOURCES During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Russia continued its project to reclaim local clean water sources, reclaiming 14 water sources in 2013 for a total of 50 since the project began in 2011. The project aims to create alternative sources to meet the water needs of the local community and is voluntarily supported by employees of the Anadolu Efes Russia operation. Within the context of this project, the quality and microbiological characteristics of the reclaimed sources were also evaluated. Conducted in collaboration with the Russian Union of Youth, Green Crescent, and local environmental authorities, the project is expected to provide clean water for over 50,000 people every year. 15 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT T he ISO 50001 Energy Management System Standard certification studies begun in the Anadolu Efes Turkey operations during the previous reporting ‘‘ period continued in 2013 and new certification processes were launched for the Natakhtari plant in Georgia and the Karaganda and Almaty plants in Kazakhstan. The Global Water and Energy Consumption Reduction Project that was initiated at the end of 2012 continued during the reporting period with detailed field analyses conducted by a work group comprising employees from various Anadolu Efes breweries who specialize in different fields and shared best practices. Through field studies We are reducing our carbon footprint through carried out in five breweries as a part of the project studies the smarter use of energy resources in all our in 2013, a roadmap was defined that aims to prevent 5,800 tons of CO2 emissions, create more than 370 TJ in energy operations. Increasing our energy efficiency savings, and save approximately 650,000 m3 of water. creates a positive impact for sustaining a better Anadolu Efes aims to extend the project, which helps transform opportunities determined by specialists into life. action plans, in order to achieve even greater energy and water savings. WE AIM TO DECREASE OUR ENERGY CONSUMPTION 25 PERCENT BY 2015 AS COMPARED TO 2008. ENERGY EFFICIENCY consumption values that began in 2012 was further The incorporation in 2013 of new breweries in Russia improved by 5 percent in 2013 to reach the level of 998 and Ukraine into Anadolu Efes operation centers and the kWh/ton. significant changes seen in market conditions had impacts on the energy management portfolio of our breweries. Studies were initiated that aim to optimize our operations in While energy consumption reached the level of 3,552 TJ the next reporting period in light of the ongoing integration due to the increase in production plants, constituting process in our Russia and Ukraine operations and the a new benchmark for Anadolu Efes, a specific energy changes in market conditions experienced throughout our consumption of 38.3 kWh/hl was achieved as a result of operational geography. Our energy portfolio strategy and capacity utilization rates differing from those of the last objectives have also been updated in accordance with this reporting period on a plant-by-plant basis. The Anadolu new scenario. Efes Ukraine operation, which was included in the reporting scope as of 2013, became the country operation with the During the reporting period, Anadolu Efes continued its lowest energy consumption rate: 29.3 kWh/hl. efficiency projects aimed at reducing energy consumption and related GHG emissions. In 2013, approximately 110 Within the reporting period, total energy consumption TJ of energy was saved and 7,500 tons of CO2 emissions in malteries was reduced by 21 percent, to the level of prevented thanks to efficient equipment choices and 748 TJ. By this means, the downtrend in specific energy process improvement projects. 16 ENERGY CONSUMPTION TRENDS IN BREWERIES ENERGY CONSUMPTION TRENDS IN MALTERIES 38.2 39.3 36.9 1.074 36.7 1.042 1.054 1.050 36.6 998 3,552 997 1.027 996 3,211 3,241 3,037 950 2,961 748 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Specific Energy Consumption (kWh/hl) Specific Energy Consumption (kWh/ton) Total Energy Consumption (TJ) Total Energy Consumption (TJ) REINFORCEMENT OF IMPROVEMENT OF COOLING HEAT SAVING IN ANADOLU EFES INSULATION SYSTEMS AT SYSTEMS AT ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN ALMATY BREWERY ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA TURKEY ANKARA BREWERY WAREHOUSES KAZAN BREWERY The cooling system at the Forklift entrance-exit zones at the Energy losses at the Kazan Ankara Brewery was optimized Almaty Brewery were equipped with Brewery were substantially in accordance with changes in high-speed automated doors that reduced in 2013 through seasonal requirements through a remain closed unless necessary, strong insulation project aimed at optimizing cooling significantly reducing heat losses, applications aimed at steam systems. As a result of this change especially during winter. As a result and hot water valves. The carried out within the scope of of this improvement, approximately project, which started process improvement works, an 2.2 TJ of heat energy was saved with the determination efficiency increase of 2 percent in and 120 tons CO2 of GHG emissions of critical areas, ensured energy consumption in the cooling prevented. A floor heating system was heat control through the facility was recorded. also installed in the 4,282 m2 storage installation of insulation area at the Almaty Brewery. With this systems. Implementation energy-saving change implemented, of this project, which helped product storage capacity was achieve approximately 2.3 increased and fire safety improved. TJ of electricity savings, was also initiated in the Ufa, Kaluga, and Novosibirsk breweries. 17 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY IN DISTRIBUTION DECLARATION OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN OPERATIONS BUILDINGS Studies to improve efficiency in distribution operations, Anadolu Efes signed the Declaration of Energy which account for a significant share of the energy Efficiency in Buildings in 2013, highlighting its consumed and emissions generated throughout the commitment to reducing energy consumption. Anadolu Efes value chain, were continued during After conducting various projects and implementing the reporting period. Projects on route planning and various practices aimed at climatization, logistics optimization and improvement all had a illumination, and building management, we positive impact on performance outcomes. continue to make studies to assess and improve our energy consumption performance in buildings. Improvements in logistics distance per product were implemented as a result of works performed in plantto-plant, plant-to-warehouse, and plant-to-client distribution operations. As a result, when compared EMISSION TREND IN BREWERIES to the previous year, the distribution distance was 10.3 10.1 reduced by 5 percent, to 3.4 km/hl. 9.9 9.8 9.8 260 A decrease was also seen in fuel consumption 233 237 generated by forklift movements in handling processes, 225 221 despite the increase in sales volume. The amount of fuel consumed per product in handling processes was decreased by 2 percent compared to 2012, to the level of 0.08 kg/hl. ENERGY EFFICIENCY IN COOLERS Coolers, the most important means for preserving product quality and ensuring products are delivered to consumers at the ideal temperature; also have a 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 significant impact on our indirect carbon footprint. For this reason, we continue to work ceaselessly to replace Specific Emissions Trend (kg CO2/hl) Total Emissions Trend (kton CO2e) our current coolers with environmentally friendlier devices at all sales points where it is operationally and technically feasible. Environmentally friendly coolers are categorized EMISSION TREND IN MALTERIES according to their qualifications as LED-lit coolers, electronic-controller-enabled coolers, and coolers 254 247 249 250 using hydrocarbon refrigerant gases. Of the more than 238 53,000 coolers procured in 2013 by Anadolu Efes, 93 66 67 65 percent have at least one of these three qualifications, 63 while 33 percent have all three. We continue to work to expand our environmentally friendly cooler practices, 50 which began in our Turkey operation, throughout all of our operations. GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS In parallel with increase in the number of our breweries in 2013, the total amount of emissions has increased compared to 2012, occurring at the level of 260 kton CO2. Nevertheless, the increase rate in specific emission 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 amounts resulting from a decreased capacity utilization Specific Emissions Trend (kg CO2/ton) rate was limited through efficiency studies. As a result, Total Emissions Trend (kton CO2e) 18 the amount of emissions per product for breweries was 10.1 kg CO2e/hl for all Anadolu Efes operations. Despite the increase trend experienced across our operations in this period, more successful results ECO-ENERGY AWARDS SPONSORSHIP FROM were achieved on the basis of country operations. The ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA highest level of improvement in the amount of specific As we continue our ceaseless efforts to combat emissions was achieved by the Anadolu Efes Moldova climate change, Anadolu Efes operations also operation with a rate of 7.7 percent, while the Anadolu support studies devoted to raising awareness Efes Georgia operation recorded the lowest emissions in their regions on ways of transitioning to a value across all operations with 6.5 kg CO2e/hl. low-carbon economy, including energy efficiency In contrast to breweries, a substantial improvement and renewable energy. In this context, the was achieved in the greenhouse gas emissions trend in Anadolu Efes Moldova operation assumed parallel to the energy consumption trend in malteries. the sponsorship of the Eco-Energy Awards, a The amount of emissions per product in malteries was comprehensive organization held in Moldova reduced 5 percent compared to 2012, dropping to the in 2013 that evaluated projects implemented level of 238 kg CO2/ton in 2013. During this period, the Anadolu Efes Russia operation improved its specific in the fields of energy efficiency and renewable emissions amount in malteries by a rate of 7.5 percent, energy. reducing it to the level of 249 kg CO2/ton, while Anadolu Efes Turkey remained at the 225 kg CO2/ton level. 19 ENHANCING THE VALUE CHAIN ENHANCING THE VALUE CHAIN O ne of the key factors underlying the longterm success of Anadolu Efes is our value chain system, which provides a profitable and sustainable business model for all business partners, ‘‘ from suppliers to dealers and distributors. This giant value network consists of more than 5,000 product and service suppliers, more than 150 barley and approximately 500 hops suppliers, nearly 500 dealers and distributors, and tens of thousands of on-trade or off-trade sales points. It allows Anadolu Efes products to reach consumers all across a large operational geography. We present a successful example of growth together with the thousands of business partners that form the links of this value chain, and create programs to aid in developing their technical and managerial We are enhancing our value chain in order competences in addition to their business performance. to generate higher added value. Through Through our agricultural support and R&D programs, our business development projects and we create positive value for farmers while ensuring the sustainability of our raw material supply in terms agricultural support programs, we aim to create of both quality and amount. Through such value chain a positive impact on the business values of our enhancement projects, we provide mutual benefits by implementing practices that serve to improve the stakeholders while reinforcing our corporate productivity, business volume, and working norms of sustainability. our business partners. WE HAVE INCREASED THE ADDED VALUE GENERATED BY OUR SUPPLY CHAIN THROUGH PROJECTS DEVELOPED IN COLLABORATION WITH OUR BUSINESS PARTNERS. WE HAVE BROUGHT OUR AGRICULTURAL SUPPORT PROGRAM TO THE ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA OPERATION, THEREBY SECURING OUR SUPPLY SOURCE AND PRESENTING THE NATIONAL ECONOMY WITH A NEW AREA OF PRODUCTION. 20 VALUE CHAIN ENHANCEMENT and sales points that make up its sales channels. Various business development partnerships were also PRACTICES One of the essential objectives of our sustainability formed with suppliers during this reporting period. program is to reinforce Anadolu Efes’ identity as a These initiatives include adopting practices developed responsible, reliable, and transparent customer and by individual country operations in line with local supplier. Hence, we expect our business partners expectations and needs, as well as practices conducted to comply with relevant legal regulations, adopt the across all Anadolu Efes operations. For instance, business-ethics norms of Anadolu Efes, and place partnerships were formed during the reporting period the utmost importance on fundamental norms such for the purpose of redeveloping packaging materials as human rights, occupational health and safety, and cooling devices with more efficient, environmentally and environmental protection. This expectation was friendly qualities in order to produce more added value for reinforced with our signing of the UN Global Compact all parties. In this context, new products were developed in 2011. Within the reporting period, Anadolu Efes exclusively for Anadolu Efes operations in collaboration began forming an active methodology regarding the with producer and designer business partners. management of social, environmental, and economic risks and the tracking of supplier practice and All Anadolu Efes country operations carry out practices performance in procurement processes from the supply within their value chain to improve their cooperation with chain. We also started conducted research studies business partners. In the reporting period, the Supplier that will help develop procurement procedures in this Partnership Program conducted by the Anadolu Efes direction. In the forthcoming reporting period, we aim Russia operation and the Strategic Partnership Program to start putting development studies into practice as a conducted by the Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation result of our research and feasibility studies. stand out among these practices. Within the scope of such programs, the working and production norms of In 2013, Anadolu Efes continued with practices that suppliers are evaluated, improvement practices are support the adoption of efficient business models that carried out, and measures to increase supply continuity increase business assets by the dealers, distributors, and safety are jointly determined. 21 ENHANCING THE VALUE CHAIN SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE conducted by Tarbes, a subsidiary of Anadolu Efes, hops An important component of ensuring the sustainability cultivation areas in Turkey have increased greatly over of Anadolu Efes operations is preserving the continuity the years. One of the objectives of the hops program of production, product quality, and taste. Therefore, one we conduct in Turkey is to go beyond meeting all of of our principal objectives is ensuring that barley and the demand for hops through local production and hops supplies, which depend on agricultural production, transform hops into a value-added export product, are provided in the desired quality and amount, meeting thereby supporting the agricultural sector, which plays the correct specifications, at the requested time. Since an important role in the local economy. starting its R&D studies on barley and hops for malt production in 1982 in its Turkey operation, Anadolu Anadolu Efes has decided to bring the agricultural Efes has been carrying out such research without support program created in Turkey 32 years ago to its interruption for 32 years. Moldova operation, where trial plantings started in 2012 with five main varieties on a 350-hectare test field. As a result of a variety of improvement studies that have Results obtained throughout the 2012-2013 seeding been conducted, 15 barley and seven hops varieties have season showed that winter seed varieties yield better been developed and registered. The support program results in Moldova’s climatic conditions. Trial plantings based on the contractual production model developed of spring seed varieties also continue within the scope by Anadolu Efes, which aims to supply its demand for of the studies; those that provide the most efficient malt barley and hops from local producers and through production conditions will be subject to further research. its own registered varieties, has achieved great success. Anadolu Efes aims to meet all of its Moldova operation’s The program has reached nearly 3,000 farmers and demand for malted barley from local producers by 2017. provides a livelihood for tens of thousands of people; The feasibility studies conducted indicate a significant through innovations carried out over time, it has created production potential for malted barley across Moldova, value far beyond its original scope. where its production is unprecedented. With the implementation of the program, Anadolu Efes will ensure In addition to the financial, operational training, and its raw material supply without depending on import technical support provided to producers within the sources, and the agricultural sector of Moldova will have scope of the program, the crop varieties developed encountered a new product with export potential. contribute to the increased added value generated for both producers and Anadolu Efes. Variety improvement studies aim to mitigate the effects of climate change risks on agricultural production, productivity, and product quality by focusing on varieties resistant to arid climates, as they require less water, energy, and pesticide consumption. The improved varieties have also enabled water and energy savings in malt production. Use of the Atılır and Fırat varieties registered by Anadolu Efes, for example, saves 12 to 24 percent on electricity consumption, 18 to 22 percent on fuel consumption, and 40 to 47 percent on water consumption depending also on external environment and operating conditions compared to the most common barley varieties produced in Turkey. Thanks to hops variety improvement and contractual production studies Barley Registration Year Hops Efes 3 1992 Efes Aroma 1997 Ege Erciyes Güney Efes 98 1998 Anadolu 98 Angora 1999 TARBES 99 Anadolu 99 Çumra 2001 2001 Pazaryeri 2001 Çatalhöyük 2001 Başgül 2003 Atılır 2005 Fırat Meriç Erciyes 2006 Yıldız 2007 Durusu Akdane 2011 Toprak 23 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY ‘‘ The customer satisfaction Anadolu Efes has achieved through its product and service quality is an important factor in the company assuming a leading position in all the markets in which we operate. In an effort to ensure that this customer satisfaction continues, we constantly study consumer expectations and introduce innovations to further improve the customer experience. We believe that our products best add positive value to social life when consumed by PRODUCT LABELING AND INFORMING responsible people familiar with beer culture, CONSUMERS and thus strive to improve the consumer Anadolu Efes believes that it is a fundamental right for consumers to be able to access all the necessary experience in that way. information on every product they purchase. This is why A we share our product information through channels our nadolu Efes’ product responsibility understanding customers can easily access, such as product labels, is based on the principles of “producing highwebsites, and consumer support lines. quality beers,” “acting responsibly in marketing processes,” and “creating positive value for stakeholders.” All Anadolu Efes products are labeled with details of By providing products that are made according to their contents that go beyond the criteria set by local high quality norms and in the varieties our consumers regulations. In addition to the required basic information, demand, we create awareness among beer lovers and packages that reach end consumers include the product’s develop environments and opportunities fit to enjoy alcohol content along with warnings about responsible beer culture through responsible consumption. consumption and recycling. We believe that informing consumers properly about a product, especially its alcohol PRODUCT PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT content, is a fundamental criteria in designing product Through our product portfolio management, we seek labels. Additional information is sometimes featured on to provide beer lovers with products that meet their labels in line with specific country operations, including expectations for quality and taste, in suitable places legal regulations in the target markets, consumption at a reasonable price. Hence the fundamental issue habits, and sector structure. For instance, Anadolu Efes addressed during our studies on improving product Russia uses an “18 years old” marker on its labels and quality is ensuring the consistency and continuity of product packages to emphasize that selling beer to product taste that our consumers demand. people below that age limit is prohibited. As part of a OUR GOAL IS TO PROMOTE RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION IN ALL THE COUNTRIES IN WHICH WE OPERATE, AND WE EXPAND THE SCOPE OF RELATED PROGRAMS IN LINE WITH THIS GOAL. 24 voluntary initiative undertaken by the Beer Producers beer culture. To this end, the Anadolu Efes Russia of Russia Association, a health warning stressing the operation organizes facility visits for different stakeholder message that excessive alcohol consumption is bad groups, particularly consumers and business partners as for health was added during the reporting period, in well as managers, media members, university students, addition to the usual “Drink Responsibly” language. As and the general public. Visitors are provided with a voluntary practice, the Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation accurate and reliable information about the company, places warning signs and texts guiding consumers in its brand, and its production processes. A total of 1,100 responsible consumption on its product labels while visitors observed beer production processes during the Anadolu Efes Moldova operation employs similar facility visits organized in 2013. Moreover, Anadolu Efes warnings about responsible consumption and the legal Russia also issued a brochure titled “Beer and Food” that drinking age being 18 years old. covers information about the history of beer, beer and food pairings, and the proper type of glass for each style With the exception of those who are under age and of beer. The brochure, which had its initial release at the those interested in the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation Russian Beer Forum, received huge interest from forum due to local regulations, all Anadolu Efes stakeholders participants. can access product information through the corporate and product web pages. Consumers can also get detailed ANADOLU EFES TURKEY RECEIVES PRODUCT information on our products by calling the support QUALITY AWARDS numbers on the product labels, whereupon they may Efes Pilsen, Efes Malt, Efes Xtra, Bomonti, and convey their suggestions and complaints. Every request Efes Unfiltered products from the Anadolu received by our support lines is carefully considered and Efes Turkey operation were recognized by the receives a reply. International Taste & Quality Institute in its iTQi 2013 competition. Anadolu Efes received three DEVELOPING THE BEER CULTURE stars, the competition’s highest rating. Anadolu Efes strives to see a refined beer culture take Efes Pilsen Premium, Efes Malt, Efes Xtra, and root in its operational geography. To contribute to that Bomonti products were awarded with a Silver goal, we carry out studies to provide consumers with new Medal in the Monde Selection 2013 Contest, while tastes and beer varieties, put into place consumptionEfes Unfiltered received a Gold Medal. point and service-quality improvement programs, and engage in practices that provide important information to consumers. In order to appeal to different consumer preferences, Anadolu Efes forms its brand portfolios according to ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA RECEIVES PRODUCT local taste criteria. In addition to our traditional beer, QUALITY AWARD we also provide consumers with low-calorie, flavored, The Anadolu Efes Russia operation won the and non-alcoholic beer options. Produced for those who “Product Quality Award” at the “Tatarstan wish to socialize and enjoy the taste of beer without Best Product and Services” awards ceremony consuming alcohol, non-alcoholic beer has increased its held in November in Kazan. It also received share in the product portfolio from 1.81 percent in 2012 first place certificates for four different beer to 2.40 percent in 2013. Moreover, many innovative types in the food products category. products were introduced for consumers to enjoy during the reporting period, ensuring that different tastes are available to beer lovers. Initiated by the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation in 2000, the Beerhouse Improvement Projects have expanded ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE RECEIVES PRODUCT to all our countries of operation. Carried out through the QUALITY AWARDS Efes Beer Café and Streets of Conviviality practices in The Anadolu Efes Ukraine operation won the grand Turkey; the Beercity Express, Efes Raspopoff, and Liga award in the “Highest Quality Light Beer” category Stawok practices in Russia; and the Beer Street practices at the “Svyato Piva 2013 15th International Beer, in Moldova, these projects seek to keep beer culture Non-Alcoholic Drinks, Mineral and Drinking Water alive in environments with high-quality presentation Taste Competition.” It also received a gold medal in and ambiance. The sharing of experiences based on the the “Highest Quality Dark Beer” category and the top varying practices in different cultural contexts reinforces prize in the “Best External Design for Beer” category synergy across all our operations. at the same event, and won the “Best 100 Products in Ukraine” competition organized in 2013. Informing consumers is an important part of developing 25 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION ‘‘ A nadolu Efes informs consumers on responsible consumption through field studies and new projects undertaken during the reporting period that show a proactive understanding of cultural Anadolu Efes believes that producers must comply differences and current problems faced by specific with responsible marketing principles in order for a countries of operation. As a result, the types of studies undertaken and their details vary from country to responsible consumption culture to take root. Therefore country. we implement our marketing studies within the framework of the rules set by related laws and sector ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA Anadolu Efes Russia led the Loyal Experts Pool Project, initiatives along with the principles defined on a which is also supported by the Beer Producers of Russia corporate level. This means avoiding any content that Association, in 2013. The project targets to contribute in may guide consumers in a negative way, that may seem developing state policies for reducing alcohol addiction throughout the Russian Federation. It centers on discriminatory, that may include a political message, or devising an action plan for changing patterns of alcohol that may violate a society’s or a particular community’s consumption and reducing irresponsible consumption habits by uniting the powers of government officials, value judgment in a general way. Anadolu Efes also medical associations, and alcoholic-beverage producers. takes care to ensure that our products are only available In one example of this work, posters featuring the at sales points abiding by the legal requirements and message “Do not drink and drive” were put up on billboards on the main streets of Moscow and Ulyanovsk that our products are not sold to people under the throughout 2013 as part of a communication campaign proscribed legal age limit. initiated by Anadolu Efes Russia. 26 ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN Anadolu Efes Ukraine undertook studies encouraging Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan organized advertisement responsible consumption through advertisements and communication campaigns to promote responsible covered by various communication channels as part of consumption and undertook studies to ensure its decision to sponsor a project managed by the Beer that such campaigns spread online, through social Producers of Ukraine. networks and blogs. In addition, volunteers carried out various communication studies at 10,000 sales Anadolu Efes Ukraine also lent its support for a points in Almaty, Karaganda, and Astana to prevent program with the theme “Responsibility Starts consumption of alcoholic beverages by people younger with Me,” which was organized by the Local Beer than the legal age limit. Producers Association. The main goal of this program was to ensure cooperation between NGOs and local Another campaign launched in 2013 by the Anadolu administrations in making responsible approaches to Efes Kazakhstan operation, “A Sober Driver,” seeks to alcohol consumption more widespread. Advertisement prevent drinking and driving. It was implemented during signs, posters, and stickers placed at sales points the three summer months of 2013 and is expected to within the scope of the program also sought to convey continue in 2014 as well. messages about responsible sales and consumption, protecting youth from irresponsible consumption, and ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA providing warnings about drinking and driving as well A project launched by Anadolu Efes Moldova in 2013 as selling alcohol to underage people. As part of the focused on preventing people from drinking and project, visual promotions were provided and “mystery driving. Within the scope of the campaign, informative shoppers” visited the sales points to see whether they meetings were held at 40 schools on the negative were selling products to underage people. effects of driving under the influence. You can access responsible consumption projects undertaken by Anadolu Efes country operations about the dangers of drinking and driving, and of underage alcohol consumption, on the website www.drink-moderately.com 27 OPERATIONAL RELIABILITY OPERATIONAL RELIABILITY O ur operational reliability understanding consists of providing customers with the requested amount of products on an uninterrupted basis, at the expected time and location, with the best possible safety and environmental standards. Strategic risks and preventive and response measures are defined for the Anadolu Efes ‘‘ Turkey operation through a project we launched in 2013 to improve our corporate risk management systems. In 2014, we aim to extend such studies to our other country operations. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Securing the health and safety of all stakeholders involved in our operations, particularly that of our employees is an indispensable part of the working culture at Anadolu Efes. In line with this principle, working environments We believe the key to sustaining a better life and business processes are continually improved. In order to raise employee awareness and create a strong together with all of our stakeholders lies in their safety culture, Anadolu Efes provided its employees seeing Anadolu Efes as a reliable neighbor. We with a total of 22,000 person*hours of occupational strive to create a positive impact by carrying out health and safety training during the reporting period. safe and environmentally sensitive operations. Our occupational health and safety management processes are established on the basis of the OHSAS 18000 Standard and risk assessment studies are performed for all operations. Preventive measures are taken in line with the results of these studies; the OUR GOAL IS TO ACHIEVE A ZEROaccidents that do occur are scrutinized and additional efforts made in order to prevent their recurrence. ACCIDENT RATE AND MAXIMIZE Anadolu Efes shows the same sensitivity when it comes to food safety and relies on international OUR RECOVERY OF BYPRODUCTS standards in its production processes. In the reporting period, the rate of production made in facilities certified AND SOLID WASTE. IN 2013, WE with the ISO 22000 or HACCP food safety standards was raised from 89 percent to 91 percent. Our goal is HAD AN INJURY RATE OF 1.63 to complete the certification process of all our facilities by 2015. In addition, 78 percent of Anadolu Efes plants AND RECOVERED 94.6 PERCENT are certified with the ISO 9001 Quality Management Standard, while almost half are certified with the ISO 14000 Environmental Management System Standard. OF THE BYPRODUCTS AND SOLID Anadolu Efes uses a common evaluation criterion WASTE PRODUCED. formed on the basis of ILO directives and GRI indicators alongside measurement techniques developed by 28 OHS Data 2012 2013 ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN KARAGANDA BREWERY: ROAD SAFETY STUDIES Injury Rate 1.22 1.63 As part of a project devoted to road safety at the Karaganda Brewery in Kazakhstan, a GPS system Lost Day Rate 18.25 12.82 was installed in corporate vehicles to enable their monitoring. Following the completion of this occupational health and safety initiative, driving Injury Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours. safety works were also conducted in the field Lost Day Rate: Total number of lost days x 200.000 / of operation while forklift safety was likewise enhanced. Total work days. individual country operations within the framework of local regulations and working cultures. In this way, health and safety data reflecting the overall performance of all operations are included within the scope of reporting. The implementation of corrective measures in this field will continue in the forthcoming period. Employees at all Anadolu Efes facilities receive periodic health examinations and are supported by expert teams that provide counseling and information services. As a result of these efforts, no cases of occupational disease were observed at any operation during the reporting period. Practices devoted to employee health also have a positive impact on operational continuity by helping reduce the rate of general work absenteeism. During the reporting period, no fatal accidents occurred at any Anadolu Efes operation. Our production facilities are monitored by Occupational Health and Safety Committees consisting of company managers, the workplace doctor, the occupational safety supervisor, union representatives, foremen, and employee representatives. These committees meet monthly to discuss the causes of recent incidents and existing risks, and to determine the measures to be taken to improve health and safety conditions. In this way, they contribute to the enhancement of occupational safety performance. The demands and expectations of all Anadolu Efes employees are evaluated in the committees’ decision-making and implementation processes through the agency of union and employee representatives. In the next period, we aim to develop the management of occupational health and safety risks in the supply chain and to improve reporting practices. A nominal increase was observed in the injury rate during this reporting period, reflecting more efficient incident reporting, including of minor cases, due to the increased employee awareness created by trainings on this topic. 29 OPERATIONAL RELIABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY investments within the reporting period. Through these An important component of Anadolu Efes’ sustainability investments, Anadolu Efes aims to ensure continued values is that our operations do not have a negative impact positive developments regarding the environmental on the environmental quality and biodiversity values of impact of its operations. our operational geography. We are therefore careful not to locate production facilities in regions that hold high All Anadolu Efes production facilities follow wastebiodiversity value or are under protection. We also place disposal procedures formed in compliance with legal high importance on avoiding any negative impact of our regulations. The most substantial objective of waste operations on biodiversity in terms of water resources, management is reducing waste at its source and air quality, land availability, or species diversity. As developing disposal methods for reusing the produced a result of our working principles and improvement waste, thereby minimizing our environmental impact. In studies, no significant negative impact on biodiversity 2013, 87 ktons of solid waste and 470 ktons of byproducts values or environmental elements was observed to were produced as a result of brewing and malting have been caused by any of our operations during the processes, of which 94.6 percent were recovered. A total reporting period. of 30 ktons of solid waste and byproducts were disposed of using methods determined by legal regulations Providing employees with the technical knowledge according to their type and class. needed to carry out managerial improvements and required investments is an important element that Various studies were carried out during this period to strengthens our environmental performance. Anadolu enhance waste-management efficiency. The waste Efes provided 829 employees with 8,554 personsludge produced at the Anadolu Efes Turkey İzmir hours of environmental training during the reporting Brewery was sent to cement plants to be used as period. In addition, around 8 million USD was spent an alternative fuel, a practice that raised the sludge on environmental management expenditures and recovery rate of 38 percent in 2012 to 100 percent in 30 this reporting period. The same method was used at the Anadolu Efes Turkey Ankara Brewery, where 14 percent of the waste sludge was sent to cement plants. This reuse of waste sludge had a positive impact on environmental performance, while reducing the costs of waste transportation and disposal. ECOLOGICAL PROJECTS FROM The Anadolu Efes Ukraine Donetsk Brewery made an ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN investment during the reporting period to ensure more In the year 2013, the Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan efficient use of its storage area by shredding and pressing operation conducted ecological public space the stretch film, PET preform, and paper collected for projects in collaboration with the municipality in recycling. The Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan operation Almaty. In the context of these projects, public started employing reusable plastic separators instead of awareness was raised through media coverage and disposable cardboard separators for empty glass pallets. publicity campaigns. Support for ecological projects This practice resulted in increased operational efficiency continues with the Eco Efes Project, a waste reand a reduced waste amount. collection effort designed to promote the Expo 2017 Fair to be held in Astana and created in accordance The byproducts of beer and malt production, particularly with our cooperation with the municipality and local spent grain and yeast, can be reused as a valuable universities. raw material in various fields, including the feed and pharmaceutical industries. Through practices carried out at Anadolu Efes operations, byproducts are returned to the economy without creating any environmental impact and waste disposal costs are reduced. 31 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT ‘‘ I ncreasing the level of economic and socio-cultural welfare of the communities in which we operate is an important element for Anadolu Efes in achieving our sustainability objectives. In the reporting period, We care about the expectations of the we continued creating projects that support the communities in which we operate and support improvement of local economies and contribute to their socio-cultural development. their development. Through our operations, we create a positive impact on the growth of local CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL ECONOMY communities and the enrichment of their socioBrewery operations contribute to local economies, cultural life. both directly and indirectly, so every investment made in this field creates a positive impact on other fields of operation. According to the results of a research OUR AIM IS TO SUPPORT study conducted by Ernst & Young Turkey for the Beer and Malt Producers’ Association of Turkey, beer ECONOMIC AND SOCIOsales in Turkey, where Anadolu Efes is the market leader, have increased by over 6.8 percent in the last CULTURAL DEVELOPMENT IN two years, creating a total of €874 million of added value. About €366 million of this added value was OUR OPERATIONAL GEOGRAPHY. created by brewery operations, while the remainder was generated by related sectors such as supply, IN THE REPORTING PERIOD, WE tourism and entertainment, and retail. A total of 61,800 people are employed in the production and sale of beer CONTINUED WITH PRACTICES THAT products, while only 2,370 are directly employed by the brewer companies. Further details of this research can be accessed at www.anadoluefes.com. CONTRIBUTE TO THE REVIVAL OF Local employment provides a significant fraction of the LOCAL ECONOMIES AND WITH human resources at Anadolu Efes operations. The rate of local employment among senior executives within OUR INVESTMENTS IN PROGRAMS the managerial structure of Anadolu Efes increased from 62.3 percent in 2012, to 87.5 percent in the 2013 SUPPORTING EDUCATION, MUSIC, reporting period. SPORTS, AND OTHER CULTURAL As with human resources, Anadolu Efes prefers to use local channels for its product supply. In the reporting ACTIVITIES. period, local procurement accounted for 78 percent of our total procurement practices. These practices 32 contribute to the development of local economies while preventing supply dependency. Anadolu Efes continues to produce a positive impact on the local economy through field activities, such as culture and arts events held in several cities each year, and other projects implemented in order to improve the value chain. These practices contribute directly and indirectly to the stimulation of local economies, the increasing of employment opportunities, and the improvement of the profitability and productivity of small enterprises. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: PROGRAM FOR DEVELOPING YOUNG ENTREPRENEURSHIP The Young Business Program, which is conducted by the Anadolu Efes Russia operation in collaboration with the International Business Leaders Forum, aims to encourage and support entrepreneurship among youth. The program provides financial support for entrepreneurs in the 18-25 age range, allowing them to implement their extraordinary business ideas, and aims to include youth in social and economic processes on the regional level. In addition to financial support, the program also provides young businesspeople with the opportunity to receive support and guidance from counselors. Thanks to the Young Business Program, six entrepreneurs in three cities implemented their business ideas and over 400 youth were provided with management training. ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN: RENOVATION OF STREET MARKETS PROJECT In 2013, the Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan operation carried out a project to modernize the street markets in Karaganda. Through a long-term planning and budget practice, street markets COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS were renovated and these spaces made to look Anadolu Efes demonstrates its sensitivity toward more modern and orderly. The project scope social expectations by contributing to education, also included sponsorship of the Best Store health, sports, culture, and arts in the countries where competition organized by the municipality. it operates. In the reporting period, the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation continued its support for sports for the 38th year, for music and cinema for the 25th year, for theater for the 22nd year, for archaeological works ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA: for the 18th year, and for projects aimed at developing SUPPORT FOR TEXTILE EMPLOYEES tourism for the seventh year. The Anadolu Efes Moldova operation became a sponsor of the “From the Heart” Spring and Fall SPORTS Fashion Walks. These events were organized to Our largest community investment in sports is the pay tribute to the textile sector, which employs Anadolu Efes Sports Club, established in 1976. Anadolu more than 20,000 women and plays a significant Efes is the first and only Turkish basketball team to role in the national economy. win the European Korac Cup and to participate in the Euroleague and Superleague Final Four. Besides supporting basketball in Turkey, Anadolu Efes has been 33 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT sponsoring the Turkish National Football Team for the past 12 years. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: In addition; Anadolu Efes Moldova became the general partner of the Moldova National Football Team in 2013. URBAN LANDSCAPING PROJECT Anadolu Efes operations continued their contribution The Urban Landscaping Project, started in 2013 to sports in the reporting period, supporting basketball, by the Anadolu Efes Russia operation, aims football, rugby, and motorsports events attended by to design a more intimate and warm-looking thousands. cityscape for urban dwellers by conducting works with a team consisting of company HEALTH employees. Within the context of the project, As a company operating in the alcoholic beverage over three tons of garbage was collected sector, Anadolu Efes adopts responsible marketing and 100 trees planted with the voluntary principles. We provide support for health and education through donations made to Anadolu participation of 200 Anadolu Efes Russia Group’s corporate foundation, the Anadolu Education employees. Employees contributed to the and Health Foundation. The Anadolu Foundation building of a more comfortable living space has established more than 40 educational, health, in the cities of Kaluga, Ulyanosk, Novosibirsk, and social service institutions to date, and provides Kazan, Rostov-on-Don, and Ufa. In 2014, the education scholarships for 900 students every year. scope of the project is planned to be expanded The Anadolu Health Village, established in 2005 with the cooperation of Anadolu Efes and John Hopkins Medicine in order to be implemented in other cities. International, provides free healthcare for more than 10 percent of its patients. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan supported the construction of a pool for the benefit of disabled children, and Anadolu Efes Moldova contributed to the improvement of conditions at children’s hospitals. CULTURE & ARTS Anadolu Efes plays an active role in promoting culture and arts within its operational geography. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Turkey continued its support, for the 16th year, to the International Istanbul Film Festival organized by the Istanbul Foundation for Culture and Arts. In addition, Anadolu Efes Turkey continued its support to 10 theaters and be among the sponsors of the Sadri Alısık Theater and Cinema Acting Awards Ceremony. Anadolu Efes Turkey also supports archaeological studies in order to discover the cultural heritage of Anatolia and transmit it to future generations. In this respect, we have contributed to the excavation and restoration works in the ancient city of Assos for the past 18 years, and in the Apollo Smintheus temple for 15 years. The ancient city of Assos, which was renovated in large part with the support of Anadolu Efes, today hosts theaters, concerts, and festivals. Within the reporting period, the Anadolu Efes Moldova operation assumed social responsibility in the field of education and provided support for various projects aiming at improving the educational opportunities and social lives of university students. 34 : T H E G O L DEN E S K A Z A K HSTAN EF ANADOLU O N P R O G R AM s Golden Eagle Protectionn TI ration continued with it roduction of the golde ct, E P R O T E C EAGL lu Efes K azakhstan ope e pro tection and rep pa rt of the pro je The Anado 2 0 1 2 to support th fa c in g e x tinction. As C enter and th l e ia te d in n th a t is d u c ti o n Program in it azakhsta ds Repro the natura ra l s ymbol of K n k a r Raptor Bir g h studies of eagle, a c u lt u ith th e S u d th ro u ere also d in c o ll a boration w ti n g d a ta was update in numbers. Eagles w stan conducte tute, exis ecrease s Kazakh ta n Z oology Insti c a u s e s for their d T h e A nadolu Efe (Altyn Kaz a k h s e n e a g le s and th e o d u c e d to the w ild . a ti o n a l G o lden Heart gold and intr t the 7 N its Golden habitat of th re p ro d u c tion centers o f th e Y e ar Award a s c h a ri ty award, for breed in Company prestigiou ject. e ra ti o n re ceived the th e c o u n try’s most rk e ts R e n ovation Pro op ered t Ma ards, consid and Karaganda Stree Zhurek) Aw ra m ction Prog Eagle Prote 35 “TOURISM IS THE FUTURE” ‘‘ PROGRAM EASTERN ANATOLIA TOURISM DEVELOPMENT PROJECT More than 20 pensions and tourism focused 3 NGO’s were established at Uzundere district of Erzurum. In The “Tourism is the Future” Program was started in 2007 addition, bird-watching, gastronomy, and other festivals were organized locally and became internationally by the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation in collaboration with renowned. Uzundere district which has developed with the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and the supports of Anadolu Efes Turkey had been declared as tourism center by the Council of Ministers decision. the Turkish Ministry of Culture and Tourism. In the first year of the project, Eastern Anatolia Tourism Development ANADOLU EFES TOURISM TRAININGS (DATUR) project and with the collaborations of Bogazici The Anadolu Efes Tourism Trainings program was University Lifelong Learning Center “Anadolu Efes Tourism initiated in 2007 by the Anadolu Efes Turkey operation in collaboration with Boğaziçi University Lifelong Learning Trainings” project were initiated. DATUR and Tourism Center with the goal of developing tourism and creating Trainings projects were successfully completed at the end job opportunities in this field. By the time it was of 2013. Following these projects, again within the scope of completed at the end of 2012, nearly 5,000 people had been brought into the tourism sector through 160-hour the Tourism is the Future Program, the Sustainable Tourism vocational training programs offered in 22 province and Support Fund was put into practice with an emphasis on five district centers. A second aspect of the program, the Tourism Ambassadors in Charge Project, helped developing and supporting sustainable tourism in Turkey. establish nine Tourism Ambassadors Associations. 36 PROJECT FOR CREATING WOMEN-LED SUSTAINABLE TOURISM VENTURES IN MARDIN This project aims to support sustainable tourism by creating an exemplary women’s enterprise in this sector. A 300-year-old mansion will be converted into a pension and cafe, in line with Mardin’s architectural and cultural heritage, and be run by local women. The project, while allowing visitors to experience the spirit of Mardin and providing an income source for local women, will set a good example for sustainable tourism. 100% MİSİA PROJECT Local women will receive training in silkworm breeding as part of this effort to revive the lost trade of sericulture in Bursa’s 2,000-year-old Misi Village while increasing the employability of women. Participants will eventually start generating an income and becoming more socially integrated by working at restaurants, sericulture workshops, and stores that will be opened in Misi houses. TRADITIONAL CUISINE OF SUSTAINABLE TOURISM SUPPORT FUND SEFERİHİSAR PROJECT A training kitchen will be established in İzmir’s Anadolu Efes Turkey aims to provide funds for projects Seferihisar district where local women will be devoted to local product development, creating educated and certified to teach cooking and share sustainable living spaces, and capacity-building in their knowledge and experience in the courses with local areas with the Sustainable Tourism Support participants. In addition, the project also includes Fund project which reinforces local development. branding and promotion efforts for products made Besides fund support, the project gives operational by women. supports such as training, communication assistance, and consultancy. Anadolu Efes Turkey also supports the formation of development-oriented tourism practices with our Sustainable Tourism Support Fund, in collaboration with private corporations and public institutions. For more information on Anadolu Efes In the year 2013, three projects qualified for fund Turkey’s Tourism is the Future Program support in line with the criteria set by UNDP out of a and its projects, please visit total of 252 applications received from 63 provinces. The project is expected to attract more attention in www.gelecekturizmde.com 2014. 37 TALENT MANAGEMENT TALENT MANAGEMENT ‘‘ I n order to protect our human resources, which are among our most important values, Anadolu Efes provides the atmosphere necessary for strengthening existing talents and achieving high performance, as well as a working life befitting human dignity. In this way, we ensure that our workforce consists of creative, Productivity and creativity are the basic talents hardworking, well-educated, and talented individuals. As of year-end 2013, a total of 8,120 employees are that help us sustain a better life. We intend working in Anadolu Efes operations. to become the most preferred employer by providing a fair work environment where talent HUMAN RIGHTS is appreciated. The Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct is the core policy document laying out the company’s approach to human rights and related processes. This document, covering all company operations, is binding for all employees. Anadolu Efes also supports and abides by IN 2011, WE SOLIDIFIED OUR internationally recognized conventions such as the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In this context, COMMITMENT TO PROVIDING A we strengthened our commitment to supporting human rights by becoming a signatory of the UN Global FAIR WORKING ENVIRONMENT Compact in 2011. BY BECOMING A SIGNATORY TO Anadolu Efes sees diversity as a source of wealth for our organizational culture and thus ensures that THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT. WE our employees are never subjected to any form of discrimination based on their religion, language, HAVE INCREASED TRAINING race, ethnicity, gender, or any other kind of personal attribute or cultural difference. As of year-end 2013, HOURS PER EMPLOYEE TO 24.4 12 percent of senior executives across Anadolu Efes operations are foreigners, while the 2,235 female employees participating in Anadolu Efes operations HOURS, UP 10 PERCENT FROM account for 25.6 percent of our total workforce. In terms of employee categories, women now make up 2012. 11.9 percent of blue-collar personnel and 36.4 percent of white-collar personnel, compared to 9.2 percent and 36.2 percent, respectively, in 2012. Women also hold 38 43 percent of senior management positions. Anadolu countries where they are based and are offered various Efes manages its human-resources processes, additional opportunities upon their return to work. particularly remuneration, benefits, and performance During this reporting period, 73 percent of employees management, with regard to merit and other objective across all Anadolu Efes operations who took parental factors. This ensures that we provide all employees leave returned to work at the end of their leaves. with equal opportunities without any discrimination. Anadolu Efes does not tolerate child labor, or forced Assuring the work-life balance of our employees is or compulsory labor, and expects the same attitude among the human-rights issues prioritized by Anadolu from its business partners. All employees may freely Efes. To achieve this balance, we seek to increase exercise their collective bargaining, organization, and operational efficiency in order to prevent overtime work unionization rights, and unions of which Anadolu and we encourage employees to make regular use of Efes employees are members can freely organize their annual leaves. Employees leaving their jobs in in our operation centers. Anadolu Efes assumes order to care for their children results in a loss of skilled responsibility on its part to enable the exercise of these workforce for the company and hinders the workers’ rights through the constructive relations we have personal career development. Women’s employment is built with trade unions. As of 2013, a total of 2,498 particularly affected in a negative way by this situation employees (519 women and 1,979 men) are covered by due to societal barriers and expectations. Anadolu Efes collective bargaining agreements. Due to the general provides conditions that facilitate employees’ return to lack of unionization aimed at white-collar employees, work following parental leaves and their ability to meet who constitute the majority of our workforce, overall their childcare needs. Our employees may take parental unionization across the Anadolu Efes workforce stands leaves in accordance with the legal regulations of the at the level of 30 percent. As a result of the positive 39 TALENT MANAGEMENT communication we have established with trade unions, no problems or working time losses were experienced due to industrial relations in the reporting period. Anadolu Efes provides training opportunities on human-rights issues to its employees in order to raise their level of information and awareness, which is key to their free exercise of their rights. EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Anadolu Efes evaluates employee performance by measuring the level of achievement of corporate and individual performance targets; this includes sustainability priorities set within the framework of objective criteria in our annual plan. The obtained results are taken into consideration in identifying personal improvement requirements, career planning decisions, and performance-based remuneration processes. All Anadolu Efes employees outside the scope of collective labor agreements are subject to performance evaluation processes. In line with our principle of transparency, all employees within the scope of this application are provided with feedback regarding their annual performance results, development, and career plans. Anadolu Efes provides its employees with training and development opportunities in all its operations in order to meet development requirements and to increase employee performance. During the reporting period; average training hours per employee increased by 10 percent over 2012 and reached to 24.4 hours. A total of 275,000 person*hours of employee training were held in this period. As we seek to create a culture focused on talent and performance development across our organization, all Anadolu Efes country operations provide employees at all levels with personal and professional development opportunities. These include leadership, competence, and skill improvement programs; special education programs; and foreign language programs, in addition to orientation and on-the-job training courses. Corporate learning and development programs organized by Anadolu Efes Headquarters aim to establish a common leadership language and business acumen within the company. The Efes Leadership Pathway Program, for example, equips our managers with tools, techniques, and skills for personal and professional development. The Efes Mentoring Program supports our managers’ personal and professional development for their current and future roles and aims 40 to facilitate experience sharing and knowledge transfer are provided with access to current information across generations within the company’s management regarding corporate developments through the teams. The Efes Mindshare Program meanwhile intranet, corporate publications, and information prepares employees below the manager level for their boards. Their opinions and suggestions are put into future roles by developing their managerial skills, while practice through results obtained from satisfaction the Efes Managers-The New League Program initiated surveys performed regularly in all country operations in 2013 supports employees recently promoted to and from other survey studies. The Anadolu Efes managerial roles in gaining advanced management Employee Engagement Survey, conducted every two skills and developing their leadership competencies. years, provides insight into our organizational strengths In 2013, the Efes Leadership Pathway and Efes as well as areas of opportunity. It also offers a chance Managers-The New League Programs were attended to learn employee opinions and expectations about by 46 managers. key issues that impact employee engagement, such as corporate policy and processes, quality of life and The quality and continuity of the communication work-life balance, career and training and development established with employees is crucial to the opportunities, coworkers, managers, rewards and improvement of our corporate culture and operational recognition, and company reputation. In 2013, 78 efficiency. Anadolu Efes therefore supports the open percent of all Anadolu Efes employees participated in and direct communication of its employees with the engagement survey and action plans were defined company management and makes use of various based on the results. The next survey will be carried out communication channels for this purpose. Employees in 2015. ANADOLU EFES EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS IN 2013 MOLDOVA UKRAINE 389 / 4% 788 / 9% GEORGIA 379 / 4% WOMEN 2,235 / 26% KAZAKHSTAN RUSSIA 4,504 / 52% 864 / 10% MEN 6,485 / 74% TURKEY 1,796 / 21% EMPLOYEES BY GENDER EMPLOYEES BY LOCATION 31-40 21-30 3,359 / 38% 2,777 / 32% WHITE COLLAR BLUE COLLAR 4,920 / 56% 61+ 3,800 / 44% 74 / 1% 41-50 51-60 1,713 / 20% 778 / 9% EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP EMPLOYEES BY STATUS 41 PACKAGING MANAGEMENT PACKAGING MANAGEMENT ‘‘ P ackaging practices play an important role in providing Anadolu Efes products to consumers with the promised taste and quality, spreading our corporate message, and allowing for our products to be directly consumed with confidence. However, We provide our products to our consumers with packaging practices also cause an environmental a reduced amount of packaging material and impact due to material consumption, waste, indirect ensure that packaging waste is reclaimed and energy consumption, and emissions. Anadolu Efes works to minimize this impact through reducing the recovered. weight of our packaging materials and implementing good reuse and recovery practices. MATERIAL USE Sales Volume Share by Packaging Type The main objective of Anadolu Efes when it comes to decreasing material consumption is to reduce the one-way packaging material weight per distributed 9.2% product. For this purpose, R&D studies are conducted 29.5% in cooperation with packaging suppliers to develop 16.1% lightweighting and packaging optimization practices. One-way glass bottle In comparison with the previous reporting period, we Returnable Bottle reduced our used PET weight per unit sold of products PET Bottle in one-way packaging by 1.6 percent in 2013. Despite 13.4% the lightweighting packaging studies, however, a 6.6 31.9% Aluminum Can Stell Keg percent increase in the weight per sales volume of glass packaging consumption occurred as a result OUR GOAL IS TO REDUCE OUR CONSUMPTION OF PACKAGING MATERIAL AND TO INCREASE THE LEVEL OF WASTE RECOVERY. 42 of the increase in small packed products due to the change in our product portfolio with the addition of USING LIGHTWEIGHT BOTTLES new operations. Anadolu Efes carries out design projects in cooperation with packaging producers that focus on lightweighting Returnable products are more environmentally friendly packaging materials without compromising their compared to one-way products since the packaging durability. In this way, the environmental impact of material can be reused several times, reducing the need material and energy consumption, emissions, and for new material. The design and technical properties waste production is reduced and a cost advantage also of a packaging material reinforce its durability, thereby ensured. increasing the amount it can be reused and reducing the use of new material. Anadolu Efes saves over The lightweight glass-bottle-use initiative, started at 200 ktons of glass on average each year through its the end of 2013 at the Anadolu Efes Russia operation, reusable packaging practices, while also reducing the allowed for the reduction of the weight of an Efes Pilsen indirect environmental impact of packaging material 50 cl bottle from 350 grams to 295 grams. With this production, such as energy and water consumption implementation, an annual savings of 900 tons of glass and CO2 emissions. Design practices that enhance the is expected to be obtained. In addition, a study initiated durability of returnable packaging without increasing for the reduction of PET preform weight targets a 0.9 their weight aims to increase the rate of reuse and thus gram reduction of the preform weight by modifying the to reduce the consumption of new materials. preform manufacturing process. A practice conducted in cooperation with suppliers at the Anadolu Efes Anadolu Efes Turkey saved about 180 ktons of glass Georgia Natakhtari Plant ensured the reduction of the during the reporting period by opting for returnable packaging weight of export products from 325 grams to packaging at a rate of 63 percent. This is equivalent to 290 grams. 43 PACKAGING MANAGEMENT preventing approximately 134 ktons of CO2 greenhouse materials, they are by definition reused. gas emissions. Reusable plastic crates were substituted for cardboard crates, enabling the saving of 10 ktons of We ensure the distribution of packaging waste at the paper and cardboard which would have been produced source, its storage in production plants, and its recycling from 190,000 trees. In 2014, we aim to increase our by authorized companies. Authorized institutions reusable primary packaging rate from 63 percent to 66 are responsible for reclaiming and recycling one-way percent. packaging materials. In 2013, a total of 27,749 tons of one-way packaging material utilized for the delivery We support the reuse of secondary packaging materials of Anadolu Efes products — comprising 18,338 tons that facilitate the protection, handling, and storage of of glass, 4,445 tons of metal, 1,903 tons of plastic, and products until they are delivered to consumers, such 3,022 tons of paper and cardboard — was reclaimed as wooden pallets, plastic boxes, and crates, and the and recycled by authorized companies. This means the recycling of materials such as paper and cardboard, amount of reclaimed packaging waste increased by 22 percent over the previous year. plastic bands, and shrink wrap. The amount of reclaimed one-way packaging material RECYCLING varies in relation to the availability of networks for the Anadolu Efes supports the primary disposal through reclaiming and recycling of packaging waste in the recycling of one-way materials used in delivery country of operation, as well as social consumption processes and of materials lost or deemed unfit for patterns. For instance, 82 percent of all reclaimed use during production. As for returnable packaging packaging waste is found within the Anadolu Efes 44 Turkey operation, where there is a widespread PROJECT FOR THE RECYCLING OF PET WASTES recycling network. The recovery rates of oneDuring the reporting period, the Anadolu Efes Russia operation way primary and secondary packages differ for collaborated with the Kazan National Research Technology the same reason. While authorized institutions University to organize a public competition to encourage scientific have easier access to one-way secondary research and innovative practices regarding the recycling of packaging, most of which is distributed at PET wastes. Within the scope of the project, which aims to open or closed sales points, the re-collection disseminate technological, innovative, and functional approaches of primary packaging is more dependent to the use of plastic wastes and the recycling of PET, creative on the individual awareness of consumers. groups and individuals presented their PET recycling research to Therefore, secondary packaging materials are an advisory committee consisting of academics, businesspeople, re-collected four times more frequently than executives, and representatives of environmental groups. The committee chose three projects that it evaluated to have the primary packaging across our operational most potential and made them available to institutions willing to geography. practice these new approaches. Anadolu Efes supports the development Within the scope of a study carried out by the Anadolu of recycling networks in its operational Efes Moldova Vitanta Brewery in cooperation with the local geography in order to improve opportunities municipality, 157 containers were created in order to reduce the for re-collecting packaging waste, while also amount of waste to be generated in the collection of used PET developing projects that aim to raise consumer bottles. awareness on this issue. 45 Contacts The ‘Anadolu Efes 2013 Sustainability Reporting Index’ document, featuring more details on the implementation of the GRI and UNGC reporting principles as well as performance figures pertaining to the reporting period, can be found under the sustainability section of the corporate website, www.anadoluefes.com. To receive more information or communicate your suggestions regarding the Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report, please contact: Haluk ÖZDEMİR Anadolu Efes Corporate Affairs Director haluk.ozdemir@anadoluefes.com Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. Headquarters Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. No: 58 Buyaka E Blok Tepeüstü Ümraniye 34771 İstanbul / Turkey Tel: +90 (216) 586 80 00 Fax: +90 (216) 387 91 46 Web: www.anadoluefes.com Reporting Consultant: www.kiymetiharbiye.com Design&Application: www.eraistanbul.com Legal Disclaimer The Sustainability Report (The Report) has been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. (ANADOLU EFES) within the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the U.N. Global Compact. All information and opinions contained in this Report, which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided by ANADOLU EFES and have not been independently verified for this purpose. This Report has been prepared solely for information purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this Report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of ANADOLU EFES shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this Report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However ANADOLU EFES does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, neither ANADOLU EFES nor any of its subsidiaries, or their respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communication in connection with the Report. 46
