RobecoSAM Communication on Progress (COP) General Period covered: FY2013 2014 Background and Scope of COP: RobecoSAM is a specialized investment boutique, focusing exclusively on Sustainability Investing with 100 employees based in Zurich Switzerland. Hence, the direct impact of our operations on environmental or human rights matters is negligible. However, RobecoSAM has been assessing companies on environmental, social and economic criteria since 1995, thereby preceding the launch of the Global Compact by 5 years. RobecoSAM assesses and rates the corporate sustainability of corporates on the basis of public information as well as information provided directly by those companies. The overall market capitalization of all companies assessed amounts to over 35 trillion US dollars, which represents over 65% of the world global market capitalization of publically traded stocks. Many of those companies use the results of RobecoSAM’s assessment as a benchmark to improve their own corporate sustainability performance. RobecoSAM’s indirect impact on global corporates behaviour is therefore infinitely more significant than its direct impact due to its own operations. Hence, in the following report, we mostly address our indirect impact. While one of the outputs of this assessment is widely known as the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, RobecoSAM also puts together an annual review of the assessment, the RobecoSAM Yearbook, which we attach to this COP. Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017, USA th Zurich, February 6 , 2014 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, We are pleased to confirm that RobecoSAM supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. RobecoSAM will continue making a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement or to help implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress annually according to the Global Compact COP policy. Sincerely yours, Michael Baldinger Chief Executive Officer RobecoSAM Corresponding Contact Christopher Greenwald Christopher.Greenwald@robecosam.com RobecoSAM – Josefstrasse 218 – 8005 Zurich – Switzerland – T +41 44 653 10 10 – F +41 44 653 10 80 – www.robecosam.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. RobecoSAM believes that all companies should follow Principle 1 and 2. We also believe that companies that have systems in place which ensure that such issue won’t take place in their own global operations as well as in their supply chain will outperform those of their peers which do not have such systems in place. Hence, we evaluate for all of the companies which we assess annually if they follow principles 1 and 2. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about human rights and processes in place and to provide documents demonstrating their internal human right assessment process. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company. Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. RobecoSAM believes that employees are a company’s most important resource, as such it is important to treat its workforce with respect and dignity. Companies which don’t follow recognized international standards will eventually lose their employees to companies which do, and expose themselves to reputational risks and liabilities thereby underperforming their peers in the long run. Hence, RobecoSAM asks questions to all of the companies assessed that are related to labour conditions, standards and management practices related to the workforce. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about labour indicators, rights and processes in place. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection RobecoSAM believes that companies which take into consideration global trends in running their businesses will outperform companies which don’t. RobecoSAM believes that climate change, water scarcity, energy scarcity, resources scarcity, pollution of the biosphere and decreasing biodiversity are trends which will have significant impact on the risk profiles of companies in the decades to come. At the same time, companies bringing solutions to these environmental challenges will benefit from those higher growth opportunities. Hence, companies which better manage environmental risks and opportunities will outperform their peers in the future. RobecoSAM assesses companies on their ability to manage such environmental risks and opportunities. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents As mentioned above companies are asked to report on environmental KPIs, and processes in place, such as climate strategy, CO2 emissions, energy usage, water usage, water related risks, toxic waste, recycling of products, life cycle analysis, etc. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, and they try to improve year over year versus their peers. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company. Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. Corruption represents high transaction cost for companies and limits fair competition, hence RobecoSAM believe that companies should do all they can to combat corruption in their spheres of influence. Processes put in place by companies to minimize corruption are assessed looking at companies’ codes of conducts, educational systems, whistle blowing policy,… Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. As mentioned above companies are asked to answer specific questions about corruption, KPIs, and processes in place. Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. On the basis of the quality of the answers, companies are assigned scores which allows for a ranking of companies. Companies are made aware of their scores, which they try to improve year over year versus their peers. The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 01/2014 RobecoSAM AG yearbook.robecosam.com Foreword Michael Baldinger Chief Executive Officer RobecoSAM Dear Reader, And here lies the challenge for companies and investors Over the last few years, financial materiality and alike: How does one determine whether or not a integrated reporting have dominated much of the sustainability factor is financially material? But this discussions surrounding Sustainability Investing and is nothing new to RobecoSAM. As an asset manager corporate sustainability. In addition to publicly recognizing dedicated exclusively to Sustainability Investing, we the companies that have excelled in corporate have always focused on identifying financially relevant sustainability, the 2014 edition of The Sustainability sustainability factors. Based on rigorous research and Yearbook offers some insights into these topics. continuous dialogue with thousands of companies over the years, we have continuously refined our This year’s publication begins with a guest article methodology to ensure that our analysis remains by Yvo de Boer, Global Chairman Climate Change & focused on financially material criteria. Christopher Sustainability Services at KPMG International, in which Greenwald, RobecoSAM’s Co-Head of Sustainability he examines the current corporate sustainability Investing Research sheds light on how RobecoSAM reporting landscape. Although sustainability reporting determines financial materiality of sustainability. was once merely considered an ‘optional but nice’ activity, it now appears to have become practically This year, we were pleased to see a 31% increase in mandatory for most multinational companies. participation in the Corporate Sustainability Assessment Yet companies still struggle to communicate how from companies based in the emerging markets. Over environmental, social and governance factors affect the the last few years, companies in the emerging markets long-term financial performance of their business. have increasingly embraced corporate sustainability as The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 3 a source of competitive advantage. In the third chapter As always, The Sustainability Yearbook also provides of The Sustainability Yearbook, Guido Giese, Head of an overview of the results of our annual Corporate Indices, and Kathelijne Marritt-Alers, Senior Relationship Sustainability Assessment and highlights key trends Manager of Sustainability Indices at RobecoSAM, shaping each of the 59 analyzed industries. The explore some of the drivers behind this growing interest top scoring company in each industry is named the in sustainability, and highlight some of the countries RobecoSAM Industry Leader, and companies listed and industries in these regions that have emerged as in the Yearbook are classified into three categories: sustainability leaders. RobecoSAM Gold Class, RobecoSAM Silver Class and RobecoSAM Bronze Class. As multinational companies increasingly expand their operations, sales and distribution activities to other A record-breaking number of companies took part regions – including the emerging markets – companies in this year’s assessment. I am delighted to see must be willing to interact with local stakeholders to that every year, a growing number of companies demonstrate their commitment to sustainability by actively participating in the Corporate Sustainability Starting with their own corporate pension funds, Assessment. But companies still face many challenges in convincing investors to embrace sustainability Sustainability Leaders are in an ideal position to as a means of generating shareholder value. I am encourage investors to integrate sustainability confident that we can change this. Starting with their own corporate pension funds, Sustainability into their investment strategies. Leaders are in an ideal position to encourage investors to integrate sustainability into their investment understand the full economic, environmental and strategies. Therefore, with the publication of the social impact of their business activities. With the 2014 Sustainability Yearbook, I would like to issue a rise of social media in an ever more globalized world, challenge to the Sustainability Leaders: talk to your local stakeholders have the power to disrupt local pension fund managers. Help them understand operations, production or sales, causing reputational the financial and competitive benefits of corporate and financial damage to the company. For this sustainability strategies and how these translate into reason, RobecoSAM recently introduced an enhanced shareholder value. framework for assessing companies’ stakeholder engagement strategies. We highlight the preliminary I hope this edition of the Yearbook helps spark a much findings of our evaluation of companies’ approaches needed discussion within companies and among to stakeholder engagement and talk to Stefan Seidel investors, helping to bring about the necessary changes of PUMA.Safe to learn why stakeholder engagement is in order to create long-term value for all stakeholders: an important component of his company’s corporate investors, companies and society alike. sustainability strategy. 4 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Table of contents FOREWORD 3 1. KPMG GUEST ARTICLE: 6 Where next for corporate responsibility reporting? 2. FOCUS ON FINANCIAL MATERIALITY OF SUSTAINABILITY 14 Interview with Christopher Greenwald, Co-Head of Sustainability Investing Research 3. SUSTAINABILITY LEADERS IN THE EMERGING MARKETS: MYTH OR REALITY? 19 Guido Giese, Head of Indices Kathelijne Marritt Alers, Senior Relationship Manager, Sustainability Indices 4. LOCAL STAKEHOLDERS, GLOBAL IMPACT 27 Edoardo Gai, Head of Sustainability Services Matthias Narr, Manager, Sustainability Services 5. THE COMPANY PERSPECTIVE: PUMA’s APPROACH TO STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 38 Interview with Stefan Seidel, Deputy Head PUMA.Safe Global; Team Head PUMA.Safe Ecology 6. SUSTAINABILITY LEADERS 2014 41 • RobecoSAM INDUSTRY LEADERS 2014 44 • INDUSTRY PROFILES: 59 INDUSTRIES AT A GLANCE 49 COMPANY OVERVIEW 109 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 5 1. KPMG guest article: Where next for corporate responsibility reporting? 6 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Yvo de Boer, Global Chairman Climate Change & Sustainability Services at KPMG International, explores the current state of corporate sustainability reporting and how it is likely evolve. Back in 1993, corporate responsibility (CR) reporting (N100) across 15 sectors, now issue CR or sustainability was a new and niche activity practiced by only one in reports. ten pioneering companies, according to the first KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting that was Asia Pacific in particular has seen remarkable growth in published that year. CR reporting. Only two years ago, less than half of the top companies in the Asia Pacific issued CR reports, now Fast forward 20 years and things are very different. seven out of ten do so. The CR reporting rate has surged The latest KPMG survey, published in December 2013, by 53 percentage points in India, by 37 in Singapore, 19 shows that CR reporting is now mainstream business in Taiwan and 16 in China. practice the world over. Almost three quarters (71 %) of the 4,100 companies our member firms researched, If anyone still thinks that Asia is a CR reporting dead representing the top 100 companies from 41 countries zone, they should think again. Figure 1: Countries included in the KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013 Americas Asia Pacific Europe Middle East & Africa Brazil Australia Belgium Poland Angola Canada China (incl. Hong Kong) Denmark Portugal Israel Chile India Finland Romania Nigeria Colombia Indonesia France Russia South Africa Mexico Japan Germany Slovakia UAE USA Kazakhstan Greece Spain Malaysia Hungary Sweden New Zealand Italy Switzerland Singapore Netherlands UK South Korea Norway Taiwan New countries added to the survey in 2013 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 7 Figure 2: Rate of corporate responsibility reporting across 41 countries 2011 and 2013 Rate of corporate responsibility reporting across 41 countries 2011 and 2013 (% of companies reporting on CR) Belgium – 68 Poland – 56 Denmark 91 99 Portugal 69 71 Finland 85 81 Romania 54 69 France 94 99 Russia 58 57 Germany 62 67 Slovakia 63 57 Greece 33 43 Spain 88 81 Hungary 70 78 Sweden 72 79 Italy 74 77 Switzerland 64 67 Netherlands 82 82 UK 100 91 Norway – 73 Europe Canada 79 83 Australia 57 82 Mexico 66 56 China (incl. Hong Kong) 59 75 USA 83 86 India 20 73 Brazil 88 78 Indonesia – 95 Chile 27 73 Japan 99 98 Colombia – 77 Kazakhstan – 25 Angola – 50 Malaysia – 98 Americas Israel 18 19 New Zealand 43 47 Nigeria 68 82 Singapore 43 80 South Africa 97 98 South Korea 48 49 UAE – 22 Taiwan 37 56 2011 2013 Middle East Asia Pacific Reporting rates in percentages & Africa Base: 4,100 N100 companies Source: KPMG International, The KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013, December 2013 Spotlight on reporting requirements The following countries have high CR reporting rates or significant recent growth in CR reporting, related to reporting requirements: Denmark France India Indonesia Japan Malaysia Source: KPMG, United Nations Financial Statements Act Grenelle II Act requires The top 100 listed Law No. 40/2007 requires Mandatory and voluntary Malaysia Stock Exchange Environment Programme, Global Reporting Initiative and Unit for requires large companies large companies to report companies in India are Limited Liability guidelines for certain types listing requirement that Corporate Governance in Africa, Carrots to report on CR activities, annually on CR activities required by the Securities Companies to report on CR of companies to report on companies describe CR and Sticks, Sustainability reporting or, if they do not, to and advises reports are Exchange Board to report in the annual report. environmental impacts, activities and law that all policies worldwide, 2013. explain in their annual subject to independent on CR in their annual Publicly-listed companies including GHG emissions. publicly listed companies reports why not. verification. reporting from financial are also required to report publish CR information in year 2012/13. on CR in the annual the annual report. report. Nigeria Norway Singapore South Africa UK USA Central Bank of Nigeria Norwegian Accounting Act Singapore Stock Exchange King Code of Governance Companies listed on the Disclosure requirements of the requires financial services (and amendment in 2013) (SGX) Sustainability Reporting Principles and King Report London Stock Exchange must U.S. Securities & Exchange companies to report on CR requires large companies Guide for listed companies and on Governance (King III), report on GHG emissions Commission (SEC), and the Securities and to report on social, Code of Corporate Governance and Johannesburg Stock from 2013. Companies Act Dodd-Frank Act requires Exchange Commission of environ-mental an antiencourage CR reporting, and Exchange (JSE) require requires large and medium disclosure on conflict minerals Nigeria Corporate corruption activities. Energy Conservation Act 2012 companies to publish an sized companies to disclose and Presidential Executive Governance Code requires large companies to integrated report including CR information relevant to Order 13514 requires federal recommends companies report on energy use. CR performance. company performance in the agencies to report on CR disclose CR practices. annual report. performance. Source: KPMG International, The KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013, December 2013 8 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Figure 3: CR Reporting by region. Percentage of companies with CR reports 100% 76% 80% 73% 71% 71% 69% 61% 54% 60% 49% 40% 20% 0% Americas Europe Asia Pacific Middle East & Africa 2011 2013 Base: 4,100 N 100 companies Source: KPMG International, The KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013. December 2013 Despite the growth in CR reporting, the practice is not CR reporting: an essential business without its critics. management tool The point that is being missed by many people who Some people still say these reports are a waste of time make these types of criticisms is that, in the 21st and money, believing them to be so dense and so dull century, CR reporting is – or should be an essential that no one could possibly bother to read them. Others business management tool. It is not – or should not be see them as vehicles for corporate greenwash, an something produced simply to mollify potential critics opportunity for companies to exaggerate their social and polish the corporate halo. and environmental credentials without any genuine intention to change. Businesses today are operating in a world undergoing unprecedented environmental and social changes. Some in the corporate world see the production of these Rampant population growth is fuelling ever-increasing reports as too complex and too costly and with dubious demands for limited resources. Unpredictable extreme return-on-investment. weather is affecting supplies of key commodities. Changing social conditions and expectations are driving While I understand the concerns behind accusations both increased spending power and social unrest. like these, I think such views are fortunately fast becoming outdated. CR reporting is the means by which a business can understand both its exposure to the risks of these Yes, CR reports are often not an easy read and companies changes and its potential to profit from the new need to do more to communicate the information in commercial opportunities. CR reporting is the process more digestible and engaging ways. However, that is not by which a company can gather and analyze the data an argument for not reporting at all. it needs to create long-term value and resilience to environmental and social change. CR reporting is Yes, greenwash can be a risk but as time goes on, essential to convince investors that your business has a stakeholders from NGOs and pressure groups to future beyond the next quarter or the next year. customers and investors are all becoming more adept at knowing the difference between PR spin and CR What encourages me most about the findings of performance. It is not so easy to pull the proverbial wool this year’s KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility over people’s eyes anymore. Reporting are the signs that the world’s largest companies now understand this and are beginning Yes, CR reporting done properly does require to use the process of CR reporting to bring CR and financial and human resources, but so do all forms of sustainability right to the heart of business strategy corporate reporting. where it belongs. The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 9 CR information in the annual report and asMany companies now face significant pressure to give surance: becoming standard practice stakeholders confidence in what they say and assurance To begin with, a majority of reporting companies can help provide this credibility. The question for worldwide (51 %) now include CR information in their leaders is therefore no longer “should we assure our CR annual financial reports as well as, or instead of, data?” rather “why would we not?” and “how do we publishing separate CR reports. This suggests that choose the appropriate assurance option that meets most companies now see CR information as core to the stakeholders’ needs and puts us ahead of our peers?”. business and something that all stakeholders, including shareholders, need to know about. Most companies report opportunity in environmental and social change This is a marked trend. Two years ago, only 20 % of The KPMG research shows that almost all (87 %) the reporting companies put CR information in their annual world’s largest companies (G250) use their CR reports financial reports and in 2008 hardly any companies at to identify at least some social and environmental all did so only 4 %. The direction of travel is clear and changes, or megaforces, that affect the business. with more than half of companies now including CR Climate change, material resource scarcity, and energy data in their annual financial reports, this can arguably and fuel are the most commonly mentioned megaforces be considered as standard global practice. in CR reports. Similarly, just as CR reporting itself and the inclusion of Furthermore most G250 companies not only identify the CR data in annual financial reports is becoming standard megaforces that affect them but also report risks and business practice; it is also becoming standard practice opportunities they face from these megaforces. What is to have CR and sustainability data externally assured. especially striking in the 2013 KPMG report is that more The tipping point has been crossed, with over half (51 G250 companies report opportunities than risks: 81 % of %) of the world’s 250 largest companies by revenue reporting companies identify business risks from social according to Fortune 2012 (G250) now investing in and environmental factors, whereas slightly more (87 %) assurance for CR and sustainability data. As can be seen identify commercial opportunities. with other trends in CR reporting, the largest companies tend to set the direction that other corporations follow. Figure 4: Ten sustainability megaforces Climate Change Ene on rgy ati & rest Fu el De fo Ecosys erial Mat urce Declintem o Res rcity e Sca Water Sc curity arcit d Se y Foo n n tio P Urbaniz ula th ati op row o G Wealth Source: KPMG International, Expect the Unexpected, February 2012 10 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Six types of CR risk KPMG has identified six key types of risks companies face from social and environmental megaforces. For the KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility Reporting 2013, KPMG member firms’ professionals reviewed G250 CR reports to find out what types of risks large companies are identifying. • Physical: Damage to assets and supply chains from physical impacts such as storms, floods, water shortages and sea-level rise. • Regulatory: Complex and rapid changes to the regulatory landscape. • Reputational: Damage to corporate reputation from being seen as doing the wrong thing. • Competitive: Impacts of fast-changing market dynamics, and uncertainty of supply and price volatility of key inputs. • Social: Conflicts, social unrest, community and worker protests, labor shortages, migration, etc. • Legal: Exposure to potential legal action, for example, over non-disclosure of environmental, social and governance information. The opportunity to innovate new products and services More and more investors accept that environmental is the most commonly mentioned opportunity, followed and social megaforces put company value at stake. They by the opportunity to strengthen brands and corporate will increasingly expect companies to be transparent reputations, and the opportunity to grow market share. about the risks they face, what the financial impacts of those risks could be and what the company is doing When it comes to risks faced from environmental to mitigate them. Companies need to be prepared and social megaforces, reputational risk is the most for change and should start to integrate the top and commonly cited type of business risk, mentioned by bottom-line implications in their business scenario just over half (53 %) of G250 companies that issue CR planning and risk management. reports. Boards need to get behind integrated A significant number of reporting G250 companies reporting also mention other types of risk that affect company There is general acceptance of integrated reporting as operations and not just corporate reputations: the next destination for corporate reporting, but few regulatory risk (48 %), competitive risk (45 %), physical companies are doing it yet. While KPMG’s research risk (38 %), social risks (36 %) and legal risks (21 %). shows that more companies are combining nonfinancial with financial data in their corporate reporting, Companies should prepare to report on few companies yet feel confident in stating that they value at stake produce an integrated report. Our conversations with Only a small number of G250 CR reports (5 %) include leading companies also revealed some nervousness information on the financial value at stake through around whether integrated reporting could limit environmental and social risk. Large companies in the rather than enhance communication around CR and financial services and oil & gas sectors are the most sustainability, specifically for non-financial likely to quantify at least some of their environmental stakeholder groups. and social risks in financial terms. Around one third of CR reports issued by G250 companies in these sectors Just one in ten companies that report on CR claims to do so. publish an integrated report and even fewer reference the work of the International Integrated Reporting The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 11 Council (IRRC). However, I expect this will change with CR in the supply chain is not easy to manage and not the launch of the final IIRC framework and as more easy to report on. The issues are diverse and close cocompanies use that framework and share experiences operation with suppliers is key. with their peers. However companies must work out how to do this. Put Most of the companies that currently state they produce simply, if companies don’t start managing these issues an integrated report are based in South Africa where they won’t have a license to operate in the globalized integrated reporting is driven by the King III Code of 21st century world. Companies urgently need to build Corporate Governance. In South Africa, some 93 % of confidence among customers, communities, investors companies that report on CR state that their reports and other stakeholders that their supply chains are are integrated. being properly managed. Transparent corporate responsibility reporting is an effective way to build such KPMG’s experience in South Africa suggests that confidence. integrated reporting can an effective catalyst for integrated management. Many South African Better links needed between CR performance companies demonstrate that close involvement of and remuneration CEOs and other board members is essential to reach Companies that clearly link employee remuneration ‘one view’ of the business, consensus on one set of to performance on social and environmental issues material issues and one combined business strategy. send a strong signal to employees, investors and The lesson to be learned in other countries is that board other stakeholders that they are serious about CR support for integrated reporting needs to scale up, with performance and ensuring the long term viability of the an integrated approach to value creation as the end company. objective. Yet only one in ten of the world’s largest companies Supply chain reporting needs more focus (G250) currently provides a clear explanation in its Recent incidents including oil spills and factory disasters reporting of how remuneration is linked with CR should remind business leaders how important it is to performance. manage the environmental and social impacts of the supply chain. This suggests that in most of these companies CR is still not considered a critical business performance indicator For this reason, it is important that companies use their to factor in to executive remuneration, despite around a CR reporting to demonstrate that they have not only quarter of them (24 %) stating that the company Board identified environmental and social risks and impacts has ultimate responsibility for CR. associated with their suppliers, but that they have also established appropriate systems to manage these. European companies are the most likely to report a link, with France, Germany, the Netherlands and the They should also show that they have formalized UK standing out for having a significant number of CR requirements for their supply chain and have companies that do so. mechanisms in place to improve the CR performance of their suppliers, such as supplier Codes of Conduct and It is eye-opening to learn that worldwide so few CR criteria for supplier selection. companies link CR performance to executive remuneration in particular, especially given the One of the more surprising results to emerge from the potential for social and environmental issues to impact KPMG research is that some sectors with complex supply on the supply chain, financial performance, reputation chains, carrying potentially catastrophic environmental and the ultimate brand value of companies. and social risks, have low levels of reporting on supply chain issues. If this link were stronger, I believe that there would be even greater incentives for more companies to bring Companies in the chemicals & synthetics sector, for corporate responsibility and sustainability to the heart example, are the least likely to report on supply chain of business strategy. It would also help to accelerate the issues. 60 % of G250 companies in this sector that move towards integrated reporting. report on CR do not report on the supply chain. By contrast, companies in the electronics & computers sector are the most likely to do so. 12 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Towards Future Value understanding of how the company can deliver value CR reporting is now standard business practice the to society through its operations, products and services, world over even in those geographic regions and provides a new lens for corporate value: Future Value. industry sectors that only two years ago lagged behind. This leads me to believe that the debate on whether Business leaders that understand the Future Value of companies should report on CR or not is dead and their business will be better equipped to make strategic buried. decisions for long term success. The questions companies need to ask themselves now Quality CR reporting, as the means to collect, analyze are “what should we report on?” and “how should we and communicate information, is an essential starting report it?” Most importantly, they should ask, “how point on the journey to Future Value. can we best use the process of reporting to generate maximum value both for our shareholders and for our Download the KPMG Survey of Corporate Responsibility stakeholders?” Reporting 2013 from kpmg.com/crrsurvey It is the last question that interests me most. It is my belief that conventional notions of corporate value, based solely around short term financial performance, are fast becoming unfit-for-purpose in the 21st century world. Environmental and social megaforces, regulation, peer pressure and public scrutiny are all driving businesses to look at their value in a new way. The challenge for companies is to understand and communicate how social and environmental factors, changing societal expectations, and policy responses have the potential to impact the long term financial performance of the business. This combined with an The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 13 2. Focus on financial materiality of sustainability Recent initiatives such as the Global Reporting How do you define financial materiality, and why is this important to you? Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines We consider any intangible factor that can have an have put a spotlight on the concept of financial impact on a company’s core business value – namely growth, profitability, capital efficiency and risk materiality of sustainability. While RobecoSAM exposure – to be financially material. Factors such has always focused on identifying sustainability as a company’s ability to innovate, attract and retain talent, or anticipate regulatory changes matter from an factors that are likely to have an impact on investor’s point of view because they have significant companies’ financial performance, over the impacts on a company’s competitive position and longterm financial performance. past year, the Sustainability Investing Research team has updated its analysis of the materiality As an asset manager, we have always focused on identifying financially relevant sustainability factors. of sustainability criteria across all industries. For this reason, we have put considerable effort into Christopher Greenwald, Co-Head of Sustainability developing and updating our materiality framework so that our analysts focus on those factors that are most Investing Research explains how RobecoSAM relevant to the companies’ financial performance. This determines the financial relevance of the helps us ensure that we integrate financially material sustainability factors into our investment process in a sustainability criteria that are incorporated into structured manner. Because these factors are relatively the Corporate Sustainability Assessment. under-researched by most investors, our integration of financially material sustainability factors in the investment process allows us to make unique and better-informed investment decisions for the long-term. 14 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 There has been much discussion about the materiality Once we have identified material factors for each of sustainability in recent months. What makes your industry, we prioritize them according to their expected framework different? magnitude and the likelihood of their impact on growth, What sets us apart is that our approach focuses on profitability, capital efficiency and risk. This results in a the intersection between sustainability and business materiality matrix for each industry, which maps the performance. Specifically, we focus on identifying relative importance of each material factor against each the most important intangible factors that relate other and provides us with a visualization of the most to companies’ ability to create long-term value. important factors for each industry (See Figure 1). For instance, lowering energy consumption in manufacturing processes results in significant cost-saving Once the material issues in each industry have been opportunities and has a direct impact on a company’s prioritized, our analysis shifts to the company level and bottom line. This focus on the most financially relevant focuses on how and to what degree management is sustainability factors is essential, given our mission addressing these intangible factors that are considered to to create long-term attractive returns for our clients be most relevant. This allows us to make the investment through Sustainability Investing strategies. However, case for sustainability for individual companies, which in we have also found that a focus on the link between turn ensures that our investment decisions consider sustainability and business performance is also a key long-term company performance. priority for the leading companies in sustainability, which are working toward much more sophisticated Essentially, we are determining which companies are models to understand the pay-offs of their sustainability most likely to remain competitive in a rapidly changing investments in financial terms. business environment and are therefore best positioned to continue to create value in a sustainable way. So how do you determine which information is financially material? Although your materiality framework focuses on We begin with a top-down industry and mega-trend industry-specific criteria, have you identified any analysis. For each of the 59 industries we assess, sustainability criteria or factors that are significant we ask ourselves which are the key sources of value across all industries? creation for that industry, and which long-term trends Yes. A variety of sustainability factors are relevant are likely to have an impact on these industry drivers. to companies across a wide range of industries. For example, one of the primary value drivers for the IT These include innovation management, human industry is its user and customer base. Given increasing capital management, supply chain management, interconnectedness and the exploding volume of data, environmental management and corporate an IT company’s ability to ensure data privacy is critical governance. But we tailor the questions in these criteria to maintaining customer trust. to the specific characteristics of each industry. Figure 1: Example of Materiality Matrix: Software industry Intellectual Property Corporate Cash and Asset Competitive Innovation Management Governance Management Positioning Management 1 Customer Systemic Risk Relationship Management of Human Capital Tax Strategy Management Technology Disruption Management 0.75 Business Ethics Privacy Protection Likelihood of impact and Data Security Digital Inclusion 0.5 Environmental Environmental Management Enabling Liability Management 0.25 Managing the Risk of Disruption 0 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 Degree of impact Long-term intangible factors Note: This materiality matrix is provided for illustrative purposes. The materiality matrix for other industries may differ. Source: RobecoSAM The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 15 Sustainability factors and their financial impacts In the next few pages, we provide three industry examples – one for each dimension – to illustrate the impact of three selected sustainability criteria on the business value drivers for that industry. These examples are by no means exhaustive, and were selected to demonstrate how we make the link between sustainability factors and company costs and revenues. Industry: Beverages Dimension: Economic Sustainability Criterion: Tax Strategy Reputational Risk Lower Revenues Lower Revenues Poor Relationship with Host Country Higher Costs Tax Strategy Change in Tax Higher Costs Regulation Higher Costs Economic Development Risk Lower Revenues Source: RobecoSAM Tax competition among different tax jurisdictions offers opportunities for multinational companies to optimize their tax spending. Tax optimization can help a multinational beverage company, for instance, to enhance its profitability, which investors appreciate. But the company can also face reputational risks if its tax strategy is perceived to be too aggressive, hurting its brand value and revenues. It can also lead to a poor relationship with the host country, jeopardizing the company’s license to operate or slowing permit approvals to build new factories, leading to higher costs and lower revenues. In addition, a tax strategy that relies too heavily on exploiting tax loopholes is not sustainable in the long-run and may result in higher costs if the government decides to change tax regulations to close these loopholes. Finally, if the company is not paying an appropriate level of local taxes to support economic development, particularly in developing countries, it inhibits the government’s ability to invest in basic services for the local population, hurting potential consumers’ purchasing power, and ultimately, company revenues. 16 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Industry: Construction Materials Dimension: Environmental Sustainability Criterion: Environmental Management Reduced Costs Lower Resource Lower Risk from Input per Revenue Resource Volatily Business Environmental Opportunity as Initial Investment Management Preferred Suplier Lower Costs if Lower Emissions Emissions are per Revenue internalized or subject to trading scheme Lower Reputational Risk Source: RobecoSAM Given the amount of energy required for cement production, the cement industry accounts for 5% of global CO2 emissions. Therefore, reducing CO2 emissions is an important component of an effective environmental management strategy for this resource-intensive industry. One approach, for instance, involves replacing CO2 emitting coal with renewable energy. Though such a solution typically requires a large initial investment, it can also generate immediate benefits for the company. First, the amount of coal input per revenue generated is reduced, lowering operating costs and reducing the risk of margin volatility caused by changing coal prices. Second, emissions per revenue are reduced. This is particularly important in some regions, such as Europe, where CO2 emissions are subject to an emissions trading scheme, and therefore have a real monetary value. Finally, a lower emissions profile may help companies generate business opportunities, as cement produced in this manner is considered to be more sustainable. The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 17 Industry: Pharmaceuticals Dimension: Social Sustainability Criterion: Human Capital Management Increased Capacity Higher Revenues to Innovate Human Capital Increased Employee Lower Increased Management Satisfaction Absentee Rate Productivity Lower Employee Reduced Turnover Rate Recruitment Costs Reduced Training Costs Source: RobecoSAM For most companies today, employees are their most valuable asset. This is especially true for a knowledge-driven industry such as the pharmaceuticals industry. An advanced human capital management strategy that offers employees opportunities for career advancement, appropriate incentives to perform well, and a fulfilling work environment contributes to employee satisfaction. In turn, a motivated workforce contributes to the company’s capacity to innovate, which has a positive impact on revenues. Lower absentee rates also contribute to enhanced productivity, while lower employee turnover leads to lower recruitment and training costs. 18 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 3. Sustainability leaders in the emerging markets: Myth or reality? The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 19 People often assume that emerging markets are lagging behind developed markets when it comes to corporate sustainability. Yet data collected through the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment over the years reveals that emerging market companies have caught up with their developed market peers, and in some cases surpassed them. Kathelijne Marritt Alers and Guido Giese outline areas in which emerging markets-based companies are exceling, and explore some of the drivers behind their strong sustainability performance. Guido Giese Head of Indices Kathelijne Marritt Alers Senior Relationship Manager, Sustainability Indices Skepticism towards the combination of sustainability Emerging market companies catch up and the emerging markets1 is widespread, as people Although these markets have historically produced tend to assume that these developing economies may some of the leading companies in terms of corporate not be particularly conducive to producing sustainability sustainability and an increasing number of companies leaders or are improbable environments for best from these regions have been invited to take part in the corporate sustainability practices. However, RobecoSAM CSA each year, the absolute number of participating has found that some of the world’s leaders in the field emerging market companies has remained low. Still, of corporate sustainability come from the emerging in 2013 RobecoSAM observed a 31% increase in the number of emerging market companies participating in Since 2009, RobecoSAM has seen a steady the CSA. From 2008 to 2013, the number of companies participating in the CSA from these markets grew increase in the number of emerging market from 27 to 89, representing an improvement in the companies listed and being awarded medals in participation rate from 4.6% to 10.9%, confirming the trend towards long-term thinking and improved the Sustainability Yearbook. sustainable practices that are becoming ever more present in this part of the world. In addition to increased markets. Moreover, this can be determined without awareness and participation in the annual assessment, diluting the methodology of its global Corporate the improvements emerging market companies have Sustainability Assessment (CSA) and by asking emerging seen in their sustainability strategies from year to year market companies exactly the same questions as their are also laudable. For instance, in 2014, 7 out of 70 1 In the context of this developed market peers. Since 2009, RobecoSAM has Yearbook gold medals have been awarded to companies article, RobecoSAM seen a steady increase in the number of emerging from the emerging markets, representing 10% of all considers the following 20 countries to be market companies listed and being awarded medals medals in this category. emerging markets: Brazil, in the Sustainability Yearbook.2 Figure 1 shows that Chile, China, Colombia, the Czech Republic, in the last six years, the number of emerging market RobecoSAM sustainability data also shows that across Egypt, Hungary, India, companies included in the Yearbook has more than a range of criteria, companies in the emerging markets Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Peru, doubled, growing from 19 in 2009 to 48 in 2014, with are becoming more comparable to their developed the Philippines, Poland, the majority of these coming from Brazil and South market peers. A simple illustration of this can be Russia, South Africa, Taiwan, Thailand and Africa. In 2014, 21 emerging market companies have found in Figure 2, which compares the sustainability Turkey. been awarded one of the 222 Yearbook medals, up performance of emerging market companies included in from 13 in 2009. It is also worth noting that in terms of the 2014 Yearbook against that of the developed market 2 The Yearbook medal classifications were total number of Yearbook medals, Colombia and Taiwan Yearbook companies. introduced in 2009. are leading the way, ahead of Brazil and South Africa. 20 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Figure 1: Growth in number and percentage of emerging market companies and medalists listed in The Sustainability Yearbook 60 12.0% Percentage of Yearbook companies based in the emerging markets 10.4% 50 10.0% 9.0% Number of emerging market companies 8.1% 7 40 8.0% 7 5 6.4% 4 30 7 9 6.0% 5.4% 5.2% 1 8 8 8 20 4 4.0% 3 4 27 7 6 23 3 10 1 19 2.0% 4 11 10 6 0 0.0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 % of emerging market companies in Yearbook Gold Class Silver Class Bronze Class Yearbook Member (no medal) Source: RobecoSAM Figure 2: Comparison of sustainability performance of all emerging market companies against all developed market companies in the 2014 Yearbook Risk & Crisis Management 100 Codes of conduct/Compliance/ Operational Eco-Efficiency 75 Corruption & Bribery 50 25 Labor Practice Indicators Climate Strategy and Human Rights 0 Environmental Human Capital Policy/Management System Development Corporate Citizenship Stakeholder Engagement and Philanthropy Developed market Yearbook companies (equally weighted) Emerging market Yearbook companies (equally weighted) Source: RobecoSAM The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 21 From this diagram, it is evident that the difference in variety of factors ranging from the individual need for practices across social, economic, and environmental economic survival to the need for economic growth at dimensions between the leading developed and the country level and competitive forces at the company emerging market companies is remarkably narrow. level (profits), place significant pressure on the system. Particularly along social dimensions such as But given growing stakeholder pressure and scrutiny, stakeholder management and labor practice indicators, both emerging markets-based companies and foreign leading emerging market companies have caught up multinational companies relying on emerging market with and even surpassed the standards of industrialized resources, suppliers, and labor, understand that they nations. One could argue that as many developing must address these issues in order to be successful in markets have fewer state-provided essential social the mid to long-run. services compared to developed countries, companies One of the key drivers for the strong focus on sustainability is that leading emerging market Particularly along social dimensions such as companies that are globally active realize that stakeholder management and labor practice sustainability is important in order to remain competitive in a global market place, as they compete indicators, leading emerging market companies against peers from developed markets that already have caught up with and even surpassed the take these considerations into account. Colombian companies, for example, seem to have realized that standards of industrialized nations. investing time and thought into developing corporate governance, transparency, and environmental & need to step in and provide basic services such as social risk management strategies helps them build a housing, meals and the like for their employees. In reputation as trusted, stable business partners that are such an environment, addressing the social dimension able to compete globally and attract (foreign) investors. of sustainability factors represents a natural first step towards addressing sustainability. Local pressure and local stakeholder scrutiny is a second key driver affecting emerging market companies. Emerging market companies operate in Stakeholders have become increasingly vocal and pressure cooker environment technological advances such as the widespread Although many positive things can be said about availability of mobile devices combined with the rise of corporate sustainability in the emerging markets, it social media make more people aware of events as they is clear that many of these companies still have some unfold, as illustrated by the collapse of a Bangladesh way to go in terms of improving their sustainability garment factory last April, which made headlines performance. One should not forget that many around the globe. In the face of challenges such as companies in this group still lag behind their developed the risk of losing the license to operate, or falling into market peers in terms of sustainability strategies disrepute among local communities in which companies along the environmental dimension, even though are based, the case for sustained strategies towards the business case for environmental responsibility is stakeholder engagement and local development are particularly strong given the nature of the risks faced crucial to long-term success. by emerging market economies. Exogenous factors such as the regulatory environment in which the Emerging markets are heterogeneous The emerging markets are a very heterogeneous group, and the same can be said about the companies that Leading emerging market companies realize are based there. The importance and relevance of that sustainability is important in order to different sustainability factors will vary depending on local characteristics and the conditions in the various remain competitive in a global market place. countries, as well as the industry. Some markets are more advanced in terms of sustainability considerations and companies operate are also important to consider. reporting than others. The RobecoSAM CSA results also Even in the social dimension, where emerging market show similar characteristics: in 6 out of 59 industries, the companies on average are operating at a level industry leader is an emerging market company. Of these close to their global peers, examples of disgruntled six companies, one each comes from South Africa, Brazil stakeholders and bad practice are never far away. A and Thailand, and three are Taiwanese. 22 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Figure 3: Sustainability score distributions of assessed emerging market versus developed market companies 35% 30% 25% % of assessed companies 20% 15% 10% 5% 0% 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Average total Sustainability Scores from CSA Developed Markets (1,836 companies assessed) Emerging Markets (271 companies assessed) Source: RobecoSAM Even though many emerging market companies tend to One explanation for this is that companies in these be smaller in size, compared to their developed market industries have a more pressing need to tackle peers, they are still able to compete. Many people environmental issues as they rely on natural resources to run their business. For instance, Fibria Celulose, a Brazilian paper & pulp company, is the highest scoring In 6 out of 59 industries, the industry leader is emerging market company listed in the Yearbook. Fibria an emerging market company. is keenly aware of the importance of forests to the survival of its business and has focused on reducing its assume that emerging markets companies will be environmental footprint. The company’s pulp comes among the laggards in terms of corporate sustainability. from 100% planted forests and therefore explicitly But as shown in Figure 3, the score distribution of avoids using natural forests for paper production. It emerging market companies is comparable to that of has sought to improve forest productivity through a their developed market peers, indicating that companies traditional breeding program, in which new generation in the emerging markets are catching up. clones use natural resources more efficiently, offering gains measured in terms of tons of pulp per hectare per The extractive industries paradox year. Its projects focus on soil management, fertilizer Local and global companies operating in emerging optimization, disease resistance and biological pest market countries face unique social, economic and control. Fibria is also committed to the social inclusion environmental risks, many of which are related to the of people affected by the commercial use of forests, as it efficient extraction and exploitation of commodities. has recognized that dialogue and cooperation with local Although emerging market companies generally seem communities and NGOs, rather than a confrontational to lag their developed peers on the environmental relationship, help ensure its social license to operate. dimension, companies from extractive industries such as mining or pulp & paper paradoxically have a higher Other noteworthy examples of emerging marketspercentage of emerging markets-based companies based companies leading their industries include represented in the Yearbook, as shown in Figure 4. Taiwan Semiconductor (TSMC) and ItauSA. Taiwan The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 23 Figure 4: Top 10 industries with the highest percentage of emerging market companies in the Yearbook 67% 70% 60% 60% 50% 40% 33% 30% 30% 29% 27% 30% 25% 23% 20% 20% 10% 0% Coal & Construction Paper & Oil & Semiconductors Health Care IT Services & Steel Food Electric Utilities Consumable Fuels Materials Forest Products Gas & Semiconductor Providers Internet Software Products Equipment & Services and Services Source: RobecoSAM Semiconductor is the largest semiconductor foundry in Stock exchanges facilitate change the world, and over the last ten years, it has reduced Another factor that has contributed to the accelerating its electricity consumption per wafer unit by 47% momentum towards embracing corporate sustainability and its water consumption by 56%, while its total in the emerging markets has been the growing number wafer capacity has increased 4.8 times. Sustainability of investors asking about corporate responsibility and strategies and initiatives have been in place for sustainability. Moreover, given the lack of sustainability many years at TSMC, and are incorporated in its data (or the perceived lack thereof) on emerging market long-term strategy. companies, investors are specifically beginning to demand more ESG information from these companies The financial services industry may not immediately in order to integrate sustainability considerations into come to mind as a stronghold for emerging markets a broader set of asset classes and styles. This has led to companies, yet many emerging markets companies the development of initiatives such as the Sustainable feature in the top ranks as evidence that they are on Stock Exchanges (SSE). Launched in 2009 and backed par with their global peers. ItauSA, one of Brazil’s by the United Nations, the SSE initiative aims to largest investment holding companies, has been the encourage improved transparency and disclosure on industry leader in the Diversified Financial Services environmental, social and corporate governances and Capital Markets industry3 for five consecutive years factors among the companies listed on the exchanges from 2008 to 2013. This is particularly impressive in of SSE members. Of the eight stock exchanges that have a large, competitive industry, which consisted of a committed to the SSE, five are located in the emerging total of 128 companies in 2013. To achieve long-term markets: the Borsa Istanbul in Turkey, BM&F Bovespa in growth, ItauSA places great emphasis on stakeholder Brazil, the Egyptian Stock Exchange, the Johannesburg engagement and human capital development. Stock Exchange in South Africa, the Bombay Stock It proactively engages with its employees and exchange and MCX-SX, both in India. makes significant investments in their professional development by implementing well-defined processes Several sustainability initiatives from emerging markets for skill mapping and career development. Through exchanges predate the SSE, highlighting once more its Itau Unibanco banking arm, it actively supports that the emerging markets can be both early adopters financial inclusion by providing financial services to and leaders when it comes to the topic of sustainability. 3 Industry low-income clients, micro-entrepreneurs and small Backed by the International Finance Corporation (IFC), previously named businesses, which is a particularly important factor in Brazil’s Bovespa has been publishing its own Corporate “Financial Services” its home country. Sustainability Index since 2005, and the Johannesburg 24 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Stock Exchange SRI Index has been in place since Still, much of the ESG information disclosed by 2004. According to our own experience based on companies to their stock exchanges varies widely, the CSA, companies from Brazil and South Africa – making it difficult to compare their sustainability home to the two stock exchanges with the longest performance, whereas the RobecoSAM methodology is applied consistently across all companies within the same industry, regardless of where they are located Given the lack of sustainability data on or listed. But one thing is clear, the momentum and the motivation for improving corporate sustainability emerging market companies, investors are practices in the emerging markets is strong. specifically beginning to demand more ESG information from these companies in order to Emerging markets take the lead on gender equality and philanthropy integrate sustainability considerations into a RobecoSAM has found that emerging market companies participating in the CSA outperform their broader set of asset classes and styles. emerging markets peers when it comes to labor key performance indicators such as the equality of running sustainability initiatives – have consistently female and male salaries at all organizational levels, been well-represented in the Yearbook. This suggests as well as the number of females in management that a favorable regulatory environment related to or executive positions. In 2012 and 2013 emerging sustainability reporting requirements encourages market companies on average scored 16% better than companies to adopt and report on their corporate their developed market peers and have significantly sustainability practices. outperformed on this criterion for the past four years. An explanation for this may be that out of economic Reporting on sustainability is a hot topic, and stock necessity, both men and women need to work to exchanges in the emerging markets are quickly catching support their families. Another reason may be that in up with their developed world counterparts in requiring many emerging markets, it is commonly accepted that more detailed sustainability reporting, according to a women set up and manage (small) businesses. The recent article in The Financial Times.4 In a ranking by recent wave of microfinance initiatives, often actively CK Capital of the 45 stock exchanges that make up the targeting women, illustrates this. In these developing world federation of exchanges, China’s Shanghai and economies, having economically active women is Shenzhen ranked 26th and 38th based on the number of beneficial to families and society at large. sustainability indicators they reported on, the growth of reporting on sustainability indicators over the past The political landscape in many emerging market five years, and the timeliness of reporting. Examples of countries has shifted over the past decade and a move emerging market stock exchanges that lead the way in towards greater social and economic stability has been terms of sustainability reporting are the Johannesburg observed in many countries. As in developed markets, Stock Exchange and BM&F Bovespa. The former has a the state plays an important role by providing incentives listing requirement on integrated reporting following for private investment. Effectively complementing the introduction of the King III code for corporate the role of the state provides ample opportunity for governance in 2009, whereas the latter offers guidance companies operating in the emerging markets. In and training on sustainability reporting aligned with the the social dimension in particular, emerging market Global Reporting Initiative. companies seize opportunities that may not exist to the same extent in developed markets. Corporate In November 2013, ESG research provider EIRIS published philanthropy, for example, is widely practiced in South the results of a survey of 11 stock exchanges – seven of East Asia, while many developed market companies find which are located in the emerging markets – aimed fewer direct financial benefits in such approaches. In the at learning about their motivations for launching emerging markets, companies recognize that certain sustainability initiatives. Among the reasons cited, the philanthropic initiatives might have a direct positive 4 “Bourses urged to goal of encouraging companies to improve their practices impact on the local labor pools and communities where boost disclosure policies,” Financial times, Monday, on issues such as pollution and labor rights is particularly they operate, much like forward looking entrepreneurs November 4, 2013 relevant to the emerging markets. Other emerging did during the Industrial Revolution. Legislation market stock exchanges mentioned that by encouraging also plays a key role, as states may actively want to 5 “Sustainability Initiatives: Insights companies to manage sustainability risks, they contribute encourage companies to further education, health care from Stock Exchanges towards improving their overall risk profiles, their longor culture by means of tax credits and other instruments into Motivations and Challenges,“ EIRIS, term survival, and by extension, the long-term viability of aimed at attracting private investment. November 2013 the stock exchanges on which they are listed.5 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 25 Conclusion Of course, one should not forget that the emerging Although the emerging markets may not be the first markets themselves and the companies that stem from thing that comes to mind when one thinks of corporate these markets are a very heterogeneous group. Local sustainability, companies in the emerging markets do in characteristics and conditions influence the importance fact play a leading role when it comes to sustainability. and relevance of different sustainability factors. As evidenced by the steady increase in emerging market Controversies are likely to continue to flare up as the companies listed in the Yearbook, as well as the growing markets develop further. Likewise, although significant number of industry and industry group leaders hailing progress has been made in some countries, in others the from the emerging markets, companies in the emerging quality of sustainability reporting is still limited at best. markets have been taking corporate sustainability Furthermore, the environmental dimension continues to seriously for a number of years. be an area of improvement for many emerging market companies, despite the progress that has been made. Over the past decade, many emerging markets have seen a move towards a more stable state. This Local pressure and stakeholder scrutiny will likely has encouraged international investors, but also continue to push emerging markets companies to boost corporations, to further explore opportunities in these their sustainability efforts and thus help debunk the markets. Governments of several emerging market myth that the emerging markets and sustainability are states have also discovered the power and appeal of incompatible. incentives such as tax incentives in order to attract investment in areas that it would like to encourage, but where means are limited. Companies from these countries have come to realize that sustainability considerations can boost their attractiveness for foreign investment and help them compete globally. Leading companies from the emerging markets in the RobecoSAM assessment are performing on par with their global peers and tend to show particular strength in the social dimension. Regulators and stock exchanges in the emerging markets are playing a key role in initiatives on reporting and transparency, thus further strengthening the business case for taking sustainability considerations into account. 26 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 4. Local stakeholders, global impact The rise of social media and the speed with which information is disseminated have afforded local stakeholders considerably more power than they had in the past. Labor unions, local authorities, communities and NGOs have the ability to disrupt production, sales and business, leading to stalled production, cost overruns, reduced revenues or reputational damage. Therefore, RobecoSAM introduced an enhanced framework for evaluating companies’ stakeholder engagement activities in this year’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment. Matthias Narr and Edoardo Gai offer an overview of the new framework and highlight some of the key findings from this year’s assessment. Edoardo Gai Head of Sustainability Services Matthias Narr Manager, Sustainability Services Raising the bar engagement framework to reflect recent global RobecoSAM’s assessment of companies’ stakeholder developments, encouraging companies to adopt more engagement strategies has always been an important comprehensive practices that have not yet been fully component of the annual Corporate Sustainability embraced. Previously, the CSA simply asked companies Assessment (CSA). Over the years, it has been whether they had a stakeholder engagement policy in encouraging to see that many companies have come place, whereas the redesigned stakeholder engagement a long way in terms of adopting top-down stakeholder framework has shifted its focus towards evaluating how engagement policies applicable across their entire companies go about implementing their policy. This has operations. However, although a growing number of enabled us to understand what is actually happening companies has developed such stakeholder engagement at the local level and how the top-down guidance feeds strategies and disclosed them, insufficient information into concrete action at the operating sites. was available about how these strategies were The rise of the local stakeholders But why does stakeholder engagement matter? When used effectively, social media has the By taking a proactive approach to stakeholder power to shape public opinion. NGOs, media engagement, companies can establish constructive relationships with local stakeholders such as labor and even private citizens can mount viral unions, regulators or local communities. This, in turn, campaigns to mobilize consumers and citizens can help companies avoid local business interruptions such as strikes, boycotts, theft or even sabotage that to boycott products or organize labor strikes, can result in additional costs, lost revenues or disrupting production or sales, often destroying reputational damage. substantial brand value while doing so. Moreover, thanks to the rise of social media within the last several years combined with the easy access implemented on the ground, and whether they were to cheap mobile devices, local stakeholders wield effective. Thus, it was no longer possible to differentiate significantly more power than they did a few years the leaders from the laggards in terms of stakeholder ago. Nowadays people can share news with the rest of engagement. the world instantaneously, no matter where they are located and at almost no cost. The speed with which In order to distinguish companies from each other, information is disseminated to a global audience RobecoSAM developed an enhanced stakeholder has deeply altered the companies’ ability to react to 28 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 local events quickly enough to minimize their impact All these factors combined mean that local issues on business. An incident such as a major workplace can quickly escalate and become globally relevant. accident may take place at a local site in Indonesia, Therefore, it is in the companies’ best interest to and only minutes later, the public across the globe is communicate with local stakeholders transparently aware of the incident, often even before the company and frequently, allowing them to identify and address headquarters have been alerted. This, combined with potential stakeholder conflicts before they intensify, thus many traditional media outlets’ willingness to use minimizing the risk of blow ups. Ultimately, a successful social media as a newsgathering source, means that local stakeholder engagement strategy helps companies maintain their social license to operate. A good relationship with local stakeholders Opportunities But an effective approach to engaging with local can assist companies’ recruitment efforts stakeholders isn’t only about mitigating risks: it also or facilitate their search for local partners and offers opportunities. Forward looking stakeholder engagement processes help build trust, ultimately joint ventures. facilitating a cooperative relationship with local authorities, associations and labor unions. For certain companies are faced with a constant 24/7 real-time types of manufacturing industries that are particularly news flow that puts them in the public spotlight at all labor-intensive, the local community is essentially the times, with only a small window of time to react and companies’ labor pool. Therefore, a good relationship mitigate negative consequences of a local incident. with local stakeholders can assist companies’ recruitment efforts or facilitate their search for local This effect is multiplied by the proliferation of tech partners and joint ventures. On the revenue side, savvy NGOs that are very skilled at using this new successful stakeholder engagement can increase sales, communication channel. When used effectively, as the lack of any incidents helps to protect or even social media has the power to shape public opinion. strengthen the brand, subsequently helping to retain NGOs, media and even private citizens can mount viral existing customers and attract new customers. campaigns to mobilize consumers and citizens to boycott products or organize labor strikes, disrupting production or sales, often destroying substantial brand value while doing so. Figure 1: Drivers and benefits of local stakeholder engagement Drivers Focus Benefits • Rise of civil society Local stakeholder groups • Build trust and credibility such as: • Speed & availability of • Improve operational efficiency • Communities information • Enhance recruitment efforts • Local authorities among local labor pool • Social media • Labor unions • Reduce reputational risk • Mobile technologies • Local media • Protect/enhance brand value • Globalization of local issues • Associations • Strengthen social license • NGOs to operate Source: RobecoSAM The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 29 Exposure to emerging markets Local focus These developments are further reinforced by many Given these developments, the enhanced stakeholder companies’ growing exposure to the emerging markets, engagement criterion focuses on how companies deal either as they expand their production capacities, or with local stakeholder groups such as communities as they seek to tap into new markets. In many cases, a immediately surrounding production sites, local weaker regulatory environment in these markets – either authorities such as municipal governments and through an absence of meaningful environmental, regulators, local or national trade unions representing governance and social regulations or through a lack the company’s local employees, local media, of enforcement power – contributes to the increased associations, as well as NGOs active where the likelihood of serious incidents compared to developed companies operate. markets. Such incidents often have a direct impact on the company’s revenues, for example in the case of oil Certainly, companies must also satisfy the needs theft in Mexico and Nigeria, or major construction delays of other important stakeholders such as investors, caused by labor strikes and opposition from indigenous employees, customers and suppliers, but these specific communities to dam projects in Brazil. groups are addressed in the Corporate Governance, Human Capital Development, Client Relationship The investors’ perspective Management and Supply Chain Management criteria of Investors benefit when companies develop a robust the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment. framework for dealing with local stakeholders. Additional costs, lost revenues and reputational As an industry-specific criterion, the stakeholder damage arising from business disruptions such as engagement framework is only applied to industries protests, stalled production lasting several weeks or that have a significant impact on the local environment months, sabotage and boycotts all have a negative and society, and therefore have greater exposure to impact on shareholder value. Therefore, investors local incidents. Typical examples include industries with have an interest in identifying companies that have large manufacturing operations, extractive industries, implemented successful stakeholder engagement those with resourceor labor-intensive business models strategies that help them avoid costs that can hurt such as the textile industry, but also industries such as financial performance. utilities, which provide vital services to a local area. Structure The new stakeholder engagement framework consists Additional costs, lost revenues and reputational of the three parts: governance, implementation damage arising from business disruptions and review. It is also complemented by a Media & Stakeholder Analysis (MSA), which monitors whether such as protests, stalled production, sabotage external news sources and other organizations and boycotts all have a negative impact on have a negative view of the company’s stakeholder engagement efforts. shareholder value. A key feature of the framework is that it looks at how From the investors’ perspective, another dimension companies strike a balance between the top-down worth considering is their own reputational risk. corporate stakeholder engagement policy and how it is Nowadays many investors are no longer willing to implemented at the local level. invest in companies that do not consider the local environmental and social impacts of their operations. Institutional investors, in particular, are under increasing pressure from their beneficiaries to integrate ESG factors into their investment decisions or have signaled a commitment to investing responsibly by joining initiatives such as the UN PRI. For these investors, an incident at one of their portfolio companies’ local sites that receives global attention poses a reputational risk. 30 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Figure 2: Framework for assessing stakeholder engagement strategy GLOBAL LOCAL Governance Implementation Review Policy / Procedure Operational Responsibility Measurement & Capacity Ownership Execution Lessons Learned Accountability Media & Stakeholder Analysis (MSA) Source: RobecoSAM Governance For this reason, companies must assign clear When it comes to governance, a group-wide policy responsibilities and provide proper incentives. or procedure helps ensure that the stakeholder Stakeholder engagement KPIs should be part of the engagement strategy is applied consistently throughout annual performance appraisal of the local operations’ the firm. Such a document provides the responsible top managers, and if they meet their targets, they employees on the ground with clear guidelines on how should be rewarded. But companies must also ensure to communicate, interact and manage the company’s that local managers possess the right skills such as relationships with its local stakeholders. By making such language, knowledge of the local regulatory framework, a policy or procedure publicly available, companies an understanding of the local political environment, demonstrate their commitment to a proactive and societal expectations and culture, as well as knowledge collaborative relationship with key local players. In order about the physical environment and availability to ensure that policies are properly implemented, the (or scarcity) of local natural resources critical to the CSA checks whether there is clear ownership for the companies’ operations. Such local expertise helps stakeholder engagement process and verifies whether ensure that the company’s local stakeholders have the companies have an accountability mechanism in place, ability to interact with company representatives that which allows stakeholders to escalate an issue if their understand the local circumstances and are therefore concerns are not being properly addressed. more likely to respond to their concerns. Implementation Once these basics have been covered, a reasonable The second component of the stakeholder engagement approach to prioritizing local stakeholders is needed. framework looks at how the stakeholder engagement Mitchell, Agle and Wood1 (1997) have put forward strategy is actually implemented at the local level. a structured process for determining the relative Managers on the ground have a much better importance of stakeholders based on the notions of 1 (Mitchell, R. K.; Agle, understanding of the local context, know which power, legitimacy and urgency. According to their B. R.; Wood, D. J. 1997. stakeholders are the most relevant to the company’s theoretical framework, power refers to the stakeholder’s “Toward a Theory of local operations, and what is feasible in terms of ability to make the company take an action that it Stakeholder Identification and Salience: Defining the approaching and interacting with local stakeholders. For would otherwise not have taken. Legitimacy relates Principle of Who and What instance, companies need to make sure that relevant to the generalized perception or assumption that the Really Counts,” Academy of Management Review, local stakeholders have the financial means to actually actions of a stakeholder are desirable or appropriate 22(4): 853-886 travel to a proposed stakeholder roundtable. within a certain social system. Last but not least, The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 31 urgency refers to the degree to which the stakeholder’s communities over access to resources can jeopardize the claims call for immediate attention. By complementing company’s license to operate. Ultimately, a failure to these three concepts with appropriate tools such as engage with local stakeholders in the planning stages of stakeholder profiles and maps, companies can gain a new project can lead to local opposition, delays, and a clear understanding of who their high-priority local cost overruns. stakeholders are. These are then engaged using interactive engagement methods suitable to the Review local context, such as town hall meetings, roundtables The third part of the criterion looks at how companies or plant visits. review and measure the success of their past stakeholder engagement activities. An important component of an effective review process is the use of meaningful Stakeholder engagement will be most indicators such as the “Number of Community Advisory Panels organized,” for instance, to measure the success effective if it is truly embedded in daily of the local stakeholder engagement activities and business operations. report the results back to company headquarters, where they are aggregated and ideally reported back to senior Stakeholder engagement will be most effective if it management. But it is equally important for companies is truly embedded in daily business operations. For to learn from their past experiences. Therefore, instance, when expanding local manufacturing sites, companies should have a mechanism in place so that it should be standard practice for the company to local subsidiaries can share lessons learned with the consult with the communities surrounding the site to rest of the group and prevent the same mistakes from learn about their concerns and expectations related repeating themselves in other locations. to the new plant. Though local operations can provide employment opportunities for the community, other Media & Stakeholder Analysis potential social and environmental impacts such as Last but not least, the Media & Stakeholder Analysis (MSA) serves as an additional check to verify whether Companies should have a mechanism in place the stakeholder engagement process works as well in practice as it does on paper. The MSA process so that local subsidiaries can share lessons continuously monitors media coverage and other learned with the rest of the group and prevent publicly available information from consumer organizations, governments or NGOs to evaluate the same mistakes from repeating themselves companies’ responses to environmental, economic or in other locations. social crisis situations that may have a negative impact on their core business or reputation. A range of issues noise, traffic, pollution and waste must be considered such as labor disputes, workplace safety, accidents, and transparently discussed with local communities, human rights abuses or environmental disasters are authorities and NGOs. Another factor to consider is particularly relevant to local stakeholders, and require whether the company is competing with the local the company to respond in a timely and transparent community for limited water, energy or natural manner in order to minimize the negative impact resources. Any conflicts between the company and local of the crisis. Preliminary findings 1. Industries that rely heavily on natural resources A good starting point for the analysis of the companies’ such as producers of Aluminum, Paper & Forest performance in the new stakeholder engagement Products, and Oil & Gas are among the best scoring framework is a comparison of the average total score of companies, followed closely by companies that the different industries that were evaluated according provide vital services to the local infrastructure, such to the criterion. The data is based on the companies as water and electric utilities. that have completed the questionnaire, totaling 578 companies from 41 industries. 2. Industries whose business models rely heavily on Research & Development such as Life Sciences Tools Although it is early to draw definitive conclusions based & Services and Health Care Equipment & Suppliers on one year of data, several interesting patterns emerge seem to score lower. This may be connected to the when comparing the average scores per industry. fact that R&D intensive operations typically have a 32 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Figure 3: Average stakeholder engagement performance by industry Aluminum Paper & Forest Products Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation Oil & Gas Construction Materials Multi & Water Utilities Electric Utilities Coal & Consumable Fuels Communications Equipment Computers & Peripherals and Office Electronics Metals & Mining Pharmaceuticals Steel Telecommunication Services Banks Gas Utilities Leisure Equipment & Products and Consumer Electronics Automobiles Restaurants & Leisure Facilities Insurance Average score of all participating companies Airlines Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment Containers & Packaging Building Products Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines Real Estate Biotechnology Retailing Life Sciences Tools & Services Diversified Financial Services & Capital Markets Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Media Aerospace & Defense Transportation & Transportation Infrastructure Casinos & Gaming Energy Equipment & Services Household Durables Auto Components Health Care Equipment & Supplies Health Care Providers & Services Diversified Consumer Services 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 Source: RobecoSAM The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 33 minor impact on their immediate surroundings. In Figure 4: Average scores for each component addition, for these types of companies, their most of stakeholder engagement framework important stakeholders by far, are their employees, (out of 100) which are more likely to be highly specialized employees working in centralized research centers, 60 53 rather than workers drawn from local communities 50 49 or tied to labor unions. Therefore, companies in 44 these industries might score higher in the Human 40 Capital Development and Talent Attraction & 30 Retention criteria, rather than on the Stakeholder Engagement criterion, which focuses 20 on local stakeholders. 10 0 3. Surprisingly, the Energy Equipment & Services and Average Average Average Transportation & Transportation Infrastructure Governance Implementation Review score score score industries, whose operations have plenty of local exposure, display relatively low scores. This may Source: RobecoSAM be due to their lower visibility as these companies generally operate in a business to business environment and are subject to less public scrutiny. Governance However, this will only hold true as long as there is no major incident that draws public attention. In Policies and transparency many cases, increased public scrutiny encourages Because a basic set of guidelines is necessary for companies to adopt better practices. companies to implement a stakeholder engagement strategy, companies are asked whether they have 4. The Auto Components and the Textiles, Apparel a policy or procedure to ensure that the corporate & Luxury Goods industries also received relatively stakeholder engagement strategy is applied low scores. One possible explanation is that many consistently across all of the companies’ operations. companies in these industries have outsourced large parts of their local operations to external suppliers Although over 3/4 (78%) of the participating and are therefore outsourcing their local risks via companies have a corporate stakeholder engagement their supply chain strategies. This behavior might policy or procedure in place, only 52% state that it is have severe repercussions if these companies do not applied consistently across all of their operations. have an adequate supply chain management system in place. Considering that social media enables local stakeholders to link workplace incidents at a supplier’s factory to the consumer brand, companies may be held directly responsible. Figure 5: Percentage of companies with corporate stakeholder engagement policy Gap between top-down policy and bottomup implementation When examining the average scores of the companies 22% in the three different parts of the framework, one can observe that on average, companies scored best on the top-down governance section, reflecting RobecoSAM’s 52% past experience that stakeholder engagement is still 26% very much a top-down topic pushed by corporate functions at the company headquarters. Therefore, it is not surprising that the average score for the local implementation component is lower. The average Policy applicable to all operations score for the review component of the framework is Policy applicable to some operations even lower, showing that many companies still lack a No policy review and feedback culture around their stakeholder Source: RobecoSAM engagement activities, which is standard practice for other parts of the business. 34 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 For most companies, reporting to senior management Figure 6: Percentage of companies with on stakeholder engagement occurs rather infrequently: a publicly available stakeholder 24% of the companies do not brief their Board of engagement policy Directors on stakeholder engagement topics. Still, 30% of the companies report to their Board of Directors on stakeholder engagement matters on a quarterly 22% basis. This shows that leading companies are aware that stakeholder engagement is an ongoing process, should be embedded in the company’s overall corporate 55% 52% strategy and deserves regular attention from senior 23% management – not only in times of crisis. Implementation Policy publicly disclosed Identifying and prioritizing local stakeholders Policy not publicly disclosed In order to implement their stakeholder engagement No policy strategy effectively, companies must be able to identify Source: RobecoSAM their most important local stakeholders. To do so, companies must have an understanding of what types of characteristics constitute a high-priority stakeholder. Looking at the transparency of the companies’ policies also reveals a mixed picture: only 55% of the More than half of the companies that completed the companies make their stakeholder engagement policy stakeholder engagement criterion have a reasonable or procedure publicly available, which is an important understanding of what characterizes their high-priority step towards creating accountability and signaling stakeholders. Depending on each company’s business commitment to the company’s local stakeholders. model, the relative importance and relevance of different types of stakeholders will vary. Therefore it is crucial that Board level involvement companies are able to identify, select and prioritize the In order for a stakeholder engagement policy to be appropriate stakeholders for an engagement. This allows successful, it must fit within the company’s overall the companies to use their resources in the most effective corporate strategy, and should therefore be guided by manner and ensures that once a stakeholder is deemed the highest corporate function. Thus the CSA looks at important, it actually receives the attention it deserves. the frequency of briefings on stakeholder engagement to the Board of Directors. Once the company has identified the high-priority stakeholders at its local operations, the next step is to get to know them. Therefore, companies were asked if Figure 7: Percentage of companies they use stakeholder profiles and stakeholder mapping reporting to Board of Directors on as tools at the local level. Stakeholder maps typically stakeholder engagement topics have two dimensions, for example: the willingness to engage versus the ability to engage. Stakeholder profiles are used to describe individual stakeholders and preserve 24% knowledge about specific local stakeholders, which helps 30% to ensure continuity in the case of employee turnover. Overall, only 17% of the participating companies use both 16% 52% stakeholder profiles and stakeholder maps to develop 18% knowledge about their local high-priority stakeholders. 13% Surprisingly, more than half of the companies that participated in the assessment do not use such tools at all to manage their local stakeholders. At least quarterly Anually Based on the information gathered about their highSemi-annually priority stakeholders, we expect companies to carefully Ad-hoc decide how to interact with them. Of course the method Never, not applicable chosen will depend on the local circumstances, but Source: RobecoSAM two-way approaches such as interviews, consultation The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 35 meetings, roundtables and town hall meetings are reason, companies are asked what type of quantitative typically considered to be most effective. or qualitative performance indicators they use to measure and report the success of local Stakeholder Incentive mechanisms Engagement activities. Examples of quantitative A successful local stakeholder engagement strategy indicators can include “Number of town hall meetings also depends on having the appropriate mechanisms held at Factory XYZ,” while qualitative indicators are in place to ensure that the top-down strategy is typically more descriptive, such as case studies of actually implemented by the managers on the stakeholder engagement success stories, for instance. ground. Therefore, companies are asked whether the local implementation of the group-wide stakeholder About half of the companies that were assessed were engagement policy/procedure is part of the annual able to provide two meaningful KPIs such as “Number performance review of the local operations’ top of local controversies,” “Community Engagement managers. Plans in place,” “Community Advisory Panels in place” or “Number of grievances reported through local Only 38% of participating companies reported that grievance mechanism.” Clear and straightforward KPIs they use incentive mechanisms to ensure that firm-wide allow the organization to measure the success of their engagement policies are actually implemented at local local stakeholder engagement activities and report operations. these results back to the department responsible for stakeholder engagement at the group level. This shows that companies are beginning to use regular Figure 8: Percentage of companies management tools to track, manage and evaluate the incorporating stakeholder engagement success of their stakeholder engagement practices. into local managers’ performance review This allows the companies to use the limited resources and incentives available in a more efficient manner. A proper mechanism for reporting these KPIs back to company headquarters also helps ensure that the relevant local stakeholders receive the attention they require from top management, because if they don’t, a local incident 38% may quickly turn into a broader issue that affects the entire company. 62% Information sharing and learning from past experiences Local stakeholders are usually there long before a company moves in, and are likely to remain after the Yes company leaves. As a result, local stakeholders tend to No be sensitive and are equipped with a good long-term Source: RobecoSAM memory. Therefore, businesses should ensure they learn from past incidents or mistakes. To determine whether companies are actually doing this, companies are Review asked to describe a concrete example in which a local stakeholder engagement has not been successful or has Measuring benefits of stakeholder engagement led to a negative outcome. and feedback loops When companies engage with stakeholders at their Surprisingly, only 40% of the companies were able local sites, they learn valuable lessons and gain insights to provide a concrete example of an unsuccessful that can benefit the rest of the organization. In order stakeholder engagement such as unrealistic to ensure that this information is used effectively, expectations triggered by local stakeholder programs companies need to close the feedback loop and make or negative media coverage in cases where the follow sure local findings and results are reported back to the up to a roundtable discussion took too long. It seems headquarters so that their group-wide stakeholder that some the companies have developed this kind engagement strategy can be refined and adjusted, and of awareness and willingness to learn from past other sites can benefit from the experience. For this experiences. 36 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 One important finding of the stakeholder engagement Figure 9: Percentage of companies framework is that companies still lack transparency providing examples of unsuccessful when it comes to communicating on their local stakeholder engagement experiences stakeholder management policies. Although many of the companies have internal documents guiding their stakeholder engagement initiatives, many have not disclosed these publicly. In addition, there seems to be a consensus among companies about the strategic 40% importance of stakeholder engagement, but this is 60% not yet reflected in practice in terms of the frequency and level of attention the topic receives at board-level meetings. When it comes to implementing stakeholder Provided meaningful example engagement processes, quite a few companies have Did not provide example a relatively good sense of who their high-priority local Source: RobecoSAM stakeholders are. But many companies still do not regularly use stakeholder profiles and stakeholder maps to manage their high-priority local stakeholders or Companies were also asked how any lessons learned incentivize their local site managers to ensure that these from positive and negative stakeholder engagement stakeholders receive the appropriate attention. experiences are systematically disseminated throughout the group. The most common methods Regarding the need to close the feedback loop and for disseminating knowledge and sharing experiences ensure that local findings and results are reported on how to deal with local stakeholders throughout back to the headquarters, we have seen that some the company appear to be the use of standardized companies are using KPIs to measure the success of debriefing processes, internal conferences in which local their stakeholder engagement activities. However, there plant managers share best practices, roadshows to is still considerable room for improvement in terms local operating units and training modules for sharing of learning from negative stakeholder engagement best practices. outcomes and sharing those experiences with the rest of the firm. Conclusion and outlook Results from the first year of applying the enhanced As social media continues to increase the speed of stakeholder engagement framework in the CSA confirm information exchange, public scrutiny on all aspects that companies are good at establishing a top-down of companies’ operations – from manufacturing to stakeholder engagement policy. However, for such sales – will continue to mount. The best way to prevent incidents from escalating is a proactive approach to stakeholder engagement that demonstrates the Companies are good at establishing a topcompany’s true commitment to addressing the concerns of their local stakeholders. down stakeholder engagement policy. However, for such a policy to be truly effective and add RobecoSAM will continue to develop and refine its stakeholder engagement framework to encourage financial value, companies must also master companies to publicly disclose their stakeholder the local implementation of their corporate engagement policies; to properly implement them at the local level, where it matters most; to measure the stakeholder engagement strategies. success of their approach and to disseminate the results of their engagement activities throughout the rest of the a policy to be truly effective and add financial value, company in order to continue to improve. companies must also master the local implementation of their corporate stakeholder engagement strategies. The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 37 5. The company perspective: PUMA’s approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Investing Analyst Elsa Ben Hamou Dassonville sat with Stefan Seidel, Deputy Head at PUMA.Safe* Global and Team Head PUMA.Safe Ecology to learn why stakeholder engagement is important to his company, and how PUMA interacts with its local stakeholders. Stefan Seidel, PUMA.Safe Stefan Seidel joined PUMA in 2001. As the leader of the PUMA.Safe* Elsa Ben Hamou Dassonville: How has the rise of Team in EMEA, he led sustainability projects in Europe, the Middle East social media influenced the way stakeholders interact and Africa and helped develop PUMA.Safe standards as well as PUMA’s with you? sustainability reports. More recently, as Deputy Head PUMA.Safe Global Stefan Seidel: The interaction is much faster today than and as Team Head PUMA.Safe Ecology, he has been responsible for the it was some years ago. Today, workers at our suppliers’ implementation of PUMA’s global environmental standards. factories can use their mobile phones and social media to raise any issues, either directly to us or to others such as NGOs and the media. How has this influenced your stakeholder engagement policies? In principle, we have not changed our stakeholder engagement policies. We are open and transparent towards any interested stakeholder, be it a financial analyst or an NGO activist. We communicate through multiple channels, from speaking regularly to workers at factories, to organizing local Round Table Meetings with our suppliers, as well as participating in global industry initiatives and expert conferences. Our aim is to * “Safe” stands for: engage in a constructive dialogue, even with the most Social Accountability outspoken or critical stakeholders. and Fundamental Environmental Standards 38 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Who are some of your most important local up on water pollution issues that were raised by this stakeholders and why? How can they impact NGO, which runs a national pollution database. We are your business? now going one step further and encourage selected The most important local stakeholders are the suppliers to upload test reports from their waste water employees and the management at our manufacturing treatment effluents directly to the IPE database. This will partners’ sites, as well as the communities in which they enable local residents to obtain precise information on live. Their impact on our business is very substantial, as what enters the water stream in their neighborhood. we rely on them for the manufacture of our products as well as our local license to operate. At the group level, how does your company interact with stakeholders? Can you provide an example of a stakeholder We invite our main stakeholders every year for a two day engagement activity that has been successful and led event at an old monastery close to our headquarters to a positive outcome? in Germany. During these “Talks at Banz” we share In China we have worked with the Institute of Public & our sustainability strategy with NGOs, suppliers, Environmental Affairs (IPE) and our suppliers to follow representatives from industry initiatives, sustainability experts, analysts and PUMA colleagues. “Honest stakeholder feedback enables us How does your stakeholder engagement strategy fit into the global PUMA.Safe program and your group to identify gaps and opportunities that we strategy, and how much flexibility do you have in otherwise may have overlooked in our daily terms of applying your stakeholder strategy at the local level? work. The regular contact with key local Interaction with our stakeholders is a key element stakeholders is as important as the global of both the PUMA.Safe program, which forms an important element of the overall PUMA Sustainability dialogue.” Strategy. Honest stakeholder feedback enables us to The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 39 identify gaps and opportunities that we otherwise may Have you applied any lessons learned from your have overlooked in our daily work. The regular contact interactions with local stakeholders to your global with key local stakeholders is as important as the global policy/practices? dialogue and the fact that we have local PUMA.Safe Working with critical local NGOs on labor rights has colleagues at the major sourcing locations helps to helped us to better understand the situation on the reinforce this communication. ground. This in turn has led to a strengthening of our own supplier audit program, as well as the recognition How does your local stakeholder engagement policy that audits at best show the status quo at a given contribute to your business? time and need to be supported by capacity building Our products are mainly manufactured in Asia, where programs. the implementation of social and environmental standards still poses significant challenges. The recent Based on this year’s assessment, the average disasters with factory fires in Pakistan and the tragic score for the Textiles industry in the stakeholder building collapse in Bangladesh have, quite rightly engagement criterion was lower than for some other so, captured global public attention. Regular local industries such as Electric Utilities, Metals & Mining, stakeholder engagement acts as an early warning or Oil & Gas. What is your view on this? Where do you system to identify any potential issues before they see room for improvement for your industry in the escalate or even lead to disaster. Thus, a constructive area of stakeholder engagement? dialogue with stakeholders helps us mitigate risks and It is clear that industries like Mining or Oil & Gas, which therefore reduce or prevent unexpected costs, which in have a high and very visible local environmental and turn protects our brand reputation and value. social impact, put a high emphasis on stakeholder dialogue in general and even more so on local stakeholder engagement. “A constructive dialogue with stakeholders Our industry has a long history of engaging with the supply chain. Besides this, recently formed industry helps us mitigate risks and reduce or prevent initiatives such as the Sustainable Apparel Coalition unexpected costs, which in turn protects our and the Zero Discharge Hazardous Chemicals Group are intensifying the dialogue within the industry itself and brand reputation and value.” go beyond the traditional brand-supplier relationship by incorporating lower tiers of the supply chain such as But beyond mitigating risks, our stakeholder dyehouses or tanneries or even suppliers of chemicals. engagement helps to create a positive public image. For example, Greenpeace recently publicly named PUMA a leader in its Detox campaign, which challenges clothing brands to eliminate the release of hazardous chemicals during the production process, whereas some major competitors did not receive similar recognition. 40 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 6. Sustainability Leaders 2014 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 41 Since 1999, RobecoSAM has been assessing and documenting the sustainability performance of over 2,000 corporations on a yearly basis. In the process, RobecoSAM has compiled one of the largest global databases on corporate sustainability. Over 3,000 of the world’s largest companies, including 800 companies based in the emerging markets, are invited to participate in RobecoSAM’s Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) every year. For each industry, the company with the highest score is named the RobecoSAM Industry Leader, and is considered RobecoSAM is pleased to see that over the years, participation to be the company within its industry that is best prepared rates in the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment to seize the opportunities and manage the risks deriving have continuously risen – with a record number of companies from economic, environmental and social developments. taking part in this year’s assessment – indicating that sustainability is increasingly rising to the top of corporate agendas and becoming more mainstream. Starting with this year’s assessment, the industry classifications Gold Class 2014 have been fully aligned with the Global Industry Classification System (GICS), the most widely accepted standard in the Companies whose score is within 1% of the Industry financial industry. As a result, the 58 RobecoSAM sectors were Leader’s score receive the RobecoSAM Gold Class award. replaced with 59 RobecoSAM industries, and some companies were moved to a different industry. On the following pages, RobecoSAM offers insights highlighting opportunities and risks deriving from economic, environmental Silver Class 2014 and social trends and developments that have an impact on the competitive position of companies in each of the 59 industries All companies receiving a score within a range of 1% analyzed. Not only are the top 15% of the companies from to 5% from the score of the Industry Leader receive the each industry included in The Sustainability Yearbook, but RobecoSAM Silver Class distinction. they are also classified into three categories: RobecoSAM Gold Class, RobecoSAM Silver Class and RobecoSAM Bronze Class. In addition, the top performing company from each industry is named the RobecoSAM Industry Leader. Furthermore, in order to be included in the Yearbook, companies must achieve a score within 30% of their Industry Leader’s score. Companies whose score is within a range of 5% to In addition to the companies’ sustainability scores derived from 10% from the score of the Industry Leader receive the the CSA, a qualitative screen based on RobecoSAM’s Media RobecoSAM Bronze Class distinction. & Stakeholder Analysis (MSA), which evaluates a company’s response to critical sustainability issues that may arise during the year, is also applied to determine eligibility for inclusion in The Sustainability Yearbook. This aligns the Yearbook’s methodology with any decision by the DJSI Design Committee to exclude a company from the DJSI, which is also based on the MSA. 42 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Industry Mover Sustainability Yearbook Member Within the top 15% of each industry, the company that All companies that have been included in the Yearbook, has achieved the largest proportional improvement in its but that have not received a medal distinction, are listed sustainability performance compared to the previous year as a Sustainability Yearbook Member. In order to be is named the RobecoSAM Industry Mover. However, as listed in the Yearbook, companies must be within the a result of this year’s switch to GICS industry definitions, top 15% of their industry and must achieve a score within the comparability of the sustainability scores and industry 30% of their Industry Leader’s score. universes between last year and this year was affected. Therefore it would not be appropriate to name Industry Movers for the 2014 Yearbook. The RobecoSAM Industry Mover distinction will be reinstated in the 2015 Yearbook. Sustainability leaders 2014 • RobecoSAM Gold Class Company * Country The RobecoSAM Industry Leader appears at the top of the table. Within each of the medal • Company Country categories, the remaining companies are listed RobecoSAM Silver Class in alphabetical order. Out of the 460 companies Company Country listed in The Sustainability Yearbook, the • Company Country following distinctions were awarded: RobecoSAM Bronze Class Company Country 70 RobecoSAM Gold Class Company Country 65 RobecoSAM Silver Class Sustainability Yearbook Members 87 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Company Country Company Country * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Reading Instructions Industry statistics The information below provides an explanation on how This section displays the research coverage in 2013 to interpret the various sections contained in each of the for the respective industry. Assessed companies Industry Profiles on the following pages. include those that actively participated in the CSA and companies assessed by RobecoSAM based on publicly Driving forces available information. Highlights current and future challenges shaping the competitive landscape of each industry. Results at industry level Offers an overview of the 2013 RobecoSAM Corporate Highlighted criteria Sustainability Assessment scores. For each industry the Highlights selected industry-specific and general criteria average and the best score of the assessed companies that are applied in the 2013 RobecoSAM Corporate are displayed, as well as the average score and the Sustainability Assessment. top score for the economic, environmental and social dimensions. The relative weight assigned to each of the three dimensions is also shown. The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 43 RobecoSAM Industry Leaders 2014 44 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 WHERE ARE THE WORLD’S MOST SUSTAINABLE Netherlands Norway Finland COMPANIES LOCATED? Belgium 16 5 10 2 Sweden 1 4 7 1 1 UK 52 Canada 4 17 Denmark 3 Luxembourg 1 3 1 South France Korea 35 Germany 38 USA 5 25 8 Japan 79 8 Portugal Thailand 39 Companies 10 listed in the 4 5 5 Sustainability 1 2 Yearbook Taiwan Spain Switzerland Italy India 8 Number of Gold Class companies 4 3 20 14 15 1 4 3 Colombia 8 Malaysia 3300 1 companies were invited to Brazil participate in the CSA in 2013. Indonesia 12 1 South Africa 1 818 companies from 9 Singapore Australia 39 different countries 1 2 25 New Zealand actively participated 5 1 in the CSA. 70 TOP 15 INDUSTRIES BY PARTICIPATION RATE Gold Class Percentage of invited companies that actively participated in the RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA) Household Products 47 460 Professional Services 40 companies qualified Computers & Peripherals and Office Electronics 40 for The Sustainability Paper & Forest Products 39 38 Yearbook 2014 Tobacco 38 Household Durables 35 Containers & Packaging 59 65 Aluminum 33 Industry Silver Class 33 Building Products Leaders 33 Leisure Equipment & Products and Consumer Electronics 238 Multi and Water Utilities 33 32 Sustainability Yearbook 87 Automobiles 32 Members Construction & Engineering 32 Bronze Class Food & Staples Retailing 32 Beverages 32 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 45 46 RobecoSAM Industry Leaders 2014 Company Name Industry Country Company Name Industry Country Abbott Laboratories Health Care Equipment & Supplies United States Lotte Shopping Co Ltd Retailing South Korea Adecco SA Professional Services Switzerland Marubeni Corp Trading Companies & Distributors Japan Adidas AG Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Germany Molson Coors Brewing Co Beverages United States Air France-KLM Airlines France Nestle SA Food Products Switzerland Akzo Nobel NV Chemicals Netherlands Novozymes A/S Biotechnology Denmark Alcatel-Lucent Communications Equipment France Owens Corning Building Products United States Alcoa Inc Aluminum United States Leisure Equipment & Products and Panasonic Corp Japan Consumer Electronics Allianz SE Insurance Germany Pirelli & C. SpA Auto Components Italy Amorepacific Corp Personal Products South Korea Roche Holding AG Pharmaceuticals Switzerland Anglo American PLC Metals & Mining United Kingdom Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co Ltd Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components South Korea Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd Banks Australia SAP AG Software Germany Baker Hughes Inc Energy Equipment & Services United States Schneider Electric SA Electrical Components & Equipment France Ball Corp Containers & Packaging United States Siam Cement PCL Construction Materials Thailand Benesse Holdings Inc Diversified Consumer Services Japan Siemens AG Industrial Conglomerates Germany BG Group PLC Oil & Gas United Kingdom SK C&C Co Ltd IT Services & Internet Software and Services South Korea Bombardier Inc Aerospace & Defense Canada Sodexo Restaurants & Leisure Facilities France British American Tobacco PLC Tobacco United Kingdom Spectra Energy Corp Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation United States Canadian National Railway Co Transportation and Transportation Infrastructure Canada Stockland Real Estate Australia China Steel Corp Steel Taiwan Suez Environnement Co Multi and Water Utilities France Citigroup Inc Diversified Financial Services and Capital Markets United States Sumitomo Forestry Co Ltd Homebuilding Japan CNH Industrial NV Machinery and Electrical Equipment Italy Tabcorp Holdings Ltd Casinos & Gaming Australia EDP Energias de Portugal SA Electric Utilities Portugal Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment Taiwan Electrolux AB Household Durables Sweden Telenet Group Holding NV Media Belgium Exxaro Resources Ltd Coal & Consumable Fuels South Africa TUI AG Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines Germany Fibria Celulose SA Paper & Forest Products Brazil Volkswagen AG Automobiles Germany Gas Natural SDG SA Gas Utilities Spain Woolworths Ltd Food & Staples Retailing Australia Henkel AG & Co KGaA Household Products Germany Humana Inc Health Care Providers & Services United States Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co Ltd Construction & Engineering South Korea KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co Ltd Commercial Services & Supplies South Korea KT Corp Telecommunication Services South Korea Life Technologies Corp Life Sciences Tools & Services United States Lite-On Technology Corp Computers & Peripherals and Office Electronics Taiwan 47 48 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Industry profiles: 59 industries at a glance Industry Page Industry Page Aerospace & Defense 50 Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines 80 Airlines 51 Household Durables 81 Aluminum 52 Household Products 82 Auto Components 53 Industrial Conglomerates 83 Automobiles 54 Insurance 84 Banks 55 IT Services & Internet Software and Services 85 Beverages 56 Leisure Equipment & Products and Biotechnology 57 Consumer Electronics 86 Building Products 58 Life Sciences Tools & Services 87 Casinos & Gaming 59 Machinery and Electrical Equipment 88 Chemicals 60 Media 89 Coal & Consumable Fuels 61 Metals & Mining 90 Commercial Services & Supplies 62 Multi and Water Utilities 91 Communications Equipment 63 Oil & Gas 92 Computers & Peripherals and Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation 93 Office Electronics 64 Paper & Forest Products 94 Construction & Engineering 65 Personal Products 95 Construction Materials 66 Pharmaceuticals 96 Containers & Packaging 67 Diversified Consumer Services 68 Professional Services 97 Diversified Financial Services and Real Estate 98 Capital Markets 69 Restaurants & Leisure Facilities 99 Electric Utilities 70 Retailing 100 Electrical Components & Equipment 71 Semiconductors & Semiconductor Electronic Equipment, Instruments Equipment 101 & Components 72 Software 102 Energy Equipment & Services 73 Steel 103 Food & Staples Retailing 74 Telecommunication Services 104 Food Products 75 Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods 105 Gas Utilities 76 Tobacco 106 Health Care Equipment & Supplies 77 Trading Companies & Distributors 107 Health Care Providers & Services 78 Transportation and Transportation Homebuilding 79 Infrastructure 108 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 49 Aerospace & Defense Driving forces Highlighted criteria The aerospace & defense industry remains a profitable yet challenging Economic Dimension business. Global cuts in government spending, especially in the United States, – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ will put significant financial pressure on companies, forcing them to realign Corruption & Bribery their strategies and diversify their business models. The commercial aerospace – Corporate Governance segment remains lucrative, with a strong demand for fuel-efficient next – Risk & Crisis Management generation products. Cooperation with both customers and suppliers remains – Supply Chain Management a key driver of innovation. Product stewardship, life cycle management and operational eco-efficiency have become key requirements for both commercial Environmental Dimension and military applications. The call for alternative fuels and propulsion – Climate Strategy technologies is increasingly becoming a question of not only operating costs, – Environmental Reporting but one of national security and public policy. Governance, compliance and – Operational Eco-Efficiency bribery issues remain a threat to companies involved in the manufacture and – Product Stewardship sale of aerospace and defense products. Numerous scandals in recent years and investigations by authorities have led to a call for increased transparency and Social Dimension accountability by these companies. The sensitive nature of the business and the – Human Capital Development importance of this industry to national governments increase the public scrutiny – Labor Practice Indicators & around companies operating in this space. Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Bombardier Inc* Sustainability Yearbook Members Canada Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 38 26 68 BAE Systems PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed companies Embraer SA Brazil to total market capitalization (%) 93 Finmeccanica SpA Italy Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC United Kingdom Results at industry level * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension As of October 31, 2013 score score weight Economic 56 95 37% Environmental 43 79 28% Social 43 78 35% Total score average score: 48 best score: 85 0 25 50 75 100 50 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Airlines Driving forces Highlighted criteria Commercial airlines continue to face a competitive and challenging Economic Dimension environment. Rising fuel costs combined with fierce competition from low-cost – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ and ultra-low-cost carriers are forcing airlines to rethink their business plans and Corruption & Bribery adapt their long-term growth strategies. Consolidation continues throughout – Corporate Governance the industry, and new route-sharing partnerships help create economies of – Fleet Management scale and reduce operating costs. The EU Emissions Trading Scheme, originally – Risk & Crisis Management scheduled to be implemented in January 2013, has been put on hold, giving the UN’s International Civil Airline Organization (ICAO) a year to develop a global Environmental Dimension alternative. If no solution is found, the EU has vowed to move ahead as planned, – Environmental Policy/Management applying the legislation to all intercontinental flights to and from the European System Union, providing an additional financial incentive to improve operational – Environmental Reporting eco-efficiency. Although airlines have made significant strides in improving – Operational Eco-Efficiency fuel efficiency and investments in the latest generation aircraft remain strong, further cooperation between the private and public sectors is needed to meet Social Dimension the 2020 goal of neutralizing net CO2 emission growth. This includes increasing – Human Capital Development cooperation on the development of alternative fuels and the implementation of – Labor Practice Indicators & advanced route planning systems and navigation technologies. Human Rights – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 25 • Air France-KLM* France Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 14 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 56 Qantas Airways Ltd Australia Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 61 Delta Air Lines Inc United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 63 92 44% Environmental 56 95 26% Social 48 80 30% Total score average score: 57 best score: 89 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 51 Aluminum Driving forces Highlighted criteria Energy consumption and climate change remain two of the most pressing issues Economic Dimension facing the aluminum industry. Today, coal and hydropower are the primary – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ energy sources used in aluminum production. Although power consumption Corruption & Bribery (MWh/t) has been halved over the past ten years, smelting remains an energy– Corporate Governance intensive process that uses considerably more energy than steel production. This – Risk & Crisis Management ecological disadvantage is partly offset by the significantly lower specific weight of aluminum and the moderate energy input required for aluminum recycling. Environmental Dimension Nevertheless, further decreases in specific energy consumption and GHG – Climate Strategy emissions from anode consumption remain a key challenge. In terms of social – Environmental Policy/Management sustainability, occupational health & safety dominate the agenda. However, as System aluminum producers become vertically integrated, they are also increasingly – Environmental Reporting faced with additional sustainability issues such as stakeholder engagement and – Operational Eco-Efficiency mineral waste management. Social Dimension – Enabling Local Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Impacts on Communities Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 6 • Alcoa Inc* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 5 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 83 Norsk Hydro ASA Norway Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 97 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 58 88 25% Environmental 45 78 38% Social 53 81 37% Total score average score: 51 best score: 80 0 25 50 75 100 52 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Auto Components Driving forces Highlighted criteria Intense competition in the automotive industry requires suppliers of auto Economic Dimension components to consistently deliver improved products while they face constant – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ competitive pressure to reduce prices on their existing product range. Suppliers Corruption & Bribery of technologies that help reduce emissions can increase their products’ market – Corporate Governance penetration. At the same time, the continued shift of the production base into – Risk & Crisis Management emerging markets puts large leading suppliers at an advantage relative to small – Supply Chain Management regional producers. Despite this boost from additional volumes, suppliers must continuously improve their production efficiency and reduce the cost of their Environmental Dimension materials to prevent eroding margins. Innovation remains a key differentiating – Climate Strategy factor, enabling companies to secure a competitive advantage. Supply chain – Environmental Policy/Management management has grown in importance as efforts to improve efficiency have led System to a consolidation of the industry, resulting in fewer global players. – Operational Eco-Efficiency – Product Stewardship Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 40 • Pirelli & C. SpA* Italy Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 22 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 55 Cie Generale des Etablissements Michelin France Market capitalization of assessed • Hyundai Mobis South Korea companies to total market capitalization (%) 83 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Johnson Controls Inc United States Results at industry level Sustainability Yearbook Members Hankook Tire Co Ltd South Korea Dimension Average Best Dimension Valeo SA France score score weight * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Economic 59 86 27% Environmental 49 88 37% As of October 31, 2013 Social 46 86 36% Total score average score: 51 best score: 85 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 53 Automobiles Driving forces Highlighted criteria The automobile industry faces a number of key challenges including the Economic Dimension need to define and implement a clear market positioning strategy in an – Brand Management environment characterized by overcapacities, cut-throat competition, and cost – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ pressure stemming from high R&D costs. Given increasingly tight regulations Corruption & Bribery on greenhouse gas emissions and air pollutants, as well as the industry’s – Corporate Governance dependence on oil, carmakers need to improve fuel efficiency and lower the – Supply Chain Management carbon intensity of their product portfolios by introducing alternative propulsion systems such as electric motors. In this respect, talented, skilled and motivated Environmental Dimension employees are directly responsible for developing innovative products, – Climate Strategy improving efficiency and ensuring production quality. Thus, progressive human – Environmental Policy/Management resources policies that include talent attraction and retention, human capital System development, occupational health & safety and group-wide ethical principles – Operational Eco-Efficiency are indispensable to a company’s success. – Product Stewardship Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Volkswagen AG* Bayerische Motoren Werke AG Germany Germany Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 37 22 59 • Fiat SpA Italy Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 Nissan Motor Co Ltd Japan Peugeot SA France Results at industry level Toyota Motor Corp Japan * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight As of October 31, 2013 Economic 65 89 31% Environmental 59 92 35% Social 58 90 34% Total score average score: 61 best score: 89 0 25 50 75 100 54 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Banks Driving forces Highlighted criteria The banking industry remains under public scrutiny. As banks work to restore Economic Dimension their credibility and contribute to stable financial systems following the credit – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ crisis, leadership and accountability are key factors in building a competitive Corruption & Bribery advantage. Adherence to international best practices in corporate governance, – Corporate Governance risk management and compliance standards remains a necessity. Regulation, – Customer Relationship Management political and stakeholder pressure, demographic shifts and climate change will – Risk & Crisis Management continue to have an impact on the business environment. Leading banks are integrating environmental and social factors into their long-term investment Environmental Dimension strategies. Motivated, highly educated and experienced employees are critical – Business Risks & Opportunities to developing innovative financial products and services as well as in attracting – Environmental Policy/Management and retaining clients. At the same time, climate change and resource scarcity System are creating new business opportunities, for example in the area of low-carbon – Environmental Reporting mortgages or funding schemes for new technologies that are paving the way for a low-carbon economy. Social Dimension – Controversial Issues, Dilemmas in Lending / Financing – Financial Inclusion – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Australia & New Zealand Banking Group Ltd* Australia Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 210 114 • Westpac Banking Corp Australia Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 54 RobecoSAM Silver Class Market capitalization of assessed • National Australia Bank Ltd Australia companies to total market capitalization (%) 88 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Banco Espirito Santo SA Portugal Results at industry level Banco Santander SA Spain Itausa Investimentos Itau SA Brazil Dimension Average Best Dimension Sustainability Yearbook Members score score weight Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA Spain Intesa Sanpaolo SpA Italy Economic 67 98 41% Banco Bradesco SA Brazil Itau Unibanco Holding SA Brazil Environmental 52 90 24% Banco do Brasil SA Brazil KB Financial Group Inc South Korea Social 51 91 35% Bancolombia SA Colombia Lloyds Banking Group PLC United Kingdom Bank of Montreal Canada Nedbank Group Ltd South Africa Total score Barclays PLC United Kingdom Royal Bank of Canada Canada BNP Paribas SA France Royal Bank of Scotland United Kingdom average score: 58 CaixaBank Spain Group PLC best score: 93 Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce Canada Shinhan Financial Group Co Ltd South Korea Commonwealth Bank of Australia Australia Societe Generale SA France 0 25 50 75 100 Credit Agricole SA France Standard Chartered PLC United Kingdom DNB ASA Norway Toronto-Dominion Bank Canada HSBC Holdings PLC United Kingdom UniCredit SpA Italy * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 55 Beverages Driving forces Highlighted criteria In the mature global beverage industry, growth will continue to be driven by Economic Dimension emerging markets, demographic trends and innovation. Carbonated soft drinks – Brand Management account for the majority of non-alcoholic beverages but demand in developed – Risk & Crisis Management markets has been in decline for years as consumers shift toward healthier and/ – Strategy for Emerging Markets or lower calorie alternatives. Industry participants are developing and marketing – Supply Chain Management higher quality and more diversified products to meet new consumption patterns. Over the last few years, such niche categories as energy drinks or single Environmental Dimension serve coffee have emerged and expanded. Innovative beverage companies can – Environmental Policy/Management capture these new market opportunities, which offer faster growth and high System margins. New opportunities can also be tapped in emerging markets where – Packaging favorable demographic trends are boosting consumption. Given the large – Raw Material Sourcing proportion of calories consumed through beverages, the industry’s ingredients – Water Related Risks and advertising policies have increasingly come under scrutiny. Producers of alcoholic beverages, in particular, face the challenge of implementing effective Social Dimension and responsible marketing strategies. – Human Capital Development – Responsibility for Alcoholic Products – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 41 • Molson Coors Brewing Co* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 25 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 61 Coca-Cola HBC AG Switzerland Market capitalization of assessed Diageo PLC United Kingdom companies to total market capitalization (%) 95 Heineken NV Netherlands PepsiCo Inc United States Results at industry level Sustainability Yearbook Members Kirin Holdings Co Ltd Japan Dimension Average Best Dimension * RobecoSAM Industry Leader score score weight Economic 57 87 46% As of October 31, 2013 Environmental 52 91 26% Social 53 82 28% Total score average score: 54 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 56 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Biotechnology Driving forces Highlighted criteria Biotechnology companies apply technologies based on biological systems to Economic Dimension develop products or processes used for medical, industrial and agricultural – Corporate Governance applications. The industry is characterized by extensive R&D efforts and a high – Innovation Management risk of failure in product development. Innovation and intellectual property – Risk & Crisis Management are key drivers that make highly qualified employees and effective human – Supply Chain Management capital management important success factors. Medical biotechnology companies, similar to pharma companies, face challenges related to pricing Environmental Dimension and reimbursement of their products, global patent protection and public – Environmental Reporting concerns over drug safety. The use of biotechnology products in agriculture is – Operational Eco-Efficiency widely criticized among certain stakeholder groups. Public controversies focus on the use and release of genetically modified organisms, seeds and plants. Social Dimension The use of genetically modified organisms in industrial production processes – Addressing Cost Burden is far less controversial. Nevertheless, building and maintaining stakeholders’ – Health Outcome Contribution trust in their core technologies is a general sustainability challenge faced by the – Labor Practice Indicators & biotechnology industry. Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 31 • Novozymes A/S* Denmark Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 11 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 35 Biogen Idec Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 78 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 53 86 44% Environmental 33 87 10% Social 35 87 46% Total score average score: 42 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 57 Building Products Driving forces Highlighted criteria The building products industry consists of a diverse set of companies that Economic Dimension manufacture materials and products – including bathroom and kitchen – Antitrust Policy fixtures, air-conditioning and heating equipment – used to build and refurbish – Corporate Governance buildings and structures. Rapid urbanization in emerging markets, rising – Risk & Crisis Management awareness of environmental issues and new construction methods have made – Supply Chain Management it a highly dynamic industry. Since buildings are responsible for over 1/3 of global emissions, there is a clear focus on improving energy-efficiency in all Environmental Dimension aspects of building products and operations. As a result, reducing greenhouse – Biodiversity gas emissions and environmental life cycle analyses will be the industry’s top – Climate Strategy priorities. Throughout the building products industry, increasingly stringent – Operational Eco-Efficiency energy and water efficiency regulation requires innovation. As a result, the – Environmental Reporting industry will become even more knowledge-driven than in the past, making talent attraction, retention and human capital development key sources of Social Dimension competitive advantage. – Human Capital Development – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Owens Corning* United States Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 18 13 • TOTO Ltd Japan Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 72 RobecoSAM Silver Class Market capitalization of assessed Asahi Glass Co Ltd Japan companies to total market capitalization (%) 87 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 60 87 32% Environmental 46 74 33% Social 52 80 35% Total score average score: 52 best score: 77 0 25 50 75 100 58 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Casinos & Gaming Driving forces Highlighted criteria The casinos & gaming industry remains subject to intense public scrutiny. Economic Dimension Companies must address serious issues such as money laundering, corruption – Anti-crime Policy/Measures and bribery through robust compliance systems and sound governance. – Brand Management Social issues such as gambling addiction and its social repercussions must – Corporate Governance also be tackled. Online gambling has further increased the need for effective – Risk & Crisis Management monitoring and security. Companies in this space are increasingly taking a proactive stance in dealing with these issues, going beyond the minimum legal Environmental Dimension requirements and setting examples for other companies within the travel and – Environmental Policy/Management leisure space. On the environmental side, companies are increasing efforts to System curb energy consumption while reducing operating costs. – Environmental Reporting – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Promoting Responsible Gaming – Social Reporting – Stakeholder Engagement – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 29 • Tabcorp Holdings Ltd* Australia Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 22 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 76 Kangwon Land Inc South Korea Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 89 Echo Entertainment Group Ltd Australia Ladbrokes PLC United Kingdom Results at industry level * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension As of October 31, 2013 score score weight Economic 52 94 43% Environmental 29 72 16% Social 42 79 41% Total score average score: 44 best score: 83 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 59 Chemicals Driving forces Highlighted criteria The chemical industry comprises companies that develop, manufacture and Economic Dimension distribute specialty and commodity chemicals, plastics, industrial gases and – Corporate Governance agrochemicals as well as additives for the health care and wellness industries. – Innovation Management Innovative process and product developments remain key industry drivers. – Risk & Crisis Management However, growing awareness of the environmental impact of chemical – Supply Chain Management operations has resulted in legislative and consumer pressure, driving chemical companies to embrace more sustainable approaches. This has led the Environmental Dimension chemical industry to increasingly adopt green chemistry practices, including – Climate Strategy the implementation of strict emission controls, the use of (bio)catalysis, more – Environmental Reporting efficient waste management, atom economy and the replacement of traditional – Operational Eco-Efficiency solvents and hazardous reagents with renewable materials. Further, new – Product Stewardship product applications require the implementation of comprehensive product stewardship management systems that include product databases and client Social Dimension training. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Akzo Nobel NV* Netherlands Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 136 103 • Koninklijke DSM NV Netherlands Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 76 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Market capitalization of assessed BASF SE Germany companies to total market capitalization (%) 92 Dow Chemical Co United States Praxair Inc United States Results at industry level Sustainability Yearbook Members Air Liquide SA France Dimension Average Best Dimension Air Products & Chemicals Inc United States score score weight Braskem SA Brazil Economic 56 89 35% Clariant AG Switzerland Environmental 49 95 32% EI du Pont de Nemours & Co United States Social 51 91 33% Hitachi Chemical Co Ltd Japan LANXESS AG Germany Total score Linde AG Germany Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp Japan average score: 52 Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc Canada best score: 90 PTT Global Chemical PCL Thailand Solvay SA Belgium 0 25 50 75 100 Syngenta AG Switzerland Teijin Ltd Japan Umicore SA Belgium * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 60 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Coal & Consumable Fuels Driving forces Highlighted criteria A major sustainability issue facing the coal industry is the global pressure to Economic Dimension reduce CO2 emissions, which will have a significant impact on coal as it loses – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ market share to alternative and unconventional energy sources. Both coal Corruption & Bribery and uranium mining operations face environmental challenges similar to – Corporate Governance those faced by standard mining operations, including wastewater and waste – Risk & Crisis Management management. Conducting biodiversity and general environmental impact – Transparency assessments in new projects is now an important minimum requirement, even in remote areas. The same holds true for the early involvement of all Environmental Dimension stakeholders. Engaging with local communities, particularly on questions – Climate Strategy related to land rights and potential relocation is a prerequisite for the operators – Environmental Reporting to obtain and keep their social license to operate. Social issues within the – Mineral Waste Management operations are centered on occupational health & safety as well as general – Operational Eco-Efficiency labor conditions. Moreover, private security forces to protect assets, especially in the case of uranium mining, can be controversial. Finally, and similar to other Social Dimension extractive industries, the mining space is particularly susceptible to corruption, – Enabling Local Development bribery, and other breaches of codes of conduct. – Human Capital Development – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Impacts on Communities Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 20 • Exxaro Resources Ltd* South Africa Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 10 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 50 Adaro Energy Tbk PT Indonesia Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 69 Cameco Corp Canada * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 50 60 25% Environmental 26 57 36% Social 38 65 39% Total score average score: 37 best score: 55 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 61 Commercial Services & Supplies Driving forces Highlighted criteria As players in a knowledge-intensive industry, providers of commercial services Economic Dimension & supplies rely on the quality of their workforce. Therefore, talent attraction & – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ retention is a key contributor to their business success. Clear employee policies Corruption & Bribery combined with training programs, knowledge management and incentive – Customer Relationship Management schemes are important for creating a successful, safe and healthy working – Risk & Crisis Management environment and maintaining a high employee retention rate. On the demand – Supply Chain Management side, customer relationship management plays a crucial role as lasting clientprovider relationships are beneficial for both parties. Industry leaders maintain Environmental Dimension diversified business models that leverage internal synergies and cutting-edge – Environmental Policy/Management technologies. As B2B service partners, they are ideally placed to spearhead System sustainability innovations and promote them among their client base. – Environmental Reporting – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 47 • KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Co Ltd* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 41 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 87 Herman Miller Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 Brambles Ltd Australia Covanta Holding Corp United States Results at industry level Dai Nippon Printing Co Ltd Japan Rentokil Initial PLC United Kingdom Dimension Average Best Dimension Waste Management Inc United States score score weight * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Economic 49 78 37% Environmental 31 78 26% As of October 31, 2013 Social 35 72 37% Total score average score: 39 best score: 73 0 25 50 75 100 62 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Communications Equipment Driving forces Highlighted criteria Constant innovation and a strong intellectual property portfolio are crucial for Economic Dimension companies in the communications equipment industry. The quick adoption – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ of new “smart” mobile devices with short product life cycles has heightened Corruption & Bribery competition among manufacturers and providers of communication – Corporate Governance equipment. In addition, mass production of such devices and the increased – Privacy Protection total energy consumption during their use have sharpened the focus on the – Risk & Crisis Management environmental performance of devices and equipment over the product’s life cycle. Product design must consider the production inputs, energy efficiency Environmental Dimension during use, and disposal options. Take-back programs, greater modularity, – Climate Strategy and extended producer responsibility are becoming increasingly relevant. – Environmental Policy/Management Electromagnetic radiation must also be considered in mobile communication System devices and equipment. Environmental and social standards for suppliers – Hazardous Substances are key factors as a large share of production is outsourced to emerging – Product Stewardship economies. Finally, the development and use of certain technologies to monitor communication raises questions related to potential violations of the human Social Dimension right to freedom of expression and privacy. As a result, the industry must – Digital Inclusion demonstrate clear standards reflecting its commitment to human rights. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 19 • Alcatel-Lucent SA* France Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 13 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 68 Nokia OYJ Finland Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 96 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 57 92 40% Environmental 41 95 31% Social 37 85 29% Total score average score: 46 best score: 91 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 63 Computers & Peripherals and Office Electronics Driving forces Highlighted criteria The computers & peripherals and office electronics industry is characterized Economic Dimension by disruptive innovations, vertical integration of the supply chain and mass – Corporate Governance production of electronic hardware. Shorter product life cycles and the ubiquity – Innovation Management of electronic devices around the world have resulted in high disposal volumes. – Risk & Crisis Management To address the issue of electronic waste, product design and sales must consider – Supply Chain Management energy and material conservation, modularity, take-back programs and extended producer responsibility. Revenue streams can be diversified through Environmental Dimension a gradual migration from sale to leasing, and from products to the provision – Climate Strategy of services. For example, by outsourcing data storage to huge datacenters, – Environmental Reporting companies can create new business opportunities while offering customers – Hazardous Substances energy-efficient and cost-effective storage. Effective implementation of – Operational Eco-Efficiency environmental standards and monitoring of supplier compliance in areas such as the use of hazardous materials and fair working conditions in emerging Social Dimension economies are particularly relevant for the industry. Finally, information – Digital Inclusion technology may increasingly enable carbon emissions reductions. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 35 • Lite-On Technology Corp* Taiwan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 24 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 69 • Konica Minolta Inc Japan Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 96 Fujitsu Ltd Japan Hewlett-Packard Co United States Results at industry level Ricoh Co Ltd Japan * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight As of October 31, 2013 Economic 64 86 41% Environmental 59 93 30% Social 49 79 29% Total score average score: 58 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 64 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Construction & Engineering Driving forces Highlighted criteria The construction & engineering industry includes companies engaged in Economic Dimension the construction of infrastructure, commercial and residential buildings. The – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ construction industry consumes resources on a massive scale to create the Corruption & Bribery infrastructure and built environment. Companies are increasingly challenged – Corporate Governance by issues in areas such as operational health & safety, energy efficiency and – Risk & Crisis Management the responsible use of resources. Resource efficiency is not limited only to – Supply Chain Management compliance with legal requirements, but also includes the active promotion of measures to reduce resource depletion. In a resource-constrained world, Environmental Dimension establishing a reputation as a resource-conscious company represents a – Building Materials competitive advantage. Given increasing infrastructure spending in emerging – Environmental Reporting markets, a company’s ability to establish itself as a preferred contractor – Operational Eco-Efficiency also depends on its ability to handle and avoid reputational risks associated – Resource Conservation & Resource with antitrust and bribery cases. This means that the establishment and Efficiency implementation of rigorous codes of conduct will be a key success factor, particularly in emerging markets. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 67 • Hyundai Engineering & Construction Co Ltd* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 48 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 72 • GS Engineering & Construction Corp South Korea Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 78 Ferrovial SA Spain Sustainability Yearbook Members Results at industry level ACS Actividades de Construccion y Servicios SA Spain Daelim Industrial Co Ltd South Korea Dimension Average Best Dimension Fomento de Construcciones y Contratas SA Spain score score weight Hochtief AG Germany Economic 60 84 30% Outotec OYJ Finland Environmental 48 96 38% Samsung Engineering Co Ltd South Korea Social 51 88 32% Vinci SA France * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Total score As of October 31, 2013 average score: 53 best score: 90 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 65 Construction Materials Driving forces Highlighted criteria The construction materials industry is essentially a collection of local markets, as Economic Dimension it is rarely cost efficient to ship cement more than several hundred kilometers. – Antitrust Policy Therefore, local issues and factors usually determine market dynamics. From a – Corporate Governance sustainability perspective, emission management remains at a top priority, as – Risk & Crisis Management cement production is extremely energy and emissions intensive and accounts – Supply Chain Management for roughly 5% of global man-made greenhouse gases emissions. Occupational health & safety is another important sustainability factor, as the industry must Environmental Dimension grapple with a number of fatalities each year. Furthermore, growing demand – Biodiversity for more sustainable construction materials has prompted the introduction – Climate Strategy of innovative cement grades, such as those made with a higher proportion of – Operational Eco-Efficiency recycled materials, which are expected to account for an increasing share of – Environmental Reporting sales volumes. Finally, because of their involvement with local communities and governments, cement companies must maintain their social license to Social Dimension operate by adopting of the highest corporate governance, codes of conduct, and – Human Capital Development biodiversity management standards. – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 35 • Siam Cement PCL* Thailand Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 19 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 54 Cementos Argos SA Colombia Market capitalization of assessed Grupo Argos SA Colombia companies to total market capitalization (%) 81 • Holcim Ltd Switzerland RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Lafarge SA France * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight As of October 31, 2013 Economic 62 87 32% Environmental 44 94 33% Social 53 87 35% Total score average score: 53 best score: 88 0 25 50 75 100 66 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Containers & Packaging Driving forces Highlighted criteria Amid the continuing global downturn, the containers & packaging industry Economic Dimension faces various challenges, including stagnating or declining demand in – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ developed markets, higher material, energy and capital costs, and shifts in Corruption & Bribery client and consumer demand. The markets in which these companies operate – Corporate Governance remain highly competitive, with substantial downward pressure on both prices – Risk & Crisis Management and operating margins. Some players seek to set themselves apart through – Supply Chain Management innovative products and solutions while moving into emerging markets that offer superior growth potential. At the same time, stakeholders are placing Environmental Dimension increasing importance on environmental and social performance, as reflected – Climate Strategy in converging public communication strategies. Leading companies integrate – Environmental Policy/Management these factors into their growth strategies, continually make improvements System and effectively communicate them to their stakeholders. Overall, the industry – Operational Eco-Efficiency continues to be characterized by a trend towards improved energy and resource – Product Stewardship efficiency, innovative solutions and the strengthening of companies’ reputation through greater transparency and involvement. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 20 • Ball Corp* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 15 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 75 Amcor Ltd Australia Market capitalization of assessed MeadWestvaco Corp United States companies to total market capitalization (%) 83 Sonoco Products Co United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 67 87 38% Environmental 59 85 31% Social 48 71 31% Total score average score: 59 best score: 81 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 67 Diversified Consumer Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria The diversified consumer services industry comprises service providers with a Economic Dimension wide range of business models and activities. Common to all companies in the – Brand Management industry, however, is their direct relationship with customers. Industry-specific – Corporate Governance challenges include the need to both retain and increase the customer base – Privacy Protection while expanding into new markets, develop and train employees, and improve – Risk & Crisis Management customer satisfaction. For this purpose, companies seek to strengthen their brand and reputation and minimize negative social and environmental impacts. Environmental Dimension Technological advances – particularly those related to the Internet, electronic – Environmental Policy/Management billing, privacy protection, real-time service and customer information – offer System opportunities for growth and differentiation. On the other hand, companies face – Environmental Reporting the challenge of adequately protecting customer-sensitive data and maintaining – Operational Eco-Efficiency trust and loyalty. Regarding environmental impacts, companies in this space need to focus on sourcing and usage of materials as well as energy intensity in Social Dimension order to improve operational eco-efficiency. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Stakeholder Engagement – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Benesse Holdings Inc* * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Japan Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 13 9 69 Market capitalization of assessed As of October 31, 2013 companies to total market capitalization (%) 67 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 54 69 48% Environmental 21 51 19% Social 29 47 33% Total score average score: 39 best score: 58 0 25 50 75 100 68 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Markets Driving forces Highlighted criteria The diversified financial services and capital markets industry consists of a Economic Dimension heterogeneous group of holding companies, credit agencies, stock exchanges, – Anti-crime Policy/Measures asset managers, custody banks and investment banking & brokerage – Corporate Governance companies. Accountability and leadership are crucial for building a competitive – Customer Relationship Management advantage. Adherence to international best-practice standards in corporate – Risk & Crisis Management governance, risk management and compliance is essential. Globalization, regulation, demographic shifts and climate change will continue to influence Environmental Dimension the business environment. Leading companies integrate environmental and – Business Risks & Opportunities social factors into their long-term strategies and performance reviews. A multi– Environmental Policy/Management stakeholder-driven approach to developing innovative and prudent financial System services and products is essential. Motivated, highly educated and experienced – Environmental Reporting employees are crucial to developing such financial services and products as – Operational Eco-Efficiency well as in attracting and retaining clients. Examples include venture capital investments focusing on new technologies that promote the transition to a lowSocial Dimension carbon economy or improve resource efficiency, as well as the integration of – Controversial Issues, Dilemmas in environmental and social considerations into companies’ service portfolios. Lending / Financing – Financial Inclusion – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 140 • Citigroup Inc* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 84 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 60 ING Groep NV Netherlands Market capitalization of assessed UBS AG Switzerland companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 Sustainability Yearbook Members African Bank Investments Ltd South Africa Results at industry level Bank of America Corp United States Bank of New York Mellon Corp United States Dimension Average Best Dimension Credit Suisse Group AG Switzerland score score weight Daewoo Securities Co Ltd South Korea Economic 56 89 41% Daiwa Securities Group Inc Japan Environmental 35 78 24% Deutsche Bank AG Germany Social 36 85 35% Deutsche Boerse AG Germany Grupo de Inversiones Suramericana SA Colombia Total score JPMorgan Chase & Co United States McGraw Hill Financial Inc United States average score: 44 Morgan Stanley United States best score: 83 Northern Trust Corp United States Provident Financial PLC United Kingdom 0 25 50 75 100 Samsung Securities Co Ltd South Korea * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 69 Electric Utilities Driving forces Highlighted criteria The rapid development of renewables in Western markets within the last few Economic Dimension years is beginning to have a considerable impact on energy markets. Companies – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ must deal with the integration of these new sources into the energy mix, their Corruption & Bribery subsequent impact on electricity prices and the increasingly intermittent use of – Corporate Governance the thermal plants within the context of weak electricity demand. Enormous – Market Opportunities efforts are also required to develop and replace an aging grid. Moreover, – Risk & Crisis Management infrastructure developments must factor in stakeholders’ concerns, which can delay the progress of a project. The austerity measures brought about Environmental Dimension by the financial crisis will also make it more important for companies to offer – Climate Strategy their clients efficiency enhancements and opportunities to cut their energy – Electricity Generation consumption while generating additional revenues. In emerging markets, – Environmental Reporting industrialization and urbanization imply a huge need for additional generation – Transmission & Distribution capacity. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health and Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 101 • EDP Energias de Portugal SA* Portugal Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 56 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 55 • Iberdrola SA Spain Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 83 Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais Brazil Endesa SA Spain Results at industry level Enel SpA Italy Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale SpA Italy Dimension Average Best Dimension Sustainability Yearbook Members score score weight Acciona SA Spain Economic 61 92 37% Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA Brazil Environmental 45 89 33% CPFL Energia SA Brazil Social 53 90 30% Duke Energy Corp United States Entergy Corp United States Total score Exelon Corp United States Fortum OYJ Finland average score: 54 Red Electrica Corp SA Spain best score: 90 TransAlta Corp Canada 0 25 50 75 100 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 70 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Electrical Components & Equipment Driving forces Highlighted criteria As providers of high-tech products, companies in the electrical components & Economic Dimension equipment industry rely heavily on their employees’ skills, qualifications and – Corporate Governance training. For this reason, talent attraction & retention and workplace health – Customer Relationship Management & safety measures are key contributors to sustained performance. Companies – Strategy for Emerging Markets whose technologies and products are used in the defense industry should – Supply Chain Management take preventive measures as they are more exposed to reputational risks. In the medium term, companies serving the communications and information Environmental Dimension technology industries are expected to benefit from balanced growth in these – Climate Strategy markets, after the significant overcapacity built up over the past years has been – Environmental Policy/Management absorbed. Advanced industrial equipment providers will also play a key role in System developing and providing new products and technologies that improve carbon – Operational Eco-Efficiency and energy efficiency. – Product Stewardship Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Schneider Electric SA* Sustainability Yearbook Members France Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 28 21 75 Fuji Electric Co Ltd Japan Market capitalization of assessed Legrand SA France companies to total market capitalization (%) 88 Prysmian SpA Italy * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 50 86 38% Environmental 45 83 31% Social 46 79 31% Total score average score: 47 best score: 83 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 71 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Components Driving forces Highlighted criteria Providers of electronic equipment, instruments & components can enhance Economic Dimension their position by enabling their customers to improve operating efficiency. – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ A number of products from the electronic equipment industry have specific Corruption & Bribery sustainability applications. Providers of control and automation solutions, – Corporate Governance for instance, can tap opportunities resulting from customers’ demand for – Risk & Crisis Management improved energy and carbon efficiency. Safety and quality concerns also offer – Supply Chain Management opportunities in the area of controls, sensors and testing. Due to the resourceintensive production process and the relatively high energy consumption during Environmental Dimension the use of the equipment, environmental management of the companies’ own – Climate Strategy operations as well as product stewardship over the life-cycle of their products – Environmental Reporting are also important issues for the industry. Given the mostly oligopolistic – Operational Eco-Efficiency market structures, compliance with antitrust regulations is an important factor. – Product Stewardship Furthermore, as high-tech providers, companies in this industry rely heavily on the knowledge, qualification and training of their employees for their business Social Dimension success. Given the long-term nature of B2B relationships, tools to monitor the – Human Capital Development quality of client management are also essential. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 73 • Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co Ltd* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 54 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 74 Delta Electronics Inc Taiwan Market capitalization of assessed Samsung SDI Co Ltd South Korea companies to total market capitalization (%) 90 Sustainability Yearbook Members AU Optronics Corp Taiwan Results at industry level FUJIFILM Holdings Corp Japan Hitachi Ltd Japan Dimension Average Best Dimension LG Display Co Ltd South Korea score score weight LG Innotek Co Ltd South Korea Economic 52 85 39% Omron Corp Japan Environmental 48 95 31% Yokogawa Electric Corp Japan Social 50 83 30% * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Total score As of October 31, 2013 average score: 50 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 72 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Energy Equipment & Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria As subcontractors to the oil and gas majors and independent exploration and Economic Dimension production (E&P) groups, equipment and service companies must adhere – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ to the strictest environmental, health & safety (EHS) standards in order to Corruption & Bribery win contracts. Given concerns over reputational risk in the exploration and – Corporate Governance production industry, these companies are by default safeguarding the brand – Risk & Crisis Management of the majors. As a result, EHS excellence and the responsible management – Supply Chain Management of social and political issues in highly sensitive areas represent critical success factors. Technological innovation drives the profitability of drilling companies Environmental Dimension as advanced seismic and deep-water technologies become the new frontiers – Environmental Policy/Management against a backdrop of increasingly smaller and less accessible oil fields. The System industry continues to be challenged on the human resources front, with an – Environmental Reporting aging workforce and an insufficient number of newly trained and qualified – Operational Eco-Efficiency petroleum-related graduates. The boom-and-bust patterns that have – Releases to the Environment characterized the industry in the past have prompted many trained engineers to leave the industry. As a result, with order books at record highs, a shortage of Social Dimension engineers remains a real challenge. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 48 • Baker Hughes Inc* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 27 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 56 AMEC PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed Schlumberger Ltd United States companies to total market capitalization (%) 78 • Technip SA France RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Halliburton Co United States Sustainability Yearbook Members Dimension Average Best Dimension Bumi Armada Bhd Malaysia score score weight SBM Offshore NV Netherlands Economic 63 82 35% * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Environmental 25 85 26% Social 40 78 39% As of October 31, 2013 Total score average score: 44 best score: 73 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 73 Food & Staples Retailing Driving forces Highlighted criteria The food & staples retail space has always been characterized by intense Economic Dimension competition for market share. As a result, the industry has consolidated over the – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ past few years, with interest in M&A remaining high. The shift toward eating Corruption & Bribery at home should continue to favor those companies that have capitalized on – Corporate Governance this trend with expanded offerings of private label or store brands, which carry – Health & Nutrition higher margins than branded products. The health and wellness trend is also – Supply Chain Management clearly evident as traditional food retailers increase their offering of natural and organic products and healthier formulations. International sourcing has Environmental Dimension increased and food retailers need to improve the efficiency and transparency – Environmental Policy/Management of their supply chains. The industry also includes drug retailers, which should System become more relevant in managing rising health care costs: with the expiration – Operational Eco-Efficiency of key drug patents, the market is set for a wave of generic drugs that will result – Packaging in significant cost savings, both for retailers and consumers. The convenience of – Raw Material Sourcing retail outlets and in-store clinics provides an ideal solution for affordable basic health care. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Woolworths Ltd* Australia Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 66 39 • J Sainsbury PLC United Kingdom Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 59 RobecoSAM Silver Class Market capitalization of assessed Kesko OYJ Finland companies to total market capitalization (%) 92 Koninklijke Ahold NV Netherlands Sustainability Yearbook Members Results at industry level Carrefour SA France Casino Guichard Perrachon SA France Dimension Average Best Dimension Delhaize Group SA Belgium score score weight Seven & I Holdings Co Ltd Japan Economic 59 83 37% Tesco PLC United Kingdom Environmental 39 83 32% * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Social 44 73 31% As of October 31, 2013 Total score average score: 48 best score: 77 0 25 50 75 100 74 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Food Products Driving forces Highlighted criteria Growth in the food products industry will be driven by emerging market Economic Dimension consumption, product innovation focusing on health and wellness and rising – Corporate Governance demand for convenience food in the developed world. Health, wellness and – Health & Nutrition nutrition have emerged as major growth categories and will remain in the – Strategy for Emerging Markets spotlight for food manufacturers as a growing number of consumers becomes – Supply Chain Management aware of the relationship between diet and health. The industry’s main challenges include rising raw material prices, which have put pressure on Environmental Dimension volumes and margins. Effective packaging and supply chain management can – Environmental Reporting help reduce costs and ensure food safety, a key concern that highlights the need – Operational Eco-Efficiency for quality control and transparency along the supply chain. – Raw Material Sourcing – Water Related Risks Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 102 • Nestle SA* Switzerland Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 62 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 61 Danone France Market capitalization of assessed • Unilever NV Netherlands companies to total market capitalization (%) 90 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Campbell Soup Co United States Results at industry level Grupo Nutresa SA Colombia Hershey Co United States Dimension Average Best Dimension Sustainability Yearbook Members score score weight Colombina SA** Colombia Economic 49 91 40% Ajinomoto Co Inc Japan Environmental 37 97 29% BRF SA Brazil Social 43 84 31% ConAgra Foods Inc United States General Mills Inc United States Total score Hormel Foods Corp United States Mondelez International Inc United States average score: 44 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader best score: 88 ** This company has been evaluated outside of the regular Dow Jones Sustainability Indices assessment process 0 25 50 75 100 As of October 31, 2013 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 75 Gas Utilities Driving forces Highlighted criteria Natural gas is the least carbon-intensive fossil fuel and is therefore considered Economic Dimension to be an effective alternative to coal as a baseand mid-load fuel, which can – Corporate Governance help reduce CO2 emissions, depending on fuel and carbon dioxide prices. The – Customer Relationship Management spectacular development of unconventional resources coupled with weak – Market Opportunities energy demand is already reshaping the gas markets. Supply is increasingly – Risk & Crisis Management available, leading to infrastructure development, adding flexibility to the system and encouraging increased competition. Gas-fired power generation is therefore Environmental Dimension expected to increase dramatically. However, gas utilities remain exposed to price – Biodiversity volatility, potential opposition to large infrastructure projects and the failure of – Climate Strategy distribution networks. Changes in gas markets, combined with the effects of the – Environmental Reporting Kyoto Protocol, are also encouraging gas companies to enhance both supply– Transmission & Distribution side and demand-side energy efficiency. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 27 • Gas Natural SDG SA* Spain Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 17 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 63 • Enagas SA Spain Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 78 Snam SpA Italy Sustainability Yearbook Members Results at industry level Korea Gas Corp South Korea * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight As of October 31, 2013 Economic 59 90 37% Environmental 39 87 30% Social 48 89 33% Total score average score: 49 best score: 88 0 25 50 75 100 76 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Health Care Equipment & Supplies Driving forces Highlighted criteria The health care equipment & supplies industry develops medical products such Economic Dimension as orthopedic implants and cardiovascular devices, as well as medical supplies – Corporate Governance and instruments. By facilitating the detection and effective treatment of chronic – Innovation Management conditions, the industry plays a critical role in improving the quality of life for – Marketing Practices patients with chronic diseases. Product and service quality, safety management – Risk & Crisis Management and collaboration with different stakeholders such as physicians, payers and patients, are key to ensuring successful product commercialization and Environmental Dimension maintaining a social license to operate. Similar to other health care segments, – Climate Strategy the industry has also been affected by health care reforms that affect pricing, – Environmental Policy/Management reimbursement and utilization. On the other hand, efforts to broaden health System care coverage in emerging markets coupled with rising income levels create – Environmental Reporting new growth opportunities for the industry. Sustainable companies focus on – Operational Eco-Efficiency developing highly differentiated products and on demonstrating their products’ clinical and economic benefits. Moreover, they adopt consistent, value and Social Dimension stakeholder-oriented corporate strategies and governance systems based – Health Outcome Contribution on effective human and intellectual capital management and a transparent – Human Capital Development reporting framework. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Abbott Laboratories* Sustainability Yearbook Members United States Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 43 28 65 Baxter International Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed Medtronic Inc United States companies to total market capitalization (%) 89 Smith & Nephew PLC United Kingdom * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 49 85 44% Environmental 33 80 10% Social 30 79 46% Total score average score: 39 best score: 82 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 77 Health Care Providers & Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria The health care providers & services industry includes health insurers as Economic Dimension well as hospitals and clinics that deliver care to patients. Demographic and – Corporate Governance epidemiologic trends such as aging populations and the increasing prevalence – Customer Relationship Management of chronic diseases are key trends affecting this industry. Exploding health care – Risk & Crisis Management costs and the growing divide in access to health among population groups – Supply Chain Management in many low and middle income countries present major societal challenges that are being tackled through health care reforms around the world. Leading Environmental Dimension companies assume an active role in the search for solutions and the creation – Climate Strategy of effective, sustainable health care systems by engaging with all relevant – Environmental Policy/Management stakeholder groups. Companies in this industry should focus on health outcomes System and quality of care, prevention and disease management, and continuous – Environmental Reporting improvement in customer-oriented services and strategic alliances across – Operational Eco-Efficiency traditional business boundaries. Those that can efficiently deliver high quality care will be able to benefit from current industry trends. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Service to Patients – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 49 • Humana Inc* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 28 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 57 Quest Diagnostics Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed UnitedHealth Group Inc United States companies to total market capitalization (%) 84 Sustainability Yearbook Members Cardinal Health Inc United States Results at industry level Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co KGaA Germany Mediclinic International Ltd South Africa Dimension Average Best Dimension Netcare Ltd South Africa score score weight * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Economic 51 72 38% Environmental 24 67 14% As of October 31, 2013 Social 29 59 48% Total score average score: 37 best score: 62 0 25 50 75 100 78 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Homebuilding Driving forces Highlighted criteria Growth in the homebuilding industry is largely driven by external factors such Economic Dimension as interest rates and general economic conditions. In addition, price pressures – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ and tighter regulations remain constant challenges. Companies must ensure Corruption & Bribery that construction processes are run efficiently and in an environmentally friendly – Corporate Governance manner. This includes avoiding the use of harmful substances and increased – Risk & Crisis Management recycling of generated waste. As the green building market is expected to – Supply Chain Management increase twofold in the coming years following increasing legislative pressure in the energy efficiency area, companies responding well to new technology Environmental Dimension developments such as low-energy, passive and plus-energy buildings are likely – Building Materials to remain at the forefront of the industry. Commuting time, local amenities, – Environmental Policy/Management green space, and energy and resource conservation are all subjects that need System to be addressed in the early planning processes of property development. – Operational Eco-Efficiency Occupational health & safety risks are high, requiring strict management – Resource Conservation and Resource practices to reduce the injury rate among employees and external contractors. Efficiency Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Reporting Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 19 • Sumitomo Forestry Co Ltd* Japan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 13 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 68 • Sekisui Chemical Co Ltd Japan Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 77 Taylor Wimpey PLC United Kingdom * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 55 73 29% Environmental 37 87 37% Social 30 67 34% Total score average score: 40 best score: 70 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 79 Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines Driving forces Highlighted criteria The travel & tourism industry continues to push its sustainability agenda, Economic Dimension enhancing product offerings and engaging more actively with stakeholders. – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ Within the travel & tourism space, environmental preservation and an increased Corruption & Bribery interest in both eco-tourism and volunteer tourism has led to new business – Corporate Governance opportunities. Hotels, resorts and cruise operators are increasing their efforts – Risk & Crisis Management to limit their environmental impact while attracting more environmentally – Supply Chain Management conscious customers. The increased use of indicators to measure the impact of local operations and value generation are essential to identifying areas Environmental Dimension for improvement and engagement. Human rights issues linked to local – Climate Strategy employment must be addressed and the implementation of local monitoring – Environmental Policy/Management systems is crucial. Long-term risk management systems must address economic, System geopolitical and climate risks to ensure business continuity and adaptability to – Environmental Reporting changing global conditions. – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Stakeholder Engagement – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 16 • TUI AG* Germany Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 10 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 63 Wyndham Worldwide Corp United States Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 86 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 66 83 26% Environmental 57 83 23% Social 49 76 51% Total score average score: 55 best score: 78 0 25 50 75 100 80 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Household Durables Driving forces Highlighted criteria Innovation, quality, and branding are key differentiating factors for companies Economic Dimension in this industry. In addition, leading companies actively manage safety and – Brand Management environmental issues throughout the product life cycle. Take-back guarantees – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ for used products and customer-oriented services offer interesting opportunities Corruption & Bribery from a business and environmental perspective. Further, consumers increasingly – Innovation Management demand products tailored to their specific needs, including a high level of – Supply Chain Management comfort and adaptability, as well as transparent product information and labeling. Brands that successfully manage to integrate the shift toward Environmental Dimension sustainable consumption and offer attractive solutions in that respect may also – Environmental Policy/Management emerge as leaders in terms of business model innovation. System – Environmental Reporting – Operational Eco-Efficiency – Product Stewardship Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 16 • Electrolux AB* Sweden Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 10 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 63 • Coway Co Ltd South Korea Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 73 Rinnai Corp Japan * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 56 83 46% Environmental 48 83 26% Social 45 70 28% Total score average score: 50 best score: 78 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 81 Household Products Driving forces Highlighted criteria Producers of nondurable household products operate in a highly competitive, Economic Dimension multi-brand environment. Brand recognition and high innovation capabilities – Corporate Governance are at the heart of companies’ strategies, shaping their market position and – Innovation Management ability to gain market share. Household products come into direct or indirect – Strategy for Emerging Markets contact with the human body and end up in the natural environment, leading – Supply Chain Management to concerns over product safety and demand for product improvements and reformulations. A changing regulatory environment mandating the use of Environmental Dimension ingredients & chemicals also drives innovation, ultimately setting higher – Environmental Policy/Management quality and safety standards. Such factors, combined with restrictions on System emissions, energy consumption and water use have an impact on production – Environmental Reporting and operating costs. A sound strategy for engagement in emerging markets – Operational Eco-Efficiency continues to be a key success factor for companies in this industry. In order – Product Stewardship to remain successful, companies must adapt their product development and marketing strategies to the specific demands of these markets while providing Social Dimension value-adding products on a sufficiently small scale and at affordable prices. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 15 • Henkel AG & Co KGaA* Germany Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 11 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 73 Colgate-Palmolive Co United States Market capitalization of assessed LG Household & Health Care Ltd South Korea companies to total market capitalization (%) 96 • Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC United Kingdom RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA Sweden * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight As of October 31, 2013 Economic 69 87 48% Environmental 67 88 20% Social 61 77 32% Total score average score: 66 best score: 82 0 25 50 75 100 82 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Industrial Conglomerates Driving forces Highlighted criteria Industrial conglomerates are highly decentralized businesses that rely on Economic Dimension attracting talented managers to run business operations and deliver the – Corporate Governance expected performance. Adopting best practices in manufacturing processes – Innovation Management is also an important aspect of industrial conglomerates’ business strategies. – Strategy for Emerging Markets Although sound operational management that considers environmental – Supply Chain Management factors is a key concern for industrial conglomerates, the industry’s main challenges and opportunities are product-related. Important issues include Environmental Dimension resource efficiency, safety, hazardous content and disposal and recycling options – Climate Strategy for products that have reached the end of their lifespan. Innovation and the – Environmental Reporting integration of environmental considerations into product development are – Operational Eco-Efficiency key criteria, as outlined by the Eco-Design Framework. In equipment markets, – Water Related Risks addressing customers’ carbon constraints is an important factor in product development. Industrial conglomerates typically have a global presence that Social Dimension includes emerging markets. To manage the diverse cultural background of their – Human Capital Development workforce, companies must focus on promoting common corporate values, – Labor Practice Indicators & including policies and compliance systems to prevent corruption and illegal Human Rights market practices. Health & safety standards must be met at all operational – Occupational Health & Safety levels. Supply chains extending to emerging markets expose companies to – Talent Attraction & Retention potential to human rights abuses. Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 44 • Siemens AG* Germany Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 27 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 61 Koninklijke Philips NV Netherlands Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 94 3M Co United States General Electric Co United States Results at industry level * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension As of October 31, 2013 score score weight Economic 45 96 38% Environmental 34 96 31% Social 42 88 31% Total score average score: 41 best score: 93 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 83 Insurance Driving forces Highlighted criteria Insurance is all about managing risk. Products and services offered by the Economic Dimension insurance industry include liability, life and health insurance, as well as – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ reinsurance and financial services. Because insurers rely on motivated, highly Corruption & Bribery qualified and experienced employees to develop innovative products and – Corporate Governance attract and retain clients, they must invest in employee relations, remuneration – Customer Relationship Management systems and knowledge management. Climate change and resource scarcity – Risk & Crisis Management have become important issues as natural disasters and relatively small events resulting from extreme weather conditions have well-known consequences for Environmental Dimension the insurance industry. Other important issues include changing demographics, – Business Risks & Opportunities obesity, and other new health risks. Consequently, the incorporation of – Environmental Reporting sustainability factors into the investment, product and risk management – Operational Eco-Efficiency strategy is an essential factor differentiating the leading insurers that are well– Risk Detection positioned to succeed. Social Dimension – Financial Inclusion – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Allianz SE* Germany Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 129 70 • Swiss Re AG Switzerland Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 54 RobecoSAM Silver Class Market capitalization of assessed Aegon NV Netherlands companies to total market capitalization (%) 86 • Muenchener Rueckversicherungs AG Germany RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Aviva PLC United Kingdom AXA SA France Dimension Average Best Dimension Dongbu Insurance Co Ltd South Korea score score weight NKSJ Holdings Inc Japan Economic 60 84 31% Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd South Korea Environmental 45 90 30% Standard Life PLC United Kingdom Social 40 81 39% Storebrand ASA Norway Sustainability Yearbook Members Total score Assicurazioni Generali SpA Italy Delta Lloyd NV Netherlands average score: 48 Insurance Australia Group Ltd Australia best score: 83 Legal & General Group PLC United Kingdom Mapfre SA Spain 0 25 50 75 100 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Co Ltd South Korea Tokio Marine Holdings Inc Japan Zurich Insurance Group AG Switzerland * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 84 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 IT Services & Internet Software and Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria The IT services industry helps companies run their businesses efficiently by Economic Dimension enabling the outsourcing of business processes or developing and integrating – Corporate Governance software applications. The rapid growth of internet use for media consumption, – Customer Relationship Management shopping, social interaction and cloud computing is driving demand for internet – IT Security services. To protect client privacy, the use of secure information technology – Privacy Protection and a rigorously enforced code of conduct covering access to confidential data are required. Effective innovation and knowledge management are key Environmental Dimension contributors to business success. Therefore, attracting and retaining qualified – Climate Strategy staff is crucial. In addition, due to increased outsourcing of IT services to lower – Environmental Policy/Management cost countries, exceptional quality management is essential. The industry’s main System environmental impacts stem from its office operations, data center operations, – Environmental Reporting and travel. These can be addressed by substituting travel with conference calls – Operational Eco-Efficiency and other collaboration tools and investments in more efficient data centers, which ideally are operated with renewable energy. In addition, IT and internet Social Dimension service providers can use information technology applications to help their – Digital Inclusion customers reduce their environmental impact. – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 77 • SK C&C Co Ltd* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 54 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 70 Amadeus IT Holding SA Spain Market capitalization of assessed Wipro Ltd India companies to total market capitalization (%) 90 Sustainability Yearbook Members AtoS France Results at industry level Indra Sistemas SA Spain Infosys Ltd India Dimension Average Best Dimension International Business Machines Corp United States score score weight NTT Data Corp Japan Economic 48 80 51% Rackspace Hosting Inc United States Environmental 34 86 21% Tata Consultancy Services Ltd India Social 29 77 28% Teradata Corp United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Total score As of October 31, 2013 average score: 40 best score: 80 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 85 Leisure Equipment & Products and Consumer Electronics Driving forces Highlighted criteria Producers of leisure equipment and consumer electronics operate in a highly Economic Dimension competitive and rapidly changing market. The industry’s key drivers include – Brand Management product quality, differentiation, time-to-market, and brand management. – Corporate Governance Hence, companies must focus on innovation, particularly R&D, to maintain – Customer Relationship Management competitiveness as new products become commoditized within increasingly – Supply Chain Management shorter time frames. Leading companies are able to address the challenges of developing new technologies and providing ever-changing and more Environmental Dimension integrated product ranges by entering into strategic alliances and outsourcing – Climate Strategy operations. Supply chain management that integrates environmental and social – Environmental Reporting considerations is increasingly important for minimizing economic, social and – Hazardous Substances reputational risks. Faced with growing stakeholder scrutiny, companies must – Product Stewardship pay close attention to working conditions, particularly with regard to suppliers and subcontractors in developing countries. Environmental challenges arise Social Dimension throughout the product life span, requiring life cycle analysis, which includes – Human Capital Development product modularity, avoiding the use of toxic substances in manufacturing – Labor Practice Indicators & processes and products, energy efficient products and effective take-back Human Rights programs for the disposal of obsolete products. – Stakeholder Engagement – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 21 • Panasonic Corp* Japan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 19 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 90 LG Electronics Inc South Korea Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 92 Sony Corp Japan * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 52 88 41% Environmental 47 93 31% Social 47 87 28% Total score average score: 49 best score: 85 0 25 50 75 100 86 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Life Sciences Tools & Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria The life science tools & services industry includes companies that develop Economic Dimension technologies, instruments and tests that enable scientific and medical progress – Corporate Governance through research, the development of new medical products, and testing and – Innovation Management analysis. Companies in this industry rely on government spending, academic – Marketing Practices or industry R&D budgets, and – to a certain extent – health care utilization – Supply Chain Management levels, and are therefore sensitive to economic cycles. As an innovation-driven, knowledge-intensive industry, providers of life science tools & services depend Environmental Dimension on a skilled workforce to ensure the environmentally conscious management – Environmental Reporting of its operations and product lifecycles. Therefore, human capital management – Operational Eco-Efficiency and innovation are important success drivers. Effective client relationship management strategies are also crucial to ensuring customer loyalty for Social Dimension established products and technologies, and facilitating their adoption of new, – Addressing Cost Burden innovative technologies. Comprehensive supply chain management strategies – Health Outcome Contribution that consider environmental and social factors allow companies to minimize – Strategy to Improve Access to Drugs or economic, social and reputational risks connected to their supply chain. Products – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Life Technologies Corp* Sustainability Yearbook Members United States Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 14 57 8 Agilent Technologies Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 75 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 49 80 44% Environmental 35 65 10% Social 34 80 46% Total score average score: 41 best score: 79 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 87 Machinery and Electrical Equipment Driving forces Highlighted criteria Population growth and urbanization are creating sustained demand for Economic Dimension fixed investment, particularly in emerging markets. The main sustainability – Corporate Governance challenges and opportunities in the machinery and electrical equipment – Innovation Management industry are associated with the use of the equipment. Increasing resource – Strategy for Emerging Markets scarcity is spurring the need for improved resource efficiency, and more – Supply Chain Management specifically, energy and water efficiency, particularly in water-intensive industries such as agriculture or mining. Leading companies are increasingly Environmental Dimension focusing on product innovations and use life cycle analysis to capitalize on – Climate Strategy customers’ potential savings throughout the life cycle of the equipment. Wage – Environmental Reporting increases, safety concerns and quality issues are also driving the progressive – Operational Eco-Efficiency mechanization and automation of manufacturing processes. Supply chains – Water Related Risks extending to emerging markets increase companies’ potential exposure to human rights abuses and occupational health & safety issues. Industry leaders Social Dimension actively manage these risks as an integral component of their supply chain – Human Capital Development management. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 129 • CNH Industrial NV* Italy Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 102 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 79 MAN SE Germany Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 89 ABB Ltd Switzerland Alstom SA France Results at industry level Atlas Copco AB Sweden Caterpillar Inc United States Dimension Average Best Dimension Cummins Inc United States score score weight Doosan Infracore Co Ltd South Korea Economic 53 90 38% IMI PLC United Kingdom Environmental 46 88 31% Ingersoll-Rand PLC United States Social 47 88 31% Invensys PLC United Kingdom Komatsu Ltd Japan Total score Metso OYJ Finland Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd South Korea average score: 49 Sandvik AB Sweden best score: 88 SKF AB Sweden Stanley Black & Decker Inc United States 0 25 50 75 100 Vestas Wind Systems A/S Denmark Volvo AB Sweden Xylem Inc United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 88 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Media Driving forces Highlighted criteria The heterogeneous and competitive media industry is experiencing a Economic Dimension major shift towards the digitization and electronic presentation of content. – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ Publishing companies that embrace this shift and increase their revenue Corruption & Bribery streams from online market segments will emerge as industry leaders. The – Corporate Governance use of new technologies, coupled with innovative thinking, content and – Independence of Content channel management are important to tapping new markets and creating – Online Risks and Opportunities new business opportunities. Companies that consistently invest in retaining a talented, creative and motivated workforce while producing and continuously Environmental Dimension replenishing unique, valuable publishing content have led the industry. Rising – Environmental Policy/Management literacy rates in developing countries offer the media industry a huge market System with strong growth potential over the coming years. Social factors such as – Environmental Reporting anti-discrimination policies for the workforce and cultural sensitivity toward – Operational Eco-Efficiency clients and communities remain at the center of public attention and scrutiny. Given media companies’ power to shape public opinion, accountability and Social Dimension transparency are also important factors. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Responsibility of Content – Social Reporting – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 77 • Telenet Group Holding NV* Belgium Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 43 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 56 British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed • Pearson PLC United Kingdom companies to total market capitalization (%) 87 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Wolters Kluwer NV Netherlands Results at industry level Sustainability Yearbook Members ITV PLC United Kingdom Dimension Average Best Dimension JCDecaux SA France score score weight Modern Times Group AB Sweden Economic 46 86 44% Reed Elsevier PLC United Kingdom Environmental 30 91 16% Societe Television Francaise 1 France Social 33 79 40% Walt Disney Co United States WPP PLC United Kingdom Total score * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 average score: 38 best score: 80 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 89 Metals & Mining Driving forces Highlighted criteria The main sustainability challenge facing the metals & mining industry is that of Economic Dimension declining ore grades, which implies that over time, more mineral ore will need – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ to be extracted and processed in order to produce the same amount of metal. Corruption & Bribery This is likely to exacerbate many of the environmental and social issues facing – Corporate Governance the mining & metals industry going forward. Prominent environmental issues – Risk & Crisis Management include mineral waste management as well as the management of key inputs – Transparency such as energy and water. Social issues mainly center on occupational health & safety as well as general labor conditions. Issues such as land rights, population Environmental Dimension relocations, the use of private security forces to protect mining assets, and mine – Climate Strategy closures also remain controversial. Finally, and similarly to other extractive – Environmental Reporting industries, the mining space is particularly susceptible to corruption, bribery, – Mineral Waste Management and other breaches of codes of conduct. – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Enabling Local Development – Human Capital Development – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Impacts on Communities Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 99 • Anglo American PLC* United Kingdom Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 58 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 59 Newmont Mining Corp United States Market capitalization of assessed • Teck Resources Ltd Canada companies to total market capitalization (%) 86 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Barrick Gold Corp Canada Results at industry level Gold Fields Ltd South Africa Sustainability Yearbook Members Dimension Average Best Dimension AngloGold Ashanti Ltd South Africa score score weight BHP Billiton Ltd Australia Economic 55 89 25% Glencore Xstrata PLC United Kingdom Environmental 34 86 36% Goldcorp Inc Canada Social 44 87 39% Kinross Gold Corp Canada Mitsubishi Materials Corp Japan Total score Rio Tinto PLC United Kingdom * RobecoSAM Industry Leader average score: 43 As of October 31, 2013 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 90 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Multi and Water Utilities Driving forces Highlighted criteria For the electrical utility business, the rapid development of renewables in Economic Dimension Western markets is beginning to have a considerable impact on energy markets. – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ Companies must deal with the integration of these new sources into the energy Corruption & Bribery mix. Enormous efforts are also required to develop and replace an aging grid. As – Corporate Governance the least carbon-intensive fossil fuel, natural gas is considered to be an effective – Customer Relationship Management alternative to coal as a baseand mid-load fuel that can contribute to reducing – Risk & Crisis Management CO2 emissions. The spectacular development of unconventional resources coupled with weak energy demand is already reshaping the gas markets. Environmental Dimension However, the gas utility business remains exposed to price volatility, potential – Climate Strategy opposition to large infrastructure projects and distribution network failures. – Operational Eco-Efficiency – Environmental Reporting Some of the key challenges facing the water utility business include water – Biodiversity scarcity, deteriorating water quality, aging distribution and collection networks in developed markets, as well as increased consumption and rapid infrastructure Social Dimension expansion in emerging markets. Leading companies perform active resource – Human Capital Development management, reduce water losses during distribution, and foster demand– Labor Practice Indicators & side efficiency. The recognition of access to water and sanitation as a basic Human Rights human right underscores the importance of stakeholder engagement. As – Occupational Health & Safety pricing strategies come under increased scrutiny, companies opt for increasingly – Talent Attraction & Retention innovative tariff structures. Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 39 • Suez Environnement Co* France Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 31 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 79 Aguas de Barcelona SA** Spain Market capitalization of assessed EPM** Colombia companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 AGL Energy Ltd Australia RWE AG Germany Results at industry level Sempra Energy United States • United Utilities Group PLC United Kingdom Dimension Average Best Dimension RobecoSAM Bronze Class score score weight American Water Works Co Inc United States Economic 63 87 37% E.ON SE Germany Environmental 44 76 33% GDF Suez France Social 51 85 30% National Grid PLC United Kingdom PG&E Corp United States Total score Veolia Environnement SA France * RobecoSAM Industry Leader average score: 53 ** This company has been evaluated outside of the regular Dow Jones Sustainability Indices assessment process best score: 80 As of October 31, 2013 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 91 Oil & Gas Driving forces Highlighted criteria Oil & gas companies’ ability to sustain long-term value creation will depend Economic Dimension on access to next-generation assets. Companies are struggling with increasing – Corporate Governance exploration and development costs stemming from smaller reserves with – Exploration & Production complex geology in deeper waters, rising taxes, increasing dependence on – Gas Portfolio countries with high political risks, and mounting costs of oil services and – Risk & Crisis Management manpower. As a result, keeping the cost base down will be crucial for the industry. As exploration moves to remote and environmentally sensitive Environmental Dimension locations, environmental, health & safety excellence, coupled with progressive – Biodiversity management of social issues will remain important aspects of oil & gas – Climate Strategy companies’ long-term profitability. As for environmental issues, the carbon – Environmental Reporting challenge continues to top the agenda. Active corporate strategies that seek – Releases to the Environment out related business opportunities and mitigate carbon risks will be critical to securing companies’ future competitiveness. As poorer countries with weaker Social Dimension governance increasingly dominate new reserve discoveries, engagement with – Human Capital Development local communities should gain importance as an important component of – Labor Practice Indicators & sustainable risk management. Human Rights – Social Impacts on Communities – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class BG Group PLC* S-Oil Corp United Kingdom South Korea Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 134 89 66 • Thai Oil PCL Thailand Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Silver Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 Eni SpA Italy • Results at industry level Repsol SA Spain RobecoSAM Bronze Class Cenovus Energy Inc Canada Dimension Average Best Dimension Ecopetrol SA Colombia score score weight Galp Energia SGPS SA Portugal Economic 59 91 41% Petroleo Brasileiro SA Brazil Environmental 32 84 28% Sustainability Yearbook Members Social 49 87 31% Inpex Corp Japan IRPC PCL Thailand Total score Neste Oil OYJ Finland Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp Canada average score: 48 PTT PCL Thailand best score: 83 Royal Dutch Shell PLC United Kingdom Santos Ltd Australia 0 25 50 75 100 Sasol Ltd South Africa Statoil ASA Norway Total SA France Woodside Petroleum Ltd Australia * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 92 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation Driving forces Highlighted criteria The need to transport energy – both fossil fuels and renewables – from Economic Dimension politically and environmentally sensitive areas to storage in demand-intensive – Corporate Governance geographic regions is driving value creation in the oil & gas storage & – Customer Relationship Management transportation industry. To minimize future environmental costs, companies – Diversification need to adopt state-of-the art management systems to prevent leakages – Risk & Crisis Management and emissions along their pipelines, supported by modern risk and crisis management systems. Moreover, the security of transport and storage systems Environmental Dimension is vital to ensuring a constant energy supply from politically sensitive regions. – Environmental Policy/Management As a result, human rights issues and stakeholder communication are becoming System increasingly important in planning and operating pipelines in emerging – Environmental Reporting economies. By adopting a progressive community relations management – Operational Eco-Efficiency system, companies can reduce their exposure to human rights risks and cut their – Releases to the Environment operating costs, thereby gaining a sustainable competitive advantage. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Social Impacts on Communities – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 14 • Spectra Energy Corp* United States Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 9 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 64 Enbridge Inc Canada Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 86 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 61 87 34% Environmental 34 81 28% Social 45 75 38% Total score average score: 47 best score: 81 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 93 Paper & Forest Products Driving forces Highlighted criteria The paper & forest products industry comprises owners and operators of timber Economic Dimension tracts, forest tree nurseries and sawmills as well as producers, converters, – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ merchants and distributors of all grades of paper. The main challenge consists Corruption & Bribery of ensuring responsible management of forests and plantations and the – Corporate Governance responsible sourcing of wood fibers. Certification and chain of custody systems – Risk & Crisis Management play an important role in gaining customers’ trust and loyalty. The use of – Supply Chain Management genetically modified organisms is increasing and poses new challenges that must be addressed to minimize the risk of future liabilities. As paper becomes Environmental Dimension an increasingly customized product fulfilling client-specific needs, product – Biodiversity innovation and customer focus will move up the corporate agenda. As a result, – Environmental Reporting talent attraction and retention as well as human capital development remain a – Operational Eco-Efficiency key source of competitive advantage. Technology-wise, room for considerable – Sustainable Management of Forests improvements in resource efficiency remains, and companies that can introduce new technologies such as enzyme-based processes will secure a competitive Social Dimension advantage. – Enabling Local Development – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Fibria Celulose SA* Brazil Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 18 10 • UPM-Kymmene OYJ Finland Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 56 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Market capitalization of assessed Stora Enso OYJ Finland companies to total market capitalization (%) 80 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 67 94 27% Environmental 67 95 34% Social 61 86 39% Total score average score: 65 best score: 90 0 25 50 75 100 94 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Personal Products Driving forces Highlighted criteria Personal products companies operate in a highly competitive, multi-brand Economic Dimension environment. Brand recognition and high innovation capabilities are at the – Corporate Governance heart of companies’ strategies, shaping their ability to gain market share and – Innovation Management overall market position. Concerns over product safety and demand for product – Strategy for Emerging Markets improvements and reformulations combined with a changing regulatory – Supply Chain Management environment mandating the use of ingredients & chemicals drive innovation, ultimately setting higher quality and safety standards. Such factors, as well as Environmental Dimension restrictions on emissions, energy consumption and water use have an impact – Environmental Policy/Management on production and operating costs. Emerging markets continue to offer key System opportunities for further growth, and companies must be able to adapt their – Environmental Reporting products to local needs and tastes. As are result, companies are beginning to – Operational Eco-Efficiency set up R&D centers in those markets to develop a better understanding of their – Product Stewardship local consumers. Finally, companies need to establish a flexible pricing strategy to adapt quickly to consumers’ income and needs. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 20 • Amorepacific Corp* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 13 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 65 Kao Corp Japan Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 95 Shiseido Co Ltd Japan * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 54 83 48% Environmental 51 88 20% Social 50 77 32% Total score average score: 52 best score: 80 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 95 Pharmaceuticals Driving forces Highlighted criteria The pharmaceutical industry relies on innovation and the development of Economic Dimension novel drugs. Despite large investments in R&D, the industry has experienced – Corporate Governance declining R&D productivity, resulting in limited product pipelines. Further, – Innovation Management following patent expirations for many blockbuster drugs, many companies – Marketing Practices have been losing revenues to competition from generics. However, the industry – Supply Chain Management has recently shown signs of improvement in R&D productivity, as several pharmaceutical companies have brought innovative products to the market. Environmental Dimension Exploding health care costs are driving resource-constrained governments to – Environmental Reporting cut health care budgets, putting pressure on drug pricing. In addition, payers – Operational Eco-Efficiency are increasingly evaluating not only the clinical efficacy but also the costeffectiveness and cost-benefits of pharmaceutical products to determine pricing Social Dimension and reimbursement. To return to growth, preserve profitability and generate – Addressing Cost Burden higher returns, pharmaceutical companies must attract and retain the best – Health Outcome Contribution talent, and employ effective innovation management to develop innovative – Strategy to Improve Access to Drugs or drugs that address unmet medical needs. Other challenges include patient Products access to and compliance with therapeutic treatments, as well as changing – Talent Attraction & Retention distribution models and global patent protection. In addition, pharmaceutical companies face ethical discussions related to marketing practices and drug quality and safety. Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 71 • Roche Holding AG* Switzerland Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 42 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 59 AstraZeneca PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed Novartis AG Switzerland companies to total market capitalization (%) 97 Novo Nordisk A/S Denmark • Results at industry level Sanofi France RobecoSAM Bronze Class AbbVie Inc United States Dimension Average Best Dimension Bayer AG Germany score score weight GlaxoSmithKline PLC United Kingdom Economic 55 89 44% Sustainability Yearbook Members Environmental 44 89 10% Allergan Inc United States Social 40 87 46% Johnson & Johnson United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Total score As of October 31, 2013 average score: 47 best score: 86 0 25 50 75 100 96 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Professional Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria Professional services companies provide other companies with a range of Economic Dimension business support services in the areas of staffing, as well as the testing, – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ inspection and certification of manufacturing or other business processes. Corruption & Bribery As provider of specialized services, these are knowledge-intensive companies – Customer Relationship Management whose success depends on the on the quality of their workforce. Therefore, – Risk & Crisis Management talent attraction & retention are particularly important to professional services – Supply Chain Management companies. A reputation for integrity is also critical to retaining customers and winning new business. Therefore, companies must ensure that employees Environmental Dimension comply with their Codes of Conduct and that their services are delivered – Environmental Policy/Management according to high ethical standards. In an environment characterized by System increased labor flexibility and a greater focus on product quality, both staffing – Environmental Reporting and testing companies are poised to see the growth of their industry accelerate. – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 25 • Adecco SA* Switzerland Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 22 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 88 Experian PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 93 Capita PLC United Kingdom * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 58 80 38% Environmental 31 70 23% Social 40 73 39% Total score average score: 45 best score: 74 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 97 Real Estate Driving forces Highlighted criteria Real estate is a heterogeneous industry comprising developers and Economic Dimension maintenance professionals as well as residential and commercial property – Antitrust Policy managers and investors. Climate change and energy efficiency is of great – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ importance for this industry as buildings are responsible for about one third of Corruption & Bribery global greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, low-energy buildings that use – Corporate Governance innovative materials reduce the impact of volatile energy prices on the cost – Risk & Crisis Management of management and ownership of a property. This results in high demand for residential, commercial and industrial green buildings. Besides environmental Environmental Dimension issues, social responsibility and social integration are gaining importance in – Building Materials this industry as well. In the current volatile economic environment, community – Climate Strategy engagement and investment around properties is receiving increased attention – Environmental Reporting to keep asset values high and to remain the preferred proprietor for tenants. – Resource Conservation & Resource Efficiency Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Social Integration – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 201 • Stockland* Australia Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 110 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 55 GPT Group Australia Market capitalization of assessed Sustainability Yearbook Members companies to total market capitalization (%) 79 British Land Co PLC United Kingdom CapitaLand Ltd Singapore Results at industry level CFS Retail Property Trust Group Australia Commonwealth Property Office Fund Australia Dimension Average Best Dimension Corio NV Netherlands score score weight Dexus Property Group Australia Economic 59 89 26% Fonciere Des Regions France Environmental 40 93 40% Gecina SA France Social 36 86 34% Hammerson PLC United Kingdom Intu Properties PLC United Kingdom Total score Keppel Land Ltd Singapore Klepierre France average score: 44 Land Securities Group PLC United Kingdom best score: 89 Lend Lease Group Australia Mirvac Group Australia 0 25 50 75 100 Shaftesbury PLC United Kingdom Unibail-Rodamco SE France Weyerhaeuser Co United States * RobecoSAM Industry Leader As of October 31, 2013 98 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Restaurants & Leisure Facilities Driving forces Highlighted criteria The restaurant and leisure space has been plagued by supply chain issues Economic Dimension over the past year. Problems with food safety in China, false labeling in Europe – Brand Management and other procurement issues have raised questions about accountability – Corporate Governance and transparency in the supply chain. Issues surrounding animal welfare and – Customer Relationship Management sourcing are increasingly gaining public attention as global supply chains – Supply Chain Management expand. Growing health-consciousness among consumers has forced companies to rethink their product strategies and provide healthier options, progressing Environmental Dimension beyond disclosure of nutritional values. Environmental challenges such as – Environmental Policy/Management energy and water consumption need to be tackled globally, and consolidation of System data across both company-owned and franchised locations must be improved so – Environmental Reporting that companies can effectively implement their global sustainability programs. – Operational Eco-Efficiency Social Dimension – Healthy Living – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Local Impact of Business Operations – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 19 • Sodexo* France Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 12 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 63 Compass Group PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed * RobecoSAM Industry Leader companies to total market capitalization (%) 92 As of October 31, 2013 Results at industry level Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 59 85 36% Environmental 35 88 19% Social 45 78 45% Total score average score: 48 best score: 80 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 99 Retailing Driving forces Highlighted criteria The retailing industry continues its shift toward multinational conglomerates Economic Dimension with global supply and distribution networks, contributing to improved inventory – Brand Management management and marketing plans. To increase their market share, successful – Corporate Governance retailers will need to continue to develop new strategies and technologies to – Customer Relationship Management retain and analyze customers and their purchasing habits, as well as implement – Supply Chain Management more responsive and tailored customer relationship management systems. Distribution channels such as e-commerce, home delivery services and pickEnvironmental Dimension up systems are gaining importance. Faced with intense stakeholder scrutiny, – Environmental Policy/Management companies need to address the efficiency and safety of their supply chain System management, distribution systems and the use and disposal of packaging. – Environmental Reporting Responsible sourcing has also gained significance among various stakeholders, – Operational Eco-Efficiency and consumers have shown a willingness to pay a premium for companies – Packaging that adopt healthy environmental practices. Within this context, retailers must establish long-term relationships with suppliers and provide for enhanced Social Dimension transparency on their supply chain management systems in order to minimize – Human Capital Development reputational risks. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Stakeholder Engagement – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Lotte Shopping Co Ltd* Sustainability Yearbook Members South Korea Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 125 88 70 Home Retail Group PLC United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed Inditex SA Spain companies to total market capitalization (%) 91 Kering France Kingfisher PLC United Kingdom Results at industry level Marks & Spencer Group PLC United Kingdom Woolworths Holdings Ltd South Africa Dimension Average Best Dimension * RobecoSAM Industry Leader score score weight Economic 42 88 47% As of October 31, 2013 Environmental 29 96 24% Social 33 90 29% Total score average score: 36 best score: 91 0 25 50 75 100 100 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Semiconductors & Semiconductor Equipment Driving forces Highlighted criteria Located at the beginning of the value chain, the semiconductor industry plays Economic Dimension a critical role in the electronic sector. In order to keep pace with Moore’s Law, – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ which assumes that the number of integrated circuits doubles approximately Corruption & Bribery every two years, continuous innovation is necessary. To ensure their long– Corporate Governance term capacity to innovate, companies have to properly manage innovation – Product Quality and Recall processes and attract and retain a skilled workforce. High-quality research Management and development are important success factors as shrinkage, migration to – Supply Chain Management new materials and the introduction of more efficient production processes are the dominant trends. Other challenges include energy-efficient production Environmental Dimension processes and low energy consumption chips and processors. Quality, – Climate Strategy performance and reliability must be monitored throughout the entire value – Operational Eco-Efficiency chain. The semiconductor industry must also address the environmental – Product Stewardship impacts of its own operations by reducing the use of chemicals and hazardous – Water Related Risks substances, generating less waste, by enhancing the energy efficiency of ultraclean spaces, and by reducing consumption of ultra-pure water. Considering the Social Dimension long lead time of capacity extensions, the semiconductor industry’s extreme – Human Capital Development cyclicality is forcing companies to pay close attention to strategic planning and – Labor Practice Indicators & business cycle management. Human Rights – Social Reporting Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 70 • Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co Ltd* Taiwan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 57 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 81 • United Microelectronics Corp Taiwan Market capitalization of assessed RobecoSAM Bronze Class companies to total market capitalization (%) 96 Intel Corp United States SK Hynix Inc South Korea Results at industry level Sustainability Yearbook Members Advanced Micro Devices Inc United States Dimension Average Best Dimension Advanced Semiconductor Engineering Inc Taiwan score score weight ASML Holding NV Netherlands Economic 59 86 40% Infineon Technologies AG Germany Environmental 47 95 35% Samsung Electronics Co Ltd South Korea Social 42 85 25% STMicroelectronics NV Italy * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Total score As of October 31, 2013 average score: 50 best score: 88 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 101 Software Driving forces Highlighted criteria The software industry is characterized by a fast-paced market environment Economic Dimension in which the speed of innovation represents a key success factor. Because – Corporate Governance innovation is closely linked to human capital, effective human resource – IT Security management is vital to attracting and retaining qualified staff. Open innovation – Privacy Protection structures that include external developers and acquisition strategies are also – Risk & Crisis Management important. Because software can help create more efficient business processes and optimizes hardware utilization, enabling clients to improve their own ecoEnvironmental Dimension efficiency presents a long-term competitive advantage for software companies. – Climate Strategy In addition, companies must ensure data security, as a growing amount of – Environmental Policy/Management confidential data is processed and stored in remote data centers. Given the System ubiquity of software in daily life, innovative and differentiated distribution – Environmental Reporting models are gaining importance. Widespread Internet access, for example, – Operational Eco-Efficiency creates new opportunities in the area of “software as a service.” Social Dimension – Digital Inclusion – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class SAP AG* Sustainability Yearbook Members Germany Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 48 32 67 Autodesk Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed CA Inc United States companies to total market capitalization (%) 94 Microsoft Corp United States Symantec Corp United States Results at industry level * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension As of October 31, 2013 score score weight Economic 51 85 51% Environmental 35 83 21% Social 31 78 28% Total score average score: 42 best score: 83 0 25 50 75 100 102 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Steel Driving forces Highlighted criteria One of the challenges faced by the iron and steel producing industry is the Economic Dimension effective handling of CO2 constraints and climate change risks. Numerous steel – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ companies are developing technologies to reduce the CO2 intensity of the steel Corruption & Bribery making process. Any breakthrough would represent a considerable competitive – Corporate Governance advantage, not only within the industry itself, but also in competition with the – Customer Relationship Management aluminum industry. In addition to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, the – Risk & Crisis Management reduction of airborne emissions of heavy metals, dioxins and furans, as well as waste recycling and reuse will feature prominently on companies’ future Environmental Dimension agendas. Consolidation seen in the steel industry over the last few years is likely – Climate Strategy to continue in the future. Intensified competition from emerging markets such – Environmental Policy/Management as Russia and China will continue to put steel producers in developed markets System under economic strain. Within this context, effective supply chain management – Environmental Reporting will become an even more important way to counteract this competitive – Operational Eco-Efficiency pressure. Social Dimension – Enabling Local Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Social Impacts on Communities Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 54 • China Steel Corp* Taiwan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 32 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 59 ArcelorMittal Luxembourg Market capitalization of assessed Outokumpu OYJ Finland companies to total market capitalization (%) 83 • POSCO South Korea RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Rautaruukki OYJ Finland Sustainability Yearbook Members Dimension Average Best Dimension Hyundai Steel Co South Korea score score weight Sims Metal Management Ltd Australia Economic 53 82 25% Tata Steel Ltd India Environmental 38 90 38% * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Social 44 81 37% As of October 31, 2013 Total score average score: 44 best score: 79 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 103 Telecommunication Services Driving forces Highlighted criteria The telecommunications services industry operates in a highly competitive Economic Dimension environment characterized by continuously accelerated demand for premium – Corporate Governance services in fixed-line and mobile communications. The industry has a large – Customer Relationship Management and indirect impact on the productivity and competitiveness of entire – Privacy Protection economies, and can significantly improve work habits and lifestyles. Further, – Risk & Crisis Management telecommunications firms can leverage their technological expertise to produce innovative solutions that address social and environmental sustainability Environmental Dimension issues faced by consumers on both local and global scales. Consumers, – Climate Strategy businesses and governments increasingly require uninterrupted high-quality, – Electro Magnetic Fields high-speed connections, and higher traffic allowances. In order to remain – Environmental Reporting competitive in a market subject to rapid technological change, companies will – Operational Eco-Efficiency need to adopt flexible business models that enable them to integrate newgeneration technologies and services. The careful handling of data is essential, Social Dimension as insufficient database and network protection could expose companies – Digital Inclusion to reputational and liability risks. Energy efficiency and state-of-the-art – Impact of Telecommunication Services infrastructure remain the industry’s key environmental challenges. – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 99 • KT Corp* South Korea Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 44 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 44 SK Telecom Co Ltd South Korea Market capitalization of assessed Telecom Italia SpA Italy companies to total market capitalization (%) 84 • Telenor ASA Norway RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd Taiwan Koninklijke KPN NV Netherlands Dimension Average Best Dimension Portugal Telecom SGPS SA Portugal score score weight Swisscom AG Switzerland Economic 67 97 44% Telefonica SA Spain Environmental 48 97 20% Sustainability Yearbook Members Social 56 93 36% BT Group PLC United Kingdom Deutsche Telekom AG Germany Total score Orange SA France Sprint Corp United States average score: 59 Telstra Corp Ltd Australia best score: 94 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader 0 25 50 75 100 As of October 31, 2013 104 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Driving forces Highlighted criteria Textiles, apparel & luxury goods companies are facing a two speed consumer Economic Dimension market. They must leverage their strong brand recognition and high level of – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ innovation to expand into new markets and categories. With fast fashion and Corruption & Bribery shorter product cycles, not only do companies require innovative marketing – Corporate Governance strategies, but also responsible sourcing models. Faced with intense stakeholder – Risk & Crisis Management scrutiny, particularly within the last year, companies must increase transparency – Supply Chain Management on the efficiency, safety, working conditions and management of their supply chains. Companies are also under pressure to integrate environmental Environmental Dimension considerations into product design and development and must therefore – Environmental Policy/Management engage contractors and suppliers on sustainability issues, actively monitor System labor practices, and disclose the results of these activities to ensure fair – Environmental Reporting working conditions and protect their reputation and ultimately, their brand and – Operational Eco-Efficiency enterprise value. – Product Stewardship Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Adidas AG* Germany Number of companies in universe Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 41 24 • Gildan Activewear Inc Canada Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 59 RobecoSAM Silver Class Market capitalization of assessed Puma SE Germany companies to total market capitalization (%) 83 Sustainability Yearbook Members LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA France Results at industry level NIKE Inc United States Woongjin Chemical Co Ltd South Korea Dimension Average Best Dimension * RobecoSAM Industry Leader score score weight Economic 53 81 38% As of October 31, 2013 Environmental 34 78 21% Social 42 75 41% Total score average score: 44 best score: 75 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 105 Tobacco Driving forces Highlighted criteria The tobacco industry is mature and global cigarette sales volumes are stable. Economic Dimension However, tobacco companies enjoy a unique position among consumer – Brand Management companies in that they have strong pricing power. The industry’s relationship – Combatting Smuggling with the public sector is of fundamental importance with regard to tax policies – Corporate Governance and efforts to combat cigarette smuggling. Companies have to prove that – Supply Chain Management they have a robust system in place to track their product distribution. The industry is constantly scrutinized by legislators, the media and NGOs, which Environmental Dimension requires well-managed companies and supply chains as well as a high degree – Environmental Policy/Management of transparency. Following new legislation regulating smoking, it will also System be increasingly important for tobacco companies to partly move away from – Environmental Reporting traditional tobacco products and explore options in the area of non-combustible – Operational Eco-Efficiency tobacco, such as snus, and non-tobacco nicotine products, both of which claim – Raw Material Sourcing to have a lower health impact. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Responsible Marketing Policies Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 13 • British American Tobacco PLC* United Kingdom Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 11 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 85 Altria Group Inc United States Market capitalization of assessed Imperial Tobacco Group PLC United Kingdom companies to total market capitalization (%) 99 KT&G Corp South Korea * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Results at industry level As of October 31, 2013 Dimension Average Best Dimension score score weight Economic 66 90 41% Environmental 58 91 23% Social 54 81 36% Total score average score: 60 best score: 87 0 25 50 75 100 106 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Trading Companies & Distributors Driving forces Highlighted criteria As players in a diversified and knowledge-intensive industry, trading companies Economic Dimension & distributors rely on the quality of their workforce. Therefore, talent attraction – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ & retention is a key contributor to their business success. Clear employee Corruption & Bribery policies combined with training programs, knowledge management and – Customer Relationship Management incentive schemes are important for creating a successful, safe and healthy – Risk & Crisis Management working environment and maintaining a high employee retention rate. – Supply Chain Management Trading companies that acquire stakes in or operate large-scale projects such as exploration activities have a higher exposure to environmental and human Environmental Dimension rights issues stemming from both their operations and their suppliers. Some – Environmental Policy/Management subsidiaries can be more exposed to reputational risks, which can subsequently System have an impact on the parent company. Companies in this industry should – Environmental Reporting control these risks by integrating environmental and social impact assessments – Operational Eco-Efficiency into their investment and supply chain decisions and by providing transparent – Climate Strategy reporting about such engagements. Social Dimension – Human Capital Development – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 35 • Marubeni Corp* Japan Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 23 RobecoSAM Bronze Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 66 ITOCHU Corp Japan Market capitalization of assessed Mitsui & Co Ltd Japan companies to total market capitalization (%) 81 Samsung C&T Corp South Korea Sumitomo Corp Japan Results at industry level * RobecoSAM Industry Leader Dimension Average Best Dimension As of October 31, 2013 score score weight Economic 49 86 38% Environmental 45 96 25% Social 42 79 37% Total score average score: 46 best score: 81 0 25 50 75 100 The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 107 Transportation and Transportation Infrastructure Driving forces Highlighted criteria The transportation infrastructure industry facilitates trade and promotes Economic Dimension economic development and efficiency gains. Trade routes constantly change – Codes of Conduct/Compliance/ in response to shifting global supply/demand dynamics. Therefore, flexibility Corruption & Bribery is a key success factor for companies involved in long-distance transportation. – Corporate Governance Efficiency – both from a cost and time perspective – is a critical contributor – Risk & Crisis Management to companies’ competitive advantage, which is increasingly achieved – Supply Chain Management through standardization (e.g. containerization), inter-modal transport and IT-supported logistics. Fuel efficiency is becoming equally important, Environmental Dimension particularly for companies that own their vehicle fleets. Additionally, as – Climate Strategy customers become increasingly mindful of the environmental impact of their – Environmental Policy/Management supply chain, companies seek to minimize the carbon footprint associated with System transportation. For companies operating local transportation hubs such as – Environmental Reporting airports and seaports, stakeholder engagement and good relationships with – Operational Eco-Efficiency local communities are pre-requisites for maintaining their license to operate. Social Dimension – Labor Practice Indicators & Human Rights – Occupational Health & Safety – Stakeholder Engagement – Talent Attraction & Retention Sustainability leaders 2014 Industry statistics • RobecoSAM Gold Class Number of companies in universe 98 • Canadian National Railway Co* Canada Number of companies assessed by RobecoSAM in 2013 64 RobecoSAM Silver Class Assessed companies to total companies in universe (%) 65 Royal Mail Group United Kingdom Market capitalization of assessed PostNL NV Netherlands companies to total market capitalization (%) 89 • United Parcel Service Inc United States RobecoSAM Bronze Class Results at industry level Abertis Infraestructuras SA Spain Atlantia SpA Italy Dimension Average Best Dimension Nippon Yusen KK Japan score score weight Sustainability Yearbook Members Economic 53 88 29% Auckland International Airport Ltd New Zealand Environmental 39 86 28% CSX Corp United States Social 44 81 43% Deutsche Post AG Germany Firstgroup PLC United Kingdom Total score Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Services Worldwide Germany TNT Express NV Netherlands average score: 45 Transurban Group Australia best score: 84 * RobecoSAM Industry Leader 0 25 50 75 100 As of October 31, 2013 108 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 Company overview The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 109 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page 3M Co Industrial Conglomerates United States 83 ABB Ltd Machinery and Electrical Equipment Switzerland 88 Abbott Laboratories Health Care Equipment & Supplies United States 77 AbbVie Inc Pharmaceuticals United States 96 Transportation and Transportation Abertis Infraestructuras SA Spain 108 Infrastructure Acciona SA Electric Utilities Spain 70 ACS Actividades de Construccion y Construction & Engineering Spain 65 Servicios SA Adaro Energy Tbk PT Coal & Consumable Fuels Indonesia 61 Adecco SA Professional Services Switzerland 97 Adidas AG Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Germany 105 Semiconductors & Semiconductor Advanced Micro Devices Inc United States 101 Equipment Advanced Semiconductor Semiconductors & Semiconductor Taiwan 101 Engineering Inc Equipment Aegon NV Insurance Netherlands 84 Diversified Financial Services and Capital African Bank Investments Ltd South Africa 69 Markets Agilent Technologies Inc Life Sciences Tools & Services United States 87 AGL Energy Ltd Multi and Water Utilities Australia 91 Aguas de Barcelona SA Multi and Water Utilities Spain 91 Air France-KLM Airlines France 51 Air Liquide SA Chemicals France 60 Air Products & Chemicals Inc Chemicals United States 60 Ajinomoto Co Inc Food Products Japan 75 Akzo Nobel NV Chemicals Netherlands 60 Alcatel-Lucent Communications Equipment France 63 Alcoa Inc Aluminum United States 52 Allergan Inc Pharmaceuticals United States 96 Allianz SE Insurance Germany 84 Alstom SA Machinery and Electrical Equipment France 88 Altria Group Inc Tobacco United States 106 Amadeus IT Holding SA IT Services & Internet Software and Services Spain 85 Amcor Ltd Containers & Packaging Australia 67 AMEC PLC Energy Equipment & Services United Kingdom 73 American Water Works Co Inc Multi and Water Utilities United States 91 Amorepacific Corp Personal Products South Korea 95 Anglo American PLC Metals & Mining United Kingdom 90 AngloGold Ashanti Ltd Metals & Mining South Africa 90 ArcelorMittal Steel Luxembourg 103 Asahi Glass Co Ltd Building Products Japan 58 Semiconductors & Semiconductor ASML Holding NV Netherlands 101 Equipment Assicurazioni Generali SpA Insurance Italy 84 AstraZeneca PLC Pharmaceuticals United Kingdom 96 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 110 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Transportation and Transportation Atlantia SpA Italy 108 Infrastructure Atlas Copco AB Machinery and Electrical Equipment Sweden 88 AtoS IT Services & Internet Software and Services France 85 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & AU Optronics Corp Taiwan 72 Components Transportation and Transportation Auckland International Airport Ltd New Zealand 108 Infrastructure Australia & New Zealand Banking Banks Australia 55 Group Ltd Autodesk Inc Software United States 102 Aviva PLC Insurance United Kingdom 84 AXA SA Insurance France 84 BAE Systems PLC Aerospace & Defense United Kingdom 50 Baker Hughes Inc Energy Equipment & Services United States 73 Ball Corp Containers & Packaging United States 67 Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA Banks Spain 55 Banco Bradesco SA Banks Brazil 55 Banco do Brasil SA Banks Brazil 55 Banco Espirito Santo SA Banks Portugal 55 Banco Santander SA Banks Spain 55 Bancolombia SA Banks Colombia 55 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Bank of America Corp United States 69 Markets Bank of Montreal Banks Canada 55 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Bank of New York Mellon Corp United States 69 Markets Barclays PLC Banks United Kingdom 55 Barrick Gold Corp Metals & Mining Canada 90 BASF SE Chemicals Germany 60 Baxter International Inc Health Care Equipment & Supplies United States 77 Bayer AG Pharmaceuticals Germany 96 Bayerische Motoren Werke AG Automobiles Germany 54 Benesse Holdings Inc Diversified Consumer Services Japan 68 BG Group PLC Oil & Gas United Kingdom 92 BHP Billiton Ltd Metals & Mining Australia 90 Biogen Idec Inc Biotechnology United States 57 BNP Paribas SA Banks France 55 Bombardier Inc Aerospace & Defense Canada 50 Brambles Ltd Commercial Services & Supplies Australia 62 Braskem SA Chemicals Brazil 60 BRF SA Food Products Brazil 75 British American Tobacco PLC Tobacco United Kingdom 106 British Land Co PLC Real Estate United Kingdom 98 British Sky Broadcasting Group PLC Media United Kingdom 89 BT Group PLC Telecommunication Services United Kingdom 104 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 111 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Bumi Armada Bhd Energy Equipment & Services Malaysia 73 CA Inc Software United States 102 CaixaBank Banks Spain 55 Cameco Corp Coal & Consumable Fuels Canada 61 Campbell Soup Co Food Products United States 75 Canadian Imperial Bank of Banks Canada 55 Commerce Transportation and Transportation Canadian National Railway Co Canada 108 Infrastructure Capita PLC Professional Services United Kingdom 97 CapitaLand Ltd Real Estate Singapore 98 Cardinal Health Inc Health Care Providers & Services United States 78 Carrefour SA Food & Staples Retailing France 74 Casino Guichard Perrachon SA Food & Staples Retailing France 74 Caterpillar Inc Machinery and Electrical Equipment United States 88 Cementos Argos SA Construction Materials Colombia 66 Cenovus Energy Inc Oil & Gas Canada 92 Centrais Eletricas Brasileiras SA Electric Utilities Brazil 70 CFS Retail Property Trust Group Real Estate Australia 98 China Steel Corp Steel Taiwan 103 Chunghwa Telecom Co Ltd Telecommunication Services Taiwan 104 Cia Energetica de Minas Gerais Electric Utilities Brazil 70 Cie Generale des Etablissements Auto Components France 53 Michelin Diversified Financial Services and Capital Citigroup Inc United States 69 Markets Clariant AG Chemicals Switzerland 60 CNH Industrial NV Machinery and Electrical Equipment Italy 88 Coca-Cola HBC AG Beverages Switzerland 56 Colgate-Palmolive Co Household Products United States 82 Colombina SA Food Products Colombia 75 Commonwealth Bank of Australia Banks Australia 55 Commonwealth Property Office Real Estate Australia 98 Fund Compass Group PLC Restaurants & Leisure Facilities United Kingdom 99 ConAgra Foods Inc Food Products United States 75 Corio NV Real Estate Netherlands 98 Covanta Holding Corp Commercial Services & Supplies United States 62 Coway Co Ltd Household Durables South Korea 81 CPFL Energia SA Electric Utilities Brazil 70 Credit Agricole SA Banks France 55 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Credit Suisse Group AG Switzerland 69 Markets Transportation and Transportation CSX Corp United States 108 Infrastructure Cummins Inc Machinery and Electrical Equipment United States 88 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 112 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Daelim Industrial Co Ltd Construction & Engineering South Korea 65 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Daewoo Securities Co Ltd South Korea 69 Markets Dai Nippon Printing Co Ltd Commercial Services & Supplies Japan 62 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Daiwa Securities Group Inc Japan 69 Markets Danone Food Products France 75 Delhaize Group SA Food & Staples Retailing Belgium 74 Delta Air Lines Inc Airlines United States 51 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Delta Electronics Inc Taiwan 72 Components Delta Lloyd NV Insurance Netherlands 84 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Deutsche Bank AG Germany 69 Markets Diversified Financial Services and Capital Deutsche Boerse AG Germany 69 Markets Transportation and Transportation Deutsche Post AG Germany 108 Infrastructure Deutsche Telekom AG Telecommunication Services Germany 104 Dexus Property Group Real Estate Australia 98 Diageo PLC Beverages United Kingdom 56 DNB ASA Banks Norway 55 Dongbu Insurance Co Ltd Insurance South Korea 84 Doosan Infracore Co Ltd Machinery and Electrical Equipment South Korea 88 Dow Chemical Co Chemicals United States 60 Duke Energy Corp Electric Utilities United States 70 E.ON SE Multi and Water Utilities Germany 91 Echo Entertainment Group Ltd Casinos & Gaming Australia 59 Ecopetrol SA Oil & Gas Colombia 92 EDP Energias de Portugal SA Electric Utilities Portugal 70 EI du Pont de Nemours & Co Chemicals United States 60 Electrolux AB Household Durables Sweden 81 Embraer SA Aerospace & Defense Brazil 50 Enagas SA Gas Utilities Spain 76 Enbridge Inc Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation Canada 93 Endesa SA Electric Utilities Spain 70 Enel SpA Electric Utilities Italy 70 Eni SpA Oil & Gas Italy 92 Entergy Corp Electric Utilities United States 70 EPM Multi and Water Utilities Colombia 91 Exelon Corp Electric Utilities United States 70 Experian PLC Professional Services United Kingdom 97 Exxaro Resources Ltd Coal & Consumable Fuels South Africa 61 Ferrovial SA Construction & Engineering Spain 65 Fiat SpA Automobiles Italy 54 Fibria Celulose SA Paper & Forest Products Brazil 94 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 113 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Finmeccanica SpA Aerospace & Defense Italy 50 Transportation and Transportation Firstgroup PLC United Kingdom 108 Infrastructure Fomento de Construcciones y Construction & Engineering Spain 65 Contratas SA Fonciere Des Regions Real Estate France 98 Fortum OYJ Electric Utilities Finland 70 Fraport AG Frankfurt Airport Transportation and Transportation Germany 108 Services Worldwide Infrastructure Fresenius Medical Care AG & Co Health Care Providers & Services Germany 78 KGaA Fuji Electric Co Ltd Electrical Components & Equipment Japan 71 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & FUJIFILM Holdings Corp Japan 72 Components Computers & Peripherals and Office Fujitsu Ltd Japan 64 Electronics Galp Energia SGPS SA Oil & Gas Portugal 92 Gas Natural SDG SA Gas Utilities Spain 76 GDF Suez Multi and Water Utilities France 91 Gecina SA Real Estate France 98 General Electric Co Industrial Conglomerates United States 83 General Mills Inc Food Products United States 75 Gildan Activewear Inc Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Canada 105 GlaxoSmithKline PLC Pharmaceuticals United Kingdom 96 Glencore Xstrata PLC Metals & Mining United Kingdom 90 Gold Fields Ltd Metals & Mining South Africa 90 Goldcorp Inc Metals & Mining Canada 90 GPT Group Real Estate Australia 98 Grupo Argos SA Construction Materials Colombia 66 Grupo de Inversiones Diversified Financial Services and Capital Colombia 69 Suramericana SA Markets Grupo Nutresa SA Food Products Colombia 75 GS Engineering & Construction Construction & Engineering South Korea 65 Corp Halliburton Co Energy Equipment & Services United States 73 Hammerson PLC Real Estate United Kingdom 98 Hankook Tire Co Ltd Auto Components South Korea 53 Heineken NV Beverages Netherlands 56 Henkel AG & Co KGaA Household Products Germany 82 Herman Miller Inc Commercial Services & Supplies United States 62 Hershey Co Food Products United States 75 Computers & Peripherals and Office Hewlett-Packard Co United States 64 Electronics Hitachi Chemical Co Ltd Chemicals Japan 60 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Hitachi Ltd Japan 72 Components Hochtief AG Construction & Engineering Germany 65 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 114 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Holcim Ltd Construction Materials Switzerland 66 Home Retail Group PLC Retailing United Kingdom 100 Hormel Foods Corp Food Products United States 75 HSBC Holdings PLC Banks United Kingdom 55 Humana Inc Health Care Providers & Services United States 78 Hyundai Engineering & Construction & Engineering South Korea 65 Construction Co Ltd Hyundai Mobis Auto Components South Korea 53 Hyundai Steel Co Steel South Korea 103 Iberdrola SA Electric Utilities Spain 70 IMI PLC Machinery and Electrical Equipment United Kingdom 88 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC Tobacco United Kingdom 106 Inditex SA Retailing Spain 100 Indra Sistemas SA IT Services & Internet Software and Services Spain 85 Semiconductors & Semiconductor Infineon Technologies AG Germany 101 Equipment Infosys Ltd IT Services & Internet Software and Services India 85 Diversified Financial Services and Capital ING Groep NV Netherlands 69 Markets Ingersoll-Rand PLC Machinery and Electrical Equipment United States 88 Inpex Corp Oil & Gas Japan 92 Insurance Australia Group Ltd Insurance Australia 84 Semiconductors & Semiconductor Intel Corp United States 101 Equipment International Business Machines IT Services & Internet Software and Services United States 85 Corp Intesa Sanpaolo SpA Banks Italy 55 Intu Properties PLC Real Estate United Kingdom 98 Invensys PLC Machinery and Electrical Equipment United Kingdom 88 IRPC PCL Oil & Gas Thailand 92 Itau Unibanco Holding SA Banks Brazil 55 Itausa Investimentos Itau SA Banks Brazil 55 ITOCHU Corp Trading Companies & Distributors Japan 107 ITV PLC Media United Kingdom 89 J Sainsbury PLC Food & Staples Retailing United Kingdom 74 JCDecaux SA Media France 89 Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals United States 96 Johnson Controls Inc Auto Components United States 53 Diversified Financial Services and Capital JPMorgan Chase & Co United States 69 Markets Kangwon Land Inc Casinos & Gaming South Korea 59 Kao Corp Personal Products Japan 95 KB Financial Group Inc Banks South Korea 55 KEPCO Plant Service & Engineering Commercial Services & Supplies South Korea 62 Co Ltd Keppel Land Ltd Real Estate Singapore 98 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 115 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Kering Retailing France 100 Kesko OYJ Food & Staples Retailing Finland 74 Kingfisher PLC Retailing United Kingdom 100 Kinross Gold Corp Metals & Mining Canada 90 Kirin Holdings Co Ltd Beverages Japan 56 Klepierre Real Estate France 98 Komatsu Ltd Machinery and Electrical Equipment Japan 88 Computers & Peripherals and Office Konica Minolta Inc Japan 64 Electronics Koninklijke Ahold NV Food & Staples Retailing Netherlands 74 Koninklijke DSM NV Chemicals Netherlands 60 Koninklijke KPN NV Telecommunication Services Netherlands 104 Koninklijke Philips NV Industrial Conglomerates Netherlands 83 Korea Gas Corp Gas Utilities South Korea 76 KT Corp Telecommunication Services South Korea 104 KT&G Corp Tobacco South Korea 106 Ladbrokes PLC Casinos & Gaming United Kingdom 59 Lafarge SA Construction Materials France 66 Land Securities Group PLC Real Estate United Kingdom 98 LANXESS AG Chemicals Germany 60 Legal & General Group PLC Insurance United Kingdom 84 Legrand SA Electrical Components & Equipment France 71 Lend Lease Group Real Estate Australia 98 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & LG Display Co Ltd South Korea 72 Components Leisure Equipment & Products and LG Electronics Inc South Korea 86 Consumer Electronics LG Household & Health Care Ltd Household Products South Korea 82 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & LG Innotek Co Ltd South Korea 72 Components Life Technologies Corp Life Sciences Tools & Services United States 87 Linde AG Chemicals Germany 60 Computers & Peripherals and Office Lite-On Technology Corp Taiwan 64 Electronics Lloyds Banking Group PLC Banks United Kingdom 55 Lotte Shopping Co Ltd Retailing South Korea 100 LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods France 105 SA MAN SE Machinery and Electrical Equipment Germany 88 Mapfre SA Insurance Spain 84 Marks & Spencer Group PLC Retailing United Kingdom 100 Marubeni Corp Trading Companies & Distributors Japan 107 Diversified Financial Services and Capital McGraw Hill Financial Inc United States 69 Markets MeadWestvaco Corp Containers & Packaging United States 67 Mediclinic International Ltd Health Care Providers & Services South Africa 78 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 116 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Medtronic Inc Health Care Equipment & Supplies United States 77 Metso OYJ Machinery and Electrical Equipment Finland 88 Microsoft Corp Software United States 102 Mirvac Group Real Estate Australia 98 Mitsubishi Chemical Holdings Corp Chemicals Japan 60 Mitsubishi Materials Corp Metals & Mining Japan 90 Mitsui & Co Ltd Trading Companies & Distributors Japan 107 Modern Times Group AB Media Sweden 89 Molson Coors Brewing Co Beverages United States 56 Mondelez International Inc Food Products United States 75 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Morgan Stanley United States 69 Markets Muenchener Rueckversicherungs Insurance Germany 84 AG National Australia Bank Ltd Banks Australia 55 National Grid PLC Multi and Water Utilities United Kingdom 91 Nedbank Group Ltd Banks South Africa 55 Neste Oil OYJ Oil & Gas Finland 92 Nestle SA Food Products Switzerland 75 Netcare Ltd Health Care Providers & Services South Africa 78 Newmont Mining Corp Metals & Mining United States 90 NIKE Inc Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods United States 105 Transportation and Transportation Nippon Yusen KK Japan 108 Infrastructure Nissan Motor Co Ltd Automobiles Japan 54 NKSJ Holdings Inc Insurance Japan 84 Nokia OYJ Communications Equipment Finland 63 Norsk Hydro ASA Aluminum Norway 52 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Northern Trust Corp United States 69 Markets Novartis AG Pharmaceuticals Switzerland 96 Novo Nordisk A/S Pharmaceuticals Denmark 96 Novozymes A/S Biotechnology Denmark 57 NTT Data Corp IT Services & Internet Software and Services Japan 85 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Omron Corp Japan 72 Components Orange SA Telecommunication Services France 104 Outokumpu OYJ Steel Finland 103 Outotec OYJ Construction & Engineering Finland 65 Owens Corning Building Products United States 58 Pacific Rubiales Energy Corp Oil & Gas Canada 92 Leisure Equipment & Products and Panasonic Corp Japan 86 Consumer Electronics Pearson PLC Media United Kingdom 89 PepsiCo Inc Beverages United States 56 Petroleo Brasileiro SA Oil & Gas Brazil 92 Peugeot SA Automobiles France 54 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 117 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page PG&E Corp Multi and Water Utilities United States 91 Pirelli & C. SpA Auto Components Italy 53 Portugal Telecom SGPS SA Telecommunication Services Portugal 104 POSCO Steel South Korea 103 Transportation and Transportation PostNL NV Netherlands 108 Infrastructure Potash Corp of Saskatchewan Inc Chemicals Canada 60 Praxair Inc Chemicals United States 60 Diversified Financial Services and Capital Provident Financial PLC United Kingdom 69 Markets Prysmian SpA Electrical Components & Equipment Italy 71 PTT Global Chemical PCL Chemicals Thailand 60 PTT PCL Oil & Gas Thailand 92 Puma SE Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods Germany 105 Qantas Airways Ltd Airlines Australia 51 Quest Diagnostics Inc Health Care Providers & Services United States 78 Rackspace Hosting Inc IT Services & Internet Software and Services United States 85 Rautaruukki OYJ Steel Finland 103 Reckitt Benckiser Group PLC Household Products United Kingdom 82 Red Electrica Corp SA Electric Utilities Spain 70 Reed Elsevier PLC Media United Kingdom 89 Rentokil Initial PLC Commercial Services & Supplies United Kingdom 62 Repsol SA Oil & Gas Spain 92 Computers & Peripherals and Office Ricoh Co Ltd Japan 64 Electronics Rinnai Corp Household Durables Japan 81 Rio Tinto PLC Metals & Mining United Kingdom 90 Roche Holding AG Pharmaceuticals Switzerland 96 Rolls-Royce Holdings PLC Aerospace & Defense United Kingdom 50 Royal Bank of Canada Banks Canada 55 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC Banks United Kingdom 55 Royal Dutch Shell PLC Oil & Gas United Kingdom 92 Transportation and Transportation Royal Mail Group United Kingdom 108 Infrastructure RWE AG Multi and Water Utilities Germany 91 Samsung C&T Corp Trading Companies & Distributors South Korea 107 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Samsung Electro-Mechanics Co Ltd South Korea 72 Components Semiconductors & Semiconductor Samsung Electronics Co Ltd South Korea 101 Equipment Samsung Engineering Co Ltd Construction & Engineering South Korea 65 Samsung Fire & Marine Insurance Insurance South Korea 84 Co Ltd Samsung Heavy Industries Co Ltd Machinery and Electrical Equipment South Korea 88 Samsung Life Insurance Co Ltd Insurance South Korea 84 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 118 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Samsung SDI Co Ltd South Korea 72 Components Diversified Financial Services and Capital Samsung Securities Co Ltd South Korea 69 Markets Sandvik AB Machinery and Electrical Equipment Sweden 88 Sanofi Pharmaceuticals France 96 Santos Ltd Oil & Gas Australia 92 SAP AG Software Germany 102 Sasol Ltd Oil & Gas South Africa 92 SBM Offshore NV Energy Equipment & Services Netherlands 73 Schlumberger Ltd Energy Equipment & Services United States 73 Schneider Electric SA Electrical Components & Equipment France 71 Sekisui Chemical Co Ltd Homebuilding Japan 79 Sempra Energy Multi and Water Utilities United States 91 Seven & I Holdings Co Ltd Food & Staples Retailing Japan 74 Shaftesbury PLC Real Estate United Kingdom 98 Shinhan Financial Group Co Ltd Banks South Korea 55 Shiseido Co Ltd Personal Products Japan 95 Siam Cement PCL Construction Materials Thailand 66 Siemens AG Industrial Conglomerates Germany 83 Sims Metal Management Ltd Steel Australia 103 SK C&C Co Ltd IT services & Internet Software and Services South Korea 85 Semiconductors & Semiconductor SK Hynix Inc South Korea 101 Equipment SK Telecom Co Ltd Telecommunication Services South Korea 104 SKF AB Machinery and Electrical Equipment Sweden 88 Smith & Nephew PLC Health Care Equipment & Supplies United Kingdom 77 Snam SpA Gas Utilities Italy 76 Societe Generale SA Banks France 55 Societe Television Francaise 1 Media France 89 Sodexo Restaurants & Leisure Facilities France 99 S-Oil Corp Oil & Gas South Korea 92 Solvay SA Chemicals Belgium 60 Sonoco Products Co Containers & Packaging United States 67 Leisure Equipment & Products and Sony Corp Japan 86 Consumer Electronics Spectra Energy Corp Oil & Gas Storage & Transportation United States 93 Sprint Corp Telecommunication Services United States 104 Standard Chartered PLC Banks United Kingdom 55 Standard Life PLC Insurance United Kingdom 84 Stanley Black & Decker Inc Machinery and Electrical Equipment United States 88 Statoil ASA Oil & Gas Norway 92 Semiconductors & Semiconductor STMicroelectronics NV Italy 101 Equipment Stockland Real Estate Australia 98 Stora Enso OYJ Paper & Forest Products Finland 94 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 119 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Storebrand ASA Insurance Norway 84 Suez Environnement Co Multi and Water Utilities France 91 Sumitomo Corp Trading Companies & Distributors Japan 107 Sumitomo Forestry Co Ltd Homebuilding Japan 79 Svenska Cellulosa AB SCA Household Products Sweden 82 Swiss Re AG Insurance Switzerland 84 Swisscom AG Telecommunication Services Switzerland 104 Symantec Corp Software United States 102 Syngenta AG Chemicals Switzerland 60 Tabcorp Holdings Ltd Casinos & Gaming Australia 59 Taiwan Semiconductor Semiconductors & Semiconductor Taiwan 101 Manufacturing Co Ltd Equipment Tata Consultancy Services Ltd IT Services & Internet Software and Services India 85 Tata Steel Ltd Steel India 103 Taylor Wimpey PLC Homebuilding United Kingdom 79 Technip SA Energy Equipment & Services France 73 Teck Resources Ltd Metals & Mining Canada 90 Teijin Ltd Chemicals Japan 60 Telecom Italia SpA Telecommunication Services Italy 104 Telefonica SA Telecommunication Services Spain 104 Telenet Group Holding NV Media Belgium 89 Telenor ASA Telecommunication Services Norway 104 Telstra Corp Ltd Telecommunication Services Australia 104 Teradata Corp IT Services & Internet Software and Services United States 85 Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale SpA Electric Utilities Italy 70 Tesco PLC Food & Staples Retailing United Kingdom 74 Thai Oil PCL Oil & Gas Thailand 92 Transportation and Transportation TNT Express NV Netherlands 108 Infrastructure Tokio Marine Holdings Inc Insurance Japan 84 Toronto-Dominion Bank Banks Canada 55 Total SA Oil & Gas France 92 TOTO Ltd Building Products Japan 58 Toyota Motor Corp Automobiles Japan 54 TransAlta Corp Electric Utilities Canada 70 Transportation and Transportation Transurban Group Australia 108 Infrastructure TUI AG Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines Germany 80 Diversified Financial Services and Capital UBS AG Switzerland 69 Markets Umicore SA Chemicals Belgium 60 Unibail-Rodamco SE Real Estate France 98 UniCredit SpA Banks Italy 55 Unilever NV Food Products Netherlands 75 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class 120 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 RobecoSAM RobecoSAM Company name Industry Country Distinction Industry Leader Page Semiconductors & Semiconductor United Microelectronics Corp Taiwan 101 Equipment Transportation and Transportation United Parcel Service Inc United States 108 Infrastructure United Utilities Group PLC Multi and Water Utilities United Kingdom 91 UnitedHealth Group Inc Health Care Providers & Services United States 78 UPM-Kymmene OYJ Paper & Forest Products Finland 94 Valeo SA Auto Components France 53 Veolia Environnement SA Multi and Water Utilities France 91 Vestas Wind Systems A/S Machinery and Electrical Equipment Denmark 88 Vinci SA Construction & Engineering France 65 Volkswagen AG Automobiles Germany 54 Volvo AB Machinery and Electrical Equipment Sweden 88 Walt Disney Co Media United States 89 Waste Management Inc Commercial Services & Supplies United States 62 Westpac Banking Corp Banks Australia 55 Weyerhaeuser Co Real Estate United States 98 Wipro Ltd IT Services & Internet Software and Services India 85 Wolters Kluwer NV Media Netherlands 89 Woodside Petroleum Ltd Oil & Gas Australia 92 Woolworths Holdings Ltd Retailing South Africa 100 Woolworths Ltd Food & Staples Retailing Australia 74 Woongjin Chemical Co Ltd Textiles, Apparel & Luxury Goods South Korea 105 WPP PLC Media United Kingdom 89 Wyndham Worldwide Corp Hotels, Resorts & Cruise Lines United States 80 Xylem Inc Machinery and Electrical Equipment United States 88 Electronic Equipment, Instruments & Yokogawa Electric Corp Japan 72 Components Zurich Insurance Group AG Insurance Switzerland 84 RobecoSAM Gold Class RobecoSAM Silver Class RobecoSAM Bronze Class The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 • RobecoSAM • 121 DISCLAIMER Important Legal Information: No Offer: The information and opinions contained in this publication constitute neither a solicitation, nor a recommendation, nor an offer, nor an invitation to make an offer to buy or sell any securities or any options, futures or other derivatives related to such securities and are for information purposes only. The information described in this publication is not directed to persons in any jurisdiction where the provision of such information would run counter to local laws and regulation. No Warranty: This publication is derived from sources believed to be accurate and reliable, but neither its accuracy nor completeness is guaranteed. The material and information in this publication are provided “as is” and without warranties of any kind, either expressed or implied. RobecoSAM and its related and affiliated companies disclaim all warranties, expressed or implied, including, but not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. Any opinions and views in this publication reflect the current judgment of the authors and may change without notice. It is each reader’s responsibility to evaluate the accuracy, completeness and usefulness of any opinions, advice, services or other information provided in this publication. Limitation of Liability: All information contained in this publication is distributed with the understanding that the authors, publishers and distributors are not rendering legal, accounting or other professional advice or opinions on specific facts or matters and accordingly assume no liability whatsoever in connection with its use. In no event shall RobecoSAM and its related, affiliated and subsidiary companies be liable for any direct, indirect, special, incidental or consequential damages arising out of the use of any opinion or information expressly or implicitly contained in this publication. Copyright: Unless otherwise noted, text, images and layout of this publication are the exclusive property of RobecoSAM and/or its related, affiliated and subsidiary companies and may not be copied or distributed, in whole or in part, without the express written consent of RobecoSAM or its related and affiliated companies. Copyright © 2014 RobecoSAM – all rights reserved. US: RobecoSAM services are offered in the US by RobecoSAM USA, Inc. (“RobecoSAM US“) an Investment Adviser registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940. RobecoSAM is a subsidiary of Robeco Groep N.V. (“Robeco“), a Dutch investment management firm headquartered in Rotterdam, the Netherlands. In connection with providing investment advisory services to its clients, RobecoSAM US will utilize the services of certain personnel of RobecoSAM, and Robeco Investment Management, Inc. (“RIM“), each a subsidiary of Robeco. The securities identified and described do not represent all of the securities purchased, sold or recommended. It should not be assumed that an investment in these securities was or will be profitable. 122 • RobecoSAM • The Sustainability Yearbook 2014 About RobecoSAM RobecoSAM is an investment specialist focused exclusively on Sustainability Investing. Its offerings comprise asset management, indices, private equity, engagement, impact analysis and sustainability assessments as well as benchmarking services. Asset management capabilities include a range of ESG-integrated investment and theme strategies (in listed and private equity) catering to institutional asset owners and financial intermediaries across the globe. Together with S&P Dow Jones Indices, RobecoSAM publishes the globally recognized Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI). Based on its Corporate Sustainability Assessment, an annual ESG analysis of more than 2,000 listed companies, RobecoSAM has compiled one of the world’s most comprehensive sustainability databases. RobecoSAM’s proprietary research and sustainability insight, gained through its direct contact with companies, are fully integrated into its investment solutions. RobecoSAM is a member of the global pure-play asset manager Robeco, which was established in 1929 and offers a broad range of investment products and services. Robeco also has a long tradition of practicing and advocating Sustainability Investing principles. RobecoSAM was founded in 1995 out of the conviction that a commitment to corporate sustainability enhances a company’s capacity to prosper, ultimately creating competitive advantages and stakeholder value. As a reflection of its own commitment to advocating sustainable investment practices, RobecoSAM is a signatory of the UNPRI and a member of Eurosif, ASrIA and Ceres. Headquartered in Zurich, RobecoSAM employs over 100 professionals. RobecoSAM Academic Activities RobecoSAM has implemented a proactive approach to developing its research partnerships with academia. The purpose of its research collaborations is to confirm RobecoSAM’s research leadership position in the Sustainability Finance industry, capitalize on the value of RobecoSAM’s proprietary database and further develop its cutting edge methodology for integrating sustainability into the investment process. Within this framework, RobecoSAM focuses on extensive collaboration with and sponsorship of selected academic institutions. In all research initiatives, RobecoSAM assumes an active role in designing, leading and actively supervising the projects. Over the past year, RobecoSAM has been involved in research collaborations with the following academic institutions: • Harvard Business School, Organizational Behavior (Massachusetts, USA) • University of Queensland (Queensland, Australia) • University of Strathclyde (Scotland, UK) • NYU Stern School of Business (New York, USA) RobecoSAM AG Josefstrasse 218 8005 Zurich, Switzerland T +41 44 653 10 10, F +41 44 653 10 80 www.robecosam.com
