Dear Stakeholders In 2013, SSP continued to support the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour rights, environment sustainability and anti-corruption principles. We confirm our company’s continued support for the Global Compact and renew our on-going commitment to the initiative and its principles. In this Communication on Progress (2014), we describe our actions to continually integrate the Global Compact principles into our business strategy, culture and dayto-day operations of our company in year 2013. Yours faithfully Lim Chee Hai CEO 10-1-2014 Page 1 10-01-2014 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\03 COP 2014 (Revised on 10-1-2014).docx Human Rights Principles • Assessment, policy and goals SSP supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in its activities and through the relationships with its business partners, clients, civil society organisations and state agencies. Based on these commitments, internally our Company Office Manual describes clearly the rights and obligations of the employees and management. This is further emphasized in the Company Integrated Management system in respect of employees’ rights and responsibilities in the organisation business activities. Externally, we observe the Code of Ethics which encompasses our rules of conduct for potential customers, existing clients, business partners and our relationship with our competitors. • Implementation The Company Office Manual and Code of Ethics are applied to all employees without exception. Induction and refresher courses, and awareness trainings were conducted to familiarise all new and existing employees with these documents which were made available in our company intranet and in particular on Human Rights issues and violation. Every employee can directly contact the HR Manager in case of breach of these principles or any questionable issues. Furthermore, our staff are free to submit their complaints and/or issues with regards to unfair treatment via Decision Memorandum direct to the Management. These complaints will be immediately attended by the top Management. • Measurement of outcomes During the reporting period, SSP did not receive any complaint from employees, business partners, clients or competitors in relation to human rights abuses, violation, nor was the organisation involved in any human rights incidences. Labour Principles • Assessment, policy and goals SSP supports the International Labour Organisation Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Right to Work and upholds the elimination of forced / compulsory labour and child labour. In addition SSP complies with the law, rules and regulations of the country and observes non-discrimination and Page 2 10-01-2014 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\03 COP 2014 (Revised on 10-1-2014).docx equal opportunities in respect of employment, occupation and staff career advancement. SSP asserts that all its employees and the workmen of the contractors should work in a safe, healthy and risk free environment by adhering to Malaysian Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994. • Implementation SSP values good labour relations and implements continued communication with employees at all levels including complaint / suggestion system. All SSP employees are issued with the letters of employment which clearly states the terms, conditions and compensation. In addition, the Company Office Manual was made available to all employees via company intranet elaborating the company labour policies, disclosing further information on other terms and conditions of employment, staff benefits, company rules and regulations, grievance and disciplinary procedures. New employees receive specific awareness training on Company Office Manual highlighting company labour policies, employees’ rights, compensation, and responsibilities and abuse complaint procedures. In case of violation, SSP will resolve with the best interest of the neglected party at heart. SSP does not employ child or forced / compulsory labour and does not practise discrimination to its employees based on race, age, sex, religion or political beliefs. SSP extends basic medical and hospitalisation benefits to all staff and also provides them with Group Personal Accident Insurance Policy on 24 hours coverage. SSP staff are encouraged to take part in sport events organized by SSP Sport Club which is fully funded by the company. In July 2013, SSP was accredited with OHSAS 18001:2007 Occupational Health and Safety Management System Certification from SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd with the objective to prevent and reduce health and safety risks to our employees and contractors’ workmen. Hazard and aspects identification, risk assessment and determining control (HAIRADC) is prepared for the office and project sites. All workmen are required to observe and practise the Company Integrated Management System in relation to HSE risks avoidance and mitigation. SSP also impose in the construction contracts that all the contractors should adhere to SSP’s HSE policy and requirements. • Measurement of outcomes SSP received no grievances of complaints from employees or others in relation to labour rights violation, nor was the organisation involved in any Page 3 10-01-2014 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\03 COP 2014 (Revised on 10-1-2014).docx investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles during this reporting period. SSP also did not receive report of any accident involving loss of life or bodily injury during this reporting period. Our 2 times a year internal audit did not detect any human right abuses, health and safety risk issues. Environment Principles • Assessment, policy and goals SSP is committed to furthering the internationally recognised principles of environment protection in all its activities internally within the organisation and externally with its business partners, customers and clients. SSP Environmental Policy requires its employees to use energy and resources efficiently and to reduce and prevent pollution from its activities in the projects administered by the Company. • Implementation SSP Integrated Management System (IMS) was formulated to guide and monitor the environmental performance of the organisation and its business partners. The IMS is a continuous process of planning, implementation, reviewing and improving environmental performance and compliance. It is based upon ISO 14001 principles of sustainable procurement and waste reduction. Waste is reduced through re-using and recycling efforts, while paper, water and energy are consumed through raising awareness of the employees. SSP obtained the ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System Certification from SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd in July 2013. Hazard and aspects identification, risk assessment and determining control (HAIRADC) is prepared for the office and project sites. All workmen are required to observe and practise the Company Integrated Management System in relation to environmental risks avoidance and mitigation. SSP also impose in the construction contracts that all the contractors should adhere to SSP’s environmental policy and requirements. • Measurement of outcome SSP did not have any environmental incidents within last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or precautions. The environmental performance is measured through responsibilities, objectives, operational procedures, training needs, monitoring and communication systems. All these were subject to internal monitoring and audits. During this reporting period, the 2 times a year internal audit did not detect any violation with regard to environment issues. Page 4 10-01-2014 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\03 COP 2014 (Revised on 10-1-2014).docx Anti-Corruption Principles • Assessment, policy and goals SSP supports the UN Convention Against Corruption and abides the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009. SSP holds a strict zero-tolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The company values professionalism through good reputation while abiding to competition rules. SSP pursues its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. Any direct or indirect offer, illicit payment, promise, kickback, soliciting and acceptance of bribes in any form are unacceptable practices. Furthermore, all levels of SSP employees must avoid conflict of interest where there is a material risk of damage to the interest of the clients or the company. • Implementation SSP anti-corruption policies are published in the Company Office Manual which all staff are made aware of via induction training and awareness training. To further its anti-corruption commitment, SSP creates and supports corporate culture base on honesty and openness. The policy encourages all employees to report potential or suspected frauds or other malpractices within the organisation. The identity of any whistleblower shall be fully and strictly protected. SSP only accepts payment as fees for its services rendered to its client and no other payment from third parties. If there is any possibility of conflict of interest, SSP will refrain from involvement and will withdraw from the assignment. • Measurement of outcome No fraudulent or corruption activities were reported either from internal or external sources during this period. There were also no cases of conflict of interest reported. The market standing and reputation of SSP is a living measurement and proof of its ethical practice and professionalism. Page 5 10-01-2014 D:\Gen6\Global Compact Network Malaysia\03 COP 2014 (Revised on 10-1-2014).docx
