UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2013 Sustainable perspectives How we take responsibility for people, the business and the environment Corporate Sustainability Report 13 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 1 Contents This is SEB Front cover CEO statement 1 Our role and approach Integrating sustainability into business 2–3 SEB creates value 4–5 We engage with stakeholders 6 Establishing a materiality process 7 Sustainability strategy 8 Objectives and performance 9 Responsible business Responsible selling and marketing 10–11 Tackling financial crime 12–13 Responsible investments 14–16 Examples of project financing 17 Sustainable finance 18–19 People and Community Valuing our people 20–24 Access to financial services 25 Investing in communities 26–27 Environment Reducing our environmental footprint 28–29 Impact, risks and opportunities 30 Governance of Corporate Sustainability 31 Auditor’s Review Report 32 About this report, GRI Index 2013 Inside back cover I GRI Index 2013 (cont.) Inside back cover II Awards, sustainability indices and contacts Inside back cover III About SEB Back cover We have a vital role in supporting sustainable growth. This requires resilience and a longterm perspective built on transparency and good governance. Annika Falkengren President and Chief Executive Officer SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 3 This is SEB SEB's representation worldwide Subsidiaries, branches and representative offices SEB’s activities principally embrace customers based in the Nordic and Baltic countries and Germany. The Bank has 286 branch offices in Sweden and the Baltic countries. Operating income By geography, per cent 2013 2012 Sweden 59 57 Norway 8 8 Denmark 8 8 Finland 4 4 Germany 1) 7 7 Estonia 3 3 Latvia 2 3 Lithuania 3 4 Other 6 6 1) E xcluding centralised treasury operations. 2013 in brief 2013 2012 Corporate objectives Operating income, SEK m 41,553 38,823 • The leading Nordic bank for corporates Profit before credit losses, SEK m 19,266 15,171 and institutions Operating profit, SEK m 18,127 14,235 • The top universal bank in Sweden and Return on equity, per cent 13.1 11.1 the Baltic countries Earnings per share, SEK 6.74 5.31 Proposed dividend, SEK 4.00 2.75 Strategic priorities Cormon Equity Tier I capital ratio1), per cent 15.0 13.1 • Long-term customer relationships Core Tier I capital ratio2), per cent 11.0 10.1 • Growth in areas of strength 1) Basel III 2) Basel II with transitional rules • Resilience and flexibility SEB’s customers Mission To help people and businesses Rewarding relationships are the cornerstones of our business. Ever since thrive by providing quality advice A O Wallenberg founded SEB in 1856, we have provided financial services to assist our customers in reaching their financial objectives. and financial resources Vision 2,900 Corporates and institutions 400,000 SME customers 4,000,000 Private customers To be the trusted partner for SEB is the leading corporate and investSEB offers small and medium-sized SEB provides some four million indicustomers with aspirations ment bank in the Nordic countries, serving corporate customers several customised viduals with advice and services to large corporations, financial institutions, products that were initially developed in meet all their financial needs. These banks and commercial real estate clients with corporate banking, trading and capicooperation with SEB’s large corporate clients. In addition, numerous services include products and services for daily finances, savings, loans, penBrand promise tal markets and global transaction serare specifically designed for small comsion solutions, cards, wealth manvices. Comprehensive pension and asset panies and entrepreneurs. agement and life insurance. Rewarding relationships management solutions are also offered. Front cover CEO STATEMENT Responsible banking for future generations SEB has for almost 160 years been in the service of UN Global Compact, the Principles for Responsible Investments enterprise, in active and close partnership with our and the Equator Principles. For us, understanding our customers, customers. As a bank, our role is to be involved and their challenges and opportunities, makes us a better financial partner and investor. to contribute to the development of society. We do During 2013, we have taken important steps towards an even this by managing our business responsibly. We aim more responsible business. We developed our Human Rights to create long-term value, embracing opportunities Policy, have installed a security filter on all computers to prevent and managing risks, not only from an economic, internet crimes against children, and we have decided to exclude but also from an ethical, social and environmental nuclear weapons in our investment portfolios. perspective. Our belief is that high customer loyalty Engaging employees in dialogues and employee commitment are prerequisites for our Having engaged and motivated employees is a prerequisite for success. serving our customers right and thus for our success. Based on our core values – commitment, mutual respect, professionalism The global economic environment is slowly recovering from the and continuity – we strive to improve the way we work. The 2013 past years’ turbulence. SEB’s Nordic and Baltic platform is stable, employee survey showed that our employees are very satisfied but we know that global issues like growing social imbalances, with SEB as a workplace and have a strong belief in the Bank’s corruption and climate change present numerous challenges. future, but we can be even better at internal collaboration and at From that perspective, we have a vital role in supporting sustainmeeting customer needs. All over the Bank, we have enhanced able economic growth. This requires good governance as well as discussions around these issues. Thousands of employees have resilience and a long-term perspective. been involved in value dialogues and I personally often engage in SEB contributes in many ways. Sound risk and credit managedialogue meetings with small groups of employees. I can truly say ment are fundamental, as is a responsible investment approach. these are rewarding boosts of energy! Our support for entrepreneurs and innovation has a long tradition. We contribute to the local communities where we are present Thanks to these people’s energy, creativity and perseverance by supporting future generations – children and youth, entreprenumerous jobs are created each year. I am proud to say that SEB neurship and innovation, education and know-how. In 2013, our in Sweden during the year has interacted with 140,000 small and contribution was SEK 55 million. medium sized companies. In addition, we have promoted networks and meeting points for entrepreneurs, and met about 10,000 of Looking ahead these future or present entrepreneurs. Going forward, we will continue to work on integrating sustainability throughout our business. We will, through a structured apGreen bonds and microfinance fund proach, deepen and enhance the dialogue with our stakeholders, Product development play an important role for furthering the enhance business processes and strategic sustainability dialogues sustainability agenda. Examples include green bonds, developed with clients and portfolio companies. We will also continue to inin co-operation with the World Bank, with a total market today crease knowledge and awareness among our employees, highlightof about USD 14 billion. We have also launched the first Swedish ing sustainability issues as a natural part of our everyday work, for microfinance fund, where investments are used to fund microloans example through round-table discussions and e-learnings. By taking to entrepreneurs in developing countries. responsibility, also on an individual level, I am convinced that SEB We are committed to engaging with stakeholders and to listen will move forward towards increased value creation in society. to their opinions. In 2013, we have therefore further developed our process for determining the most important issues for stakeholdStockholm, March 2014 ers and for our business. The analysis showed that we to a large extent already are prioritising the most important issues, such as customers, financial strength, ethics and employee engagement. We will review these issues on a regular basis. Since 2009, SEB has a structured approach to sustainability. International co-operation provides the foundation of our sustainAnnika Falkengren ability work and we are committed to global initiatives such as the President and Chief Executive Officer SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 1 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Integrating sustainability into business An important part of SEB’s role is to be involved in and to contribute to the development of society. We believe that the best way to do this is by integrating sustainability into our core business, in all processes and in our daily way of working throughout the organisation. We have made progress within all areas but still have challenges to overcome. Viveka Hirdman-Ryrberg * Cecilia Widebäck West * Magnus Carlsson Mats Torstendahl Head of Group Head of Group Corporate Head of Merchant Banking Head of the Retail Banking Communications Sustainability What are your main sustainability What are your main sustainability Why is it important for SEB to What are SEB’s main sustainability accomplishments in 2013? accomplishments in 2013? work with sustainability? accomplishments in 2013? SEB has together with the World Sweden needs a positive business As a bank, we are an integrated We have made progress in all Bank been a pioneer in developclimate and SEB can contribute part of society, and we know areas. The examples range from ing green bonds, as a way to by supporting new businesses that what we do has an impact. having clarified the Board of Direcfund environmental and sound that develop and create new jobs. Therefore, we want to contribute tor’s responsibility for the sustainprojects around the world. Today, We do this by our continued focus to building a society we all want to, ability strategy, to having launched we continue to have a world on entrepreneurship. We have and can, be part of. In 2009, SEB a microfinance fund, developed leading position in this field and well-functioning collaborations decided to address sustainability our Human Rights Policy and a have, since the start in 2008, in place with organisations that issues in a more systematic way. Supplier Code of Conduct and raised about USD 3.5 billion in supports entrepreneurship at all I think that decision was crucial. increased employee engagement. green bonds for organisations levels, from student start-ups and Otherwise we would not have Basically all applicable large and such as the European Bank for newly established companies up come as far as we have in integratmedium corporate clients have Reconstruction and Developto the most established ones. ing sustainability into business been assessed from a sustainabilment, the World Bank and the and we would also have missed ity aspect. We have increased the Export-Import Bank of Korea. In What main sustainability related addressing quite a few challenges. number of strategic sustainability September, we facilitated the first challenges do you have? dialogues we hold with our clients. Nordic municipality green bond The banking industry has more to What are SEB’s main sustainability issuance with a SEK 500 million do in terms of restoring confiissues going forward? What main sustainability related bond for the City of Gothenburg. dence in our crucial role in the We will continue to integrate challenges do you have? economy and how we perform sustainability throughout SEB. Key for our success is to even What main sustainability related that role. It’s about trust and This includes further review further increase employee awarechallenges do you have? transparency. We must ensure of business processes from a ness and knowledge about, and Sustainability is high on the that our customers can make sustainability perspective and engagement in, sustainability corporate agendas, but I find it independent decisions and that strategic sustainability dialogues issues. I am happy to see that hard to point out one particulate we provide them with the right with clients, and portfolio compathere have been major changes challenge. Key for us is to work tools to do so. We also have an nies within our asset management in how society, customers and with our customers to contribute ambition to transfer from paper business. Building on the materialemployees, regard sustainability to sustainable development. By mailings to digital information. In ity process of 2013, we have more issues. We need to attract and thoroughly integrating our sector 2013, we have reduced our paper work to do in deepening dialogues retain motivated and committed policies and position statements usage and achieved annual cost with our stakeholders. We will employees. They expect us to in all our processes we strive for savings of approximately SEK 40 also work on further enhancing contribute to a sustainable society an even deeper strategic dialogue million. transparency including continuing and that we show how we do with our clients. to promote transparency for the just that. industry as a whole. 2 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 Years of action 2004 2013 2007 2009 2011 • First Nordic Bank to adopt • J oined the Swedish Financial Coalition against child pornography. • Sector policies and position 2004 the Equator Principles. • F irst group-wide CS strategy and framework decided upon by the statements approved by the GEC. • SEB’s first Corporate Group Executive Committee. SEB signed the UN Global Compact. Sustainability Report published. •C  S Report in line with Global Reporting Initiative guidelines. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, revised. 2013 • SEB launched microfinance fund. • Facilitated first ever corporate green bond as well as first green 2006 2008 2010 2012 bond for a Nordic municipality. SEB published Code • Adoption of the UN Principles for Responsible • Support Young Enterprising (Ung • Updated Code of Business Conduct. • Human Rights policy approved by of Business Conduct. Investments. Företagsamhet). • Renewed agreement with Mentor. the GEC. • S ignatory of the Carbon Disclosure Project. • Support Mentor in Estonia and Latvia. • SEB – A Perfect Entrepreneur. • F irst issue of green bonds – developed in co• External web site Sustainable • Launch of whistleblowing process. operation between the World Bank and SEB. Perspective launched. Anders Johnsson David Teare * Martin Johansson * Johan Andersson * Head of Wealth Management Head of the Baltic division Head of Business Support Chief Risk Officer What are your main sustainability What are your main sustainability What are your main sustainability Why is it important to integrate accomplishments in 2013? accomplishments in 2013? accomplishments in 2013? the sustainability aspects in the We launched the first microfinance We have made valuable contribuSince 2011 we have reduced energy business processes? fund of its kind on the Swedish tions to communities in Estonia, consumption by 20 per cent. This Among our core principles are market this year. We are proud to Latvia and Lithuania. Volunteering has been achieved, among others responsible lending, knowing our be able to offer our clients a prod(Mentor), financial support (Chilby re-using excess heat from our customers well and secure their uct like this, which has an explicit dren’s homes) and encouraging data centres, that today accounts repayment ability. We are conpositive social and development youth engagement (tennis camps) for a large proportion of the heatvinced that all companies over time impact. The fund has received have all been highly appreciated by ing in our core properties. sooner or later have to adjust to a lot of positive feedback from the people and organisations that sustainable processes. When valuclients. We have also continued the have been involved and beyond. What main sustainability ing our customers’ long-term ability integration of sustainability aspects We continue the support for the challenges do you have? to pay it is therefore natural to conin investment decisions and fund Sustainable Business Centre at We engage actively in the local sider issues of responsibility. Much management. In late autumn for Stockholm School of Economics community surrounding our offices of the risk related work is about example, we decided to exclude in Riga, promoting sustainabilin Rissne, outside Stockholm. SEB preventing excessive risk taking, to nuclear weapons from all future ity research as well as education is one of the biggest employers protect both the customer and the investments. through conferences and events. In in these areas where many young bank. SEB wants to be, and act as, a Estonia we ran a full day event for people live in an environment of long-term trusted partner. What is the best way for you, the whole bank (900+ employees), economic and social exclusion. A as an organisation, to contribute? raising awareness and generating big challenge for society is to narHow does SEB integrate the Mainly in three ways: Firstly, by bedialogue around sustainability. row the gap between school and sustainability aspects into risk ing an active owner, and by working work life. That is why we engage assessments? to improve the performance in our How do you integrate sustainaand cooperate with schools in SEB’s credit policy reflects our apholdings and investments. Secbility into your business? these areas. Our employees serve proach to corporate sustainability. ondly, by managing our funds well We share and align initiatives as role models for young people, Our industry sector policies – arms to achieve sustainable returns to across the three Baltic states, e.g. they guide them in making plans and defence, forestry, fossil fuels, our investors/customers. Thirdly, by by promoting financial literacy and for their futures, teach and inspire mining and metals, renewable continuing to develop investment taking a leading role in preventing them about economics and work energy and shipping – are also part products where the sustainability financial crime. We are implementlife. We also collaborate to offer of the credit granting process and aspects are integrated, thus reing group corporate sustainability internships to young people. are used in customer dialogues. sponding to the increasing demand sector policies and position statewe see from clients. ments in our credit processes and business committees. *Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee. The CS Committee is led by the Head of Group Communications, also a member of the Group Executive Committee. The CS Committee has 13 members, representing all divisions and vital functions of SEB Group. Meetings are held every quarter. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 3 VALUE CREATION IN SOCIETY SEB creates value Corporate, public sect SEB is tightly connected to society and the Bank’s Financial ne stakeholders in many ways. Like all banks, SEB supports the economy and overall society by providing financial services to households, businesses, institutions and the public sector. These activities also benefit the Bank’s direct stakeholders: employees, suppliers, the public sector and shareholders. This overview illustrates the value creation process. Banks’ key role as financial engines in society takes place in three rna main areas: • Inte n ide atio s prov Financial intermediation v nk • Facili Banks provide solutions for those with money to invest eur Ba • Oper and for those in need of borrowing. Banks also act as s• (mon safe and efficient intermediaries between them. Inn • Facili o • Acce Payments Entrepren • ... Banks provide domestic and international payment services which are the basis for all economic activity. yments Risk management • Domestic payment e pa Banks assume risk and assist customers with financial systems risk management. • International payment systems Society at large : de • ... As all these areas are essential to society, banks are an integral clu vid part of the economy. Financial markets are at the core of creating Economic needs in society i n s p ro economic and social value in a modern society. Ba nk SEB’s value distribution 40,000 37,487 35,000 33,122 32,101 29,758 30,000 25,000 20,000 Private individual 15,000 Taxes and fees (7.1) customers 10,000 Financial needs are Dividends (8.7) 5,000 Services and supplies (10.2) 0 Salaries, pensions and benefits (11.3) 2010 2011 2012 2013 4 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 VALUE CREATION IN SOCIETY • Growing • S elling Hir ing• v ide financial inter ing h ro p • Access to capital med • lis nks ia P institutional and Ba • Access to financial markets tio b nding • Investing Esta or customers • Advice n : ess xpa • Financing si n eds arise in doing bu • Asset management •D •E • Infrastructure investments n ks prov i a • Cash • ... B i d v ing e management es • Advice r ents • Cards i s • Tools to manage k • Giro ti paym interest and ay ma • Transfer currency risk • Trade finance While creating economic value to • Custody ide • Currencies customers and society as a whole n ov • Liquidity tional trade • pr • Digital and management the Bank also distributes value to Eco mobile a direct stakeholders (in total SEK me s • ... fi n a nci al no Ba banking 37,487 in 2013). i nter mi nk ge . me c • ... nt d tation of investments iatio .. ng arkets... bs • M ation of financial markets n Suppliers ey, capital, currency) (service and • Jo tation of access to capital supplies) SEK 10,286m ss to markets th s provide ris Bank Public sector • Complementary ow (taxes & km health and fees) SEK 7,152m pension insurance gr a na • Economic forecasts • Anti-money g laundering Shareholders • Economic (dividends) SEK 8,719m and specialist e knowledge m t • ... en g a home • Employees • Buyin Con (salaries, ily nan ci al su m pensions and SEK 11,330m am ovide fi inter benefits) f r med ing g a sp ia nk tio n n Ba • • Consumer loans p• g • Aging Retirin Sta • Accessible savings rti • Mortgage financing • In • Access to financial markets g• Growing u •… he s provide vin r B a nk ri s i • Bank accounts t • Health insurance yments k • Cards m in Sa • Life insurance e pa • Currencies a • Pension na g • Payments • Long-term savings • Giro • Advice lif ge e: id • Internet and •… y ov par t of ever yd a pr mobile banking •… m s nk t Ba en . .. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 5 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH We engage with stakeholders Understanding, learning and being responsive to SEB’s stakeholders’ Our stakeholders expectations is critical to our ability to create long-term value. We identified our key stakeholders in 2009, through a thorough analysis which we follow ment and regulator up yearly. We have a particular focus on customer insights, but also engage vern s Go in dialogue with local communities, non-governmental organisations, s Cu yee more stom employees, business partners, financial analysts and owners. plo 000 tha n4 e ors Em 16 , etit Through a range of channels and methods, we gather, monitor and Med rs illion mp ia m Co analyse essential feedback across our business. The backbone consists of various on-going surveys which are complemented by surveys on specific topics and deeper engagement dialogues. In addition, we participate in r n s Co m lde industry forums as well as international and national sustainability forums S h a r e h o00 om m u n to discuss emerging challenges and trends. 270,0 e 20 i t i e s at c o u n tr i e s ps Stakeholder dialogues help us develop our approach to sustainability Civ eg s Su d ro u il s b u p p lie r s a n rs i and to integrate sustainability throughout the business. During the year, oc sin e ss par tne iet yo oc SEB established a more robust process for determining the most important rg an 13,000 ra dv issues for stakeholders and for SEB’s business (see page 7). is a tio n su me s Co n Stakeholder Primary engagement channels Main issues raised during 2013 Customers Tracking and analysis of customer insight surveys, fo• Long-term customer relations cus groups, feedback and complaints received via our • Sustainability & Responsibility customer advisors and relationship managers, tele• Overall brand perception phone banks, online, and local branch teams. Internal • Customer service across all meeting points customer insight web portal hosting surveys such as • Advisory based on client’s need Prospera, Needscope, SEB Brand Tracking, Reputation • Coordinated client approach Index, SKI (Swe), Finansbarometern (Swe). • Confirm/acknowledge client’s choice Employees Annual employee survey, open internal chats with execu• Development/career opportunities tive management, town hall meetings, value dialogues, • Competence development SEB Way transformations and weekly continuous deve• Leadership lopment whiteboard meetings, leadership development • Strengthening external reputation programmes, everyday learning tools, Workers Councils • Health/work life balance meetings; annual health and safety reviews. • Working with sustainability • Remuneration Shareholders, investors Surveys such as Bloomberg, RobecoSAM, Vigeo, • Financial resilience and analysts Sustainalytics, Oekom and Imug. Briefings, engage• Sustainable growth and return ment dialogues, questions received prior to and during • Sustainability performance AGM’s and in connection with result presentations. • Human capital • Transparency Government and regulators Economic and policy trend analysis, industry forums • Regulation and meetings. • Consumer debt levels Suppliers and business partners Questionnaires and individual meetings. • Strategic partnerships • Accountability Communities, civil society Research – general public, local community engage• Job-creation organisations, consumer ments, round table discussions, regular meetings with • Ethical behaviour, anti-corruption advocate groups etc NGO’s, mentoring, volunteering, CS forums, research • Human rights and nuclear weapons papers, media coverage • Transparency • Sustainability performance • Local community support 6 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Establishing a materiality process Material issues are topics that reflect SEB’s significant impact. They influence stakeholders’ perception of our performance and impact our ability to create and sustain value. During the Trust Transparency year, SEB established a more robust process to Importance to stakeholders Financial crime Environment identify these issues and why they are important. Customers Ethics The process aims to support our strategy of integrating sustainStakeholder dialogue Remuneration ability into the business, engages key stakeholder groups in dialogue on relevant issues and is focused on value creation on a three to five years’ perspective. Financial strength Entrepreneurship Integration Society Our process Defining materiality is an evolving process. Our new approach Employee Compliance started with the identification of potentially important issues. This first investigation included: engagement IT security • Research on mega-trends and issues – highlighted by sustainability analysts – that affect SEB’s operations, financial products, Innovation Talent development relationships, reputation, markets, customers as well as sustainability work. Importance to business • Main issues raised by key stakeholder groups, see page 6 for details. Particular focus on our customers and what issues they think are the most important. The reason is that we are convinced that long-term high customer loyalty and satisfaction •C  apability to respond to unstable economic growth and volatile drive profitability. financial markets and increasing regulation. • Competitor priorities. We benchmarked six financial sector • Talent management, employee engagement, ethical business becompanies from four markets. haviour, preventing financial crime and responsible conversion. • Brand management, capacity for innovation and data protection. Based on the above input, we identified 42 issues – covering finan• I ntegrating ESG (environmental, social, governance) aspects in cial, intellectual, human resources, relationships and environment. financing and investments and providing a range of e-services. These issues were ranked using the knowledge of internal experts on our stakeholders and their views, as well as on our business Identified hygiene factors plan. For this we engaged nine internal experts. A number of issues have been identified as hygiene factors; as long The ranking included an analysis of current and potential busias SEB seems to manage them well they have low impact on value ness impact on a three to five years’ perspective. In addition, we creation. These include corporate governance, working conditions conducted five deep interviews with targeted representatives of and remuneration. key stakeholder groups to gain knowledge on their priorities and Direct environmental aspects are not deemed as the most assessment of SEB’s ability to deliver value over the long term. A important. final discussion was thereafter held in the Corporate Sustainability Emerging issues, meaning issues to monitor for future relCommittee. evance, include tax transparency, financial inclusion and potential implications of changing valuations of fossil fuel based assets. Main conclusions The analysis showed that SEB to a large extent already is prioritisNext step ing the most important issues. 21 issues, out of the total of 42, The materiality analysis will provide input to business planning. We were ranked as highly relevant for both stakeholders and business. aim to ensure that SEB works effectively with the issues identified These were: as important for creating value, for stakeholders and the busi• Financial strength and resilience, competitive and stable return, ness. Going forward, SEB will monitor and analyse emerging issues risk management, regulatory compliance. as mentioned above to ensure preparedness and appropriate • Trust and confidence in the finance sector, customer recognition, responses. We will build on the established process and enhance customer relations, responsible selling and consumer advice, the dialogue with internal and external stakeholders in a structured stakeholder dialogues. way, and will review the universe of issues on an annual basis. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 7 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Sustainability strategy Our vision is to be the trusted partner for customers with aspirations. This implies being a responsible bank for future generations. For SEB, sustainability Kno on uti wle means the delivery of long-term value in economic, nt rib dg ethical, social and environmental terms. We do this eco no Responsible ntribution ic co mi by targeting three areas – Responsible Business, cc Business nom Eth o Eth eco ics Knowledge People and Community and Environment. Progress nd ics and ea has been made in many areas, but our work conTo be the trusted partner for customers with tinues as stakeholder expectations and our own aspirations ambitions are continuously evolving. People and We believe that a sustainable business strengthens trust in the Environment Community market and leads to long-term success. In order to achieve our goals regarding customer satisfaction, employee commitment and Kn Ethics ow tio n stable and competitive returns, it is vital that we identify and manle d g e and e t ri b u co n o m i c co n age risks and opportunities. Thereby we can also contribute to the communities in which the bank operates and to the development goals of the international community. Our ambition over the next three to five years Approach We strive for strong relationships with our customers and other SEB’s corporate sustainability work involves all parts of the Group stakeholders, increased confidence and trust and therefore and extends to all markets in which we are active. We integrate depend on our people being engaged and feeling valued. sustainability throughout our business, working with customers We will continue embedding governance, environmental and and other stakeholders. This work is long-term and is constantly social aspects, such as labour standards and human rights, into evolving to reflect changes in stakeholder expectations, the busiour way of doing business, into decision processes as well as ness environment and our own ambitions. Our efforts are focused awareness and knowledge. on eight business priorities in three areas – Responsible business, Our support of future generations; entrepreneurship and innoPeople and Community and Environment. These priorities reflect vation, youth and education and know-how, is focused on partnerthe issues that our stakeholders see as the most significant. ships and engagement in the communities where we are present. Eight business priorities – our ambitions three to five years SEB’s sustainability strategy is focused on Responsible investments Access to financial services eight business priorities within three areas Ensure that we perform our owner€$Improve accessibility of our banking of responsibility. By focusing our efforts on ship role responsibly, promoting services, using new technology and these priorities we can contribute to better good business ethics and governance. To be the innovation. Sharing our expertise to customers banking governance and protection of the leading Nordic asset managers within responsible and the broader community. Make it easier for environment, while enhancing our social investments. customers to interact with the bank on their own contribution. choice and regardless of physical ability. Sustainable finance Increasing dialogues on important Investing in communities Responsible selling and marketing sustainability issues with customers, As a corporate citizen we engage for Top customer loyalty. Facilitating using internal policies and international guidelines future generations. Sustaining and customers’ own control and underas key tools. Further develop policies and guidelines developing long term partnerships with people standing of their financial situation. Ensure with an increased focus on human rights. In all and organisations, together building a society quality advice based on long term needs. business decisions consider environmental, social we all want to be in. and governance aspects. Tackling financial crime Reducing our footprint Strengthen processes for a flexible Valuing our people Managing our direct environmental approach to meet changing threats, Top number of employees engaged impact. Reduced CO2 emissions by focusing on security and safety for employees, and proud to recommend SEB as an 45%, from 2008. Reduce energy consumption. customers and assets. inclusive and sound workplace with scope for Increased focus on sustainability aspects in relaindividual development. Increased diversity at tions with suppliers and other business partners. all levels. 8 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR ROLE AND APPROACH Objectives 2013 Status Performance 2013 Objectives 2014 Responsible business • Further improved customer • Improved customer recommendations in • F urther improve customer satisfaction.  recommendations. Sweden, maintained in the Baltics. • F urther focus on the customers’ entire • Further enhanced SME advisory through • Tailored advisory based on segments and economy and needs. financial planning tools. industry expertise. •B  uilding on long-term relationship with • 2,262 advisors (private+SME) in Sweden all customers and continue the strategic SwedSec licensed (100%). focus on entrepreneurship. • Strengthen the process to monitor • Transaction monitoring: implemented • Transaction monitoring: More sophisticated transaction behaviour in the Internet bank. possibility to stop/delay suspected fraudulent risk grading of transactions. • Monitor impact of clarified whistletransactions. blowing process. • Reports are regularly made through the process. • Improve transparency and communication • Upgraded web page on Responsible invest• I ncreased communication on active owneron external web. ments on SEB’s external web site. ship activities and impact analysis • Continued ESG integration into investment • E SG integration has continued in investment •C  reate overarching responsible investment process in 4 of the investment teams. process for selected (4) investment teams. framework for all asset classes. • Develop and refine ESG investment • L aunch of Microfinance Fund and Private •C  ontinue to develop and refine ESG investproducts. Equity III for Institutional Clients. ment products for all distribution channels • Ongoing assessment of clients in terms of • 97% of applicable large and medium corporate • E nhanced focus on sustainability in strategy sector policies and position statements, inclients sustainability assessed. Strategic sustainadiscussions. crease focus on engaging in client dialogues. bility dialogues with approx. 100 clients in 2013. •D  evelop and roll-out roundtable discussions • Review of existing policies. • Broadened group of green bond issuers. First on corporate sustainability. • Increased CS knowledge by analyst and issue by Nordic municipality and first corporate •R  eview of existing sector policies. client executives and applicable decision green bond. • Additional focus on EP III training linked to makers. • Human rights policy developed. project-related corporate loans. • Implementation of Equator Principles (EP III). People and Community • Increased share of engaged employees. • Result in employee survey (Employee Engage• F urther improve employee engagement, • Activities to increase diversity and improve ment index 70) in line with result from previous e.g. through value dialogues and activities gender balance. survey (not comparable). from diversity initiatives. • Strengthen strategic focus on health and a •P  articipation in national diversity project Battle • Aligning work environment to international sound workplace. of the Numbers, resulting in several activities. EU standards (OHSAS) for more systematic •U  pgraded employee health check launched way of working (Swe). in Sweden, several health focused activities • I mplementing the global leadership offered to employees. programme Art of Execution. • Facilitate accessibility for SME as well as • New corporate smart phone app for corporates •D  evelop and enhance the digital and mobile €$ private customers via mobile banking. launched offering for private and corporate customers. • Improve customer ability to move seamlessly • Renewed Internet bank. • F urther focus on multi-channel banking between channels. • Mobile Banking ID launched. (based on sound advisory) making it easier • Updated smart phone app for the private market. for all customers to interact with the bank. • Further develop partnership with Mentor. • Broadened Mentor activities through the Proffs•D  eepen employee social engagement as a • Further develop partnerships to support mentor programme. Some 1,900 employees tool for health support. entrepreneurship. engaged in Mentor or other youth initiatives. • F urther develop engagement in local • Increase social engagement among all • Shift in portfolio towards entrepreneurship and communities towards youth. employees. innovation, education and know-how, and youth. • S trengthen internal awareness of entrepre• Increased engagement activities e.g. in Business neurship and of our community investments. Support (Rissne) through Dream Challenge. Environment • Continue CO2 reduction towards • Reduced CO2 emissions –36% vs 2008, • Assessment of our largest suppliers target of –45% by 2015. virtually unchanged during 2013. (covering 80% of spend) from a • Reduce electricity usage with • Emissions from travel increased by 2.3%. sustainability perspective 2.5% per year on average. • Electricity consumption decreased by 5% vs •C  ontinue CO2 reduction towards target of 2012. –45% by 2015. • Developed a Supplier Code of Conduct, •R  educe electricity usage with 2.5% per year improved supplier assessment process. on average SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 9 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible selling and marketing Retail Banking division who work with advising have undertaken the conversion test to obtain the SwedSec license. With the new What's the issue? license, all employees who work with advising towards customRelationships and trust are the foundation of everything we do. ers have a clear proof that they have relevant experience in both Our customers entrust not only their money but also their aspirainvestment advisory and insurance broking. There is also increased tions and their plans for the future. We want to be their partner demands on advisors. An example of this is the requirement for in good as well as bad times and have a long-term perspective in documentation of customer meetings. everything we do. It is our job to listen, to use our knowledge in a At SEB, we want to ensure that our customers have a sound simple way, giving clear advice to our customers on how to realise financial position and we were the first Swedish bank to introduce the dreams and secure the future. amortisation requirements for mortgages when value ratios are above 70 per cent. SEB is still the only Swedish bank that is fully transparent, on a daily basis, on our funding costs for pricing of SEB’s vision is to be the trusted partner for customers with mortgages. This can be viewed on our web site www.seb.se as well aspirations. We believe most people have ambitions for their as on the Internet bank. future, and we work to earn their trust as a partner every day, in good times and bad, and help them fulfil their ambitions. Taking responsibility by correcting mistakes We know that our customers’ trust is crucial for our business. SEB takes responsibility for its actions. In November 2013, SEB We are also fully aware of the high rate of change and the in Latvia identified a mistake in the definition of the interest rate complexity of today’s society. That is why we regard it as extremely used for certain loan agreements with long term rates in euros, US important to listen to our customers and to analyse their needs dollars and Swiss francs. Upon identifying the mistake, SEB turned from a long-term perspective. We want to make it easier for them to Consumer Protection Bureau and Latvian Financial Supervision to gain control and to get a comprehensive view of their finances. authority to consult if the proposed way of solving the mistake We provide them with the relevant tools to make their own deciwas the most appropriate taking into account customer protecsions and we highlight the opportunities as well as the risks. tion aspects. Based on the opinion from authorities mentioned Our advisors do this in a responsible manner and we strive above, SEB took the decision to compensate customers negatively to make sure that our customers understand the consequences affected by this mistake. of our advice, which shall be of high quality and be based on the In Sweden, SEB ended a local agreement with the credit customer’s long-term needs. When needed, our Code of Business company BlueStep. The agreement meant that certain customers, Conduct guides us in our business relations. who were denied a mortgage by SEB because they did not meet all the credit requirements, were informed of the possibility to turn to BlueStep. If they then became a customer there, SEB received compensation. The agreement was ended in April 2013, and in We continuously deepen reality, very few customers were affected. and broaden understanding Facilitating fund selection among employees. From experience, we know that many people find fund offerings and solutions complex. In Sweden, a selected and more clearly presented range of funds aims to facilitate the choice for customers. Today, around 70 funds have been selected. Licensed advisors We strive for further improving and developing our offering to We are committed to ensuring that our customers always have meet customer expectations and will continuously review the qualaccess to professional savings and investing advice and we ity. We will do this by removing funds with a narrow investment continuously deepen and broaden current understanding among focus and thus limited demand, and funds that have not lived up employees. During the year, all 2,262 employees in the Swedish to the expectations. Key performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees trained in Code of Conduct, of total headcount, per cent* 70 75 93 93 Total customer complaints, Retail banking, Sweden 4,781 6,125 6,348 6,264 Total customer complaints, Retail banking Baltic (Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania) 17,476 20,482 n/a n/a * From 2012 only e-trainings displayed. Increased focus on workshops and dialogue meetings. For more information, see CS Fact Book (www.sebgroup.com/sustainability). 10 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS New and upgraded service channels Appreciated digital coin jar As technological development advances, we want to meet our cusThe digital coin jar that was launched in Estonia 2012 has become tomers via additional new channels. Social media, like Facebook, appreciated by customers. When customers pay with a debit card, Twitter and Skype are channels where we interact and can give SEB’s systems round the amount to the nearest euro and deposit support. During 2013, SEB has in many of its home markets taken the difference in a special savings account. In the end of 2013 several steps towards more easily accessible services, on Internet around 50,000 contracts had saved 4.2 million euros (13,000 and on different mobile devices. contracts and 141,800 euros in 2012). The Digikassa service is free To the extent possible, we develop new solutions with our of charge and is available to all customers with a debit card. customers. In February, as the first bank in Sweden, we launched a mobile bank for companies. In addition to regular account and payment solutions the app can also authorise payments. The Swedish Internet bank with a new interface was launched during Customers submit the autumn as well as the updated mobile-app and the muchappreciated mobile BankID. comments and feedback Upgrading in the Baltics via multiple channels. In Estonia and Lithuania, we also launched upgraded mobile banking services. Customers can now get a quick overview of recent transactions, including account balances and information about how they are doing compared to the monthly budget in Responding to customer complaints SEB’s financial planner tool. The new services work well for both Customers can submit comments via multiple channels – in smartphones and tablet computers such as the iPad. In Estonia, on person at the office, over the phone and web channels in various average, 55,000 people visit SEB’s mobile bank each month. forms. This applies both to compliment, suggestions or complaints. During the year, we also launched a new financial planning tool Our ambition is to address a complaint directly and as close – the FAM (Financial Advisory Model) – a new advising tool where to the source as possible. If the employee who receives the case company advisors together with the business customer can simucannot resolve the issue, we contact the customer within 48 hours late different scenarios, for example how a new investment might with information regarding decisions to act or if the matter should affect the company. SEB is working to achieve better integration be further investigated. between units in the three Baltic countries in many areas, including There is a special customer relations team that handles appeals consolidating IT systems where possible. The mobile bank is one in cases where the customer still does not feel satisfied. All comsuch project. plaints are registered in SEB’s operating risk information system. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 11 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Tackling financial crime made more aware of developing trends in fraud and how to deal with them. Employees need to be mindful of suspected fraud, What's the issue? regardless of whether it concerns external attempts to comFinancial crime is a major international problem. Preventing this mit financial crime, or if there are internal persons acting in an type of crime is a high priority for SEB, especially as it is constantly improper manner. To raise awareness of financial crime and money changing, and the consequences for societies and the economy laundering, SEB has developed e-training programmes targeted at can be substantial. SEB is a major provider of loans, payments and all employees. In addition, work-shops and classrooms trainings other financial services and it is our responsibility to protect our are held with targeted groups. customers and the assets that we manage. Whistle-blowing process SEB’s whistle-blowing process was clarified and strengthened in SEB devotes considerable resources to prevent financial crime 2012. Most reports of suspected irregularities are still made to and its damaging effects on our customers, our business and on local managers. Reports are also regularly made to the Head of local and global economies. We collaborate with partners locally Compliance and Head of Internal Audit, mostly via telephone or and internationally, train our employees, monitor transactions the specific email address. Most notifications come from employand check our customers according to the Know-Your-Customer ees, but complaints also come from customers, suppliers and other process (KYC) and against existing sanctions lists. We focus on stakeholders. Issues raised include suspected cases of violations three key areas: of the Bank’s internal instructions for credit-granting, gifts and • Fraud prevention, -detection and -response entertainment, and potential conflicts of interest. All reported • Actions to prevent money laundering and financing of terrorism incidents or circumstances are promptly investigated and, when • Compliance with government sanctions against criminal suspects applicable, reported to the bank’s CEO and the Audit and Compliance Committee. Strengthened strategy In 2013 we have strengthened our strategy through several activities. We have implemented the ability to stop and investigate susFinancial Coalition Against Child Pornography pected fraudulent online and mobile transactions. Cyber criminals SEB is since 2009 engaged in the Swedish depend on a network of mule accounts to funnel money to off shore Financial Coalition Against Child Pornogaccounts. Having the ability to stop transactions that are addressed raphy (“Financial Coalition”). The purpose to known mule accounts targets criminals’ main weak spot. of the Financial Coalition is to prevent and We have also strengthened the process for customer identificaobstruct payments for documented sexual tion. Access to online and mobile banking channels are secured abuse of children through the Swedish finanthrough several security layers, one of which consists of an eleccial system. These efforts are based on the tronic signature enabled through either a card reader devise or a overall crime-prevention goal to stop child sexual abuse. digipass. SEB has increased the level of security when issuing these The Financial Coalition is a unique cooperation where Sweddevises to ensure that customers’ assets are well protected. ish banks and financial institutions, ITand telecom companies interact with ECPAT (End Child Prostitution and Trafficking), the Increased internal cooperation Swedish Police, the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority and Several units within SEB cooperate to combat fraud – among them the Swedish Departments of Justice and Finance. The work has Security, Compliance, Internal Audit, Information Security, Human been effective and it is now rare that card payments are used for Resources and Risk Management. This includes helping businessthis trade. However, the criminal trade takes new paths and efforts and support functions to build and maintain “fraud-proof” banking are intensified to understand new potential payment routes and processes. We will focus further on increasing coordination between how they can be prevented. During 2012 and 2013, SEB has been various functions that interact in their fraud prevention efforts. active in the Financial Coalition steering group through our Head of To succeed in tackling financial crime, employees must be Group Corporate Sustainability. Key performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Employees completed anti-money laundry e-training, of total headcount, per cent 93 90 93 98 Employees completed fraud prevention e-training, of total headcount, per cent 53 51 49 49 Markets and sites with “Know-Your-Customer” (KYC) process and instructions/total 21/21 21/21 21/21 21/21 Suspicious market transactions (MAD) reported, number 21 20 35 23 For more information, see CS Fact Book (www.sebgroup.com/sustainability). 12 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Safe use of smart phones promoted in Estonia In Estonia, where internet usage is high, a project has been initiated at national level to promote the safe use of smartphones and other devices. The overall aim of the project is to raise security awareness among mobile smart device users, developers and retailers. The project will promote the safe use of mobile smart devices and also aims to ensure that secure software solutions are easily accessible and user-friendly. The goal of the project is to ensure that 70% of mobile smart device owners in Estonia use their devices in a secure way by the end of 2017. Eerika Vaikmäe-Koit, Member of the Management Board SEB Estonia said: “In the future, most of the banking services will be used through different smart devices. The banks pay constant attention to and make extensive investments for increasing the security of their IT systems, despite the fact that the security of using electronic banking services is not solely dependent on banks. The client’s own awareness and diligence play an important role there.” The agreement was signed on 5 November 2013 by Certification Centre, the Estonian Information Systems Authority, SEB, Swedbank, TeliaSonera, EMT, Elisa and Tele2. Are smart phones a threat to user security? In today’s high tech society, most citizens have become accus1. The current generation of mobile devices and their operating tomed to immediate access to information, services and tools. systems were not designed with the security of payments in mind. This is also valid for banking services and products. SEB is com2. The use of radio technology for the transmission of sensitive mitted to continually simplifying services and products in order payment data and personal data exposes mobile payments to to facilitate for our customers. In line with the rapid technological risks that other payments do not entail. development, especially of mobile devices like “smart phones”, 3. Mobile payments involve new actors, including mobile network banks now offer services that enable our customers to make large operators. transactions, payments etc wherever they are by only pressing a 4. The general public is less aware of information security risks when few buttons. using mobile devices compared with when making internet payments from desktop PCs or laptops at home. Many questions can be raised. How easy should it be to manage large amount of money via a mobile phone, and how quickly do we expect services to be performed? Where are the boundaries But this development is also associated with risks. SEB actively of responsibility, between the bank and the customer? works to prevent all types of financial crimes, not least internetWe as a bank always put security first. Our customers should related. At a European level, the European Central Bank (ECB) has feel totally confident that their assets are not jeopardized and that set up a voluntary cooperative initiative between authorities, to the services we provide are reliable. We work to raise the awareness address areas where major weaknesses and vulnerabilities are among customers about risks and about their own responsibility for detected. The attention is currently on mobile phones. ECB notes* the safety of their phone, how the code is handled, etc. Simultanethat the use of mobile devices and technologies for payments ously, SEB keeps focus on IT-security, and we realize that this, along creates new risks to the security of payments. ECB identifies four with the need for thorough Know-Your Customer controls, is a chalpotential security exposures: lenge that will shape the society for a long time to come. (*20 November 2013 – ECB public consultation on Recommendations for the security of mobile payments) SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 13 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Responsible investments engagement. The results from the first engagement phase show that 16 of 21 companies had improved their practices against the What's the issue? indicators. SEB, together with a number of other investors are Businesses that actively manage the environmental, social and engaging some 45 companies from 18 countries in 14 sectors to governance impact of their business are more able to reduce risks improve their anti-corruption practices. and costs, seize opportunities and to attract capital. As a large We also joined a PRI Clearinghouse initiative regarding hyinstitutional investor and asset manager, SEB seeks to engage with draulic fracturing (‘fracking’) and shale gas. The initiative aims at the companies we invest in to pursue long-term value creation. improving disclosure, as well as encouraging the adoption of best Acting responsibly forms an important part of the mandate given practice in the companies in the industry. by our customers. From our investment funds we exclude companies involved in the production of illegal weapons (anti-personnel landmines, cluster munitions, chemical and biological weapons) and nuclear weapons SEB has during 2013 continued to improve the work with responprogrammes in the development or production phase. The exclusible investments. Our commitment to the United Nations-supported sion list can be found at sebgroup.com/Responsiblebanking. Principles for Responsible Investments initiative, PRI, has guided our work with active ownership, integration of environmental, social Integration of ESG in our investments and governance (ESG) aspects into investment decisions and our The most challenging aspect of responsible investment is integraproduct development. We invest in listed equities, fixed income, real tion of ESG issues in investment decisions. We have three categoestate and private equity and believe we can have a positive impact ries of equity portfolios; actively managed portfolios, quant driven in all these categories, why we focus our work across asset classes. portfolios where the investments are based on mathematical models, and index funds whose main purpose is to follow an underlying Improving our holdings – active ownership index as closely as possible. For the two latter categories, the ESG As one of the largest investors in the Nordics, it is our responsibility element consists of active ownership, as described in the previous to actively engage with companies we invest in regarding corporate section. For actively managed portfolios, we pin-point relevant governance, social and environmental aspects. We believe that ESG factors – risks as well as opportunities – that are subsequently we in this way can improve value of the assets we invest in, thus integrated in the investment decisions by the portfolio managers. creating value for us and our clients. For our equities investments, We have chosen a team-by-team approach when implementing we do this mainly in two ways: individual engagements regarding this, and aim to cover all equities teams by the end of 2014. company specific issues, and collaborative engagements regarding With regards to other asset classes, we have taken ESG factors relevant themes or topics. We also apply active ownership for our into account for real estate and private equity for several years. real estate and private equity investments. For these asset classes, During 2013 we launched one real estate fund, and one private eqwe do this through ensuring that the holdings are improved from uity fund. The ESG team worked closely with both teams to create an ESG perspective during our ownership period. a structured model for how to integrate ESG aspects in each part of the investment cycle for the funds. Thematic engagement and exclusions Our thematic engagement initiatives currently, range in terms of Furthering the topic – collaboration and other initiatives companies and topics. We participate in a group of international SEB participates in a range of initiatives and collaborations, where investors that are engaging with 14 companies in the Chemicals we can learn from others, as well as contribute our knowledge industry on the issue of phasing out hazardous chemicals. and experience to further the responsibility agenda outside our We have expanded our commitment in the PRI anti-corruption organisation. We are an active supporter of the PRI since 2008, initiative from last year, leading the discussions with new compaparticipating in the fixed income working group, as well as in nies, as well as following up on the performance of previous years’ several collaborative engagement initiatives through the PRI ClearKey performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total assets under management (AuM), SEKbn 1,408 1,228 1,175 1,321 Shared of assets managed evaluated according to sustainability criteria, per cent 67 67 Number of Socially Responsible Investment/ethical funds 17 16 15 16 Total assets under managements in SRI/ethical funds, SEKm 27,271 21,135 14,848 16,008 Total engagement dialogues with portfolio companies 196 247 259 237 For more information, see CS Fact Book (www.sebgroup.com/sustainability). 14 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Mrs. Muong Sreymom is running clothes sewing business for wholesalers in Poi Pet in Cambodia. In 2011, she decided to take a loan of equivalent SEK 20,000 from a micro finance institution. She has now hired more workers and has increased from 8 to 20 sewing machines. SEB first to offer customers fund for microloans As the first bank in Sweden, SEB started The money in the fund is used to directly finance so far 32 miin 2013 a microfinance fund, an investcrofinance institutions in emerging markets, which in turn have the ment product with clear sustainability contact with the end clients, the entrepreneurs. The institutions profile. 23 of SEB’s institutional clients inare selected based on their work with social impact, as well as on vested in the fund, investments that will their credit quality. And very often the two aspects coincide: be used to provide microfinance services “Institutions who have a strong social performance, who set to small business owners and entrepreinterest rates responsibly, who have a solid work to prevent overneurs in South America, Africa and Asia. indebtedness among clients, often have the best credit quality. It is “Microfinance is about enabling people who are outside the only logical that an institution who takes good care of their clients financial system to get access to basic financial services such as will succeed in the long run”, says Viktor Andersson. credits, savings and insurance. Our fund does that,” says the fund According to the World Bank, more than 120 million people manager Viktor Andersson, and continues: “Microfinance is a way around the world get access to basic financial services through mifor our clients to get a stable return on their investment, at the crofinance, services which they would otherwise be excluded from. same time as the money is doing something good for people who SEB Microfinance Fund reaches some 3 million entrepreneurs via really need it.” the institutions we finance, a majority of which are women. inghouse. Furthermore, we signed the PRI Principles for Investors in Inclusive Finance, since we work according to them in the SEB Investment value chain Microfinance Fund (read more on page 15). We continued our support for the Swedish, Finnish and Danish Investors SIFs (Sustainable Investment Forum), as well as the Swedish investor collaboration Sustainable Value Creation. As part of our Swesif engagement, SEB, together with five other Swedish financial SEB microfinance fund institutions, made the new version of the sustainability profile available in the Swedish premium pension system. The sustainability profile complements the fund factsheet for Financial institutions in emerging markets SRI/ethical funds, describing the fund’s work on sustainability issues. The starting point is the three approaches which the fund Micro-, small & medium enterprises & can apply: positive selection, negative selection and impact on low income households companies. This is an important step towards improved transparency for SRI/ethical funds. Food Homes Jobs Energy When we evaluate and select external fund managers we conAgribusiness, Housing, access Education, Utilities, energy sider whether the respective organisation is a signatory to the PRI food security, to property, local employment, efficiency, climate or not. In total, 65% of all our external fund managers have signed distribution infrastructure entrepreneurship change the PRI. This is an increase of 8% since last year. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 15 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Green bonds around the world in 2013 SEB’s green bonds continued to capture global inworked with the African Development Bank (AfDB) and stood as terest in 2013 as the market reached new momenlead manager as the AfDB launched its inaugural USD 500 million tum. The market moved from the multilateral green bond. In autumn of 2013, green bonds broke even more new ground. financial institutions and now also includes other In September, SEB supported the City of Gothenburg to become issuers such as government agencies, municipalithe first Nordic municipality to issue green bonds according to the ties and corporates. framework introduced by the World Bank. Gothenburg made an initial SEK 500 million issuance as part of a broader SEK 2 billion Green bonds were first issued by the World Bank in 2008 after programme to promote environmentally-aware product innovation developing the concept with SEB in 2007. Since then, SEB has seen and use. In November, SEB assisted Kommunalbanken in Norway sustainability issues increase in importance among all client segin setting up a green bond framework and stood as lead arranger ments, from institutional investors to lenders. for their inaugural USD 500 million green bond. Back in Sweden, in During 2013, various types of entities issued green bonds worth November SEB facilitated the first ever corporate green bond for around USD 10 billion. This is more than the total issuance in 2008 – the real estate company Vasakronan with a SEK 1.3 billion issuance. 2012 and reflects a rapidly rising interest in issuing and investing in The green bond framework is one way to generate awareness green bonds. The total market amounts to about USD 14 billion. among investors on climate-related challenges and solutions. Among numerous deals during the year, a few stand out. In Since green bonds have the same characteristics as regular bonds February, SEB was lead arranger when the Export-Import Bank (in terms of risk, reward, legislation and documentation), this of Korea (known commonly as KEXIM) issued a USD 500 million allows mainstream financial mandates, which represent 98 per green bond. That marked the first time an Asia-based institution cent of investable capital, to engage in climate related investapplied the green bond framework to an issuance. SEB also ments.Learn more about green bonds on www.sebgroup.com. SEB Venture Capital – contributing to a vital industrial landscape Sweden and the Nordic countries have cancer (SciBase), fetal monitoring (Neoventa) and new drugs targeta strong position as an innovative and ing severe inflammatory bowel disease (Index Pharmaceuticals). research intense region but has a lack of venture capital financing for companies in Detecting malignant melanoma early commercialisation stages. SEB has Founded in 1998, SciBase is a Swedish medical technology comsince 1995 a unit, SEB Venture Capital, pany that has developed a unique method to accurately detect which invests in entrepreneurial and inmalignant melanoma, the fastest growing type of cancer and novative companies in early growth stages. one of the cancer forms with the highest mortality rate. SciBase’s For SEB, this has clear connections to the bank’s history and role method is based on a technology called Electrical Impedance as a long-term financial partner as well as our role in society. Spectroscopy (EIS) which uses the varying electrical properties of “The aim is to find and invest in those young companies that human tissue to categorise the cell structures and thereby detect have the best potential to contribute to shaping a new vital indusmalignancies. Following 20 years of academic research at Karolintrial landscape”, says David Sonnek, Head of SEB Venture Capital. ska Institutet in Stockholm, the ability of the Nevisense point-ofHe continues: care device to accurately detect melanoma has been proven in “At the same time, we thoroughly consider the environmental the world’s largest prospective study of its kind and is now being and social impact of each potential investment. We look how the commercially introduced. company’s products or services address sustainability issues, “SEB is an owner with a long-term commitment and belief in favouring novel technologies with a clear sustainable edge in the product. This commitment has laid the foundation for the sucregarding e.g. energy and waste. We also influence companies to cessful implementation of SciBase extensive product and clinical implement responsible consumer protection and to be aware of development program”, says Anders Lundqvist, President and CEO diversity issues, e.g. by inclusive recruitment policies.” at Scibase. Technology and life science The main sectors for our investments are technology and life science. The technology investments are focused primarily on telecom and IT, where many companies have become world leaders in their respective fields. Within the life science portfolio, several companies are in early commercialization stages of technologies with large market potential. Examples are clinically proven methods of early detection of skin 16 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Example of SEB support for projects aiming for environmental protection and social development Foto: Joachim Lagercrantz “Carbon emissions must be reduced. We are proud to have taken a leading position as a real estate company reducing our carbon footprint. In 2006, we started this journey, and now seven years later we are supporting all of our real estate and its customers with renewable energy”, says Hans Wallenstam, CEO for Wallenstam. Sweden United Kingdom Latvia SEB has been financing two wind power The wider Thameslink project is a large inSEB has financed a flying lab for the projects for Wallenstam AB in the mufrastructure programme by the UK GovernLatvian Centre for Remote Sensing. The nicipalities of Munkedal and Laholm in ment to develop and improve the London airplane with built-in latest generation southern Sweden. The two projects have commuter network. SEB has along with of remote sensing technology system a combined effect of 20 MW. Wallenstam other banks been involved in the financing and spectral laboratory will be analysing is the only real estate company in Sweden of the rolling stock element of the project. air and water pollution. It is also able to that is self-sustaining related to producThe Thameslink project is living up to high collect data about and assess biotope tion of renewable energy. Installed windset environmental standards, improving condition, biodiversity, the overall situation and hydro power corresponds to 100 biodiversity benefits in central London in the forest as well as agriculture. MW and produced electricity equals the and reaching high set carbon emission electricity consumed in the company’s real strategies as well as strategies for noise Lithuania estate and by its customers. and nuisance. The trains, Siemens’ Desiro SEB has granted a lease back-facility to City, are designed to be lightweight and offinance a sorting machine for industrial Estonia fering energy savings of up to 50 per cent and household waste which will reduce SEB Estonia has agreed to finance Utilitas compared to existing similar trains. waste to landfill by 50 per cent. Ekonovus OÜ, one of the leading heat production UAB is one of the largest waste manageand distribution groups in Estonia, investLithuania ment companies in Lithuania engaged in ments for 2013–2016. The main target of Kauno energija AB is shifting to biofuel collection, sorting and sale of secondary the group is to change the fuel mix from combustion. Three boiler houses (17 MW) raw materials and collection of household current 80 per cent gas – 20 per cent will be refurbished through long-term waste. biomass to 80 per cent biomass – 20 per financing from SEB. Kauno energija AB is cent gas by 2016. This will result in a more the main heat and a hot water supplier sustainable energy production as well as in company operating in Kaunas City, Kaunas a reduction in the energy price. and Jurbarkas regions. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 17 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Sustainable finance customers and portfolio companies on sustainable development. This dialogue complements the established procedures for What's the issue? knowing and understanding the customers and for making relevant To address the many social and environmental challenges the business and credit decisions. For more complex sustainability disworld faces, new thinking, innovations and financial assistance cussions and evaluations, internal and external expertise is involved are needed. Banks can play an important role by creating financial and when necessary the decision is referred to a higher level. solutions and assisting customers in their sustainability efforts. As of June 2011, sector policies and position statements are By including environmental and social factors in our business included in the regular business review as well as in the annual decisions and discussions with customers, we are long-term better credit review for large and medium-sized corporates. By year-end equipped to mitigate risks and seize opportunities. 2013, we have assessed 97 per cent of our large and mediumsized corporate customers applicable to our sector policies and position statements. 94 per cent of these were in compliance with In our role as a large corporate bank, we are convinced that we can our policies. During the year, we have held strategic sustainability influence the development towards a more sustainable economy. dialogues with about 100 companies. These dialogues have been We want to collaborate with our clients in order to drive sustainwell received by our clients. able growth, protect the environment and contribute positively to society. We see that we often get good results through a dialogue Risk management with customers on how they deal with a difficult issue and what they Managing risk is a core activity in a bank and therefore fundamencan do to avoid a problem. By raising the issue of sustainability practal to long-term profitability and stability. Risk is closely related to tices we show that we think sustainability is important and part of business activities and business development and, therefore, to our overall assessment, even when there is no specific issue on the customer needs. Of the various risks that SEB assumes in providing table. For us, understanding our customers, their challenges and its customers with financial solutions and products, credit risk is opportunities, makes us better financial partners and investors. the most significant. SEB applies a robust framework for its risk management, having long since established independent risk Responsible lending control, credit analysis and credit approval functions supported Sustainability issues are an integral part of SEB’s counterparty by a toolbox of advanced internal models. The cornerstones of our assessment as well as business and credit processes. We have onrisk and capital management are board supervision, an explicit going dialogues in all markets with large corporate customers, and decision-making structure, a high level of risk awareness among many smaller ones as well. The Bank’s three position statements staff, common definitions and principles, controlled risk-taking (climate change, child labour, freshwater) and six sector policies within established limits and a high degree of transparency in (arms and defence, forestry, fossil fuels, mining and metals, renewexternal disclosure. able energy, shipping), which were adopted in 2011, serve as the Our business model provides a solid foundation for making foundation for these discussions. However, regardless of sector, the right decisions. The fundamental risk management work is key sustainability issues are discussed with companies. conducted in the front-line and is supported by an established The policies highlight relevant international conventions, decision making hierarchy and group-wide rules and policies. guidelines and standards, such as UN Global Compact, that we It is the front-line’s responsibility to make an initial assessment wish the companies we do business with to adhere to. By including of risk, including environmental and social risks, in a customer environmental and social factors in our business decisions and relationship as well as in individual, proposed transactions. This discussions with customers, we are better equipped to mitigate assessment is then tested both by the business management risks and seize opportunities. Our primary objective is to establish and by the risk organisation as part of the way SEB works with a a platform for a proactive and future-oriented dialogue with our comprehensive view of the client. The aggregate risk-taking within Key performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Green Bonds – money raised since inception, USDbn 3.5 2.5 2 1.6 Green Bonds – total market, USDbn 14 7.5 Equator Principle transactions, total number 11 3 12 10 Eco-renovation projects, (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), number 244 210 Eco-renovation projects, (Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania), SEKm 229 288 For more information, see CS Fact Book (www.sebgroup.com/sustainability). 18 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS SEB is measured regularly by the Bank’s independent risk control unit. Decision making procedure The quality of risk management is controlled by both internal and external auditors. SEB has approval from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority to use advanced methods of risk measurement for the majority Client of the credit portfolio, for market risk and for operational risk. For more Executive details on SEB’s risk management, please see the 2013 Annual Report, pages 36–48 and www.sebgroup.com. st/ aly ist Group An pecial Credit policies and credit process S Committ The overriding principle of SEB’s credit granting is that all lending shall ee be based on credit analysis and be proportionate to the customer’s ability to repay. Customers shall be known by the Bank and the purpose of the credit should be fully understood. Sustainability aspects have gradually been incorporated into the credit policy and reflect SEB’s approach C es Co re d it to sustainability with increased emphasis on opportunities as well as risks t te s si n i e related to environmental, governance and social issues, including human mm Bu mm rights. This includes the position statements and industry sector policies, i t te e Co mentioned on page 18. Equator Principles In 2007, SEB adopted the Equator Principles (EP), a voluntary set of Human rights guidelines used by financial institutions to assess the social and environmental impact of large projects and to help their customers to manage SEB has during 2013 developed its Human Rights Policy. Our them. On June 4, 2013, the third version of Equator Principles (EP III) was stance on human rights has earlier been expressed in different adopted by the signatory financial institutions. SEB has during the last bank policies but has now been merged into one standalone policy, years taken part in developing the EP III. This work has been carried out “Human Rights Policy for the SEB Group”. The policy is based on in working groups involving the signatories and, through an extensive the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and the stakeholder process, multilateral financial institutions, non-governmenframework “Protect, Respect, and Remedy” along with SEB’s core tal organisations, corporates as well as corporate associations. values. In addition to the earlier scope where only project finance and project We believe that, although governments have the primary duty finance advisory services above 10 MUSD have been included, EP III will to protect and ensure fulfilment of human rights, business entiinclude project-related corporate loans above 100 MUSD where the client ties have a responsibility to respect human rights and can play a has effective operational control. Moreover, the tenor of the loan should positive role in the communities where they operate. Our approach be at least two years and our part of the financing at least 50 MUSD. Other to human rights issues particularly influences how we manage improvements in EP III are; increased focus on human rights in high risk employees, suppliers and relationships with clients and portfolio environments, improved external reporting on transactions that reach companies and is an essential part of our commitment to doing financial close, higher attention to climate change in the due diligence business well. phase of the transactions and new requirement on alternative analysis for We are convinced that public human rights’ reporting helps high CO2 emitting project. EP III is applied from January 1, 2014. create awareness of the issues and provides management with the During 2013, SEB was involved in 11 transactions under the Principles, possibility to track performance. We are committed to reporting whereof 8 was categorised as B* project and 3 categorised as C. publicly on the bank’s human rights development and performance annually in the Corporate Sustainability report. Human rights is included in different trainings within the * Category B – Projects with potential limited adverse environmental and social risks and/ bank, e.g. in our Code of Conduct, sector policies and leadership. or impacts that are few in number, generally site-specific, largely reversible and readily addressed through mitigation measures. Category C – Projects with minimal or no adverse During 2013 we also held workshops for groups in the bank where environmental and social risks and/or impacts. increased knowledge of human right is of importance. SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 19 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Valuing our people ment Index (70), which shows how committed employees are to What's the issue? contributing to the bank’s success, and Performance Excellence Index (74), which shows how well the organisation meets customer An engaging, inclusive and stimulating work environment needs through good customer service, efficient processes and high encourages high quality performance as well as high employee product quality. Both results are in line with SEB’s peers. satisfaction and loyalty. This is in the interest of both customers The survey shows that SEB’s employees are very satisfied with and shareholders. To retain our position as the relationship bank SEB as a workplace (81%) and have a strong belief in the Bank’s in our part of the world SEB must attract, develop and retain the future (81%). There is good co-operation among employees best people so that we can provide the best service and experience (88%), and employees highly recommend SEB’s products and to our customers. Having the most committed employees is an services (79%). explicit goal in SEB’s business plan. Among areas for improvement, the survey pointed to a need to more clearly align employees’ individual roles with SEB’s overall Ever since AO Wallenberg founded SEB in 1856, our employees objectives, to be even better at meeting customers’ needs, and to have provided financial services to assist our customers in reachenhance internal communication within units and divisions. ing their financial goals. Building trust and long-term relationships has during all these years been crucial and something that we always put on top of our agenda. We believe that people constantly want to develop, feel valued All divisions have initiated and included, and that motivation and empowerment occur in round table meetings. relationship between people. When we feel respected and valued, when we have opportunities to develop and a mandate to act – that is when we perform at our best. During the autumn, work began to improve these areas. All divisions have initiated round table meetings and units adapt the work People strategy according to their own circumstances and needs. As an example, SEB’s approach to people is the Wealth division introduced a managers’ blog and created a nal G built on four cornerstones sio le Lea r shadow management team. The progresses are monitored on a – professional employees, Pro f p t ea ers quarterly basis. Going forward, SEB will conduct the Insight survey Pe es o d great leaders, high performing yearly. teams and effective organisaCulture tion. rf Equal opportunity and diversity Professional people. Our e E ff an m orm in SEB has for many years worked with improving diversity and c s g employees take pride in serving O rg is a t i v e e -P a providing equal opportunity. The ambition is that all employees customers, are dedicated, and ti o n H i g h Te will perceive the same opportunities to develop regardless of their ready to assist. Working for gender, ethnic origin, age, sexual orientation or faith. We have a SEB means professional and clear ambition to increase diversity both in terms of gender, age personal growth and developSEB’s approach to people is and ethnic background. It is both an important business issue and ment opportunities for all. built on four cornerstones. a clear social responsibility. SEB’s goal is to have an equal gender Great leaders in SEB care balance in all leadership positions. At year-end, the share of about and develop their people and continuously build rewarding women in all managerial positions was 42 per cent. relationships. They are role models and promote the right mind-set In 2013 SEB was one of ten Swedish corporations to particiand behaviours. pate in “Battle of the Numbers”, a project dedicated to advancing High performing teams focuses on both leaders and team more women to operational management positions. During the members working in a dynamic and trustful way, collaborating year a total of 100 women, including ten from SEB, analysed what towards common goals. companies can do to attract, recruit and develop more talented Finally, an effective organisation is based on the belief that SEB women. The women have shared experiences; both challenges and shall be an inclusive, business-driven organisation where people good examples. feel respected and valued as professionals. SEB is an agile organisaAs a result of the project, SEB enhances the support to leaders tion that has the capacity to adapt to changing market needs. in coaching, ensure gender-neutral recruitment processes and implement gender diversity scorecards to measure and monitor Employee survey equality in the divisions and for the Group. We work with developing our internal corporate culture and Another initiative taken to improve gender balance is the mentor regularly examine how employees perceive their situation. 2013 programme for 13 talented senior women and the members of SEB’s year’s survey Insight (which was a modified version from the Group Executive Committee, which was held from 2012 to 2013. This previous Voice) measured two different indices, Employee Engageinitiative provided a wealth of experience and insight for both sides. 20 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Since 2011, we have a special focus on equal pay. In 2013 work began to evaluate the past years’ accomplishments and the implementation of salary negotiation. Work continues in 2014 with the ambition to come to terms with the unjustified pay disparities between men and women. We have increased our engagement within the European Works Council. SEB follows local collective agreements and national legislations as regards labour rights in the countries where we are present. To safeguard that we have the same policies implemented at all our Board game on values encourages dialogues sites of operation, to the extent possible, we did a self-assessment pf all site of the present conditions during the latter part of 2012. Through the programme “You are SEB” we have during the past This resulted in short action list with the aim to close the outstandyears worked with developing the corporate culture in order to be ing gaps. These have now been closed. The assessment also even better at putting the customer first, working more simply, showed no risk for forced or compulsory labour or child labour at and increasing cooperation. One of the tools used is the Value any of our sites. Dialogue Board Game, a method to create dialogue around core We have during 2013 been increasing our engagement within values and behaviours, based on situations that can occur within a the European Works Council (EWC). Its purpose is to bring together unit or division. employee representatives from the different European countries in By playing the game with dices and score cards, it encourages which a multinational company has operation and to improve the discussions in small teams. It gives the participants guidance, informing and consulting of employees within the company. We insight on gaps in attitude and provides feedback to management are also pleased to see a higher membership rate in trade unions groups. for our Baltic operations for 2013. Value Dialogue was successfully introduced in the Merchant Banking division already in 2008, in the Baltic division in 2010, and Responsible conversion during spring 2013 within Business Support that underwent major As most organisations, SEB constantly works to improve efficiency. change during the year. More than 3,000 employees in Business If redundancies occur, we aim to in cooperation with the unions, Support globally participated during the past year. manage them responsibly and to support employees who may To each situation six answers are suggested on the scoring need to find new challenges. Whenever possible, SEB tries to offer cards. The management group has agreed on a ranking of each of jobs in other parts of the company to match the needs of the inthem. Through the suggested answers, the participants have then dividuals who are open to new opportunities. If employees do not the possibility to discuss the situations and the scoring with the find a new job within SEB, the ambition is to coach and support management group, although it is underlined that nothing is to be the individual to find as a good solution as possible. considered as “black or white”. That is why the dialogue thereby is crucial. The Value Dialogue Board Game was in 2013 also introduced SEB’s core values within SEB’s Private Banking business, and in the Retail division in 2014. Commitment We are all dedicated to that everything we do creates stronger customer relations. Professionalism We make it easy for people to do b­ usiness Example: with us by sharing our knowledge and being accountable for Strategic Roana dmap t’s objective our actions. ger and your projec You are a Project Ma ess. The sysctions for the busin Mutual respect We are open and always strive to earn the is to deliver new fun within have a you are operating trust of others as well as from each other. tem and process are on. What do dmap for this functi Continuity We learn, challenge and take action based on our no clear strategic roa long experience. you do? SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 21 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Attracting talents and developing employees Attracting and developing top talent is a key success factor for For more experienced managers and senior specialists, SEB SEB. We are one of the most popular banking employers in many offers a collection of independent courses centred on major leadof the countries where we operate. SEB in Sweden was once again ership themes such as business focus, change, co-operation and ranked as one of the most popular among young professionals communication. By December 2013 nearly 1,200 individuals from with a business degree. Among computer scientists and engineers throughout SEB had participated in one or more of these courses. SEB is increasing its popularity. A new programme for middle management was launched in In Lithuania SEB was named the most desirable employer in the late autumn 2013; the Art of Execution Programme. The main country for the seventh time by Verslo Zinios, CV.lt (2005, 2007, objective is to foster a deep understanding of contexts, manage2009–2013). In Germany SEB was named one of the best employment of execution and the ability to lead others. The participants ers in the country for the sixth consecutive year. will expand knowledge in general management areas such as We are actively working to build long term relationships with business, control and leadership and increase their knowledge how tomorrow’s employees, both through meetings at colleges and to connect own business context and challenges with SEB’s overall universities in social media such as Facebook and LinkedIn. vision, goals and strategy. Implementing an everyday learning culture To reach the vision “To be the trusted partner for customers with aspiration” competence is a key success factor. That is why SEB By year-end, 28 of 30 in 2013 has put large focus on strengthening “everyday learning” among employees. The aim is to give employees a natural teams have shown opportunity to take responsibility for both sharing and acquiring clear improvements. knowledge. A Corporate Learning Model is established with four levels: 1. Traditional training – a structured course portfolio with group Team development platform common purchase routine In 2011, SEB launched a team development platform. The aim of 2. Business plan driven learning – learning plans and building key this platform is to support (management) teams in areas such role competence as clarifying objectives and roles, streamlining decision-making, 3. Learning for customer excellence – focus on job performance building trust and open communication, and promoting active 4. Best practice and knowledge sharing – focus on role models and participation in teams. By year-end, 30 management teams had networks obtained some form of support through this platform. This has “Our ambition is to implement an everyday learning culture in led to clear progress, and 28 of these teams have shown clear SEB with new modern learning concepts aligned with our business improvements and become high-performing teams. In addition, aspirations” says Kristina Bixo, Head of Learning Management. work teams across all SEB are benefiting from using the platform The Corporate Learning Model aims to achieve benefits for both in a way that matches their ambitions and meets their needs. the company (reduced production costs and reduced loss of working hours) and for the individual (increased performance for the end user, activities accessible “just-in-time”, increased flexibility for the user). Why values are important New learning methods such as rapid e-learning, screen record“As a leader I want to set a good ings and films have been introduced. The advantages are numerexample. I try to always live according ous – the courses are easy to complete, they are accessible at the to our values and hope to encourage user’s convenience, and they offer a simple means of boosting an environment in which commitment, knowledge for individuals as well as groups of individuals. mutual respect, continuity and professionalism are a matter of course. I think Global leadership development programmes that this will grow in importance going SEB has a long tradition of developing talents and leaders and has ­forward. Younger people clearly feel it a global framework for the leadership development programmes. is increasingly important to work in a This enables leaders to develop the capabilities needed, enabling culture that is aligned with their own values. A job is no longer “just personal growth and building necessary leadership skills. This is a job”. For me personally, commitment means the most. Profespart of the People strategy described at page 20. sionalism, continuity and mutual respect can be built upon, but SEB’s training programme for first-line managers provides commitment has to come from the heart. When you do something fundamental knowledge in both strategic and operational areas. you’re passionate about and that fulfils a purpose, you automatiIn 2013, some 100 new managers participated in parallel during cally do a good job and have fun at the same time!” a calendar year. Evaluation of the programme is conducted on a continuing basis and shows highly encouraging results. Elisabeth Sterner Wealth Management 22 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Engaging employees in sustainability Business and responsibility What does sustainability mean for the financial industry and how does SEB work with sustainability? In a series of meetings, hundreds of SEB employees listened to Senior economist Klas Eklund’s inhouse lectures on this theme. The trend is clear. Responsible busiIn September 2013, almost all of the 900 Riho Unt was satisfied with the event: nesses are becoming more profitable, employees of SEB Estonia gathered to “The event was successful and we can said Klas Eklund. He ment that global discuss corporate sustainability in all of its be proud that we did something that has companies must take responsibility, aspects. never been done before. No large company which also is reinforced by financial “Responsibility is not project-based in Estonia has ever organised a corporate crises and rising unemployment. acting, it is a state of mind,” said SEB sustainability event for its employees with Mr Eklund noted that a growing numEstonia CEO Riho Unt. so many participants. I hope we are good ber of employees, customers, managers The purpose of the event was to role models,” Riho Unt said. and owners want companies to do more increase awareness of employees in corpoThe winning team donated the prize than just make money – they also should rate sustainability and to help employees (4,085 euros) to SEB Charity Fund for their want them to be “good citizens”. in perceiving and establishing the links scholarship programme. The week before Eklund said that in this new world, between their work and corporate sustainthe event, the Estonian intranet was open focusing only on maximising profits will ability and thereby achieve better business for voting for who to donate to. become more difficult. Companies must results. Three customers were invited to also develop strategies for sustainability take part and share their views. They were and responsibility. Responsibility may asked about what being responsible and mean many things, he said. But, in gensustainable means to them and their comHow responsible is SEB? eral the trend is towards “greener”, more Scale 1–10 (700 answers from Estonia) panies. Employees also sent extra questions social business and better governance. via SMS, to be answered on the Intranet. 250 “If we have trouble showing that 214 responsibility have so far paid off on the Discussing behaviours 200 bottom line, we have even more trouble The employees also played a board game 168 believing it will not do so going forward.” 150 by collecting points through discussing dif“Any company that does not develop 112 ferent behaviour related cases. Examples 100 104 a sustainability strategy and integrates it ranged from how to make sustainable into their business strategy may not be credit decisions to how to act when a 50 35 30 appreciated by stakeholders – and will 25 drunken customer wants to take out cash 2 2 11 find it more difficult to defend its profit0 from his childrens’ account. 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 ability,” Eklund said. Key performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total number of employees, headcount, incl part-time employees 16,717 17,474 18,862 20,599 Employee turnover, per cent 11.1 9.3 9.3 10.9 Sick-leave rate, share of ordinary working hours, Sweden, per cent 2.44 2.55 2.5 2.7 Gender by management type, all managers (male/female) 58/42 58/42 57/43 56/44 Gender Senior managers (male/female) 74/26 76/24 77/23 74/26 For more information, see CS Fact Book (www.sebgroup.com). SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 23 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Promotion of health and sound work environment At SEB, we firmly believe that personal health and a sound defibrillator have received the necessary training in cardiopulmowork environment encourages good performance and promotes nary resuscitation (CPR) and handling of defibrillators. The goal is employee engagement. to secure the entire SEB where possible. SEB’s health strategy, SEB Wellness Programme, focuses on a pro-active health work, promoting well-being and preventing illness, Sick-leave rates rather than on retroactive actions. The strategy is anchored in the Sick-leave rates, both short-term and long-term, remain low in SEB latest research and based on the recommendations of SEB’s Health Sweden (see CS Fact Book), in spite of a general increase in society. science council that was introduced in 2012. A better understanding The total sick-leave rate in Sweden is 2.44 per cent, which is low of what influences our health is an important factor for success. compared to other industries, and lowest among banks. SEB Wellness Programme, established in Sweden, will step by A thorough work has been done to decrease long-term sick leave, step be introduced in our other home markets, tailored to each an effort that has been very successful. In 2004 about 430 persons country’s conditions. An SEB wide community will also be established, were in focus for rehabilitation compared to just over 60 persons in covering Sweden, the Baltic and Nordic countries and Germany, 2013. However, women like in the rest of society, have considerable where health and work environmental issues will be discussed. higher sickness absence than men. This is an area that SEB plans to investigate thoroughly to find out the reason for the differences. Wellness check Employees are expected to take responsibility for their own health, Work environment 2013 but SEB offers help and support. In 2013, the Wellness Check was SEB’s systematic work environment activity in Sweden, as agreed launched – two kinds of health and fitness tests for employees with the unions, was also improved in 2013. The annual review is focusing on lifestyle, stress prevention and physical activity. By the an important part of the statutory and systematic work-environend of the year more than 70 per cent of the employees in Sweden ment-management that helps create and maintain a healthy workhad completed the tests. ing environment. In 2013, the yearly work environment training A large majority also participated in the many inspirational acprogramme led to an increase in the share of documented annual tivities that were offered, lectures on physical activity, nutrition and work environment reviews, from 73 per cent in 2012 to 90 per cent stress, and various challenges encouraging daily physical activity. in 2013. We strive to meet the requirements for safety certification Another appreciated tool that is offered in Sweden and according to the international standard OHSAS 18001. Germany is the Employee Assistance Programme, an opportunity Employees in the Nordic countries and in Russia are reprefor employees to get support from a registered psychotherapist sented in health and safety committees. Globally, over 66 per through a phone service. cent of our employees have representation in such committees. During the year, defibrillators to prevent cardiac arrest have In countries where no formal committees are in place, health and been installed in all 164 branches in Sweden. 6–8 people per safety is on the agenda in staff meetings. Health project led to reduced sick-leave rates SEB has for many years successfully Their work had become extremely streamlined, without any worked to reduce sick-leave rates (see customer contact. ‘Like sitting in a black box,’ one person above). Despite overall low levels, there said, according to Kerstin Sjöstrand, head of Business Service are local variations. One example is since February 2011. the Swedish part of the life insurance Focus in the project is the individual’s health, health promoting business, where the management has leadership and organisational health. Together with employees chosen to enhance the proactive health and managers, the business area has created involvement, insight work even further with a broad focus, on and willingness to change towards a proactive health work. culture and leadership issues. The greatest progress seen is an improved dialogue between manA two-year strategic health project was launched in 2012 as a agers and employees about health issues and that managers have pilot within SEB’s overall strategic health initiative, starting off with been strengthened in their ability to create a sense of coherence. a survey. Clear results have been achieved, not least at Kerstin The result showed some clear areas for improvement, well Sjöstrand’s unit Business Service where sick-leave rates have been reflected at Business Service, a unit of around 150 persons that more than halved in three years, from 8.9 per cent in December during the preceding years also had undergone major transforma2010 to 4.16 per cent in December 2013. During the project, the tion and had high sick leave rates. insight of how rewarding a strategic health work is also for the Many of the 150 employees felt strong lack of involvement. employer has been clear. 24 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY €$ Access to financial services activities to spread knowledge and practical information. Seminars were held by SEB employees with customers, a special live What's the issue? broadcast which was watched by about 500 Russian customers. Access to finance is crucial to economic activity. A responsible Throughout the year, several visits have been organised to Latvian bank makes its services available to all people, regardless of companies where SEB experts gave individual seminars about the socio-economic standing, ethnic origin, disability or other factors. euro introduction and other topics related to finances. Our goal is to serve our customers whenever and wherever they desire. By sharing our specialist knowledge, we empower people to Open 24 hours a day make more informed financial decisions and contribute to better We use our products and services and our core competencies to functioning societies. provide greater access to financial services. To complement our branch offices and customer visits, SEB’s telephone banks are open 24 hours a day, every day of the year. This service is available People need equal access to finance and banking services. We for both private customers and business customers. therefore work to improve access to our services and to improve In Sweden, personal customer service is available in more financial literacy in society. This includes sharing our expertise than 20 languages. Our expanded social media presence provides advice, financial and economic education as well as tools and additional contacts with customers. We currently offer customer technologies that facilitate access to banking services. service via Facebook and Twitter in Sweden, Estonia and Latvia Many activities have been carried out during 2013, essentially and via Facebook in Lithuania where it also is possible to access in our home markets where we have retail customers. In Sweden, contact centre via Skype free on charge – much appreciated by our experts produce several reports every year within areas like clients calling from abroad. Self-service network zones have also macro, investment and house hold economy. More than 140 been expanded. reports were published within areas during 2013. Our experts are also involved in activities where they meet and interact with the Involving users and accessibility experts general public, for examples in chats on public web sites and via We continuously develop our tools in order to facilitate for customTwitter. In 2013, our household-economists participated in 10 ers. One example is the new interface of the Swedish Internet chats regarding private economy and welfare. Our macro-ecobank where we involved users and accessibility experts in the nomic expert Chief Economist Robert Bergqvist is one of the most development in order to create better accessibility for all individuquoted persons in Swedish media. als with their different needs and abilities. We also offer the security tool “Digipass”, adjusted for customSpreading our knowledge ers that are visually impaired to do their banking services via In the Baltic countries, SEB also works actively with spreading our the Internet, the Telephone band and the self-service Bank by knowledge. The experts and economists publish reports, such as Phone. In Latvia, SEB has cooperated with non-governmental Baltic Household Outlook, Lithuanian Macroeconomic Review and organistaions for disabled people with an aim to improve access the quarterly Household Savings Barometer. In Lithuanian, the to branches and ATM’s. Installation of doorstep ramps, movable Financial Markets Institute was established together with other stairway climbers etc in branches have been made for disabled financial market players people. SEB’s ambition is to provide expertise in financial and practical tips for everyday living, the family budget. In Estonia, SEB collaborated with the Bank Association and The Financial Supervision during the “Financial Adult Learners’ Week”. 26 SEB volunteers carried out 50 lessons to adults. SEB also participated in “Financial Key performance indicators Literacy Day” in cooperation with the Bank Associations members. 30 employees/volunteers from SEB gave 46 lessons in both SEB meeting places and Estonian and Russian in primaryand secondary schools all over knowledge sharing 2013 2012 the country to share financial knowledge and raise school pupils’ Branch offices, number 286 292 level of financial literacy. Internet bank, number of visits, million 162 156 Mobile bank, number of visits, million 59 34 “Window to the future” Telephone bank, number of calls, million 4 3.8 As an initiatives reaching out to young, elderly people, disabled, non-native etc, SEB is a member of “Window to the future”, Downloads of mobile and Ipad Apps, private and SME, thousand 271 219 promoting the use of the internet for these groups through training and promotion activities. Expert reports, private and SME 68 102 In 2013, as Latvia was preparing for the introduction of the Research reports on macro economic euro currency on January 1, 2014, SEB was involved in several development 73 51 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 25 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Investing in communities Estonian project, “Brain Hunt” that aims to find innovative and enWhat's the issue? vironmentally friendly innovations. In Lithuania, SEB partners with the magazine “BznStart” in the project “240 Minutes of Charge” As a bank, we are an integrated part of society, and we know that for existing and future businesses ready for challenges. Examples what we do has an impact. Therefore, we want to contribute to in Latvia include the “Contest of ideas”, the TV broadcast for startbuilding a society we all want to, and can, be part of. In addition ups “Company’s secret” and the award for developing companies to the role that our business plays, we support local communities. “Gazelle”, in cooperation with Daily business. We share both time and money and work with carefully chosen partners and people. Children and youth SEB has a broad engagement towards youth and children, both at national levels and in the local communities. Our support for At SEB, we engage for future generations. We support the dethe organisation Mentor started in 1997 and is today active in velopment of local communities, in partnership with organisations Sweden as well as in the Baltic countries. The range of activities and institutions in our home markets. We focus on Entrepreneurhas widened and during 2013 around 1,900 employees were ship and Innovation, Children and Youth and Education and Knowengaged in different kinds of activities. As examples, they engaged how. For us, it is important to be involved in the decisions about as a personal mentor for young people, inspired students about how the money is spent. In addition we always seek to use our own the own profession, teached about resources and infrastructure to make the most of our investments. personal finances, how to apply This is primarily about our employees’ engagement and our time LEADING for the first job, and attended ENTREPRENEURS spent. SEB is not allied to any political parties. We do not provide seminars about parenthood. financial support to any political parties, nor do we make any other We engage in local communitype of political donation. ties, such as around our offices in GROWTH Rissne, outside Stockholm, whith Supporting entrepreneurs and innovation relatively weak socio-economic SEB has been working in the service of enterprise development. SEB is here one of START-UP for almost 160 years and we have a long tradiCOMPANIES the biggest employers and many tion of supporting entrepreneurs and small of our employees engage in mentorcompanies. We do this through our ships and serve as role models. They guide COLLEGE AND core business in collaboration with UNIVERSITY students in making plans for their futures and well-established organisations teach about private finance. that support entrepreneurs and In 2013, SEB donated 3MSEK to HM Queen Silvia’s entrepreneurship. SECONDARY foundation Care About the Children. The foundation’s purSCHOOL We truly believe that society pose is to provide grants to well-defined Swedish and internabenefits from an increased numtional projects that provide needy children around the world the ber of entrepreneurs that develop opportunity for good education, good health care as well as the businesses and create future opportunity to feel safe and happy during their childhood. growth and jobs. Therefore, we want to encourage and support Broad Baltic engagement both future and present entrepreneurs at all levels, and we strive In all the Baltic countries SEB contributes to children and youth to meet as many as possible. in need of extra support. As an example, in Latvia we partner with In Sweden, we meet thousands of students through our “SOS Children Villages” and “The Livslust Foundation” where SEB cooperation with Ung Företagsamhet (Young enterprising). We provides financial support and is involved with employees as meet with start-up companies through Venture Cup, Connect, IFS volunteers. (International Entrepreneur Association) and Nyföretagarcentrum In Lithuania, SEB organises with TV3 the “Dreams come true” as well as with the most experienced ones. In 2013, SEB in Sweden campaign to raise money for orphans and sick children. The camarranged or participated at more than 45 activities and met with paign that raised EUR 374 in January 2014 is an annual event and approximately 10,000 people around this theme. Christina Wahlthe largest support project in the country. Employees were during ström, founder, CEO and owner of Mama Mia prenatal care, was in the year also mentors for a group of at-risk children, and organised 2013 awarded with SEB A Perfect Entrepreneur. mentor summer camps where 77 children were involved. Also in Finland, SEB supports young entrepreneurs through In Estonia SEB Charity Fund is Estonia’s largest charity foundaJunior Achievements. tion. Through SEB’s support, children without present parents are SEB has a wide range of activities towards entrepreneurs also offered shelter. The fund has also awarded scholarships to young in all three Baltic countries. Some of the examples include the mothers who wish to continue their interrupted school. 26 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY In January 2014, SEB in Estonia and the University of Tartu signed a cooperation agreement creating the Vega Fund. Through this new grants fund for students and researchers at Estonia’s institutions of higher education, SEB will be funding the introduction of knowledgeintensive solutions into everyday use with 150,000 euros over three years. By this, SEB aims to contribute to ensuring that enterprising spirit is backed up by financial substance. The creation of the Vega Fund is an important step in bringing the knowledge of institutions of higher education into practice and in strengthening the position of Estonian businesses in the face of global competition. In Germany, we engage through the SEB Foundation where SEB the sponsor of the Stockholm Concert Hall and Stockholm employees can apply for funding for local, social initiatives. Royal Philharmonic Orchestra. In early 2014 we renewed our engagement. We also sponsor the Gothenburg Symphonic Orchestra Education and know-how and collaborate with the Riga Chamber Orchestra Sinfonietta We actively contribute to spreading knowledge. We support (since 2006) and the Estonian National Opera (since 2009). research and education through a number of programmes with universities, both by contributing to professorships and research projects and by well-established partnerships for students at Economic contribution by theme to social universities in Sweden and around the Nordics. partnerships, incl management costs 2013 We have since long cooperation with Stockholm School of 8% Economics (SSE) and since 2012 we support SSE Riga Sustainable Business Centre. Thanks to the financial support from SEB and two 13% other Nordic banks, 720 scholarships are granted to students from 35% the Baltic States over five years, reducing their annual SSE Riga tuition fees from EUR 6,000 to EUR 3,500. SEB also grants scholarships for best achievement for students in Latvia in cooperation with several universities and institutions. Sports and culture SEB is the main sponsor of the Swedish Tennis Association. Through the joint project SEB Next Generation we enable 1,000 44% girls and boys aged 10–15 years in the Nordic countries to develop their talent and to create an identity and community within the For more information see CS Fact Book sport. SEB Next Generation seeks to give young people self-esteem Children and youth Entrepreneurship and innovation and the opportunity to develop their tennis skills. In the Baltic 19.5 SEKm 7 SEKm countries, SEB supports a variety of sporting events such as tennis Sports and culture Education and know-how tournaments and running races. 24.5 SEKm 4.3 SEKm SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 27 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT Reducing our environmental footprint and Germany but also our continuous effort to improve energy efficiency in our present buildings. This, combined with the switch to What’s the issue? renewable energy sources, has reduced our carbon emissions from Many scientists believe that global warming is one of the most energy consumption by almost 60 per cent compared to 2008, serious threats to both humanity and our planet. More and more corresponding to about 13,800 tonnes CO2. We will continue to research emerges, arguing that the speed of climate change is optimise our offices and processes to reduce energy consumption. increasing and substantial preventive actions is needed. Although the direct environmental impact of our operations is limited, we Paper consumption have the obligation and opportunity to do what we can to limit We have continued our efforts to reduce paper our footprint. consumption including internal printing and external physical mailing. Besides the reduction of resources, this is important from a customer satisfaction perspective. Dialogues show In 2009, SEB decided to reduce the annual CO2 emissions by 45 that our customers prefer electronical contract notes and account per cent by 2015. The decision reflected our ambition to address statements versus physical printed. As an example we have in the a broader range of environmental issues. Energy use, paper conBaltics reduced our CO2 emissions by almost 10 tonnes through sumption and business travel represent the most material direct reducing physical mailing by 12.5 million letters. We also have impact of our operations on the environment. stopped sending out the semi-annual account statement from Trygg Liv, corresponding to savings of 13 tonnes of paper and 18 Carbon management tonnes of CO2. Paper consumption was reduced by 3 per cent in Our approach to reduce our carbon footprint starts with account2013 compared to 2012. Since 2008, it is reduced by 60 per cent. ing for our CO2 emissions related to the operations over which we have control, such as energy and electricity use in our own Green IT and data centres buildings, paper consumption and business travel (Scope 2 and 3 Since the introduction of “managed print service”, we emissions). We include emissions from eleven countries, accountcan for our main sites in Sweden 2013 see a 10 per cent ing for more than 94 per cent of our income and 96 per cent of our reduction of pages printed compared to 2012. We have also during employees. We monitor our direct environmental footprint on a 2013 replaced old IT structures with more efficient server and quarterly basis and report on the information requested by invesstorage technology as well as optimising present equipment in use. tors, customers and employees in our CS report and also in specific Through this project, we can see a major shift from a steady yearly reports, e.g. the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). A specific Carbon growth rate of 15–17 per cent in energy use during the last 5 years, Chasing Committee steers and monitors the work to reduce SEB’s to a decrease over the last 12 month. As we reported in last year’s emissions and we draw on guidance from the Greenhouse Gas CS report, the implementation of the New Office Workplace (NOW) Protocol for our carbon reporting. transformation project was launched end of 2012. NOW includes functionality for intelligent power management of PC equipment. Carbon emissions When comparing 2013 versus 2012, we can see an electricity During the year, SEB’s CO2 emissions amounted to 28,600 tonnes, consumption reduction of about 1 GWh. virtually unchanged during the year, and a total reduction of 36 per cent compared to our 2008 baseline. The reduction has mainly Business travel been achieved by energy efficiency initiatives, decreased paper use Our greatest challenge related to carbon emissions is and decreased emissions from company cars. Our long term target traveling. Even though we have been promoting travelto reduce our CO2 emissions by 45 per cent by 2015 remains. ing by train and the use of video conferencing as well as other alternative ways of holding meetings, we see no decrease in CO2 Energy use in offices and branches emissions compared to 2012. As business travel stands for over 50 Energy use in our offices and branches has decreased per cent of our total CO2 emissions, it is of importance to further by 15 per cent since 2008. Our electricity consumption increase our efforts as regards finding alternatives and changing has decreased 26 per cent for the same period. One reason for the behaviour. Please find more information on our environmental decrease is the move to new energy efficient buildings in Denmark performance in CS Fact book page 8–9. Key performance indicators 2013 2012 2011 2010 Total CO2 emissions, tonnes 28,501 28,497 34,590 38,598 CO2 emissions, tonnes/employee 1.8 1.7 2.1 2.3 Energy consumption MWh/employee 7.3 6.8 7.3 8.9 For more information, see CS Fact Book 28 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 OUR PRIORITIES ENVIRONMENT SEB’s new headquarter in Frankfurt, Skylight, is optimised from an environmental and sustainable perspective, e.g. including LED lighting and detection sensors as well as recycled and low emission construction materials. The building will be minimum Leed Gold certified. Leed stands for Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design. Responsible sourcing SEB strongly believes that responsible sourcing creates value human rights and labour aspects as well as environmental and for us as a bank, our suppliers and the society as a whole. During social responsibility. 2012, we started to assess our top 50 suppliers from an enviSuppliers is then categorised as low-, medium or high risk. Supronmental and social perspective, corresponding to 40% of our pliers identified as high risk, we will engage through a dialogue to spend. This accomplished, we decided to take a broader approach confirm findings in the assessment and start a dialogue concernto our supply chain. In 2013, we therefore started reviewing the ing remedial actions. The responsibility for the assessment and scope for the supplier assessment process. follow up on suppliers will be within procurement. In the new scope we decided to cover all our major suppliers as well as all critical suppliers. With critical suppliers we mean Supplier screening process companies, business areas or countries where we see possible higher risks in the supply chain. The process will also cover all our outsourcing and all new suppliers (contract above 500,000 SEK) being considered by the bank. To take the assessment process of PLAN suppliers a step further, we also decided to change from an inPLAN = assess supplier house assessment to an external service provider, Ecovadis. screening process and In parallel to the assessment process, we also have finalised a decide on new criteria for triggering remediation of stand-alone Supplier Code of Conduct which enables SEB’s suppliACT DO low performing suppliers ers to fully understand our approach to supply chain and facilitates DO = perform Supplier the supplier assessment process. Screening The content of our new Supplier Code of Conduct has been CHECK = analyse result extracted from our existing polices, e.g. SEB’s Code of Business and identify suppliers Conduct and our policy on Human Rights as well as international CHECK below set up thresholds recognised standards. In the new assessment process that will be ACT = engage supplier in implemented during 2014, we take a broad approach to corporate corrective action plan sustainability with efforts targeting governance, business ethics, SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 29 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Impact, risks and opportunities As a bank we have a central role to play in sustainable including mismanaged environmental and social impact, can prove development. We have a direct impact as well as an quite costly. In addition, to be seen as a bank or investor of irindirect impact on the communities where we operresponsible projects and businesses remains a reputation risk and this is likely to become an even bigger issue going forward. ate. It is about how we act as lenders to productive Financial crime is another international problem for which the investments, how we act as asset manager and owner, possible consequences can be substantial. As a major provider of how we act as stewards of savings and how we loans, payments and other financial services we want and need to manage risks and payments. This is also about how protect our customers and the assets we manage. Considerable we act as employer and a member of the community. resources are invested to prevent financial crime and its damaging effects on our business, our customers and on local and global We believe that companies that actively manage the environmeneconomies. tal, social and governance impact of their business are more able to reduce risks and costs, seize opportunities and attract capital. By sharing our specialist knowledge, we can also empower people to make more informed financial decisions and contribute to For us, adherence to better functioning societies. For society at large, as well as people within, access to finance and banking services is vital for bringing international best practice forth economic activity. remains a necessity. Behaviour towards our customers Our direct impact as regards our customers primarily relates to how we treat them and how we ensure that the service, products Trust is everything and advice we provide are reliable, transparent and secure. For us as a bank trust is everything. Customers should know that Concurrently, our corporate culture and how we work to provide we always put their interests first, and that the service, products an engaging, sound and healthy work environment has a direct and advice we provide are reliable, transparent and secure. A impact on our people, their satisfaction and loyalty. sound corporate culture which is embraced by everyone is thereSEB has a strong position in the Nordic and Baltic markets. We fore a key competitive advantage. Our corporate culture stems have a leading position among large corporates and institutions in from our core values and is expressed in our Code of Business the Nordic markets. SEB is the largest bank in Lithuania, and the Conduct and our policies, and is monitored through robust internal second largest bank in Estonia and Latvia. This puts emphasis on control systems. For us adherence to international best practices the importance of standing by our customers and providing secure in corporate governance, risk management and compliance stanand undisrupted levels of service. dards remains a necessity. As a bank and service company, our direct environmental By listening to our stakeholders and integrating environmental impact is limited and relates primarily to energy for heating and and social factors into our long-term strategies as well as into cooling of offices, electricity use, paper consumption and our busiour daily business decisions, we believe that we can make better ness related travel. decisions and thereby create the platform for long-term success. This relates to identifying and mitigating risks as well as seizing Sustainability trends – risks and opportunities opportunities. One such aspect involves developing innovative and Economic uncertainty and growing social and environmental prudent financial services and products. imbalances present numerous challenges augmented by demographic shifts and urbanisation. Issues involving ethics, corrupMotivated and experienced employees tion, working conditions and human rights are in focus. Resource Committed and competent people are vital for developing such and freshwater scarcity, eco-system services and climate change financial solutions and for attracting and retaining loyal customers. remains high on the agenda. By providing an engaging, sound and healthy work environment we Banks are under constant scrutiny. There is a need to restore want to encourage high quality performance as well as high emtrust and credibility both for the system as a whole and for indiployee satisfaction and loyalty. This is in the interest of our people vidual institutions such as SEB. Regulation, political and stakeas well as customers and shareholders and other stakeholders. holder pressure will therefore continue to have an impact on the Financial resilience and profitability is a prerequisite for us business environment for banks. There is a need for motivated, being able to contribute to the economy and society at large. highly educated and experienced employees. This allows us to continue servicing our customers, pay salaries Environmental challenges like climate change, the depletion to employees, payments to suppliers, taxes to governments and of natural resources or social challenges like responsibilities in the dividends to shareholders. In addition, this gives us the opportusupply chain can have a direct impact on a company’s business nity to work for the long-term and invest in the future of societies performance. Banking or investing in poorly managed businesses, in which we operate. 30 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 GOVERNANCE AND RISK MANAGEMENT Governance of Corporate Sustainability SEB’s corporate sustainability work is based on Swedish laws and regulations as well as the internationally recognised guidelines Ethics Policy Corporate Code of Business Conduct and initiatives that we are committed to. In particular, we emphaSustainability sise the UN Global Compact and its ten principles. These principles Policy cover the areas of human rights, labour standards and conditions, environment and anti-corruption. In addition, SEB is committed to the Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI), the UNEP Position Human Rights Environmental Finance initiative, the UN’s Guiding Principles on Business and Statements Policy Policy Human Rights, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and the Equator Principles. The internal framework, which include • Climate Change • Child Labour references to the above, consists of SEB’s corporate sustainability • Freshwater Sector Policies related policies and our Code of Business Conduct. • Arms and defence • Mining and metals • Forestry • Renewable energy CS Strategy decided by the Board of Directors • Fossil fuels • Shipping The Board of Directors is responsible for deciding on SEB’s Corporate Sustainability (CS) strategy. The President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) decides in the The purpose with the Corporate Sustainability Policy is to define the framework for Group Executive Committee on the development and the execusustainability in SEB and provide a governing platform for SEB’s work. The Policy furthertion of the CS approach, in line with the strategy set by the Board. more supports SEB’s Environmental Policy, Human Rights Policy and SEB’s position stateThe CEO has assigned an operational steering group, the CS ments and sector policies. The latter regulate our view on specific key issues and industry Committee, responsible for SEB’s corporate sustainability activisectors that are considered more critical from an environmental and social perspective. ties. The CS Committee has 13 members and is chaired by the Head of Group Communication, member of the Group Executive Committee. The Committee includes senior representatives from all SEB’s divisions and applicable Group functions, including Group Corporate Sustainability. The main part of the sustainability work is done within the line organisation – as part of our day-to-day business – but with the support of Group Corporate Sustainability. Governance structure for the corporate sustainability work Board of Directors Decides on the Corporate Sustainability (CS) strategy, adopts the CS policy. As applicable, matters are dealt with by the Board or by any of its established committees; the Risk and Capital Committee; the Audit and Compliance Committee and the Remuneration and Human Resources Committee. President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Decides on the development and the execution of the corporate sustainability approach, in line with the strategy set by the Board. Adopts the Environmental Policy, the Human Rights Policy as well as Position Statements and Sector Policies. Corporate Sustainability (CS) Committee An operational steering group assigned by the president and CEO. Sets the agenda for SEB’s sustainability work, follows-up on the development, practices and progress and decide on policies. Chaired by Head of Group Communication, member of the Group Executive Committee. Group Corporate Sustainability Responsible for SEB’s day-to-day management of the corporate sustainability activities in accordance with the directives of the Board. Co-ordinates and drives the overall sustainability agenda within SEB, ensures implementation and report on progress. Local CS Committees; Business and Manage the sustainability work on a daily basis within the specified division, country or staff country coordinators; Programme Managers function. Report on progress. Managers and employees Each head of division, business area, group function is responsible for ensuring that activities are carried out and instructions are in accordance with the adopted are in accordance with applicable policies, such as the CS Policy. For information about corporate governance at SEB, please see the Corporate Governance report in the 2013 Annual Report, pages 36–48 or http://sebgroup.com/en/About-SEB/Corporate-Governance/Corporate-Governance/ SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 31 ABOUT THIS REPORT Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To the readers of the SEB CS Report and CS Fact Book Introduction The criteria on which our procedures are based are the parts We have been engaged by the management of SEB to undertake of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the a limited assurance engagement of total energy consumption (in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the buildings) and total CO2 emissions for the year 2013, presented on specified information in the CS Report, as well as the accounting p. 28 in the CS Report 2013 and p. 8 in the CS Fact Book 2013. In adand calculation principles that the company has developed and dition, we have been asked to perform a GRI application level check. disclosed. These criteria are presented on p. 9 of the CS Fact Book. We consider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the speciResponsibilities of the Board of Directors and fied information in the CS Report. Executive Management We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and The Board of Directors and the Executive Management are responappropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion below. sible for ongoing activities and for the preparation and presentation of the CS Report (including CS Fact Book) in accordance with Conclusion applicable criteria. Based on the limited assurance procedures we have performed, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that Responsibilities of the auditor the specified information in the CS Report has not, in all material Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion respects, been prepared in accordance with the above stated on the specified information in the CS Report (including CS Fact criteria. Book) based on the procedures we have performed. We have conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance EngageStockholm, 3 March 2014 ments (ISAE) 3000 “Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Review of Historical Financial Information”, issued by IFAC. PricewaterhouseCoopers AB A limited assurance engagement consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the CS Report, and applying analytical and other limited assurance procedures. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than, for Peter Nyllinge a reasonable assurance engagement conducted in accordance Authorized Public Accountant with IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do not express a reasonable Fredrik Ljungdahl assurance opinion. Expert member of FAR 32 SEB Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 Awards and recognitions 2013 Awarded by Customers Best bank of the year, Sweden, Estonia, Lithaunia Euromoney Best bank at risk management Treasury Management International (TMI) SME Bank of the year, Sweden Privata Affärer Best Private Bank in the Nordic region The Banker and Professional Wealth Mgmt Employees Most attractive employer, Lithuania Verslo Žinios & CV L:T Top Employer in Germany CRF Institute Sustainability Gold Category Latvia Sustainability Index Institute for Sustainability and Corp. responsib. Sustainability indices Index provider Please recycle me! OMX GES Sustainability Sweden Index Nasdaq OMX/GES OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Index Nasdaq OMX/GES FTSE4Good FTSE We like our communications to have ECPI Indices ECPI an impact on you – but not on the enSTOXX Global ESG Leaders Indices STOXX vironment. We therefore compensate all emissions related to printed matter. Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register Forum Ethibel This report is associated with a carbon footprint of 65.4 g CO2-equivalents per m2 printed product, corresponding to 0.2 kg CO2-equivalents per report. The selected printing company International commitments is climate compensated and has ISO 14001 environmental certification. If UN Global Compact you no longer have use for this report, Principles for Responsible Investments (PRI) please recycle it. UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Equator Principles United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and CDP Water Disclosure ICC Business Charter on Sustainable Development Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography (national) The FSC logo identifies products which contain wood from wellmanaged forests certified in accordance with the rules of the Forest Contact us Stewardship Council. Cecilia Widebäck West Head of Group Corporate Sustainability © Copyright Skandinaviska Enskilda Contact: Tel: +46 8 763 50 00, e-mail: cs@seb.se Banken AB, 2014. All rights reserved. No part of this publication may be Internet: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any Name and Head office Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB form or by any means, electronic, Postal Address: SE-106 40 Stockholm, Sweden mechanical, photocopying, Visiting address: Kungsträdgårdsgatan 8, Stockholm, Sweden recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of Corporate registration number: 502032-9081 Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB. Inside back cover III About this report This report describes SEB’s approach and present targets, and reports. To complement this written report, a CS Fact Book is guidelines, measures and key achievements related to the Group’s published online at www.sebgroup.com/sustainability. contribution to sustainable development. The process to define Our main reporting framework is the Global Reporting Initiative, what to include in this report includes feedback from previous reGRI, G3 guidelines and the Financial Services Supplement. SEB’s ports from internal and external stakeholders, best practice within auditor PwC has been engaged to perform a limited review of Corporate Sustainability (CS) reporting, important events during indicators related to energy and emissions (see p. 32). Key aspects the year as well as the materiality analysis done in the autumn of of SEB’s sustainability work, such as risk management, corporate 2013, (see p. 7). The report comprises the entire organisation of governance and staff composition and remuneration, are included the SEB Group, except as specifically stated (see CS Fact Book for in the annual accounts of SEB. These are audited by PwC, please limitations in scope). see Auditor’s report p. 151, SEB Annual Report 2013. The GRI apSEB has published a CS report annually since 2007. The report plication check of our reporting has been made by PwC, according covers the preceding fiscal year, January to December 2013. In to which we report at level B. Our GRI Index is found below. some cases information for early 2014 is included. The previous As part of SEB’s commitment to the UN Global Compact, we report was published in March 2013. There has been no signifireport on activities and performance through this report as well as cant change from the previous report in scope and boundary. The Communication on Progress which can be found at www.sebgroup. information in this report is obtained from various internal systems com/sustainability. GRI Index SEB 2013 A GRI application check of our reporting has been made by PwC, front cover (CS IFC), inside back cover (CS IBC I, II, III), the Annual according to which we report at level B. Page references relate to Report 2013 (AR), the CS Fact Book (CSF), and www.sebgroup. the Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 (CS), CS Report, inside com/sustainability (www). = Full, = Partly 1 Strategy and analysis 4 Governance, Commitments and Engagement 1.1 CEO statement CS 1 Governance 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities CS 8-9, 30 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation AR 49-57 4.2 Role of the Chairman of the Board in the organisation AR 52-55 2 Organisational profile 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members AR 52 2.1 Name of the organisation CS IBC III 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to AR 50, 52, www (agm) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services CS IFC, AR 10-11 provide recommendations etc to the Board 2.3 Operational structure CS IFC, AR cover+49-56 4.5 Remuneration to Board members, senior managers AR 50, 62-63, 95-98 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters CS IBC III and executives, and link to the organisation’s 2.5 Countries of operation CS IFC performance 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 16-17, 49-56 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interest in the Board AR 49-53 2.7 Markets served CS IFC, ar 10-11 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and experAR 50-51 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation CS IFC, 23 tise of the Board members 2.9 Significant operational or other changes during the none 4.8 Mission, values, codes of conduct, and principles CS IFC, CS 31 reporting period relevant to ESG performance 4.9 Board procedures for overseeing economic, environCS 31; AR 50 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CS IBC III mental, and social performance, including relevant 3 Report parameters risks and opportunities Report profile 4.10 Processes for evaluating Board performance, AR 50-51, www (agm) 3.1 Reporting period CS IBC I particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CS IBC I Commitments to external initiatives 3.3 Reporting cycle CS IBC I 4.11 Explanation of if and how the precautionary CS 14-19, 31, ar 56 3.4 Contact for questions regarding the report CS IBC III approach or principle is applied Report scope and boundaries 4.12 Association to externally developed charters, CS 1, 31, IBC III, www. 3.5 Process for defining report content CS 6-7, IBC I principles, or other initiatives 3.6 Boundary of the report CS IBC I 4.13 Memberships in associations CS IBC III, www. 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of CS IBC I Stakeholder engagement the report. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups CS 6 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, CS IBC I, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders CS 6-7 leased facilities, etc no joint-ventures with whom to engage 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculations CSF 3-9 4.16 Approach to stakeholder engagement CS 6 3.10 Comparability with previous reports CS IBC; CSF 3-9 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder CS 10-11, 20-24, ar 4-9, 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods CS IBC I engagement, and response by the organisation 22-23 in the scope, boundary, etc Economic performance indicators GRI Content Index Disclosure on management approach 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard CS IbC I Disclosures in the report Economic performance AR 18-25 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to cs 32, CS IBC I Market presence CS IFC, AR 10-11 seeking external assurance for the report Indirect economic impact CS 14-19, 26-27, 30 Inside back cover I Economic performance HR2 Screening on human rights among suppliers cs 29 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CS 4-5, 26-27; CSF 3 HR3 Training on human rights aspects CS 18-19, 29 EC2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation due to CS 1, 16-19, 30, www. Non-discrimination/child labour/forced and compulsory labour climate change HR5 Operations where freedom of association and CS 19-21; www. EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan AR 93-95 collective bargaining may be at significant risk obligations. HR6 Operations with a risk for incidents of child labour CS 19-21; www. EC4 Financial assistance received from government None received, CSF 3 HR7 Operations where there is risk for incidents of CS 19-21; www. Indirect economic impact forced or compulsory labour EC8 Infrastructure investments and services provided No such investments primarily for public benefit Society EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the CS 4-5, 30 Disclosure on management approach extent of impacts. Goals and performance CS 1, 4-5, 8-9 Environmental performance indicators Policy CS 1, 8, 27-28, 30, AR 50 Organisational responsibility AR 55; CS 31 Disclosure on management approach CS 1, 2-3, 8-9 Energy Training and awareness CS 10-12, 21-23 EN3 Direct energy consumption No such consumption Corruption according to definition SO2 Business units analysed for risks related to All business units annuEN4 Indirect energy consumption CS 28; CSF 8-9 corruption ally analysed; AR 56 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency CS 28 SO3 Employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption CS 12, CSF 4, AR 43 policies and procedures EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable CS 16-17 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption None energy based products and services Public policy/Anti-competitive behaviour/compliance Water SO6 Contributions to political parties, politicians None, cs 26 EN8 Total water withdrawal CSF 8 and related institutions Emissions, effluents and waste SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour AR 56, 127 EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions CS 28; CSF 8-9 Product responsibility EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions CS 28; CSF 8-9 Disclosure on management approach CS 8, 10-11, 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions CS 28; www. PR5 Practices to customer satisfaction AR 4-11, CS 4,10-11, EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal CSF 8 Marketing communications/customer privacy/compliance PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and CS 10-12 Products and services voluntary codes for marketing communications EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of CS 14, 16-19, 28 products and services PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy CS 10-11; AR 43 and losses of customer data Compliance EN28 Fines and monetary sanctions for noncompliance zero; CSF 9 Financial Services Sector Specific Disclosure with environmental laws Disclosure on management approach Transport FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social CS 18-19, 31, EN29 Environmental impacts from transportation CS 28; CSF 8-9 components applied to business lines FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental CS 14-19, 28-29 Social performance indicators, Labour practices and decent work and social risks in business lines Disclosure on management approach FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation CS 18-19, 31 Goals, performance and policy CS 1, 8-9, 20-24 and compliance with environmental and social requiOrganisational responsibility AR 54-56 rements included in agreements or transactions. Training and awareness CS 20-24 FS4 Processes for improving staff competency to CS 2-3, 10-12, 21, 23 Monitoring and follow-up CS 9, 20-24 implement the environmental and social policies and procedures as applied to business lines Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type and region CSF 5; AR 99; FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business CS 10-19, 29 partners regarding environmental and social LA2 Employee turnover CSF 5 risks and opportunities LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees CS 20-24; ar 62, 90-98, www. Product portfolio/audit FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines AR 10-11, 26-34, 84-85, Labour/management relations by specific region, size and by sector 104-107 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective CS 21, CSF 6 FS7 Monetary value of products and services designed CS 15, csf 4 bargaining agreements to deliver a specific social benefit LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational CSF 6 FS8 Monetary value of products and services designed CS 16-17, CSF 4 changes to deliver a specific environmental benefit Occupational health and safety Active ownership LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in health cs 24 FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the CS 14, 18, CSF 4 and safety committees institution’s portfolio with which the reporting LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, CSF 6 organisation has interacted on environmental and absenteeism social issues LA8 Programmes to assist workforce members regarding CS 24 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative CS 14, 18, CSF 4 serious diseases environmental screening Training and education FS12 Voting policies applied to environmental or social iswww (responsible and Programmes for skills management and life-long sues for shares over which the reporting organisation active ownership) LA11 CS 21-22 learning holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular perforCSF 6 mance and career development reviews Society performance FS13 Access points in low-populated or economically CS 25; www. Diversity and equal opportunities disadvantaged areas LA13 Composition of governance bodies and workforce AR 58-59, 99; CSF 6 FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial services for CS 25; www. Human rights disadvantaged people Disclosure on management approach Product responsibility CS 1, 2, 5, 7, 12-17, FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial CS 8-9, 10-11, www. 20-23; AR 12-15, 55 products and services Investment and procurement practices FS16 Initiatives to enhance financial literacy CS 25; www. HR1 Consideration of human rights with regard to CS 19, www. investments Inside back cover II SEGR0069 2014.03 Production: SEB and Rewir Printing: Elanders Cover photo: Joachim Lundgren About SEB SEB is a leading Nordic financial services group. As a relationship bank strongly committed to deliver customer value, SEB in Sweden and the Baltic countries offers financial advice and a wide range of financial services. In Denmark, Finland, Norway and Germany the Bank’s operations have a strong focus on a full-service offering to corporate and institutional clients. SEB’s activities are carried out with a long-term perspective to fulfill the Bank’s role to assist businesses and markets to thrive. The international nature of SEB’s business is reflected in its presence in some 20 countries worldwide. SEB serves more than 4 million customers and has around 16,000 employees. Our responsibility We know that the way we act affects the world in which we operate. It is our responsibility to make sure that we do business in an ethical and sustainable way, attending to our customers’ needs and protecting people and the environment. By being a well-managed and profitable company, we can use our resources, time, money and knowledge of our people to contribute to society. This report presents our company from a sustainable perspective and covers our performance 2013 – how we govern and manage our business responsibly to create value for our stakeholders. Our actions span the spectrum from small details to complex questions on the global business agenda. Visit us: www.sebgroup.com/sustainability Contact us: cs@sebgroup.com
