Communication on Progress MB Consulting Lda. MB Consulting has joined the Global Compact innitiaive in 2013 and has commited to integrate its ten (10) priciples into the company’s strategies and operations. This report is a Communication on Progress (CoP) by MB Consulting after one year of joining the innitiative. 22 August 2014 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that MB Consulting Lda reaffirms it’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UN Global Compact) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progres, we describe our actions that integrate the Global Compact and it’s principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. MB Consulting is also committed to share this information with its stakeholders using its website, newsletter (“Finanças Públicas”) and other means of communication. Yours sincerely, Mariam Bibi Umarji CEO and Managing Partner Maputo, 22 August 2014 Page 2 of 5 2. About MB Consulting Lda MB Consulting, Lda. is a fully Mozambican company established in 2010. It specializes in the provision of the following services: Consultancy, Technical Assistance, Training, Project Management, Private Sector Development, and Service Support to Civil Society Organisations (CSOs). It also has special expertise in Public Financial Management (PFM) and Strategic Planning. The company is composed of a team of young but highly experienced, dynamic consultants who are responsive to the needs of each client/project. The company has been certified by the IFC/World Bank under the SME – Business Edge Initiative as capable of delivering 51 standard training packages in different fields and capable of tailoring them to specific needs and requirements. 3. Our Approach to the 10 principles 3.1 Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complict in human rights abuses Assessments, Policies and Goals. Actions up to August 2014: ! Reference to statement of support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights or other international standards; ! Written company policy on respecting and supporting Human Rights; ! Specific goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming years; ! Awareness Raising/Training of employees on Human Rights; ! Allocation of Responsabilities for the respect and support of Human Rights within MB Consulting; 3.2 Labour Principles Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to colective bargaining; Principle 4: The Elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessement, politics and Goals; Actions up to August 2014: Page 3 of 5 ! Written company policies to uphold the freedom of association and collective bargaining and the elimination of forced labour child labour, child labour and employment discrimination; ! Written policies that clearly state employee rights and responsabilities and their compensation and beneficts; ! Consultation with employees and other stakeholders; ! Human Resources policies and procedures supporting the labour principles; ! Allocation of responsabilities the protection of labour rights within your organization; ! External Audits; 3.3 Enviromental Principles Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approuch to enviromental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsability; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessement, Policy and Goals; Actions up to August 2014: ! Assess the environmental footprint and impact of your company; ! Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental riskd; ! Describe specific goals in the area of the environment for the upcoming year; ! Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes; ! Allocation of responsabilities for environmental protection amongst MB Consulting. 3.4 Anti Corruption Principles Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all it’s forms, including extorsion and bribery. Actions up to August 2014: ! Commitment to be in compliance with all relevant laws, including international and national anti-corruption laws; ! Statement of support for international and regional legal frameworks; ! Policy of anti-corruption regarding business partners ; ! Communication channels and follow-up mechanisms for reporting concerns and seeking advices; ! Internal checks and balances to ensure consistency with the anti-corruption commitement; 4. Measurement of Outcomes The enforcement of activities contributing to the compliance of the 10 principles is challenging but also worthy. Our company is also implementing a social Page 4 of 5 corporate responbility (CSR) programme which is distinctive from the general CSR programmes. Ours consist of providing technical support to small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) free of charge. The programme is implemented in partnership with Government’s Institute for Promotion of SMEs (IPEME). Page 5 of 5
