Communication on Progress UN Global Compact cowi 2013 Communication on Progress 3 UN Global Compact 04 COMMITMENT FROM OUR CEO 16 ENVIRONMENT 06 SUSTAINABILITY AND CSR IN COWI 18 GREEN ACCOUNTS 08 KEY ACTIVITIES AND ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2013 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10 HUMAN RIGHTS 22 ABOUT GLOBAL COMPACT 12 LABOUR RIGHTS The Øresund Bridge Communication on Progress 5 UN Global Compact Commitment from our CEO In 2013, COWI continued to incorwe fully accept that our actions imreport is produced with reference to porate sustainability into our daily pact our stakeholders and the envithe ten principles of the Sustainability business and aligning our growing ronment at large. Environmental and Reporting Guidelines, and it outlines business with responsible global social responsibility has become one our CSR initiatives in 2013, including citizenship. of the main focus areas for COWI’s our sustainable business operations. customers, and new legislation and Today, both environmental and emerging voluntary standards can At COWI, CSR is at the heart of our social consciousness is embedded in limit market access for companies operations. The way we do business the COWI culture and the way we that do not offer sustainable products is as important to us as the quality of do business. By having this mind-set, or operate in a responsible manner. our products and services. we ensure that corporate social reConsequently, it is imperative for us sponsibility (CSR) is carefully conthat our solutions continue to create sidered in all decisions made at every value and make a positive difference level of our company. for our stakeholders and society. Our core competencies are within We are fully committed to the United engineering, economics and environNations Global Compact and their mental science and with more than Communication on Progress reporting. 17,000 ongoing projects every year, This Communication on Progress Lars-Peter Søbye, President, CEO Communication on Progress 7 UN Global Compact Sustainability and CSR in COWI COWI provided main consultancy services throughout the construction process of the Blue Planet in Copenhagen, Denmark, which opened in 2013. CSR AND SUSTAINABILITY We strive to integrate social, environPromoting diversity and cultivating The figure shows that CSR and sustainability in COWI are about integrating concerns for the mental, ethical and human rights an ethical culture are both key in our Our main contribution to concerns in our external projects as efforts to become the workplace of people, planet and profit in our business, our operations as well as our surrounding society. sustainable development lies well as in our internal business choice in the consulting industry. in the services we provide processes to reduce environmental impact. We also aim to make it easier Our commitment to sustainability and to our customers. for employees to voluntarily reduce corporate social responsibility is an their own impact on the climate and extension of our fundamental values to work closely together with and builds on our vision and mission. customers to develop the most The commitment is also reflected climate-friendly solutions possible. in our support of the UN Global Compact, the FIDIC Code of Ethics Through this approach, we aim to and the UN Caring for Climate. PLANET create shared value for our customers, ›› Environment key stake-holders, the company and DEFINITIONS ›› Climate change society at large. This is an ongoing We define CSR as “the responsibility ›› Water process and we continue to learn new of enterprises for their impacts on ways of dealing with the opportunities society”, which is aligned with the and dilemmas faced in this area. EU definition. COWI’s ethical business practices We define sustainability as integrating are an integral part of how we do social, environmental, ethical and PROFIT PEOPLE business. As a consequence, we have human rights concerns in our busi›› Anti-coruption ›› Health and safety developed a number of policies and ness operations. ›› Business ethics ›› Diversity guidelines on sustainability and CSR ›› Human rights engagement that set out the overall framework for how we carry out our work on a daily basis. These policies and guidelines are described in this report. It is also a goal of ours to be among the most attractive employers for professionals looking for a career within the consulting industry. Communication on Progress 9 UN Global Compact Key activities and achievements in 2013 For the establishment of a district cooling central in Copenhagen, Denmark, COWI’s service included concept development and detailed 3D design. Corporate social responThis is at the core of our services, our fitted with heat-sensitive cameras to thus forming a natural part of the enviinternal sustainability activities. You AT THE END OF 2013, COWI HAD sibility (CSR) and sustainbusiness model and our CSR efforts. photograph buildings from the air, ronmental cycle. can read more about our Global POLICIES CONCERNING THE thereby helping engineers to find the Compact activities at www.cowi.com/ ability form integral parts of In 2013, COWI added new dimensions most energy-efficient solutions when CSR activities sustainability. FOLLOWING AREAS: COWI’s 360˚ services and to our CSR work with new solutions for renovating buildings. COWI also uses our core competenSustainable development Business integrity business model. In 2013, we our customers and increased efforts in cies to contribute to sustainable COWIfonden Safety and health our own business. And we also made Sustainable solutions at COWI development. As a consequence, the Every year, COWIfonden (the used our competencies to our competencies available to those in These new technologies and methods employees at COWI Denmark chose COWIfoundation) donates funds Diversity and inclusion improve our customers’ soparticular need of help. can now be applied on other projects to spend part of their annual activity for the promotion of research and Whistleblower hotline lutions, strengthen our own for the benefit of the environment, day drawing up specific proposals development projects in COWI’s Responsible supplier management. Integral part of COWI’s people and communities all over the for solutions to water and sanitary fields of activity. In 2013, COWI business and help people in services globe. To ensure that COWI’s extensive problems in Laos for the Danish supported several projects within In 2013, COWI continued its activities to distress. At COWI, sustainability forms an integral knowledge is implemented across the Red Cross. The proposals were energy-efficient and environmentally strengthen the use of a number of internal policies and tools to ensure that all business units live part of all our services and products. business, COWI set up an internal CSR then presented in a report that was sound construction and sustainable up to COWI’s ambitions in terms of sustainability And again in 2013, COWI developed forum in 2013 to register and comsubsequently submitted to the Red urban development. and CSR. The world is developing faster than a host of new projects and services municate the many solutions developed Cross and the Laotian Embassy in ever. Population growth has people all setting new standards for sustainable by our consultants. This ensures that Stockholm, Sweden. In 2013, COWIfonden also granted over the globe migrating towards the solutions. For instance, in 2013, COWI CSR will constitute a natural part of financial support to Engineers big cities of the world. The economies commenced the design of a carbonall COWI’s solutions in the future while In Norway, COWI entered into a Without Borders (EWB) for a project are developing, and a growing part neutral building in Nanjing, China, based strengthening our own business and partnership with Save the Children helping the local agricultural university of the world population demands the on COWI’s famous Green Lighthouse, market position. Norway (Redd Barna). In addition to in Coroico, Peru, to establish same conditions as we find in the which was built in Copenhagen in condirect financial support from COWI, a laboratory for environmental monitorWestern countries today. nection with the COP15 climate summit Sustainability is also incorporated into some of COWI’s employees in Norway ing and environmental soil and water in 2009. COWI’s own projects. In connection have chosen to donate a fixed monthly investigation in the area. The local This trend places great demands on with the refurbishment of COWI’s head amount out of their salaries to Save the university, Caritas-Coroico, a university big-city infrastructure and access to In 2013, in collaboration with the office in Lyngby, which commenced Children Norway, and initiatives include in Denmark and EWB’s voluntary engienergy, health care and water. But it Confederation of Danish Industry in 2013, COWI’s experts are applying homework assistance for especially neers will train students in sustainable also increases the pressure on the (DI), COWI also started evaluating the cradle-to-cradle principles when vulnerable children. solutions at the laboratory. world’s resources, the climate and the the impact of and experience with developing the new common areas: You can read more about COWIfonden environment. corporate green accounting, which the canteen, the patio and the meetCOWI is a member of the UN Caring at www.cowifonden.dk. was introduced in 1996. Furthermore, ing facilities. This ensures that all the for Climate initiative and the UN COWI’s solutions find the optimal COWI completed its first surveys usmaterials included in the construction Global Compact, whose ten principles balance between these many needs. ing unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) work can be reused or biodegraded, constitute the foundation of our Communication on Progress 11 UN Global Compact Human Rights 01 02 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: POLICY/GUIDELINE: DUE DILIGENCE Businesses should support Businesses should make sure Employee conditions and compliance with human rights are important to and respect the protection that they are not complicit in COWI. To ensure that we detect any human rights violations on projects of internationally proclaimed human rights abuses. which we are involved in, we operate according to three procedures: ›› Due diligence: COWI performs a screening to uncover human rights risks human rights. before entering into a project. The process helps identify violations of human rights on a specific project, allowing us to back out in time. ›› Health and safety supervision: COWI seeks to increase our influence on project sites by offering supervision of safety and health conditions. This allows us to ensure that internationally accepted standards are enforced on a project. ›› Obligation to act: Employees at COWI have the so-called obligation to act, WORKING WITH HUMAN Through our policy on sustainable Key activities in 2013 meaning that everyone is obligated to act if they see human rights being RIGHTS development, we integrate respect for In 2013, we extended the implementaviolated on a project. The human rights principles are related human rights in our business. In the tion of the sustainable procurement to all COWI’s activities, meaning the policy, we commit ourselves to taking system to also include Sweden and The three procedures are included in our project management training people that we impact in our project-resocial aspects into consideration when Norway. The system was launched in and COWI’s onboarding programme. lated activities. We believe that respect performing assignments, to enhanCOWI Denmark in 2012 and assists and support of human rights are rooted cing our employees’ attention to and us in approving suppliers. Any supplier in the company culture and reflected in knowledge of social conditions in POLICIES: HEALTH AND SAFETY who delivers goods and services order to further sustainable developCOWI strives for a safe and healthy working environment, both in our own one of our five guiding values, namely (including travel services) in excess ment in all our activities. operations and in our assignment-related activities. ‘respect’, which is stated below. of EUR 15,000 per year to the COWI To meet our objectives, we will: Group or has entered into a procure“We respect those we work with, By incorporating this policy into our ›› ensure that a safe working environment is not compromised for economic ment agreement with COWI must nature and society. We respect risk assessment systems and our or productivity reasons. POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES be approved and listed on the COWI RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS each other in decision-making training systems, we continue to make ›› ensure that project managers instruct their teams on specific project-related Approved Supplier List. The system and implementation. We respect our employees aware of the relevance health and safety risks and necessary preventive measures. This includes All policies are available at takes human and labour rights, ethical friendship across the organisation, and importance of this theme in our the use of personal protective equipment. www.cowi.com/sustainability standards, social and environmental independent of the hierarchy.” external activities. ›› provide employees with an opportunity to influence their own working policies, health and safety, diversity and anti-corruption into consideration. We environment in dialogue with management. store all information concerning every ›› comply with relevant health and safety legislation and standards. COWI’s value on respect supplier in our system, meaning that ›› inform our customers and business partners if we find violations of health FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI the entire organisation has access to and safety standards, labour rights, human rights or unnecessary or illegal Policy on health and safety all relevant supplier information. environmental degradation on projects in which we are involved. Policy on sustainable development Communication on Progress 13 UN Global Compact LABOUR RIGHTS 03 05 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: LABOUR RIGHT PRACTICES KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2013 Businesses should uphold the The key challenge in relation to labour Businesses should uphold the COWI ACADEMY rights is that the main risk of labour freedom of association and elimination of all forms of rights abuses most often lies outWe are aware of the necessity of forced and compulsory labour. constantly developing our employees. effective recognition of the right side of our sphere of influence. Within COWI Academy is developed to to collective bargaining. our industry, the main risk of human focus on all career levels and in 2013, rights abuses exists in countries where 04 06 a web portal with courses was PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: migrant labour is used during conlaunched. This facilitates constant deBusinesses should uphold Businesses should uphold the struction. To avoid complicity in human velopment and, over time, the employrights abuses,we have the following the effective abolition of elimination of discrimination practices: ees’ knowledge will be transformed EMPLOYEES IN THE COWI child labour. in respect of employment and into COWI assets. Today, ›› If we are in charge of health and GROUP 2012-2013 more than 80 per cent of all emoccupation. safety supervision during the construction phase of a project, we ployees are placed in COWI’s career 2012 2013 have the chance to influence labour system and have been assigned Employees 6.089 6.102 rights conditions at the construction the responsibility for strengthening Average age, years 41.9 41.7 site and act if they are not aligned relations with customers, specialists Women 30% 30% with national and international ratietc. In 2013, COWI also continued Men 70% 70% Working with labour as our employees are already free each other and come up with compefied legislation. to invest in our Project Management rights to be part of a union and enter into titive solutions based on a differenAcademy and more than 230 project collective bargaining with manage›› If we are not in charge of any superThe labour rights principles are tiated knowledge base and mind-set, managers have recieved extensive ment across the COWI Group. Our vision on the project, we do not nerelated to COWI’s internal activities, it is our experience that our projects training in project management, risk POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND employees are also free to seek new cessarily have access to the building TOOLS RELATING TO LABOUR meaning the more than 6,000 people improve. We believe that embracing management and economics. opportunities outside of COWI. site and, as such, are not aware of RIGHTS working in COWI. The most relevant diversity is one way of sustaining our the human rights or labour rights principle in relation to labour rights position as a leader within our field. WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT All policies are available at COWI dissociates itself from all kinds standards. We do, however, make is the principle regarding elimination our employees aware that they have It is COWI’s general objective that www.cowi.com/sustainability of child labour, and as our jobs require of discrimination of employment and a certain level of education that chilCOWI’s objective remains to ensure an obligation to act and inform their the composition of the management occupation. In COWI, we practice dren do not have, there is no evident that its pipeline of diverse leadership manager if they see human rights should reflect the diversity of our business. In the light of this, COWI’s value of respect diversity and equal opportunities, and risk of child labour. talents is improved so that the pool of violations on projects that we are COWI set the target in 2013 for COWI Whistleblower our activities are described below. successors reflects the staff composionly indirectly involved in as sub-conminimum two out of six of COWI’s FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI DIVERSITY tion of the individual business areas. sultant. If employees experience that The principles of freedom of associaCOWI is an international company with A diverse and market-oriented worktheir manager does not react to the board members to be women Policy on sustainable development tion and the abolition of forced labour projects all over the world. By having a force will make COWI’s 360° strategy problem, they can use the COWI within a four-year period. Policy on diversity and inclusion diverse work force that can challenge viable. Whistleblower. Policy on health and safety are strictly upheld in the COWI Group Communication on Progress 15 UN Global Compact In 2013, one out of the six board members elected at the general meeting was a woman. To increase the number of women in management, we have launched a number of activities. Among other things, COWI is a party to Copenhagen’s Diversity Charter and participates in an external mentor network in cooperation with other major Danish companies. INTRODUCTION DAY COWI believes that it is important to engage and inform all employees about our organisation, values, strategy and the way we do business. We believe that a common understanding and apPOLICY: DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION COWI views diversity as a competitive advantage that helps us achieve the preciation of COWI’s culture are crucial best results for our customers. for the employees’ future commitment and satisfaction as part of COWI. To meet our objectives, we will: In 2013, we continued to formalise ›› aim to have a diverse workforce that mirrors the diversity in our business and structure our introduction day, and markets. which is mandatory to all newcomers. ›› give equal opportunities to everyone, regardless of gender, age, race, To help newcomers become a part of religion, nationality, ethnic and social origin, disability, political COWI, a personal introduction plan and sexual orientation. for each new employee is developed ›› ensure that our employment and recruitment practices adhere to local on the first day of employment. In legislation, wherever we work in the world. 2013, almost 90 per cent of newcom›› continuously improve equal opportunities in our employment and ers participated in the introduction recruitment practices. day and we expect this number to ›› work towards creating a culture of tolerance and appreciation of difference. increase in 2014. Communication on Progress 17 UN Global Compact ENVIRONMENT In New Orleans, USA, COWI designed flood gates to minimise damage in coastal areas caused by destructive storms. 07 09 PRINCIPLE: PRINCIPLE: KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2013 into economically viable products is a sustainability concept based on or services that help to mitigate and a closed-loop approach. We have Businesses should support Businesses should encourage FLOOD GATES adapt to climate change. ensured that all materials used in a precautionary approach to the development and diffusion As well as recognising the importance the refurbishment can be reused or of minimising future climate change, environmental challenges. of environmentally friendly SUSTAINABLE BUILDINGS biodegraded. The new common areas COWI is also aware of already occurtechnologies. Throughout 2013, COWI continued will benefit all our employees, and ring natural disasters. We have trained they will be used as a showcase for 08 specialists in how to design structures its strong focus on development of PRINCIPLE: to protect property and people from new services within the field of our customers and visitors. Measures Businesses should undertake sustainable buildings, and COWI are also taken to improve the indoor natural disasters. In 2013, COWI environment, e.g. with a new ventilainitiatives to promote greater designed 140 flood gates for various won the 2013 Nordic Built Challenge tion system and open-plan offices. environmental responsibility. public facilities on the northeast coast in Norway with the ‘Urban Mountain’ We expect to finish the refurbishment of the USA to protect public properproject. The project introduces in late 2014. ty against major storms. The flood completely new, innovative ways of protection seeks to minimise damage introducing urban flora in the core in coastal areas caused by destructive building, securing circularity storms such as Hurricane Sandy, of resources in use (both building which devastated northeast USA materials and waste), generating Working with the From a risk mitigation point of view, ›› COWI will actively evaluate the poback in 2012. ventilation and energy, and securing environment COWI Denmark’s screening procedure tential for and contribute to optimum maximum flexibility in use. In 2013, All the environmental principles are of helps us take a precautionary apclimate solutions in our projects in the Danish Minister of Climate, Energy NORDIC PARTNER paramount importance to COWI’s proach to environmental challenges and partnership with our customers. and Buildings inaugurated COWI’s In terms of the global climate change activities. Through our businessrelated to focus on the broader sustainability ›› COWI will, in partnership with our Nanjing Lighthouse building in China. agenda, there is increasing consensus activities, we can make the biggest scope. In terms of environment, the employees, promote voluntary parThe Nanjing Lighthouse will act as about the importance of fast intervendifference. We do, however, conscreening procedure focuses on landticipation in our climate initiative and an exhibition centre for green solutions and innovative solutions. COWI tinuously strive to improve our own scape, nature, cultural and recreational provide tools for improved individual tions and serve as a model for was the only Danish consulting POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND environmental footprint. It is at the areas, resource consumption in the climate behaviour. sustainable construction in China. company invited to be a partner to the TOOLS RELATING TO core of COWI’s business to develop project period, environmental impact and newly established Nordic Climate KIC. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION and disseminate environmentally emissions, and climate change. CRADLE-TO-CRADLE Climate KIC is the EU’s largest publicCOWI’s value of respect friendly technologies. We continue private innovation partnership focusing In 2013, we began the refurbishment COWI Whistleblower to upgrade and develop our skills in To ensure high-level performance on climate change, and consists of of our corporate head office in Lyngby this area to be able to suggest new FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI in the area of climate change, companies, academic institutions where the development of the new and more environmentally friendly COWI is committed to the following Policy on sustainable development and the public sector, with the aim of common areas is based on the cradlesolutions to our customers. strategic goals: Policy on sustainable supply chain transforming knowledge and ideas to-cradle principle. Cradle-to-cradle Communication on Progress 19 UN Global Compact Green Accounts COWI is involved in the design of Nanjing Lighthouse in the Jiangsu province of China. The building is part of the Nanjing High Tech Zone – a major sustainable urban development programme. 97 per cent. Finally, the use of water 2013 green accounts Our reduced use of resources It is an integral part of our business CLIMATE IMPACT PER EMPLOYEE CLIMATE IMPACT DIStributed on displayed through their CO2 impact per employee has been more or less model to work closely with customers As part of our reporting on the IN DENMARK, TONNES CO2 categories, TONNES CO2-EQ demonstrates the positive developconstant at approximately 7 m³ per and colleagues around the world. We Communication on Progress, COWI ments seen in 2013. year, but in 2013, it went down to 6 m³ seek to achieve this by local presence Denmark publishes our green ac9500 thanks to installation of water-saving and by meeting the customer on site, 5.0 counts covering our environmental We have used less heat, electricity faucets etc. also when a local office is not avail4.5 footprint. This year, the Danish part 3.9 4.0 8500 and water per employee, which the able. 4.0 of our major business line, Bridge, 3.5 These results are due to our procure3.5 Tunnels and Marine Structures, is figure to the right shows. Moreover, 3.0 our usage of paper has declined and ment principles and our permanent As a result of this, air travel accounts 3.0 7500 also included. 2.7 we recycle our paper and change aim of reducing heat loss and the use for a large part of our climate impact: 2.5 to environmentally certified paper, of electricity and water in our office 52 per cent in 2013. The impact per 2.0 In 2013, we surpassed our previous 6500 whenever possible. The total amount facilities. The acquisition of a hybrid employee is 1.4 tonnes CO2 compared 1.5 achievements, continuing the positive of paper used per employee has been car is another example of this mindto 2.3 tonnes in 2008. The decrease is 1.0 trend of reducing our environmental 5500 reduced by 46 per cent. In 2013, the set. We are planning to acquire more mainly due to a reduction in short0.5 footprint as shown in the figures on percentage of certified printing paper hybrid cars as part of the ongoing distance flights, as they are substituted 0.0 the following page. The numbers and paper products accounted for updating of the car park. by video conferencing. 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 4500 displayed are CO2 equivalents, thus encompassing all greenhouse gases. 2013 2012 3500 GUIDELINE: SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN 2011 Since 2008, we have decreased COWI procures goods and services at the best terms, assessing 2010 2500 our CO2₂emissions per employee by total costs, quality and sustainability. 2009 approximately 40 per cent. Especially, the lower emission factors for electriTo meet our objective, we will: 1500 city and car travel add to this positive ›› integrate sustainability requirements in our supplier and The 2012 figure has been corrected, as not development. sub-consultant approval process. all final data was available at the time of the 500 ›› give preference to waterand energy-efficient products to publication of the 2012 COP report. It is our policy gradually to include reduce consumption rates. 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 -500 impacts from more and more catego›› give preference to environmentally friendly products and Hazardous waste Paper usage ries in our green accounts. We also products that can be recycled. Landfill Water usage strive to secure more precise data for ›› avoid products with hazardous substances. Incineration Electricity as many categories as possible. ›› consider the emissions of CO2 when booking business trips. Transport by plane District heating ›› consider if the business trip can be replaced by a videoconference Transport by train Natural Gas or other information and communication technology. Transport by car Recycling Mail Communication on Progress 21 UN Global Compact ANTICORRUPTION 10 PRINCIPLE: Businesses should work against Guideline: COWI WHISTLEBLOWER COWI wishes to maintain a high standard of business ethics and encourages corruption in all its forms, including anyone to talk to their line manager about concerns regarding business ethics. extortion and bribery. If they feel uncomfortable doing so, they can use the COWI Whistleblower. To meet our objectives, we will: ›› ensure that any concerns raised through the Whistleblower are investigated and appropriate action taken. ›› allow everyone including employees, former employees, sub-contractors, agency staff and business partners to use the Whistleblower. WORKING WITH accordance with the FIDIC Code of KEY ACTIVITIES IN 2013 ›› allow whistleblower notifications within: ANTI-CORRUPTION Ethics, COWI’s business integrity poliA challenge in COWI is to reach the ›› violations of legislation, regulations and internal policies. Anti-corruption is an integral part of cies and guidelines, and with the laws more than 6,000 employees working ›› misbehaviours with regard to accounting and auditing. our culture, and business integrity is applicable in the company’s home in more than 100 countries. ›› fraud, theft and conflicts of interest. one of our guiding values, saying: country and the countries of operation. ›› improper giving or receiving of gifts. “We act with credibility and integrity In 2013, COWI initiated a business ›› discrimination and harassment. in all aspects”. We believe that comIn COWI, we believe that the adapintegrity compliance project, which ›› violation of environmental protection, health and safety legislation. panies which take the lead in nontation of good governance, transparwill improve due diligence of business ›› make the Whistleblower publicly available. ency and accountability into day-topartners. Through e-learning, we will ›› continuously train our employees in maintaining our culture of integrity engagement in corruption will be the day business is the best fence against improve the training of our employees and honesty and inform them of the Whistleblower. ultimate winners. An extract of our anti-corruption. across the Group. The project will policy on business integrity states that: be completed in 2014. POLICIES, PRINCIPLES AND COWI’s whistleblower system enables Policy: BUSINESS INTEGRITY TOOLS RELATING TO “We will not in our services or employees and external stakeholders COWI wishes to maintain its impartiality and independence and contribute ANTI-CORRUPTION in any other activity, directly to anonymously report any violations of globally to a fair conduct of business, avoiding extraneous influence on All policies are available at or indirectly, accept bribery, our principles on business integrity and selection, execution or compensation procedures. We will not in our services www.cowi.com/sustainability extortion, fraud, collusion or any sustainable development. It is important or in any other activities, directly or indirectly, accept bribery, extortion, fraud, other undue business activity.” that our employees have a common collusion or any other undue business activity. understanding of our business integrity policy and are familiar with the COWI Business integrity policy To meet our objectives, we will: Each member of the COWI Group is Whistleblower, which can help the COWI‘s value of integrity ›› continuously train our employees in the area of business integrity. required to implement business integrity business and prevent future offences COWI Whistleblower ›› continuously develop and maintain proper tools to help and guide our employees. management. This should be done in and unethical behaviour. FIDIC Code of Ethics, adopted by COWI Communication on Progress 23 UN Global Compact About Global Compact Global Compact is an initiative launched in January 1999 by former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan. It is a call to businesses worldwide to help build social and environmental frameworks that ensure open and free markets and help people everywhere secure a chance to share the benefits of the new global economy. The Global Compact encompasses ten principles spanning everything from international declarations on human rights and labour rights to environmental and corruption issues. As the first consulting group in Denmark, COWI is authorised to use unmanned aircraft systems (UAS) for commercial mapping. www email Phone address Denmark Parallelvej 2 www.cowi.com cowi@cowi.com +45 56 40 00 00 2800 Kongens Lyngby March 2014. Photos: COWI/Niclas Jessen, Nicky Bonne, Niels Aage Skovbo, Adam Mørk, USACE and CB&I, Archiland International
