UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 Contents Statement of support................................5 About Claire.............................................7 Human Rights People............................8 Labor principles People ......................10 Environment Planet.............................12 Anti-Corruption Profit.........................15 Measurements and goals........................16 2 3 Statement of support Claire Group is an international fashion house with roots in Denmark founded in 1975 with the vision to create clothes on a sustainable basis. Our mission is to create stylish and casual clothes that appeal to fashion conscious women and children and build a company we can be proud of. Our products are sold around the world through own shops and retailers. We are dedicated to fulfil the intentions of the 10 principles outlined by the UN Global Compact Initiative. We strive to strongly influence our suppliers and business partners to support, to live up to and to participate in the Global Compact Initiative. Claire Group has been an active part of the UN Global Compact initiative since January 2010 and our support is unchanged. It is our conviction that business must be sound and sustainable for all involved in the process. Since 2009 Claire Group has been a member of BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative) because we believe that auditing our suppliers will help us to obtain a responsible supply chain. In 2012 we took a step further and became the first fashion house in Scandinavia to be certified with the ethic standard, SA 8000. In 2013 we have revised our policies and in 2014 we have comitted our selves to uphold a strong animal velfare policy. We continue setting targets within the 10 principles in UN Global Compact and we measure our performance year by year. We are proud to contribute to a more sustainable world, today and in the future. Anders Hust, CEO Sign: ______________________ “Our focus on quality stretches beyond our products. It also reflects the responsibility we have towards people and planet.” Anders Hust, CEO 4 5 About Claire Brief description of nature of business. Claire Group is family-owned companies (Ltd.) established in 1975, with headquarter in Ikast, Denmark. Claire Group is an international fashion house. Together our collections make a complete concept for modern women and children with an active life style. Most products are produced by our suppliers in Europe, China and India. Company info: Claire Group A/S Date: 30-06-2014 Address: Marsvej 6 10 Membership 11-01-2010 7430 Ikast date: Telephone: +45 97153122 Employees: 40 Country: DK Denmark Sector: Textile Contact name: Ulla Dam Contact Supply chain Contact mail: ud@claire.dk position: manager You can read about our different memberships, our certification and our sustainable product marks on www.claire.dk ” It is our vision to create clothes on a sustainable basis and build a company we can be proud of” Anders Hust, CEO 6 7 Processes and activities We have a clear written policy on human rights and sustainable production. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI membership ensure us against discrimination. To prevent discrimination to happen we have implemented proactive procedures for hiring, promoting and dismissal. At the same time our headquarters in Denmark are under strict Danish legislation, which we comply with. We have established a whistleblower system to handle any complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in human rights and SA 8000 issues. Terms of employment are established by individual workers contracts according to Danish legislation. Outcome Our SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI Code of Conduct have prevented us from violating the human right conventions in Denmark and on factory level at our main suppliers. We are in compliance with Danish laws and collective agreements. Bureau Veritas has successHuman Rights People fully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012, and we have had 3 half anual audits without major non -conformities. To monitor our effort and measure our Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights progress in the supply chain we are a member of the and BSCI. We are auditing our suppliers according to an audit plan and we are making corrective action plans Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. when a supplier is audited NON COMPLIANCE with the Code of Conduct. See our figures on last page in this report. What we want In Claire Group we will make an effort not to violate basic human rights conventions in Denmark and where • Claire Group was certified with the ethic our clothes are produced. We support the international declared human rights and we will not discriminate standard SA 8000 in 2012. against any person on grounds of race, religion, gender, age or disability. It is vital to us that everybody is welcome and feels like a member of the team. It is one of our core values that we are aware of our social re• In 2013 80 % of our employees are covered by sponsibility towards our employees, the local society and our supply chain. Everybody should be given fair a collective agreement. opportunities to build careers. We want to have a sustainable supply chain as well. Through our membership of the Business Social Compliance Initiative concept we are obliged to respect the fundamental human rights • In 2013 85 % of all employees have participaconventions no matter where we produce our clothes. ted in a SA 8000 course. • In 2013 57 % of employees on management level or in a position of trust were women. • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV), have had 1. first audit in order to disclose non-conformities within human rights and the BSCI Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have been carried out accordingly. “We have been working with social responsibility for more than 35 years and finally we have a certificate proving that our work • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV) are in comis very well done. Now there is more weight behind our words, pliance with the BSCI Code of Conduct or with the result improvement needed. Additional 30 % of when we talk about human rights and labor standards.” BV have been screened and have now started prepa ration for auditing procedure. Anders Hust, CEO 9 A/S as well as “close to” accidents, which we focus on, in the coming period. We have 6 weeks of vacation and paid sick leave. We have an employer-paid health insurance. All employees have access to paid education within their area of responsibility. We have a job on special terms e.g. trainees or work ability testing. Our values together with our in-house SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI membership ensure us against violation of basic labor standards in Denmark and at our suppliers. We have established a whistleblower system “With our SA 8000 certificate we show our to handle any complaints. We have in-house awareness training of employees in health and safety and in SA suppliers, that we take our own medicine. 8000 issues every year. That has definitely given us more respect in our supply chain.” Through our membership in BSCI we have implemented our policies and Code of Conduct in our supply chain. The BSCI Code of Conduct set out the minimum criterias for labour standards. We make sure that it is possible for workers to take out health insurance. If we see any young workers they will be employed in light Anders Hust, CEO jobs suitable to their age and abilities only. At the same time we will demand that they return to school every day. We also require compliance as a minimum with local legislation in our production countries. Outcome Labor principles People There is no forced or compulsory labour in the company or at our supplier premises and all basic labor standards are observed. Our SA 8000 procedures and our BSCI Code of Conduct have prevented us from violating basic workers standards, national legislation and collective agreements in Denmark and on factory level at our main suppliers. We are in compliance with Danish laws and collective agreements and Bureau Veritas has successfully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012. Our staff is extremely loyal and as a consequence we have a lot Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of long terms relationship. We are auditing our suppliers according to an audit plan and we are making correcof the right to collective bargaining; tive action plans when a supplier is not in compliance with the Code of Conduct. See our figures on last page Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; in this report. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • Our occupational and safety work is well organised and works successfully according to What we want the intentions of the Danish laws. We want to be one of the very best companies in the textile business within CSR-related issues. We believe fundamentally that our social responsibility should encompass not only our own activities in Denmark but also • 85 % of our staff has received training in our CSR-programme and SA 8000 issues. our total supply chain. We think that freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are fundamental rights, which should be upheld. • We have employees on special terms corresponding to ½ man year. We take the working environment extremely seriously because we believe that working environment and • 100 % of all employees have a private health insurance. satisfaction goes hand in hand. We care about each employee’s health and safety. We want to have a creative work environment and believe that this requires basic conditions concerning employee safety and health of a • 80 % of all employees are covered by a collective agreement. top standard level. We want to motivate and educate our staff and make the best possible use of our resources. • 30 % of all employees have first aid certificate. We condemn child labour, dangerous work, unreasonably long working days or salaries, which is lower than the current industrial rate in the country of production. • We have established a whistleblower system. • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV) have had first audit in order to disclose non-conformProcesses and activities ities within human rights and our Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have Employees in headquarters are organized in unions as we respect freedom of association and the right to colbeen carried out accordingly. lective bargaining. The company is covered by three collective agreements. Compensation and overtime payment meet the Danish minimum standard or the relevant collective agreement. We have a clear written policy on working environment. We continually improve our working environment, • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV) are in compliance with the BSCI Code of Con duct or with the according to high Danish legislation and our SA 8000 standard and procedures. We have an environmental, result improvement needed. Additional 30 % of BV have been screened and have now started preparahealth and safety committee with representatives from the workers and the management group. Our occupation for the auditing procedure. tional and safety work is very well organized. We assess any labour related risk or accident at Claire Group 10 11 Environment Planet Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges ; and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies What we want At Claire Group we are aware of our environmental responsibility, and we think all companies should contribute. We seek to be a more and more green company on a daily basis not only because there is money to be earned by safeguarding the environment but also because we owe this to our grandchildren. We consider environmental awareness as a wide range of initiatives that includes running our headquarters in Ikast on a sustainable basis and reducing our CO2 emission from producing our products. We care about chemicals in clothes, zippers and buttons and we observe the EU-REACH legislation as a minimum. We support environmentally friendly technologies and help to improve the general knowledge of environmentally friendly fabrics. Processes and activities We have a policy on environment and transport. In 2010 we performed a 360 degree inspection in our house and reviewed our electricity consumption in our headquarters. We are aware of environmental issues in procurement and Outcome on most promotional materials. In our efforts to be a more green company we use recycling whenever it is possible and we measure our in-house consump• In 2013 we reduced our electricity consumption by 35 % tion of resources. We encourage our suppliers always to use an environmen(2010=100) and water by 44 %. tally friendly method and to avoid all unnecessary use of chemicals. Besides • Consumption of heath has been reduced by 45 % due to reorganizing on we have a restricted chemicals programme, which our suppliers must follow. a smaller area We have a collection of organic styles for children (GOTS) and a collection of • We sail approximately 92 % of our goods to Europe from our suppliers. styles made by the environmentally friendly material, bamboo. We also strive • In our supply chain 74 % of suppliers (BV) have signed our restricted to increase the number of styles with Oeko-Tex 100 year after year. chemicals programme. • In 2014 we will strengthened our restricted chemicals programme further. Random inspections are organized according to the limit values in EU-reach Outcome at our core supplier every three years in a rotation. We have established figures for our calculation and picked relevant Key Performance Indicators. We measure our progress and we begin to see the result of our efforts in 2010, where we invested a considerable amount in saving electricity and changing bulbs. The reduction in electricity continued in 2013, where our total consumption of electricity for the year has been reduced by 35 % compared to 2010 and water is reduced by 44 %. We still believe our “Sustainable fashion is not only about where the clothes is coming from investment in low energy lighting will be earned back over a 4 years peand how it is produced, it is also about a sustainable consumer behavior riod. We have focused on reduction of our commercial waste and have recycled as much as possible. We have reduced our commercial waste by 54 % since 40 % of the CO2 emission lies with the consumer.” (2010=100) See our total measurements on last page. Anders Hust, CEO 12 13 Anti-Corruption Profit Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. What we want At Claire Group corruption is not acceptable and we are strongly against bribery, extortion or any other form of facility payments. We want to run a profitable company and respect people and planet. We encourage our business partners with our attitudes to bribery and corruption. Processes and activities We have a formulated company policy about bribery and anti-corruption, and in 2011 it was implemented in our staff handbook. Bribery is a not included in the BSCI Code of Conduct, but we have made tree amendments, which we follow. A bribery and anti-corruption clause is one of them. We do not pay any form for illegitimate payments and no employee must either give or receive gifts above a value of 50 Euro. Our employees are encouraged to express complaints, suspicions or concerns anonymously to the company by using the whistleblower. Bribery is a part of our in-house training of employee in human rights, workers rights and environmental issues and SA 8000 training. Outcome Our anti-corruption policy and our transparent rules and procedures have prevented us from any cases of bribery, anti-corruption etc. in 2012. We are in compliance with Danish laws and Bureau Veritas has successfully certified our company with SA 8000 in 2012. • In 2011 we formulated a anti-corruption policy about bribery and corruption and in 2012 it was implemented in our staff handbook. In 2014 we will revise this policy. • In 2013 we had no cases regarding bribery or anti-corruption from the whistleblower scheme. • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV), have had first audit in order to disclose non-conformities within human rights and our Code of Conduct in general. Corrective actions have been carried out accordingly. • In 2013 64 % of our suppliers (BV) are in compliance with the BSCI Code of Conduct or with the result improvement needed. How do you intend to make this COP available to your stakeholders? A summery of our social performance for 2013 can be found on last page. This COP will be available at the Global Compact homepage and can be found on www.claire.dk. 14 15 Measurements and goals Key PerformMeasurements 2013 Measurements 2013 Goals/Objectives 2014 Goals/Objectives 2014 Policy System ance Headquaters Suppliers Headquaters Suppliers Indicators Human Rights Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: SA 8000 management • SA 8000 certification in June 2012 1. 64 % of buying volume (BV) • SA 8000 certification continued 1. 68 % of BV with first audit system with first audit YES + • 85 % of all employees with SA-8000 training • 98 % of all employees with 2. 68 % of BV in compliance or Three collective 2. 64 % of BV in compliance or IN SA-8000 training and increaIN with BSCI CoC and agreements • 57 % of employees on management level or in a with BSCI CoC and sing focus on internal training in position of trust are women general 3. 25 % of suppliers with Suppliers: 3. 30 % of suppliers with screening • 80 % of employees covered by a collective agreescreening • 50 % of employees on manageBSCI – ment ment level or in a position of Code of Conduct trust are women * IN = Improvement needed • 80 % of employees covered by a * IN = Improvement needed collective agreement Labour Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: Standards SA 8000 management • SA 8000 certification in June 2012 1. 64 % of BV with first audit • SA 8000 certification continued 1. 68 % of BV with first audit YES system + • 85 % of all employees with SA-8000 training 2. 64 % of BV in compliance or IN • 98 % of all employees with SA-8000 2. 68 % of BV in compliance or Three collective with BSCI CoC and training and increa-sing focus on interIN with BSCI CoC and agreements • ½ man-year employed on special terms nal training in general 3. 30 % of suppliers with 3. 25 % of suppliers with Suppliers: • 80 % of employees covered by a collective screening • ½ man-year employed on special terms screening agreement BSCI – • 80 % of employees covered by a colCode of Conduct • 30 % of all employees have first aid certificate lective agreement * IN = Improvement needed • 25 % with first aid certificate Environment Headquarters: 2011 2012 2013 Suppliers: 2014 Suppliers: • 85 % of BV with signed chemi cals Waste in KG 26701 18340 12200 Waste in KG 12000 Environment program • 74 % of BV with signed chemiprogram YES Electricity in KwH 193232 185262 157760 cals program Electricity in KwH 150000 Water in M3 653 485 421 Water in M3 400 • Random inspections on readymade Suppliers: Heath in KwH 875900 847100 460592 garment from all core suppliers every Heath in KwH 450000 three years in rotation. Restricted chemicals Transportation by 95% / 5% 91,8%/9,2 % 96% / 4 % Transportation by 93% /3% program. Ship/aeroplane Ship/aeroplane • Cold wash campaign Anti-corruption Headquarters: Headquarters: Suppliers: Headquarters: Suppliers: Policy Whistleblower and • No cases regarding Anti-corruption 1. 64 % of BV with first audit • All cases solved 1. 68 % of BV with first audit YES suggestion box 2. 64 % of BV in compliance or 2. 68 % of BV in compliance or Suppliers: IN with BSCI CoC IN with BSCI CoC BSCI – 3. 30 % of suppliers with 3. 25 % suppliers with screening Code of Conduct screening * IN = Improvement needed 16 17 Marsvej 6-10 • 7430 Ikast www.claire.dk www.hustandclaire.dk www.clairegroup.dk
