UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Communication on Progress Report 2013 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Company Name: SEMIKRON International GmbH Adress: Sigmundstrasse 200, 90431 Nuremberg Country: Germany Membership date: 2012/05/04 Employees: 2.900 Sector: Technology Hardware & Equipment, Power Electronics Website: www.semikron.com Contact: Harald Jäger, Chief Operating Officer & Peter Sontheimer, Chief Sales Officer Telephone: +49 911 6559-0 Brief description of our business SEMIKRON is a global manufacturer of power semiconductors, primarily in the medium power range (approx. 2kW to 10MW). Applications include speed-controlled industrial drive units, automation technology, welding equipment and elevators. Other applications include uninterrupted power supply (UPS), renewable energies (wind, solar) as well as electrification of utility vehicles and urban transport equipment. The family enterprise has its headquarters in Nuremberg, Germany. It was founded in 1951 and employs 2,900 people worldwide. An international network of 30 operational companies and production plants in Brazil, China, France, India, Italy, Korea, Slovakia, South Africa and the USA ensures rapid and comprehensive services for local customers. With the foundation of its subsidiary, SindoPower (www.sindopower.com), in 2009, SEMIKRON also extended its distribution channels. SindoPower, an e-commerce company, sells power electronic products online, and offers competent technical consulting to small and medium businesses. Communication on Progress Report 2013 Statement of continued support SEMIKRON joined the UN Initiative Global Compact in May 2012. Since then, our commitment to human rights and the environment, our compliance with anti-corruption principles, as well as our employment policy has been monitored by the UN Global Compact Initiative. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our company’s strategy, culture and daily business. This letter underscores our intent to endorse these principles within our sphere of influence. At the same time, SEMIKRON is involved in projects which help promote the more broadly defined development aims of the UN. The implementation of such projects calls for the invariable support from the management in the form of ongoing activities and partnerships, as well as the company's clear willingness to learn and to be pro-active. We are pleased to confirm our continued support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti Corruption. Harald Jäger Peter Sontheimer Chief Operating Officer Chief Sales Officer SEMIKRON International GmbH SEMIKRON International GmbH Communication on Progress Report 2013 Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Respecting human rights is obligatory for all SEMIKRON production sites. Furthermore we do not tolerate any discrimination related to gender, race, nationality, handicap, social background and sexual orientation and we promote equal opportunities. Measures • Competent contact partners for matters of gender equality have been named and communicated to all employees. • Concerning Corporate Data Protection intra corporate contact partners have been defined, besides the already appointed Corporate Data Protection Officer. • Semikron actively supports the tasks of the Works Council as controlling organ for e.g. the observance of Human Rights Principles. Communication on Progress Report 2013 Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We strictly condemn and reject child labour and abide by the laws and regulations regarding minimum age. Apart from that we reject forced labour and physical punishment, threatening and harassing male and female employees. We respect the freedom of assembly and cooperate with employee representation organisations while maintaing a trustful relationship with them. Wages, social benefits and working hours at SEMIKRON completely fulfill the legal standards in the corresponding countries. We protect our employees from occupational hazards and support health promoting measures. These issues are binding for all SEMIKRON subsidiaries worldwide. The best possible maintaining of health and the creation of ergonomic and safe workplaces is a task that remains with all employees. By means of preventive and corrective measures safety at work is constantly improved. Measures • In 2013 special focus was placed on courses of Labour Law for all executive staff. • Additionally, a Labour Law e-learning platform was created with emphasis on working hours. • As a further benefit to all its employees, Semikron has implemented a company health care management. • The protection processes for mothers-to-be were further improved. Communication on Progress Report 2013 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We protect the environment by economic use of energy, materials and resources, by keeping emissions as low as possible, a high degree of recyclability and lowest possible amounts of harmful substances in our products and materials. Our products help to save energy and to generate energy in an environmentally sound manner without harming anybody. We comply with all valid and applicable laws regarding environmental protection and occupational safety. Thanks to our functional and integrated environment management we are able to continuously improve our processes and to reduce ecological damage as far as possible. The most important production sites in Germany, Slovakia and Italy have already received the ISO 14001 certification. Our largest production site in Germany has also received the environmental management registration according to the European standard EMAS. For our German production sites all related measures and results are published annually in our environmental report. Measures Germany: • Successful recertification audit ISO 14001 and EMAS III • 46 % of total water consumption in 2013 was covered by water recycling • 19 % reduced energy consumption for production equipment in relation to production volume compared to 2012 • 9 % reduced energy consumption for facilities in relation to building area compared to 2012 Communication on Progress Report 2013 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Measures Slovakia: • Successful surveillance audit according ISO 14001 • Improvement of waste water treatment facilities • Improvement of waste management Italy: • Successful recertification audit according ISO 14001 • Project „replacement of biological waste water treatment“ started • Project „reduction of energy consumption“ started: target 5 % reduction Communication on Progress Report 2013 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all ist forms, including extortion and bribery. Semikron does not tolerate corruption, bribery and extortion and actively works against it. We ensure a high level of abidance through our Internal Regulations for the Management of the Semikron Group, our basic principles, our internal control system and yearly financial and quality audits. Business partners and Suppliers are requested to adhere to our principles. Together with our partners we continuously support the UN Convention Against Corruption. Planned Measures Semikron is currently working with external advise on the development of an appropriate and efficient Compliance Management System. What we want to achieve: • General strengthening of Compliance awareness, • Implementation and Roll-Out of Group-wide Ethics Program & Code of Conduct, • Set-up of Compliance Programs including, among others, anti-bribery guideline, • Establishment of an Compliance Committee in charge of a) oversee the Company’s implementation of Compliance Programs, Policies and Procedures and b) assist the Supervisory Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility for the Company’s compliance and c) perform Compliance Audits. Communication on Progress Report 2013
