2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report Contents Dr. Dalene von Delft recovered from multi-drug resistant tuberculosis. Early access to a Johnson & Johnson medicine added to her treatment helped. Inspired by her experience, Dalene founded TB Proof, dedicated to raising awareness of TB among health care workers. Read more at 2013annualreport.jnj.com/stories/ New-Hope-for-MDR-TB-Patients CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S 2 Letter from Our Chairman & CEO 52 Labor Practices & Workforce Guide to the Icons 4 Successes & Challenges 55 Employee Retention, Development & Recruitment The icons below help to communicate the scope and boundary for each topic covered in our report. They 9 Organizational Profile 58 Compensation represent the audience and locations throughout the world 10 Report Profile 58 Diversity & Inclusion  impacted by our business segments or enterprise. 11 Citizenship & Sustainability 59 Political Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying Operations Global Consumer Citizenship & Sustainability Strategy 62 Intellectual Property Our Strategic Framework 62 Data Protection & Privacy Employees North Medical Devices America & Diagnostics 13 Our Citizenship & Sustainability 62 Stakeholder Engagement Materiality Assessment Process Customers Latin Pharmaceuticals 63 Job Creation America 15  Advancing Human Health & Well-Being 63 Philanthropy Europe, Local Enterprise 16 Global Health Middle East, 66 Community Involvement & Engagement Communities Africa 18 Access to and Affordability of Health Care 68 Volunteerism Asia 21 Product Pipeline Pacific 69 Safeguarding the Planet 22 R&D and Clinical Trials 70 Product Stewardship 24 Innovation 75 Ingredients About the GRI Indicators 26 Market Access 75 Sourcing of Raw Materials In addition to a GRI index at the back of this report, guide 27 Preventing Disease and Promoting Wellness boxes appear on pages to denote where content related 77 Environmental Responsibility to specific GRI indicators can be found. The following 28  Leading a Dynamic & Growing Business 78 Water key presents two-letter abbreviations for the standard Responsibly disclosure areas outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. 80 Greenhouse Gas Emissions/Climate Change 29 Strategic Leadership These abbreviations, along with numbers that correspond 86 Air Emissions with performance indicators, appear throughout this report 29 Quality & Safety of Products near the respective entries. 86 Waste Management 32 Ethical Performance 87 Biodiversity Conservation EN Environmental 34 Compliance 89 Healthy Future 2015 Goals Progress HR Human Rights 35 Transparency 92 Data Summary LA Labor Practices and Decent Work 36 Governance 95 Recognitions SO Society 38 Supply Chain & Supplier Management 96 United Nations Global Compact 42 Human Rights PR Product Responsibility 99 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index 45 Financial Health & Economic Performance EC Economic 117 Our Credo 46 Health-Conscious, Safe Employees 49 Workplace Health & Safety 1 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S A Letter from Our Chairman & CEO G4-1 Our commitment to citizenship and framework through which we strive to continue the principles, many of which have been embedded in our good progress we have made against our Healthy Future business practices for decades. sustainability at Johnson & Johnson is 2015 goals: inspired by what was written more than We are conscientious, too, of our impact on the environment, the health of which is inextricably linked 70 years ago in Our Credo. To this day We continue to expand our efforts and engage in collaborative projects to advance global health on to our efforts in human health. In 2013, our energy and Our Credo serves as the compass that carbon reduction programs earned distinction from multiple levels. In 2010, we made a significant fiveguides all decisions at our Company. year commitment to the United Nations Millennium the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), naming us as Our Credo defines our responsibilities to Development Goals to improve the lives of women and all stakeholders and to the communities children worldwide, and we are on track to deliver our commitments by 2015. in which we work and live. Our newly formed Janssen Global Public Health Health care is one of the greatest challenges facing soci(GPH) team combines the best of our innovative access ety now and in the future. No other issue is as important models with our core business strategy to drive better or personal to every individual, every family, every comoutcomes, improve quality of life and sustainably advance munity and every country. As the world’s largest and most health care. GPH’s work with the Stop TB Partnership diverse health care company, we feel it is our responsito facilitate access to SIRTURO™ (bedaquiline), the bility to lead in the development of a comprehensive and first medication for pulmonary multi-drug resistant collaborative global approach to this challenge, and to tuberculosis with a novel mechanism of action in over continue pursuing our aspiration to help billions of people 40 years, will have a major impact on lives. We will around the world live longer, healthier and happier lives. continue these and other efforts in response to the world’s health challenges. In working to meet this worldwide challenge, our Citizenship & Sustainability priorities are to advance We are leading a dynamic and responsible business human health and well-being, help to safeguard the in many ways. As part of our longstanding practices and planet, and lead a dynamic and growing business commitment to Citizenship & Sustainability, we joined the responsibly. This is the citizenship and sustainability U.N. Global Compact in 2013 and are committed to its Alex Gorsky Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 2 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S the health care sector leader within the S&P 500 and Health care needs throughout the world are evolving For 128 years Johnson & Johnson has pursued and maintaining our membership in the CDP Leadership rapidly. Our decentralized management approach gives us delivered transformative solutions to challenges in health Index for the fourth consecutive year. an important perspective on the needs of communities in and well-being. Our Credo reflects the character, ethics which we live and work and ways to focus our Citizenship and values that define us and sets out the responsibilities Our 2013 Successes and Challenges are outlined on & Sustainability efforts to make a difference locally and of a strong, innovative, growing and sustainable global pages 4–8 of this report. Detailed progress against our globally. organization in the 21st century. Healthy Future 2015 goals is provided beginning on page 89. We want to ensure all of our products are designed, Around the world we are doing important work to developed, manufactured, and distributed to the right advance human health and well-being, help to safeguard In planning for the longer term, we have completed quality and compliance standards. As a part of that the planet, and lead a dynamic and growing business our second Citizenship & Sustainability materiality effort and in connection with our complex supply chain responsibly. As we approach the future and consider our assessment considering the ways we impact the world system, we are working to strengthen our influence next set of five-year Citizenship & Sustainability goals, socially, environmentally and economically, or that can be over the sourcing of materials, ensure adequate working we will do so boldly, actively seeking out new solutions linked to our activities and results of relationships with conditions at our suppliers’ facilities, support diversity that advance health, wellness and improve the quality of others. The results of this assessment are considered in among our suppliers, and understand and take action to people’s lives. the topics covered in this report and will inform our next shape the ways in which our suppliers contribute to our round of five-year goal setting. environmental and social impacts. Sincerely, Looking Ahead We recognize the continued interest in increased Alex Gorsky We work and live in a world challenged by a growing transparency by companies and honor our commitment Chairman and Chief Executive Officer number of diseases, aging populations, insufficient health to enhanced transparency. care delivery and rising costs. We also see tremendous opportunities to innovate and believe in the power of We collaborate with thousands of partners, including collaboration to find and deliver new solutions to serve academic institutions, governments, NGOs, thought the individuals, families, communities, countries and leaders, competitors and communities around the world shareholders that depend on us. to help maximize the impact of our efforts through networks and shared learning. 3 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Success & Challenges Continued investments in research & development to help us continually deliver meaningful innovations for G4-2 our customers. For the past five years, we’ve consistently invested about 11 percent of sales to support our R&D efforts. That equated to over $8 billion enterprise-wide 2013 Successes in 2013. About 25 percent of our sales have come from products we have introduced in just the past five years. Advancing Human Health & Well-Being therapy in adults. Bedaquiline, our TB medicine, is included in World Health Organization (WHO) interim Launched a new online resource on the U.S. Janssen Continued development of new and existing treatments policy guidance on the treatment of MDR-TB, issued in R&D public website, designed to support transparency, for HIV and enhanced access to these treatments June 2013. understanding and consistency of the process for for patients around the world; continued to explore accessing investigational medicines by clearly explaining innovative applications of Janssen’s HIV treatments Signed Guiding Principles on Access to Medicines the options, our approach and the best way to get for resource-limited settings and clinical research into developed by Business for Social Responsibility’s accurate information. The website www.janssenrnd.com/ TMC278-LA, a long-acting, injectable version of the HIV (BSR) Healthcare Working Group to frame industry’s our-innovation/access-to-investigational-medicines drug rilpivirine. approach to expanding access to quality health care provides information about access to an investigational globally. Johnson & Johnson is a founding member of the medicine, or a patient’s health care professional Continued our commitment to ensuring broad access Healthcare Working Group. may contact Janssen’s Medical Information Team at to our HIV therapies for those who need them and Created a new organization, Janssen Global Public 1-800-JANSSEN. continually work to advance registration and specialHealth (Janssen GPH), to innovate and develop products effort pricing where there is a need and the possibility Thirteen new launches in 2009-2013, including three to meet some of the world’s most critical health problems. for safe, appropriate use. Our compounds can be made new medicines in 2013: INVOKANA® (canagliflozin) for Launched in early 2014, Janssen GPH is committed to available in 112 countries, either at special-effort or the treatment of Type 2 diabetes, IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib) advancing global health and well-being through focused, reduced pricing, provided local regulatory systems allow for mantle cell lymphoma and OLYSIO® (simeprevir) for the innovative approaches toward research & development to import prior to registration. treatment of adults with chronic hepatitis C. treat and prevent infectious and neglected diseases, and Created a novel donation program to increase facilitating sustainable access for our medicines. Received U.S. Food & Drug Administration approval access to our HIV medicines in Africa: The Janssen of EVARREST™ Fibrin Sealant Patch, a novel product Executed a data sharing agreement with Drugs for Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson that rapidly and reliably aids in stopping bleeding during Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) for preclinical announced a first-of-its-kind pediatric HIV treatment surgery. The ENSEAL® G2 Articulating Tissue Sealer research on flubendazole as a potential new treatment donation program to improve access to the company’s makes it easier for surgeons to access difficult-toagainst parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis and approved HIV medicines PREZISTA® (darunavir) and reach parts of the anatomy, and our THERMOCOOL® onchocerciasis (river blindness); a licensing agreement INTELENCE® (etravirine) for children and adolescents SMARTTOUCH™ Catheter enhances the safety and with PATH on TMC278LA pre-exposure prophylaxis; and failing HIV treatment in sub-Saharan Africa. efficacy of ablation procedures. These innovations in-licensing agreements with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in the field of dengue. have strengthened our worldwide leadership position Announced Janssen is collaborating with Stop TB in Medical Devices & Diagnostics, where 85 percent of Partnership’s Global Drug Facility to facilitate access to Provided more than 161 million doses of mebendazole our key platforms hold the number one or number two bedaquiline for the treatment of pulmonary multi-drug to children affected by soil-transmitted helminthes in 16 positions in the market. resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) as part of combination countries in 2013. 4 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Launched new consumer products globally; continued Continued to increase measurement of health-related Strengthened and streamlined our supply chain to to expand globally with the acquisition of Shanghai outcomes among our philanthropic programs; of 250 ensure that we reliably meet demand for high-quality Elsker Mother & Baby Co., Ltd., a leading baby care organizations from whom requests for funding were products; improved our customer service and reliability products company for the Chinese market, and by assessed in an electronic grant-making process, 90 performance. launching LISTERINE® ADVANCED DEFENCE® Gum percent indicated that they measure long-term outcomes. Treatment in the United Kingdom and Ireland. To further increase our evaluation capacity, logic models Made progress reformulating our iconic baby were developed for each major program. These models products in response to the changing expectations Created and opened new Johnson & Johnson are a key part of all major grant reviews and include of our customers. We also will continue to lead by Innovation Centers in London, Boston and Menlo Park, metrics that will help to evaluate the effectiveness of working with our suppliers and partners to produce California. A fourth Innovation Center in Shanghai is programs. Johnson & Johnson spearheaded a number of the very best products for families as we work to operational and scheduled to officially open in 2014. initiatives within 2013 to capture, measure and evaluate meet our commitment to make further enhancements These customized collaborations are part of our data, with the intent to be able to spread best practices to our products by the end of 2015. Learn more enterprise-wide strategy to support an international among pioneering organizations changing the landscape about our safety and care commitment at network of scientific entrepreneurs through access to of global health. www.safetyandcarecommitment.com. best-in-class laboratory facilities and scientific expertise. Implemented new Environment, Health, Safety & Extended our global reach and focus on meeting Leading a Dynamic & Growing Business Sustainability (EHS&S) governance model to leverage local health needs: Today, 55 percent of the Company’s Responsibly expert EHS&S knowledge across our manufacturing, business comes from outside the U.S.; and 22 percent R&D, distribution and commercial operations. Continued of our sales come from fast-growing emerging markets Completed a Citizenship & Sustainability materiality to leverage subject matter technical experts across the such as Brazil, Russia, India and China. assessment in 2013, identifying and ranking the issues enterprise, develop strategy, oversee talent management of greatest interest to Johnson & Johnson and our and execute governance. Continued to make progress three years into our stakeholders. five-year comprehensive pledge to the United Nations’ Continued our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Millennium Development Goals by expanding the number Achieved our objective of restoring approximately Project’s (CDP) Supply Chain program, where we of health workers, piloting innovations and scaling up 75 percent of our planned U.S. over-the-counter products encourage suppliers to measure and report their energy proven global health interventions in five areas: making to store shelves. use and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, 129 of the childbirth safer; reaching mothers with life-saving health 156 suppliers we approached had chosen to participate information through their mobile phones; eliminating Continued to meet our goals under the Consent in the program, up from 35 participating suppliers in mother-to-child HIV transmission; treating children at Decree entered in March 2011 with the U.S. Food & 2009. risk for intestinal worms and preventing the cycle of Drug Administration (FDA), which covers certain McNeil reinfection; and increasing research and development Consumer Healthcare manufacturing facilities. Continued implementation of standardized process for new medicines to treat HIV, tuberculosis and other to have all goods suppliers in high-risk countries Implemented a new quality and compliance operating and any service supplier in a high-risk country with a conditions. model and began adopting a single, global set of spend of $250,000 or more confirm awareness of and quality standards to ensure the quality and safety of conformance with the human rights provisions of our our products; established a single Medical Safety policies. In 2013, our efforts focused on assessing our organization focused on ensuring that our in-market Segment 1 suppliers, numbering approximately 120 and products perform as intended. representing approximately $8 billion of our $30 billion 5 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S annual spend. Going forward, we will continue our efforts Delivered a total shareholder return of almost quality of services delivered at our on-site facilities. The to assess our Segment 1 suppliers and expand our 35 percent*, exceeding nearly every major index we score informs the Occupational Health index, a newly efforts to our Segment 2 suppliers. benchmark ourselves against. designed internal metric with the intent of measuring the quality, compliance, efficiency and satisfaction of our Greater than 1,500 procurement professionals, or 95 Delivered 30 consecutive years of adjusted earnings** Occupational Health Services. percent, have completed human rights training. increases; Johnson & Johnson is one of only six companies in the Standard & Poor’s 100 Index to have Reduced our Serious Injury and Illness Case rate to Announced in early 2014, through our subsidiary delivered 51 consecutive years of dividend increases 0.020 compared to our goal of 0.35; it improved from Janssen Research & Development, LLC, a clinical trial through 2013. a rate of 0.027 last year and a rate of 0.028 the year data sharing agreement with Yale School of Medicine’s before, and is our lowest rate since 2007. Open Data Access (YODA) Project to extend our Generated significant cash flow and maintained our commitment to sharing clinical trials data to enhance AAA credit rating. Reduced the Total Recordable Injury rate for public health and advance science and medicine. This independent contractors working on-site to 0.38 in 2013, is the first time any company has collaborated with a Created a business model in China that unifies our down from our rate of 0.74 in 2012. We also experienced completely independent third party to review and make core business segments and allows us to identify and a decline in contractor Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate decisions regarding every request for pharmaceutical facilitate the creation of new opportunities in China’s (0.22 to 0.07) associated with large construction projects clinical data. rapidly growing health care system. Johnson & Johnson managed by Worldwide Engineering and Technical was one of the first Western companies to expand into Operations. Expanded information on our policy perspectives on China, 28 years ago. Our locally based, broad range of major issues, a Healthy Future 2015 goal. Additional businesses gives us unique insight into China’s health Announced a global full-ban mobile phone (and information on our public policy positions for major issues care challenges, including an aging population. electronic device) policy, effective January 1, 2014. The is detailed in this report. policy prohibits both hand-held and hands-free mobile Aligned our Southeast Asia operations and management under a single business model called phone use while driving a company owned, leased or Eighty-one percent of our 21 major brands and/or “One Johnson & Johnson” for nine countries, including rented vehicle. companies are now sharing sustainability information on their websites. Thailand, Indonesia and the Philippines. We believe this Realized a reduction in our overall contractor LWDC streamlined approach gives us a market advantage to rate, which trended down to a rate of 0.12. Increased sales in 2013 by 6.1 percent, 7.7 percent operate more efficiently and effectively in smaller and operationally, reflecting the outstanding performance mid-sized markets. Earned the distinguished CEO Roundtable on Cancer of our Pharmaceutical business, the strength of key GLOBAL accreditation; Johnson & Johnson was one of brands in our U.S. OTC and other Consumer businesses, Achieved access to the full complement of all 12 only two multinational companies to do so in 2013. and continued progress in integrating Synthes into our “Culture of Health” programs for approximately 84,000 Medical Devices & Diagnostics business. employees (64 percent) Participated with the Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) in the development of their Pulp, Paper, and Packaging Advanced our longer-term growth drivers including Implemented a Quality Assurance process that Guidelines, developed in support of the CGF resolution bringing innovative solutions to the global health care provides for a standardized approach to measure the to help achieve zero net deforestation by 2020; the market, executing with excellence, and leading with Company’s Forest Products Sourcing Guidelines are * Including dividends purpose to advance health and well-being for patients ** Excludes special items. See “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures” currently under review and will be revised in 2014. and consumers around the world. on page 72 of the 2013 Annual Report. 6 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Completed implementation of Leadership Imperatives, set and meet this public commitment made based on our level of certification in the Leadership in Energy and the Company’s leadership model articulating a consistent open dialogue with parents. Environmental Design (LEED) Green Building Rating set of performance and behavioral expectations for System™. employees. Drove progress toward the Healthy Future 2015 goal to ensure all strategic suppliers have at least two publicly Increased the amount of on-site, clean-technology Completed roll out of new Performance Management reported sustainability goals in any of the following goal or renewable energy capacity that is installed or under and Development approach for 27,000 directors and categories: energy reduction, waste reduction, water use construction to 47.6 megawatts (40 megawatts are managers. Final rollout to all remaining employees will reduction, workforce injury/illness reduction, workforce installed and 7.6 megawatts are approved or under occur in 2015. wellness, and community and human rights investment. construction). At the end of 2013, 93 of our most important, or Achieved a total certified Minorityand Women-Owned Segment 1, suppliers (or approximately 75 percent) had Continued our CO2 reduction capital funding process Business supplier spend of $1.36 billion, representing a met this goal. for energy and greenhouse gas reduction projects across 10 percent increase over 2012. the Company. In 2013, 22 new energy reduction projects Formed a Conflict Minerals Working Group and were approved and 31 projects were completed. Over Maintained our membership in the supplier diversity contacted 568 suppliers to assess their sourcing the last nine years, 161 energy reduction projects have Billion Dollar Roundtable for the third consecutive year. practices, receiving responses from 68 percent. been approved, and 131 have been completed. These completed projects will collectively reduce CO2 emissions Contributed $993 million in products and cash and Named by CDP as the S&P 500 health care sector by approximately 181,500 metric tons per year. supported over 600 community programs in more than leader for our energy and carbon reduction programs; 50 countries. maintained our membership in the CDP Leadership Index Johnson & Johnson has a total of 20 certified green for the fourth consecutive year. buildings, with five new facilities joining the list in 2013. Safeguarding the Planet Realized continued improvement in the greening Granted Earthwards® recognition for 20 new products; of our fleet vehicles. We achieved a global average 2013 Challenges a total of 55 products have been recognized to date. carbon dioxide emission per vehicle of 149 g/km, which Earthwards® is the Johnson & Johnson process that represents a 15.8 percent reduction from 2010 to 2013. Keeping pace with external stakeholder interest in improves the sustainability of our products. increased transparency by companies, while furthering Continued our efforts with “Project Cold,” an initiative our efforts to enhance transparency by sharing with Launched our CARE TO RECYCLE™ campaign in the implementing engineering improvements that optimize our customers, partners and other valued stakeholders U.S., a new initiative designed to raise awareness about our chilled water systems. Five projects were completed information they seek in a trusted, accessible form. the importance of recycling products from the bathroom. in 2013. Collectively, the projects have the potential to Our research revealed one in five Americans do not reduce location CO2 emissions 6–8 percent. Continuing to leverage insights available from recycle in the bathroom, where many Johnson & Johnson our decentralized business model on the needs of personal care products are used. Learn more here at Realized a 5.7 percent reduction in CO2 emissions communities in which we live and work and ways to www.caretorecycle.com. through year-end 2013, against our baseline emissions focus our Citizenship & Sustainability efforts to make of 1,269 metric tons in 2010. a difference locally and globally as health care needs Met our commitments to remove formaldehydereleasing preservatives and reduce traces of throughout the world rapidly evolve. “One J&J Zug,” a new Johnson & Johnson Family of 1,4-dioxane in our baby care products by the end of Companies regional headquarters office building, is 2013. Johnson & Johnson is the first major company to the first in Switzerland to achieve Platinum, the highest 7 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Improving upon our ability to understand and report on Continuing to reduce our water consumption. Realized a 0.8 percent increase in CO2 emissions, from local and regional stakeholder engagements throughout Johnson & Johnson has been reducing water usage 1,187 thousand metric tons in 2012 to 1,197 thousand the world by our 275 operating companies as well consistently for more than 20 years and the easier, metric tons in 2013. as enterprise-level programs conducted by various cost-effective reductions have been implemented. In departments. 2013, we realized a 2.5 percent absolute reduction in Addressing challenges in collecting meaningful Scope water use, against our Healthy Future 2015 goal target 3 emissions data, which we currently provide for business Implementing our One Quality Policy globally to help of a 10 percent absolute reduction. travel and emissions from non-hazardous waste. ensure that all our operating companies design, make and deliver our products in a consistent way; and that Continuing work to strengthen data collection systems Continuing to reduce energy use, despite an increase we speak as one company to all our stakeholders, to enable enterprise-wide reporting on issues of interest in production. including health authorities, customers and health care to our stakeholders. professionals worldwide. Implementing data systems to allow us to track Applying the new Standards for Responsible Suppliers information such as training data and grievance data at to our entire supply chain; this is a challenge due to the the enterprise level. A global system to gather these data number of suppliers—in the tens of thousands—and is under development. complexity of the supply chain. Reversing an 11 percent increase in employee fleet Managing risk in our supply chain. In 2013, we car crashes over our 2010 baseline. In 2013, our selected a third-party vendor to evaluate a variety Crashes Per Million Miles (CPMM) increased to 6.14, a of sustainability elements and score our suppliers, 5.5 percent increase from 2012. Our Injuries Per Million standardizing our third-party assessment tool to Miles (IPMM) rate also increased in 2013, by 38 percent, supplement our internal assessment tools and methods. to 0.09. In total, 194 suppliers were evaluated and scored using this process. Using this standardized assessment Achieving our Healthy Future 2015 goal to move process, Johnson & Johnson has determined that our beyond Green Palm certificates and to source all palm oil initial desired target rating is being met, on average, and its derivatives from certified sustainable palm oil by for environmental issues, but is not being met for labor, year-end 2015. human rights or fair business practices. Reducing our employee Lost Workday Case Rate Confirming that all suppliers in high-risk countries (LWDC), which increased from 0.09 in 2012 to 0.11 in are aware of and in conformance with the human rights 2013. The major contributor to the rate increase was a provisions of our policies. This is a challenge, due to the single incident involving food poisoning at a location in number of suppliers involved and the information required China. Going forward, our challenge will be to integrate to confirm compliance. our safety programs with our new acquisitions, where LWDC rates are higher than our own. 8 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Organizational and wellness and prevention platforms. These products are marketed to the general public and sold both to retail Number of Employees Number of Operations 128,100 275 Profile outlets and distributors throughout the world. Net Sales (U.S. Dollars) $71.3 billion The Pharmaceutical segment includes products in the following areas: anti-infective, antipsychotic, SALE S BY B US I N E SS S EG M E NT SALE S BY B US I N E SS S EG M E NT (in billions (in billions of of dollars) dollars) cardiovascular, contraceptive, gastrointestinal, Johnson & Johnson, through its Family of Companies 80 hematology, immunology, infectious diseases, 80 (“the Company”), is the world’s most comprehensive and metabolic, neurology, oncology, pain management, and 70 70 broadly based manufacturer of health care products, as vaccines. These products are distributed directly to 60 60 well as a provider of related services for the consumer, retailers, wholesalers and health care professionals for 50 50 pharmaceutical and medical devices and diagnostics prescription use. 40 40 markets. G4-3 G4-4 30 The Medical Devices & Diagnostics segment includes 30 Our more than 275 operating companies employ 20 a broad range of products distributed to wholesalers, 20 approximately 128,100 employees in 60 countries hospitals and retailers used principally in the professional 10 10 who are engaged in the research and development, fields by physicians, nurses, hospitals and clinics. 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 0 ’11 ’12 ’13 manufacture, and sale of a broad range of products These include products to treat cardiovascular disease, Consumer Medical Devices & Diagnostics Consumer Medical Devices & Diagnostics in the health care field. We utilize more than 3,700 orthopaedic and neurological products, blood glucose Pharmaceutical Pharmaceutical direct materials suppliers and approximately 580 monitoring and insulin delivery products, general surgery, external manufacturers to support the development biosurgical and energy products, professional diagnostic and manufacturing of our products worldwide. products, infection prevention products, and disposable SALE S BY G EOG RAPH IC R EG ION SALE S BY G EOG RAPH IC R EG ION G4-9 (in billions billions of of dollars) dollars) The Johnson & Johnson product portfolio spans contact lenses. (in pharmaceuticals, consumer, and medical device and 80 80 diagnostics—around 300,000 products in total that Operational Structure 70 touch more than one billion people every day. 70 G4-6 G4-9 G4-12 G4-17 The Company’s structure is based upon the principle of 60 60 decentralized management. The Executive Committee of 50 50 The Company is organized into three business segments: Johnson & Johnson is the principal management group 40 40 Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices & responsible for the strategic operations and allocation 30 30 Diagnostics. of the resources of the Company. This committee 20 oversees and coordinates the activities of the Consumer, 20 Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices & Diagnostics 10 Our Business Segments G4-8 10 business segments. 0 0 ’11 ’11 ’12 ’12 ’13 ’13 The Consumer segment includes a broad range of U.S. Western Hemisphere, excluding U.S. U.S. Western Hemisphere, excluding U.S. products used in the baby care, skin care, oral care, Our worldwide headquarters are in New Brunswick, New Europe Asia Pacific Europe Asia Pacific wound care and women’s health fields, as well as Jersey, USA. We have been listed on the New York Stock nutritionals, over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, Exchange since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. G4-5 G4-7 9 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Significant Changes during the For further details about Our Management Approach under the Organizational Profile section of this report. Reporting Period G4-13 and Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Risk Management Numerous sources, including socially responsible Framework, please see our Company website at www.jnj. investment groups, nongovernmental organizations Changes during the reporting period were a result of com/about-jnj/management-approach. (NGOs), multiple stakeholder engagements, senior previously announced restructuring activity as well as company leadership and feedback from our contact acquisitions and divestitures. A gain of $0.1 billion came from the divestiture of businesses during 2013, including women’s sanitary protection products in the U.S., Canada Report Profile mailbox (responsibility@its.jnj.com) helped to guide the report’s organization and information. G4-28–G4-33 and the Caribbean to Energizer Holdings, Inc.; Rolaids® to Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Chattem, Inc.; DORIBAX® rights to Shionogi; and the sale This report provides the Company’s Citizenship & of certain consumer brands and certain pharmaceutical This report has been prepared in accordance with the Sustainability activities and progress as of December products. Otherwise, divestitures in 2013 did not have a GRI’s 2013 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4.0 2013. It is our 11th annual Citizenship & Sustainability material effect on the Company’s results of operations, Core). A GRI Index is included, with references to G4 Report and our 17th year reporting environmental cash flows or financial position. indicators. This report has not been reviewed externally progress. prior to publication, and assurance on the report in its The 2013 acquisitions included: Flexible Stenting entirety has not been sought. Sections of the report that Reporting for 2013 is presented in our 2013 Annual Solutions, Inc., a leading developer of innovative flexible have been assured are noted in the GRI Index. Report and our 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability peripheral arterial, venous and biliary stents; Shanghai Report (both available exclusively online), with additional Elsker Mother & Baby Co., Ltd, a baby care company in United Nations Global Compact information available on our Citizenship & Sustainability China; and Aragon Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a privately held, website (www.jnj.com/responsibility). The primary pharmaceutical discovery and development company As part of our longstanding practices and commitment audience for these reports and our Citizenship & focused on drugs to treat hormonally-driven cancers. to Citizenship & Sustainability, we joined the U.N. Global Sustainability website are our external stakeholders, who are an extremely broad and diverse group. The Company Compact in 2013 and are committed to its principles, In 2014 the Company received and accepted a binding many of which have been embedded in our business has a variety of other mechanisms by which it shares offer from The Carlyle Group to acquire the Orthopractices for decades. A Communication on Progress is Citizenship & Sustainability progress internally. Clinical Diagnostics business for approximately $4 billion, included in this report. Information presented in our reports and on our subject to customary adjustments. The Company expects website is from the administration, research and this transaction to close sometime during the middle of Feedback and Further Information development, manufacturing, marketing and selling 2014, pending fulfillment of certain conditions, including, organizations operated by the Johnson & Johnson but not limited to, the receipt of applicable antitrust We invite you to comment on our sustainability activities Family of Companies, unless otherwise indicated. No clearances and other customary closing requirements. and this report by emailing us at responsibility@its.jnj.com. external manufacturing is included in our data, except as indicated in this report. As we engage further with For further details about these changes, please see Note our supply chain on Citizenship & Sustainability topics, 20 (Business Combinations and Divestitures) in our 10-K additional information on these efforts will continue to Annual Report, available on our website at www.investor. be incorporated into our reports. There have been no jnj.com/governance/sec-filings.cfm. significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in this report. Acquisitions and divestitures are discussed 10 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Citizenship & our business for the long term through strong financial discipline, and robust adherence and compliance to Our current set of five-year goals, known as Healthy Future 2015, encompasses 32 corporate Citizenship & Sustainability regulations, guidelines, standards and well-defined internal processes and policies; and Sustainability commitments across seven key strategic priorities: G4-18–G4-21 G4-43 G4-45–G4-48 Safeguarding the Planet—reflecting our commitment Advancing global health through research and to maintain in good order the property we are privileged development for neglected diseases and affordable While the terms citizenship and sustainability are widely to use, to protect the environment and natural resources access to medicines by working to identify new ways to used today, the concepts behind them are not new to both on our properties and through responsible business address these issues, and by partnering with like-minded Johnson & Johnson. Our responsibilities to those who practices throughout the world. organizations to help expand our impact on global health. use our products and services, to our employees, to the communities in which we live and work, and to our These pillars permeate everything we do and serve as Advancing community wellness by launching health shareholders are voiced in Our Credo, and have guided critical components in our commitment to creating value initiatives to help people gain access to timely, easy-to employees of Johnson & Johnson for more than 70 through innovation, fostering global reach and local focus, understand, health-related information. years. Efforts that we now capture under the heading driving excellence in execution, and leading with purpose. of Citizenship & Sustainability have existed internally for Ultimately, we view Citizenship & Sustainability as an Enhancing outcome measurement in philanthropy decades across the enterprise. intrinsic component of our aspiration to help billions by working with our philanthropic partners to improve of people around the world live longer, healthier and program measurements. A decentralized management approach is one of our happier lives. core strategic operating principles, and we recognize Fostering the most engaged, health-conscious and the need to coordinate our Citizenship & Sustainability Responsibility for our social, economic, environmental safe employees in the world by improving upon our global efforts across the enterprise. To that end, Johnson & health and safety and governance performance is culture of health and safety in our workplaces, and by Johnson engaged in the development of a Citizenship & spread among several corporate and global functions, striving to make Johnson & Johnson a place where our Sustainability strategic framework to unify and elevate including Global Procurement; Quality & Compliance employees are proud and excited to work. our existing efforts, as well as to identify areas of further Worldwide; Global Talent Management; Benefits and opportunity across our businesses throughout the world. Health Resources; Worldwide Compensation; Health Building on our legacy in safeguarding the planet by Our strategic framework identifies three pillars: Care Compliance & Privacy; Public Affairs & Corporate reducing the environmental impacts of our operations Communication; Worldwide Corporate Contributions; and our products. Advancing Human Health and Well-Being— Corporate Citizenship; Government Affairs & Policy; striving to meet the unmet health care needs of today Global Diversity & Inclusion; Worldwide Supply Chain; Partnering with suppliers that embrace sustainability and tomorrow through science and innovation, and Worldwide Environmental Health, Safety & Sustainability; and demonstrate a similar commitment to ours through developing and delivering affordable and accessible Worldwide Security; and Legal. These functions report their practices and goal-setting and through the positive solutions that significantly improve people’s health and to the Corporate Group Operating Committee and the impacts they seek to achieve. well-being at every stage of their lives; Executive Committee, which report to the Board of Directors. Responsibility for operational performance Committing to enhanced transparency and accessing Leading a Dynamic & Growing Business related to product stewardship, innovation and the power of external collaboration by working with Responsibly—building a foundation of exemplary stakeholder engagement, among other areas, rests partners and providing transparency on our products and corporate citizenship and sustainability by managing with the individual business segments. business practices. 11 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Each of our three business segments has developed engagement and collaboration. Our MD&D segment Citizenship & Sustainability strategies and goals that added four new Earthwards® products to those already are unique to their businesses and stakeholders. recognized, sponsored and participated in the CleanMed Alignment across the enterprise on Citizenship & Conference in both the U.S. and Europe, and created Sustainability efforts and strategies is ensured by the customized tools for R&D design engineers to facilitate Johnson & Johnson Citizenship & Sustainability Working selection of more sustainable materials in the product Group, which has Executive Committee sponsorship and design process. MD&D continues to collaborate with includes representatives from our businesses and our customers and NGOs to publicize global health care global and corporate functions. Enterprise-wide initiatives, sustainability trends, share the business case for such as Earthwards®, our process for developing and delivering more sustainable products, and develop marketing more sustainable products through life-cycle standardized approaches to measuring and reducing the thinking, are implemented across all business segments. total cost of ownership for medical devices. (For more information on Earthwards®, see the Product Stewardship section of this report). Our Pharmaceutical segment has three main strategic areas of focus for Citizenship & Sustainability: improving In 2013, Our Consumer segment continued to improve global health through improving access to our medicines the sustainability performance of its product portfolio and expanded research and development for medicines for with the addition of 15 new Earthwards® products for neglected tropical diseases; reducing the environmental a total of 34 for the business segment. Our Consumer impacts of pharmaceutical product development, segment also continued to increase the transparency manufacture, use and end-of-use management; of its sustainability efforts, launching three new digital and increasing clinical trial transparency. Our Global assets: www.healthyessentials.com/our-caring, Pharmaceutical Access Committee continues to guide the www.safetyandcarecommitment.com and focus and strategy of our comprehensive access strategy www.caretorecycle.com. Our Caring, on the Healthy and management approach, and we continue to focus on Essentials website, provides information on the creating sustainable access to our products through both sustainability efforts of our Consumer segment. Our innovative business models as well as policy engagement. Safety & Care Commitment website is where consumers can view our ingredient policies and learn about the The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of rigorous scientific standards of our five-level safety Johnson & Johnson launched a new organization— assurance process. The website is dedicated to helping Janssen Global Public Health (GPH)—to innovate and Caption to come consumers better understand how we ensure the safety develop products to meet some of the world’s most of beauty and baby care products, and the ingredients critical health problems. GPH is committed to advancing Meaningful innovation that go into them. And Care to Recycle® was designed global health and well-being through focused, innovative derives from the insight and to assist our customers in their efforts to recycle, with a approaches toward R&D to treat and prevent infectious spirit of our employees, and neglected diseases, and to facilitating sustainable and their ability to anticipate particular focus on recycling bathroom products. access for our medicines. and understand the needs of our patients and customers Our Medical Devices & Diagnostics (MD&D) segment In 2013, one new Earthwards® recognized and what they value. continued to implement its Citizenship & Sustainability strategy, focused on product stewardship, supply chain pharmaceutical product was added to the six already sustainability, employee health and safety, and external recognized. 12 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our Citizenship & 5 Product Quality and Safety Sustainability 4.5 Access to and Affordability of Health Care Global Health Materiality Importance to Johnson & Johnson Staff Corporate Governance Product Pipeline Assessment*Process 4 Financial Health/ Economic Performance Ethical Performance Compliance G4-18–G4-21 G4-23 R&D and Clinical Trials Product Ingredients/ Materials Supply Chain Managment Innovation 3.5 Staying Healthy/Wellness Product Stewardship In 2013, Johnson & Johnson conducted a Citizenship Sourcing of Raw Material Human Rights Philanthropy & Sustainability materiality assessment to identify those Community Intellectual Employee Recruitment/ 3 Engagement and Partnership Property Development/Retention Workplace Health & Safety topics of greatest interest to both Johnson & Johnson Greenhouse Gas/Climate Market Access Public-Private Partnerships Transparency and our stakeholders; specifically, those reflecting Diversity Water Labor Practices Job Creation our significant economic, environmental and social Stakeholder Engagement 2.5 Environmental Responsibility impacts, and those that could substantively influence the Energy Use Biodiversity Compensation/Remuneration Product and Strategic Leadership/Sharing of Expertise assessments and decisions of stakeholders. The process Financial Donations Air Emissions Political Contributions/Lobbying involved several steps: Waste Sourcing of Raw Material Data Protection & Privacy 2 Initial list of issues: Developed from the aspects Volunteerism identified by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), issues identified by the Sustainability Accounting Standards 1.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 Board, a review of competitor reports and websites topics identified through our customer call centers, shareholder Importance to External Stakeholders resolutions and questionnaires from socially responsible investors. of the greatest interest to Johnson & Johnson and number of times an issue was identified, along with other our stakeholders. A master list of over 220 topics was considerations. A final list of 41 topics was developed. Expanded list of issues: Interviews were conducted generated. with Johnson & Johnson staff from all regions, business Internal ranking of topics: A group of diverse units, levels and functions of the enterprise, asking Product Quality and Safety Boundary assessment: Each topic was evaluated for Johnson & Johnson staff, including many senior decision them to consider the Company’s activities, impacts and Access to and Affordability of Health Care Global Health boundaries (where its impact occurred). Impacts were makers, ranked the issues using a series of 10 questions stakeholder expectations, and to identify those issues Corporate determined both inside and outside the organization, and designed to explore both internal and external priorities. Governance Product Pipeline by business unit, region, and stakeholder group. This allowed the consideration of many views to be taken *The use of “materiality” in this context is not related to matters Economic “material” or facts that could be deemed Financial Health/ Performance Ethical Performance to a reasonable into account, including the interests of stakeholders with investor as referred to under U.S. securities laws or similar Compliance Consolidation of topics: The number of topics to whom we are not in constant or obvious dialogue. requirements of other jurisdictions. R&D and Clinical Trials be assessed was consolidated, taking into account the Product Ingredients/ Materials Supply Chain Managment Innovation 13 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report Staying Healthy/Wellness Product Stewardship Human Rights CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Stakeholder ranking of topics: Johnson & Johnson Results: The topics were placed on a grid (see most. Of the top 14 most important issues, 12 appeared identified a group of external stakeholders primarily previous page), as well as prioritized as extremely high, as high on both assessments. However, there were some focused on corporate responsibility and asked them to very high and high (see below). Each of these topics is notable differences. For example, external stakeholder rank the topics for overall importance of the topic and discussed in this report, with more detail being provided groups identified transparency higher than the internal importance for Johnson & Johnson to address. These for those topics ranking higher in the assessment. assessors did. Comparing the previous assessment to rankings are presented in the assessment results. the most recent, the top three issues in 2010 remained The results of the assessments identified some interestthe top three issues in 2014, and of the nine top issues Consolidation: The results were reviewed with ing comparisons. Completing the assessment internally, in 2010, seven continued to be ranked high in 2014. the Johnson & Johnson Citizenship & Sustainability and also seeking external stakeholder input, enabled a Environment was a consolidated category in 2010 and Working Group and with each of the business segment comparison of what internal staff thought stakeholders ranked quite high; each component was listed separately Citizenship & Sustainability Councils. cared about with what the select group of stakeholders in 2014 and individually, the issues ranked lower. Issues used to complete the assessment told us they care about ranked low in 2010 remained low or dropped off. EXTREMELY HIGH VERY HIGH HIGH Product Quality and Safety Workplace Health and Safety Greenhouse Gas/Climate Access to and Affordability of Health Care Market Access Corporate Governance Global Health Public-Private Partnerships Diversity Ethical Performance Stakeholder Engagement Product and Financial Donations Product Pipeline Staying Healthy/Wellness Philanthropy Compliance Labor Practices Air Emissions R&D and Clinical Trials Employee Recruitment/Development/Retention Waste Supply Chain Management Sourcing of Raw Materials Community Engagement and Partnership Product Stewardship Water Data Protection and Privacy Innovation Intellectual Property Biodiversity Human Rights Environmental Responsibility Job Creation Transparency Strategic Leadership/Sharing of Expertise Energy Use Financial Health/Economic Performance Political Contributions/Lobbying Volunteerism Product Ingredients/Materials Compensation/Remuneration Compliance, Governance, Quality/Safety, Ethics, Data Protection/Privacy Business Performance, Market Access Access to Health Care, Global Health, R&D, Innovation Stakeholder Engagement, Philanthropy, Job Creation, Transparency Employee/Labor Practices, Diversity, Human Rights, Supply Chain Management Ingredients, Sourcing of Raw Materials Environment Workplace Health/Safety, Employee Wellness 14 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Advancing Human Health & Well-Being • Global Health • Access to and Affordability of Health Care • Product Pipeline • R&D and Clinical Trials • Innovation • Market Access •P  reventing Disease and Promoting Wellness A long-held, continuing commitment to improve the health and well-being of women and children is at the heart of our efforts to advance global health and address unmet needs. 15 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Global Health Promote strong regulatory bodies; new medicine from Janssen, and other breakthrough treatments, offers new hope to patients who have not Enhance business models to ensure appropriate been helped by prior drug therapies. It involves a less incentives and long-term sustainability. complex dosing regimen, thus making treatment more Global health is a complex topic encompassing the rights manageable. In this way, this medicine shows potential to Delivering Health Care Solutions of individuals to attain good health, free from the spread decrease patients’ time away from work and family, and of disease; achieve equal access to quality, affordable get them back to improved health faster than the current We operate in a dynamic and ever-changing global health care; and benefit from infrastructure and capacity standard of care. business and regulatory environment. Our diverse product to meet current and future unmet health care needs and portfolio and broad global footprint allow our companies the responsibilities of organizations to meet those needs. Advancing Global Health to stay close to the customer where they live. They also We believe that, as a member of the global health care allow us to bring on-the-ground knowledge to our work community, Johnson & Johnson has a responsibility to Millennium Development Goals with regulators and local health care authorities, so we advance good health care through our actions as well as We remain at the forefront of efforts to improve the can proactively develop new solutions and continuously to work with others to help shape effective health care lives of women and children, and continue to make improve the standard of care around the world together. systems around the world that will serve the needs of progress toward our five-year comprehensive pledge people. to the United Nations’ Millennium Development Goals In response to the surge of diabetes cases in India in (MDGs). Johnson & Johnson made a forward-looking We work to address unmet medical needs through recent years, Johnson & Johnson worked closely with commitment in September 2010 to advance the UN science and innovation, using our talents and the Indian government and health care regulators there MDGs, in particular MDGs 4, 5 and 6 specific to women commitment to improve health care (see page 24); to launch a blood glucose-monitoring device adapted to and children. Our commitment focuses on five key areas local needs. This device is specifically designed to make Support efforts to enhance access to health care and where we have developed strong, innovative partnerships: self-monitoring simple, affordable and effective for the health care products (see page 18); tens of millions of Indians with diabetes. First, making childbirth safer. Provide appropriate clinical and economic information Second, treating and preventing intestinal worms in about our products and treatments, as well as broad People in different countries consume differently. They children. health, disease and prevention information, to individuals, may like the same products, but they may want them health care practitioners, caregivers and payers in ways available in different sizes because some shop with a Third, using mobile phones to share vital health that facilitate health care decision-making; carry bag and others with a car. For these reasons, we’ve information with new and expectant mothers. worked with health care authorities and our distributors Protect the privacy of personal medical information to customize smaller sizes of some of our more popular Fourth, eliminating mother-to-child transmission of HIV. (see page 62); products, such as our LISTERINE® mouthwash, to better Fifth, piloting and scaling therapeutic innovation Lead by example in providing preventive, health-related meet the needs of consumers in emerging markets. through research and development to treat HIV, and lifestyle modification tools and solutions to our tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases. employees and their families worldwide (see page 46); We’ve worked closely with health care authorities on our new hepatitis C drug—OLYSIO®/SOVRIAD™— Details about our efforts to advance Millennium Work with others to improve the quality, cost that received Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Development Goals can be found on Our Giving website effectiveness and accessibility of health care for people Welfare approval in September 2013 and U.S. Food & www.jnj.com/our-giving. We have made significant in developed and developing countries; Drug Administration approval in November 2013. This progress on this commitment and look forward to 16 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S continuing that, as well as other efforts to advance global to develop and improve treatments to combat and being researched to treat two types of filarial diseases: health. prevent diseases of greatest unmet need, including HIV, lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) and onchocerciasis tuberculosis and neglected tropical diseases. (river blindness). Janssen Global Public Health In 2013 Janssen created a new organization, Janssen Developing New Medicines for Multi-Drug Resistant The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation is funding Drugs for Global Public Health (GPH), to innovate and develop Tuberculosis (MDR-TB) Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi, a global health NGO products to address some of the world’s most critical Bedaquiline is a new anti-TB drug with a new mechanism based in Geneva) to collaborate with Johnson & Johnson health problems. GPH is committed to advancing global of action that was granted accelerated approval by the to develop a new formulation of flubendazole; execute a health and well-being through focused, innovative U.S. Food & Drug Administration in 2012 and approved full development program; and manufacture, register and approaches toward research and development (R&D) to by Russian regulatory authorities for the treatment of distribute the product. treat and prevent infectious and neglected diseases and pulmonary MDR-TB as part of combination therapy in sustainable access for our medicines. adults. A review is currently underway by regulatory Additionally, Janssen will explore the development of a bodies around the world, including the European new, chewable formulation of VERMOX® (mebendazole) GPH is responsible for a growing portfolio of Medicines Agency (EU) and Medicines Control Council to treat intestinal worms in young children. pharmaceutical products and services for diseases that (South Africa). WHO Interim Policy Guidance provides have a high public health impact, including SIRTURO™ the conditions for rational use of bedaquiline in Long-Acting Treatments for HIV (bedaquiline), flubendazole, reformulated mebendazole combination therapy for MDR-TB in lowand middleJanssen continues to explore innovative applications of and long-acting TMC278 (rilpivirine). GPH will also income country settings. The unprecedented update of its HIV treatments for resource-limited settings. Clinical oversee HIV product development for resourcethe WHO guidelines within six months of U.S. Food & research continues into TMC278-LA, a long-acting, challenged settings. The team will be accountable for full Drug Administration approval underscores the critical injectable version of the HIV drug rilpivirine. Longclinical development, for creating and implementing new unmet need for new MDR-TB treatment options. acting formulations of HIV drugs have the potential to access strategies for this portfolio, and acting as a center be administered less frequently and possibly improve of excellence supporting Janssen therapeutic areas as Developing New Treatments for Neglected Tropical treatment outcomes in hard-to-reach areas of the appropriate. Diseases (NTDs) developing world. In 2012, Johnson & Johnson joined the World Health In addition, Janssen GPH will be the central point Organization, 12 other pharmaceutical companies, Goals and Progress of contact for collaboration with global public health the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the U.S. and UK stakeholders, including non-governmental organizations governments, World Bank and officials from endemic We continue to make good progress toward meeting Our and funding organizations, and will be responsible for countries to eliminate or control, by the end of the Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability goals shaping and advancing public health policies to maximize decade, 10 NTDs that affect more than a billion people in related to advancing global health. access to our medicines for patients around the world. the world. We are providing affordable access to HIV treatments Global health challenges in resource-limited settings call in least-developed and lower middle-income countries As part of its London Declaration pledge, for products designed to address specific needs: through GAPP and special-effort pricing. Johnson & Johnson committed to preclinical research Our R&D team will drive the development of tailored and clinical development of flubendazole, a potential Our Access & Affordability Platform and Tiered products via innovative partnerships new treatment against the parasitic disease filariasis. Pricing Framework are innovative models that improve Filariasis infects more than 200 million people globally, affordability of our medicines in middle-income countries. We look to harness the best science in the world and some 1.5 billion people are at risk. Flubendazole is 17 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S We continue to expand donation of our treatment for intestinal worms in countries of prevalence. COU NTRY STATUS APPROVE D FI LE D Access to and Affordability of Health Care DRV 300 39 3 DRV 600 28 5 Target: Build research partnerships to develop DRV 400 13 3 treatments for neglected diseases of the developing DRV Ped 8 5 world. Etravirine 29 9 Actual: In 2013, several new agreements were As the world’s most broadly based health care company, executed: a data sharing agreement with DNDi for we have a responsibility to help create a world where preclinical research on flubendazole as a potential new Target: Achieve WHO prequalification for all our people across all economic and social circumstances treatment against parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis products that address diseases of the developing world. have access to the treatments they need. and onchocerciasis; a licensing agreement with PATH on Actual: Bedaquiline, our TB medicine, is included TMC278LA pre-exposure prophylaxis; and in-licensing in World Health Organization (WHO) interim policy Strategies for improving access to medicines begin with agreements with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in the guidance on the treatment of MDR-TB issued in June innovative R&D and include strategic partnerships and field of dengue. Previous agreements include those 2013. Five (out of eight) formulations of our HIV collaborations and licensing agreements to help register, with the Critical Path Institute regarding tuberculosis; antiretroviral medicines have already achieved WHO manufacture and distribute our medicines. collaboration with the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation prequalification: 75, 150 and 600mg formulations of and the WHO for parasitic infections; and signed PREZISTA® (darunavir) and 100 and 25mg formulations In 2013, Johnson & Johnson signed Guiding Principles licensing agreements with Drugs for Neglected Diseases of INTELENCE®(etravirine). on Access to Medicines developed by Business for initiative on other neglected tropical diseases. We Social Responsibility’s (BSR) Healthcare Working Group continue to work toward fulfilling our commitments made Target: Provide 200 million doses of mebendazole, our to frame industry’s approach to expanding access to as part of the London Declaration in 2011. We joined the treatment for intestinal worms, to infected children in quality health care globally. Johnson & Johnson is a Stop TB Partnership in 2012. more than 30 countries. founding member of the Healthcare Working Group. Target: Ninety least-developed and middle-income Actual: In 2013, we provided more than 161 million countries have our HIV therapies registered and available doses to affected children in 16 countries, an increase In 2012, Johnson & Johnson ranked second among at special-effort pricing. from 116 million doses to affected children in 14 20 global companies in the third biannual Access to countries in 2012. In 2011, we more than doubled our Medicine Index (ATMI), based on significant progress Actual: We are committed to ensuring broad access donation from 36 million doses in 2010 to 80 million and improvements made to our access to medicines to our HIV therapies for those who need them and doses by the end of 2011. strategies, R&D portfolio and philanthropy initiatives. continually work to advance registration and specialThe ATMI, compiled by the Access to Medicine effort pricing where there is a need and the possibility Target: Register a new triple-combination therapy for Foundation, surveys the industry’s overall efforts to for safe, appropriate use. Our compounds can be made HIV and finalize a generics licensing agreement. ensure that medicines, vaccines and diagnostics are available in 112 countries, either at special-effort or Actual: In 2011, a new triple-combination therapy was developed and available for people in resource-poor reduced pricing, provided local regulatory systems allow registered in the U.S. and EMEA, and five generics countries. Through an independent evaluation and import prior to registration. The following grid shows the licensing agreements were signed for our HIV medicine, rigorous stakeholder review process, the ATMI provides registration status of four different dosages of darunavir rilpivirine. This progress achieved the goal. valuable feedback on the industry’s access efforts. (DRV) and one of etravirine as of the end of 2013. 18 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S The work of Johnson & Johnson and our operating groundwork for the appropriate clinical use of our HIV Regional advisory boards companies in providing global access to medicines medicines and support pharmacovigilance activities. Conducting and/or sponsoring clinical trials focuses on HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis (TB) and other They also have accelerated the registration process of  raining health care providers on the appropriate use T diseases. our branded HIV medicines. For our HIV medicines with of our HIV medicines greater anticipated volumes, we have additional licenses Our access efforts focus on: for the manufacture of generic versions. Our licensing Providing up-to-date medical information agreements cover up to 112 resource-limited countries. Affordability: Licensing & Access Pricing In order to help ensure a sustainable supply of medically We share clinical data, as appropriate, to support Availability: Priority Branded Registration acceptable generic darunavir used in SSA and LDCs, we inclusion in global, regional and national HIV treatment Appropriate Use: Medical Education maintain a policy of non-enforcement of our intellectual guidelines, which are essential in designing effective HIV Adoption: Guideline Inclusion & WHO Prequalification treatment strategies. property rights in the region provided the darunavir product is medically acceptable and used only in the Our Global Access & Partnerships Program for HIV In 2013, the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies specified territories. of Johnson & Johnson announced a first-of-its-kind Through our comprehensive HIV drug access framework, The program operates on a sustainable basis and does pediatric HIV treatment donation program to improve our Global Access and Partnerships Program works to not generate a profit. In SSA and LDCs, we offer our access to the Company’s approved HIV medicines fulfill this responsibility to people living with HIV/AIDS branded HIV medicines at special-effort prices, which PREZISTA® (darunavir) and INTELENCE® (etravirine) for in resource-limited countries, such as in sub-Saharan are significantly reduced from those in the U.S. and children and adolescents failing HIV treatment in SSA. Africa, least-developed countries and lower middleEurope. Beyond SSA and LDCs, we provide reduced Tragically, only a third of the three million children living income countries. Our efforts focus on countries with prices for our branded HIV medicines through differential with HIV today are receiving medicines. The donation high HIV burden and economic vulnerability. At Janssen, pricing that considers local economic development and program is part of our longstanding commitment to we are committed to helping people living with HIV HIV treatment programs and public health need. Prices help people living with HIV and enhance access to our in resource-limited settings by ensuring effective and in individual countries are subject to local pricing and medicines for those in need. sustainable access to our HIV medicines or antiretrovirals (ARVs). Our HIV drug access program is operated on a reimbursement discussions. Designing a Global TB Access Framework sustainable, not-for-profit basis. A comprehensive, multi-country registration effort Bedaquiline (trade named SIRTURO® in the U.S.), the Our approach is designed to address the unique ensures availability of our branded HIV medicines where first medication for pulmonary multi-drug resistant challenges of HIV drug access in resource-limited there is a public health need. In SSA, we currently tuberculosis with a novel mechanism of action in over countries, as well as ensure the appropriate clinical use target 23 countries for priority registration. For those 40 years, is approved and registered in the U.S., in the of our HIV medicines. countries with limited public health need and where local Russian Federation and in the European Union. regulations allow, our products may be available through Our agreements for our branded HIV medicines at pre-approval access mechanisms. Janssen is collaborating with Stop TB Partnership’s Global low special-effort prices in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA) Drug Facility (GDF) to facilitate access to bedaquiline and Least-Developed Countries (LDCs) have provided Janssen also supports and engages in a number of for the treatment of pulmonary multi-drug resistance rapid access for patients in need during the program’s activities geared toward ensuring our HIV medicines are tuberculosis (MDR-TB) as part of combination therapy in formative years. These royalty-free agreements have researched and used appropriately in resource limited adults. The GDF, the International Development Association helped to establish distribution networks, lay the settings, such as: and Janssen are working together to ensure an appropriate, 19 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S responsible and rational introduction of bedaquiline Prescription Assistance Programs that may have available funding to help minimize following the World Health Organization (WHO) interim drug costs. A link is provided to the Partnership for policy guidance on the use of bedaquiline to treat MDRWe are deeply committed to providing access to our Prescription Assistance (PPA), which offers a single TB issued in June 2013. medicines and making our medicines affordable to those point of access to information on 475 public and in need. For the period 2003–2013, in the U.S., the private patient assistance programs, including nearly Our Access & Affordability Strategy will seek to assure weighted average compound annual growth rate of the 200 programs offered by pharmaceutical companies. sustainable access through five key elements: Company’s net price increases for health care products Johnson & Johnson is a member of the PPA, a broad (prescription and over-the-counter drugs, hospital and private-sector effort funded by the pharmaceutical Innovative access partnerships and research professional products) was below the U.S. Consumer industry. collaborations to improve access, advance new drug Price Index (CPI). regimens and ensure responsible access and appropriate Our Company is also one of the founding members use; We have many programs to enhance access to our health of Together Rx Access™, a prescription drug savings Differential pricing which reflects balance between care products for those who cannot afford them. Our program for Americans and their families who have value and innovation, and affordability and appropriate programs provide people with access to medicines that no prescription drug coverage and are not eligible for use; are administered by a health care provider, as well as Medicare. Since 2005, more than 2.5 million Americans, prescription medicines they can take themselves. including approximately 400,000 children, have enrolled Prioritized registration efforts by high disease burden in Together Rx Access™. to assure timely availability for patients in need; Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. Support of appropriate use through responsible is a nonprofit organization that assists patients without Pricing Strategies and Programs distribution in collaboration with international and national adequate financial resources and prescription coverage TB programs; in obtaining free products donated by the operating As a global health care company, Johnson & Johnson companies of Johnson & Johnson. The Foundation looks at access and affordability issues from a global Regulatory commitments in R&D for continued is an independent organization reflecting the perspective. Many regions and individual markets around treatment innovation including a Phase 3 program, Johnson & Johnson operating companies’ long-standing the world require tiered-pricing solutions. We engage in pediatric formulation and patient registry. commitment to helping patients access prescription strategic, innovative and equitable pricing strategies for a medicines. Over the past 24 months, Johnson & Johnson wide variety of diseases. We are constantly striving to find innovative solutions to ensure that all people in need of our medicines and Patient Assistance Foundation, Inc. provided more than two million units of medicine to more than 300,000 For more information about specific Pricing Strategies vaccines receive them. Our innovation, commitment and patients in the U.S. and Programs visit our Citizenship & Sustainability ongoing work are helping to improve lives and enhance website www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability. the availability of our medicines around the world. A service of Johnson & Johnson Health Care Systems Inc., the Janssen Prescription Assistance website helps users find programs that provide assistance with medication costs. Resources include prescription assistance programs sponsored by relevant Janssen Pharmaceuticals Companies, as well as up-to-date information about independent foundations 20 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Product Pipeline Guided by Our Credo, Johnson & Johnson is committed to delivering innovative products and services to enhance the health and well-being of nations and people around the world. Our businesses and patients we serve depend upon the discovery, development and commercialization of new products and services that incorporate advances in science and technology and the ability to service customers wherever they live. For the past five years, we’ve consistently invested about 11 percent of sales to support our R&D efforts. That equated to over $8 billion enterprise-wide in 2013. Our investments in R&D are helping us continually deliver meaningful innovations for our customers. About 25 percent of our sales have come from products we have introduced in just the past five years. In 2013, our Pharmaceutical business saw great productivity from our pipeline, including the launch of three new major medicines: INVOKANA® (canagliflozin) for the treatment of Type 2 diabetes, IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib) for mantle cell lymphoma and OLYSIO® (simeprevir) for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C. Science and innovation are critical to our ability to meet the Important new medical devices also were approved. health care needs of people Our Medical Devices & Diagnostics business saw the throughout the world. Each of our business segments has U. S. Food & Drug Administration approve EVARREST™ strong research and development Fibrin Sealant Patch, a novel product that rapidly and capabilities including scientists reliably aids in stopping bleeding during surgery. The and research professionals ENSEAL® G2 Articulating Tissue Sealer makes it easier focused on delivering innovative for surgeons to access difficult-to-reach parts of the solutions to some of the world’s anatomy, and our THERMOCOOL® SMARTTOUCH™ greatest health challenges. 21 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Catheter enhances the safety and efficacy of ablation Additionally, our companies are required to follow information about the treatment option they are procedures. the Declaration of Helsinki and the Belmont Report, considering and what it could mean for them. They are which set clear guidelines for the ethical treatment of also informed about available alternative therapeutic In our Consumer segment, we continue to expand patients across all borders. Our products regulated as options. globally with the acquisition of Shanghai Elsker Mother pharmaceuticals or devices must adhere to all relevant & Baby Co., Ltd., a leading baby care products company statutes as well as our policies for registering and Access to Investigational Medicines for the Chinese market, and by launching LISTERINE® reporting clinical studies. We are often asked how patients with serious diseases ADVANCED DEFENCE® Gum Treatment in the United can get medicines not yet approved by government Kingdom and Ireland. Clinical trials, parameters of which are defined by health authorities. These medicines are still being studied regulatory requirements, are conducted to evaluate and are also called “investigational medicines.” In the See our 2013 Johnson & Johnson Annual Report the efficacy and safety of medicines and medical U.S., the government health authority is the Food & Drug Business Highlights for more information about our devices, and are essential steps in developing effective Administration (FDA). progress and find a detailed look at our Pharmaceutical new medicines and treatments. Johnson & Johnson Pipeline at www.jnj.com/investors. companies sponsor and support clinical trials in more While government health authorities have made great than 40 countries, allowing for wide diversity among advances in shortening the time it takes to make new people who participate in this important research. investigational medicines available, some seriously ill patients are still in urgent need of new treatment options. R&D and Clinical Trials Participating in a Clinical Trial We understand that urgency, especially for patients with medical needs that are not met by treatments available Participants in clinical trials may gain access to new now. research treatments before they are widely available Since its beginning, the Johnson & Johnson Family of and can help others by contributing to medical research. We follow three important principles when providing Companies has been a pioneer in the research and Before anyone can enroll and participate in a clinical trial access to investigational medicines: development of new products, pharmaceuticals and sponsored by one of our companies, clinical investigators medical devices that contribute to the health and wellmust ensure that they are fully informed of the potential That all patients are treated fairly and equally; being of people around the world. We strive to maintain an benefits and risks of the medicine or device. That we conduct thorough scientific studies to environment of innovative product development, conducting understand the potential risks and benefits of any all phases of research and development to the highest We have procedures in place to fully inform participants investigational medication. These studies provide the ethical standard, while advancing pipelines that serve of potential benefits and risks, to protect the information needed to seek approval from government medical needs. Our investments in R&D are helping us confidentiality of their private information and to protect health authorities and bring new medicines to all patients continually deliver meaningful innovations for our customers. vulnerable populations. Study participants can withdraw who need them; from a trial at any time. Our Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and That we are not putting patients at risk of unnecessary Development provides standards of conduct and behavior We abide by the guidelines for Good Clinical Practice of harm. for physicians, clinical research scientists and others the International Conference on Harmonization. who are responsible for medical aspects of research and To ensure that study participants know what to expect We cannot provide an investigational medicine to patients development. and can make an informed decision about whether until we have enough information to believe that the risks to participate in a study, they must be given relevant associated with a particular medicine are reasonable in 22 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S light of the potential benefit, and that we have preliminary companies are listed on the U.S. National Institutes an important driver of our business, in particular being proof that the drug may work. of Health’s website. We are committed to publishing insight-driven to uncover unmet needs. data that are scientifically or medically important and In 2013, we launched a new online resource on the U.S. to abiding by established codes of ethics, presenting Our efforts encompass finding diagnostics, treatments Janssen R&D website designed to support transparency, truthful, complete and accurate information. and ways to deliver them where they are needed understanding and consistency of the process by clearly most. We have a strong commitment to the R&D of explaining the options, our approach and the best way In early 2014, Johnson & Johnson announced, through new treatments for infectious diseases that affect the to get accurate information. The site www.janssenrnd. its subsidiary Janssen Research & Development LLC, a developing world. Details are provided in the Global com/our-innovation/access-to-investigational-medicines clinical trial data sharing agreement with Yale School of Health section of this report (see page 16). More provides information about access to an investigational Medicine’s Open Data Access (YODA) Project to extend information about the development of medicines, medical medicine, or a patient’s health care professional its commitment to sharing clinical trials data to enhance devices and consumer products can be found on our may contact Janssen’s Medical Information team at public health and advance science and medicine. This Citizenship & Sustainability website. 1-800-JANSSEN. is the first time any company has collaborated with a completely independent third party to review and make Bioethics Dr. Paul Janssen famously said “patients are waiting.” decisions regarding every request for pharmaceutical That wait can be extremely difficult when a patient’s clinical data. This agreement will further our From the work in our laboratories to our clinical research condition is life-threatening. Our aim with this new understanding of diseases, new treatment opportunities studies, we are committed to upholding the highest resource is to help reduce the stress in those situations and underscores Our Credo responsibilities. ethical standards across our Family of Companies. by creating a clear path to obtaining needed information. Our commitment extends to operating our businesses Clinical Trials by Outside Investigators in accordance with accepted international standards Registration and Reporting for scientific work. The Ethics Committee champions Johnson & Johnson also supports clinical studies by Our Ethical Code for the Conduct of Research and outside investigators. These requests are carefully Development, which provides input on ethical issues that Our companies ensure the medical community has evaluated for their potential value. In conducting clinical arise. For more information on the bioethics teams, visit access to comprehensive information about our products investigations, outside investigators must comply www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategicby: with local regulations, follow our policies and ensure framework/bioethics-overview. Publicly announcing or registering clinical trials in participant safety is respected and protected. accordance with journal and legal requirements Animal Testing Disclosing timelines for conducting and completing R&D Focus Areas The Company and its businesses take seriously their these studies For more than 127 years, Johnson & Johnson has responsibility for the humane treatment and care of the Providing information about the potential risks as well been innovating and developing products to meet animals used in research, development and training. To as the benefits of participating in the study with those some of the world’s most critical health problems. We support those responsibilities, the Company has wellwho are considering study participation strive to maintain an environment of innovative product developed guidelines that ensure the ethical practices of development. Inspired by Our Credo responsibility to all its businesses in the care and use of animals. Included Appropriately publishing the results of clinical trials consider first those who use our products and services, in these guidelines is the principle that alternatives to Clinical trials conducted around the world by our we see the development of deep insights into the needs animals should be used whenever possible. Our Guideline Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices & Diagnostics of our patients, customers, markets and communities as on the Humane Care and Use of Animals was revised 23 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S in 2013. For more information on this topic, visit our website at www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/ For more information, visit our website at www.jnj.com/ caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ Innovation strategic-framework/animal-testing. nanotechnology. Stem Cells Biotechnology Innovation has always been at the forefront for Johnson & Johnson. Over the years, we’ve improved Human pluripotent stem cells are immature unspecialized Biotechnology has the potential to bring about significant patient care and the quality of life for millions of cells with the potential to give rise in the laboratory to benefits, such as improved nutrition, enhanced pest people worldwide by delivering surgical innovations, virtually any cell type of the human body and, as such, resistance, increased yields and new products such as breakthroughs in medicine and consumer products offer many opportunities for advances in medicine. As vaccines. Genetic modification to crops, for example, that have stood the test of time. And we believe a research tool, human pluripotent stem cells promise may help reduce environmental risks associated with that delivering innovation is what ultimately makes a to expand our understanding of normal physiologic concerns related to fertilizer, pesticides and water in meaningful difference for the patients and customers we processes, such as cell growth and differentiation, and large-scale farms. For more information on this topic, serve. That is why about 25 percent of our sales come to enable new insights into disease, which may lead to visit our website at www.jnj.com/caring/citizenshipfrom products we’ve introduced in just the past five years. new ways to prevent, diagnose and treat a wide variety sustainability/strategic-framework/genetic-researchof disorders. Our Guidelines on Human Pluripotent Stem and-biotechnology. Investing in innovations has helped us increase our Cell Research provide additional details on this topic. leadership positions and optimize our portfolio so that we For more information, visit our website at www.jnj.com/ Xenotransplantation can focus on the areas where we are making the most caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ impact. stem-cells. Xenotransplantation is a transplant between species. We have created and opened new Johnson & Johnson Johnson & Johnson is committed to ethical animal Innovation Centers in London, Boston and Menlo Park, Nanotechnology care and upholds the 3Rs principles of animal use California. A fourth innovation center in Shanghai is (reduction, refinement and replacement). Animals will operational and scheduled to officially open in 2014. Nano particles (particles under 100 nanometers only be utilized when no equivalent in-vitro alternative These customized collaborations are part of our enterin size) offer the potential to develop improved is available. All laboratory research animals shall be prise-wide strategy to support an international network of medicines, medical devices and personal care products, treated humanely and according to all relevant national scientific entrepreneurs through access to best-in-class such as sunscreens. We continue to participate in and local regulations. The numerous xenotransplantation laboratory facilities and scientific expertise. Since the nanotechnology scientific forums and to monitor methods collectively exhibit potential for treating a opening of our innovation centers, we’ve established early regulatory developments, such as recent requirements in variety of human diseases. As the understanding of the stage collaborations that are forging important research France to register products on a list of those that contain science around xenotransplantation continues to evolve, and development alliances across our three business nano materials. Johnson & Johnson will remain up to date with stateareas. Some of these early stage collaborations include: of-the-art practices and comply with all local regulatory Our position related to nanotechnology is addressed on guidelines. Boston Innovation Center: our website and in our Guideline for the Responsible Use Translational Oncology Research Alliance with the of Nanotechnology, which sets standards for responsible University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center— behaviors across the Corporation and provides a general Janssen Biotech, Inc. and Johnson & Johnson Innovation framework to influence the wider global community in have established a translational oncology program with developing nanotechnology in a responsible manner. the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center to 24 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S enable the personalization of immunotherapies for the independent third party to review and make decisions Our Care4Today Orthopaedic Solutions focus on treatment of various cancers. regarding every request for clinical data. improving continuity of care and recovery through patient education and empowerment, as well as by California Innovation Center: Meaningful innovation derives from the insight and providing post-surgery support both in the hospital Single Cell Network Profiling Collaboration spirit of our employees and their ability to anticipate and and at home. with Nodality, Inc.—Janssen Biotech, Inc. and understand the needs of our patients and customers Johnson & Johnson Innovation have formed a and what they value. That impacts both what we do, and Our TruMatch brings a new level of personalized total collaboration with the biotechnology company Nodality, how we do it. So while Johnson & Johnson will remain knee replacement surgery to the operating room with Inc. to apply Nodality’s proprietary Single Cell Network a leader in R&D, we are increasingly focused on being customized patient instruments and systems designed Profiling technology to immunology R&D programs. The innovative in how we bring products to market, the kinds to aid in knee implant positioning, and to increase the goal of the collaboration is to improve the development of partnerships we develop and how we operate our efficiency of the procedure. and probability of success of compounds for the business. At Johnson & Johnson, innovation is everyone’s treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and inflammatory bowel responsibility. Finally, in our Sterilmed, Inc., integrated reprocessing disease by further understanding the biologic function business, we’re aiming to deliver direct savings and activity at the single cell level. Medical Devices & Diagnostics: to hospital budgets by combining both new and The EVARREST™ Fibrin Sealant Patch, ENSEAL® previously reprocessed instruments in one simple London Innovation Center: G2 Articulating Tissue Sealer and THERMOCOOL® sterile container. Topical Medicines Investment in TopiVert— SMARTTOUCH™ Catheter are just a few of the Johnson & Johnson Development Corporation, in innovations that continue to strengthen our worldwide Pharmaceutical: collaboration with Johnson & Johnson Innovation, has leadership position in medical devices and diagnostics, During 2013, our Pharmaceutical business saw great made an investment in TopiVert, a company focused on where 85 percent of our key platforms hold the number productivity from our pipeline. We received several developing topical medicines for inflammatory diseases one or number two position in the market. regulatory approvals, including: of the gut and eye based on narrow-spectrum kinase inhibitor technology. Integrating Synthes has been our priority and we’ve made FDA approval of OLYSIO® (simeprevir), an NS3/4A good progress. DePuy Synthes Companies is the world’s protease inhibitor, for the treatment of chronic hepatitis The collaborations that we engage in also play a role largest and most comprehensive orthopaedics company C infection as part of an antiviral treatment regimen in our efforts to bring innovation in what we do. A key within a $44 billion market with strong fundamentals, and in combination with pegylated interferon and ribavirin example is how Janssen Research & Development, it is primed to offer new, value-added solutions that will in genotype 1 infected adults with compensated liver LLC, entered into a novel agreement with Yale School help transform health care delivery. disease, including cirrhosis; of Medicine’s Open Data Access (YODA) Project that extends our commitment to sharing clinical trials data While innovation at Johnson & Johnson means products, FDA approval of IMBRUVICA® (ibrutinib) capsules for to enhance public health and advance science and it also means solutions. As we continue to invest in R&D, the treatment of patients with mantle cell lymphoma who medicine. Under this agreement announced in January we also are focused on key unmet needs for the patients. have received at least one prior therapy; 2014, YODA will serve as an independent body to review Beyond innovative products, we offer innovative solutions requests from investigators and physicians seeking and outcomes for our customers and patients. FDA and European Commission (EC) approval of access to anonymized clinical trials data from Janssen, INVOKANA® (canagliflozin), an oral, once-daily, selective For example, in our knee replacement procedures, we the pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson, sodium glucose co-transporter 2 inhibitor, for the have been able to provide innovative customer-focused and make final decisions on data sharing. This is the first treatment of adults with Type 2 diabetes; solutions that are expanding our business, along with time any company has collaborated with a completely contributing to the health care system. 25 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S FDA approval for the use of STELARA® (ustekinumab) alone or in combination with methotrexate for the Market Access care decision making by policy makers, payers and providers. Johnson & Johnson supports HTA’s adherence treatment of adult patients with active psoriatic arthritis; to accepted best practices, such as transparency, stakeholder engagement, and separation of scientific EC approval of STELARA® (ustekinumab), alone or evaluation and policy decision-making. As no single Johnson & Johnson strives to provide leadership in in combination with methotrexate for active psoriatic model of HTA fits all markets, Johnson & Johnson advancing a world in which all people have access to arthritis in adults when the response to previous nonsupports HTA systems being developed to suit a local affordable, innovative and sustainable solutions for biological disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug therapy health system’s requirements. healthy living. Market access is determined by policy has been inadequate; and regulatory constructs we must navigate to ensure International Trade our products and health services can be accessed FDA approval of SIMPONI® (golimumab) for the by patients. Our efforts in this area are the primary International trade is dependent upon the conduct of treatment of moderately to severely active ulcerative responsibility of Johnson & Johnson Worldwide orderly, predictable and fair commercial activities across colitis in adult patients who have demonstrated Government Affairs & Policy (GA&P). national borders. Johnson & Johnson is committed to corticosteroid dependence or who have had an delivering innovative products and services to enhance inadequate response to or failed to tolerate oral GA&P has identified the following areas of focus that the health and well-being of nations and people around aminosalicylates, oral corticosteroids, azathioprine or impact market access: health care financing, health the world. Our businesses depend upon the discovery, 6-mercaptopurine; technology assessment, international trade, U.S. health development and commercialization of new products care reform and value of innovation. and services that incorporate advances in science and FDA approval of SIMPONI® ARIA™ (golimumab) for technology and the ability to service customers wherever infusion for the treatment of adults with moderately to Health Care Financing they live. To accomplish this mission, we strongly support severely active rheumatoid arthritis in combination with free trade principles that foster access to customers, methotrexate; Financing health care in developing countries— ideas and economic growth. for largely uninsured or underinsured populations— EC approval of VELCADE® (bortezomib) for use as is a complex health policy challenge, with profound U.S. Health Care Reform: Coverage Expansion induction therapy in combination with dexamethasone or implications for those economies and health care sectors. thalidomide and dexamethasone in adult patients with Johnson & Johnson supports health care reform that Johnson & Johnson is committed to making health care previously untreated multiple myeloma who are eligible enhances access, long-term sustainability of the health more affordable and accessible in every market we for high-dose chemotherapy with hematological stem cell care system, incentives for innovation, medical progress, serve, including within developing countries. We strive to transplantation. and the management and prevention of chronic diseases advance policies and mechanisms that enhance health care financing and the lives of the populations, while as well as the best aspects of the current system. Consumer: creating robust markets for our innovative and marketIn our Consumer segment, we continue to expand Johnson & Johnson supports the Affordable Care Act appropriate products. globally with the acquisition of Shanghai Elsker Mother (ACA) because we support the goals of expanding & Baby Co., Ltd., a leading baby care products company access to affordable coverage, of providing high quality Health Technology Assessment for the Chinese market, and by launching LISTERINE® care within a patient-centric model and of maintaining an ADVANCED DEFENCE® Gum Treatment in the United environment in which medical innovation can thrive. Our Health Technology Assessment (HTA) is the systematic Kingdom and Ireland. position on the ACA can be found at www.jnj.com/sites/ collection and analysis of evidence regarding a health technology and is used to support rational health default/files/pdf/us-health-care-reform-principles.pdf. 26 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Value of Innovation Preventing Disease and position to assist and guide those in need. Additionally, this program provided screening for 5,000 orphans and Maximizing the value of medical technologies, including Promoting Wellness vulnerable children to monitor their nutritional and growth drugs and devices, makes it possible to help patients status. Beyond the children, households of these children live longer and better lives, reduces health risks and Johnson & Johnson is uniquely qualified to be a also were equipped with nutritional and counselling provides cost-effective health care. There is substantial leader in improving community wellness and fostering education. data demonstrating that medical innovations can reduce healthier lives through health education. We have the health care costs by better controlling chronic diseases, competencies needed to create programs that raise With the prevalence of childhood obesity rising in the reducing or eliminating hospitalizations, extending levels of consumer and patient health awareness and United States and the threat that it poses to child health, longevity and preventing further deterioration of health. understanding, as well as medical expertise, across our Johnson & Johnson created the Johnson & Johnson This can be especially true for biopharmaceutical businesses, covering a broad area of health care. In Gateway to a Healthy Community™ program to help innovations. Studies by leading health economists show addition, we seek broad partnerships and collaborations address this issue. In partnership with Activity Works, an significant health and economic gains attributable to to bring forward innovative solutions to help improve innovative classroom physical activity curricula-support innovations in pharmaceuticals, medical devices and health outcomes. program, Gateway to a Healthy Community™ targeted diagnostics. We support policies that support innovation. elementary schools (K–3) in four cities across the U.S. to We understand that around the world, health education is increase the activity levels of students, as well as teach instrumental in improving health outcomes. As part of our them about nutrition and the benefits of healthy eating Healthy Future 2015 enterprise goal, we have made it a habits. In 2013, this program reached close to 50,000 point to implement health education programs in targeted students in 115 schools. As a health care company, communities around the world that will increase individual we see it as a responsibility to partner with others to and public understanding of basic health information foster community wellness through health education to encourage positive behavior change and support opportunities that further empower individuals to take healthier lives. action to live healthier lives. After refining this goal in 2013 to better track these programs and their outcomes through a new collection tool, we have counted seven various disease-related programs that have reached close to five million people in nine different countries. One example of a program increasing health awareness is a partnership we have with HIVSA, an organization dedicated to providing support for communities who have been infected and affected by HIV in South Africa. This program has trained over 600 caregivers to be more knowledgeable on HIV and related health issues. Through this training, caregivers are in a better 27 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Leading a Dynamic & Growing Business Responsibly • Strategic Leadership • Quality & Safety of Products • Ethical Performance • Compliance • Transparency • Governance • Supply Chain & Supplier Management • Human Rights • Financial Health & Economic Performance • Health-Conscious, Safe Employees • Workplace Health & Safety • Labor Practices & Workforce • Employee Retention, Development & Recruitment • Compensation • Diversity & Inclusion • Political Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying Leading a dynamic • Intellectual Property and growing business • Data Protection & Privacy responsibly is at the • Stakeholder Engagement core of Our Credo commitments to • Job Creation consumers, customers, • Philanthropy patients, employees, • Community Involvement & Engagement communities and • Volunteerism shareholders throughout the world. 28 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Strategic Leadership surrounding our own actions, and communication about our policies and positions. Quality & Safety of Products G4-43 G4-45–G4-48 Our Credo inspires us to advance the health of communities in which we live and work, and the world community as well. This unwavering commitment to Caring for the world, one person at a time, inspires and High quality products that are safe and effective are making the world a healthier place is at the heart of unites the people of Johnson & Johnson. We embrace integral to our ability to care for the health and well-being our giving. We fulfill our mission by developing enduring research and science, bringing innovative ideas, products of people throughout the world. Our employees dedicate partnerships that deliver community-based solutions and services to advance the health and well-being of themselves to providing the most trusted brands and high to health challenges. We focus in three strategic people. Employees of the Johnson & Johnson Family of quality products. Ensuring the safety, quality and efficacy areas: saving and improving the lives of women and Companies work with partners in health care to touch the of our companies’ products is our greatest responsibility. children, preventing disease among the most vulnerable lives of over a billion people every day, throughout the world. and strengthening the health workforce. Together In 2013, we took steps to standardize our quality In today’s highly competitive global marketplace, it is with our partners, we make life-changing, long-term systems across our Family of Companies and also essential that we focus on the critical drivers of our differences in human health, helping families to strengthened and streamlined our supply chain to future growth: to create value through innovation, to survive and thrive. We lend our expertise to a variety of help ensure we can reliably meet demand. In addition, extend our global reach, with local focus, to execute with stakeholder engagements as outlined in the Stakeholder we’ve bolstered our post-market medical safety excellence in everything we do, and to lead with purpose Engagement (page 62) and Community Involvement & surveillance work. We’ve continually met our goals to make a difference in the world. We pursue our growth Engagement (page 66) sections of this report and online under the Consent Decree entered in March 2011 drivers guided by the Leadership Imperatives: Connect, in both our Citizenship & Sustainability and Our Giving with the U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA), Shape, Lead and Deliver. websites. which covers certain McNeil Consumer Healthcare manufacturing facilities. In addition, we’re taking a These imperatives are proof that we recognize that Increasing transparency is a vital aspect of strategic more integrated approach to quality and compliance by how we achieve results is as important as the results leadership. We are aware of the value of reporting our forming the Johnson & Johnson Quality & Compliance themselves. We expect leaders to develop deep insights successes, challenges (pages 4–8) and goal progress organization to ensure the standardization and consistent into the needs of our stakeholders, to drive innovation (page 89) as well as information that contributes to implementation of our Quality Policy and Quality Policy and advance health care globally by anticipating and discussions about Citizenship & Sustainability concerns, Standards across the Johnson & Johnson Family of shaping change in our industry, to create an environment such as those identified in our recent materiality Companies. In addition, our Chief Medical Officers are where leadership and talent development are top assessment. We do so throughout this report, within our setting new benchmarks for medical safety. They are priorities, and to deliver results by inspiring and mobilizing Policies and Position Statements and on our Citizenship implementing a more consistent global approach for people and teams. & Sustainability website. monitoring the use of our in-market products that is very Our Leadership Imperatives underscore a culture that patientand consumer-centric for ensuring products are supports sharing of best practices internally, among safe and performing as intended. our business partners and suppliers, and with a variety of public, private, governmental and non-governmental Quality & Compliance organizations where there is potential to positively impact Our more integrated approach to Quality & Compliance advancement of human health and well-being. Our will assist us to continue partnering with global health efforts include engagements with others, transparency 29 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S authorities and interacting with customers to solve some that could impact the quality of our products; and we care company must always act for the greater good, of the world’s most important health care challenges. have a process in place that requires we look promptly regardless of the business impact. and closely into each inquiry and remediate if necessary. Our One Quality Policy is intended to help ensure that This policy and system empowers the right people— all our operating companies design, make and deliver Quality Review Board the right quality people, the right medical people and our products in a consistent way; and that we speak as regulatory people—to make the best-informed decisions one company to all our stakeholders, including health Our system of independent Quality Review Boards (QRB) about product quality each time. authorities, customers and health care professionals within each business unit, tasked with upholding our worldwide. A Management Review Process has been Quality Policy and Standards in each of our businesses, For the past several years, after a number of product instituted, where each of our operating company’s promotes accountability and decision-making across recalls, the entire executive leadership team of executive management seeks to continuously improve our Johnson & Johnson companies. This protocol is Johnson & Johnson has been focusing on ways quality by reviewing its Quality System every six months part of our culture of proactive quality and prevention: to ensure that every product we test, develop and to ensure its suitability, adequacy and effectiveness. Every person plays a role in delivering a quality product manufacture meets Johnson & Johnson quality or service, and employees are empowered and held standards and health authority regulations, allowing us This Quality Policy is supported by a common set of accountable for all things quality related. to responsibly meet the demand for the products we’re Quality Policy Standards that covers the entire life entrusted to deliver to our consumers. cycle of all our products—from R&D/Development, Within each business, an Independent QRB is to Manufacturing/Supply Chain, to the Customer empowered to make decisions to ensure that every Our focus has been on strengthening and streamlining Experience. This is a common bar for all the products business unit meets the high quality standards that our supply chain to ensure we will reliably meet demand. we make around the world. As such, health and safety are expected of all Johnson & Johnson companies. We’ve continually met our goals under the McNeil impacts are assessed for all of our significant product This standardized system empowers the right quality, Consent Decree. Meanwhile, through hard work and categories in each business segment throughout the medical and regulatory people to make our most dedication of employees throughout the enterprise, we world; and all of our businesses are beginning to assess important decisions about product quality independent successfully reintroduced many products previously made relevant data and work in the same way related to Quality of commercial considerations. Each of our businesses in Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, from other sites. The around the world. PR1 has the accountability to ensure that both resources Fort Washington manufacturing site is not in operation at and systems are in place to quickly identify quality this time, and we’ve recently made the decision to make Examples of our Quality Policy Standards include: issues, make informed and timely decisions, and take further investments in that facility prior to certification. the appropriate controls for a laboratory environment; the necessary actions whenever required—while always guidelines for gathering and managing data on materials keeping the safety and well-being of patients and For more information, see the sections in this report sourced through third parties; the criteria to meet customers as our primary focus. about Ethical Performance (page 32) and Compliance when looking into a consumer question and identifying (page 34). and tracing the root cause of an open inquiry; and The QRB alone is responsible for decisions and actions requirements for maintaining manufacturing equipment. relating to product recalls. A product recall is a difficult Product and Service Labeling decision for a company to make. At Johnson & Johnson, We’ve also instituted a newly revised escalation standard the willingness to make these difficult decisions is part Products developed and commercialized through our that more clearly defines how we report quality issues of our DNA. The TYLENOL® recall in 1983 set an Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices & Diagnostics into our global management structure. To this end, all of important precedent within our own industry—that when businesses strive to meet all applicable laws regarding our employees are required to report anything they see faced with a threat to public health, we believe a health package inserts (these are also referred to as 30 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S instructions for use in some businesses), which contain Marketing Communication monitoring are in place regarding compliance with appropriate information for health care professionals and standards for appropriate promotion of regulated products. patients. For over-the-counter pharmaceutical products, Products in the Consumer segment are marketed to packaging and inserts are likewise used to communicate the general public and sold both to retail outlets and The companies of Johnson & Johnson market a broad with consumers. Our Consumer products include clear, distributors throughout the world. Pharmaceutical range of health care products from our Consumer, easy-to-read instructions and information on how to segment products are distributed directly to retailers, Medical Devices & Diagnostics and Pharmaceutical use our products appropriately. Ingredients are listed wholesalers and health care professionals for business segments throughout the world. We do not sell for all products; however, we do not include sourcing prescription use. The broad range of products from or market products that are banned within markets that information of components. Directions for proper disposal our Medical Devices & Diagnostics segment are have such restrictions. PR6 are included where necessary. For more information, see distributed to wholesalers, hospitals and retailers used the sections in this report on Ingredients (page 75) and principally in the professional fields by physicians, nurses, We respond to stakeholder inquiries about our products Sourcing of Raw Materials (page 75). PR3 therapists, hospitals, diagnostics laboratories and clinics. on a case-by-case basis. When necessary, we issue Communications are geared to each of these audiences Company statements or announce other actions. Customer Satisfaction and use a variety of face-to-face, printed, online and, where appropriate, broadcast and social media. Anti-Counterfeiting We continually seek opportunities to improve the way we develop, make and deliver our products. Our quality In our marketing and communications efforts with health Counterfeiting of health care and consumer products and compliance systems are founded on the concept care professionals, we follow the voluntary Advanced is a serious and growing concern, as it leads to fake, of continuous improvement to maintain product quality. Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) Code of untested, unapproved and potentially dangerous products This is why our companies continue to engage in an Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals, entering the marketplace. Counterfeit products can put open dialogue with our customers, with health care the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers people’s health and lives at risk, and they can undermine authorities, and with health care professionals in all the of America (PhRMA) Code on Interactions with confidence in product safety and effectiveness. markets where we do business. Our Quality Policy will Healthcare Professionals, the International Federation Counterfeiting is also a growing problem around the always be informed by this dialogue, so we can continue of Pharmaceutical Manufacturers of America (IFPMA) world. Our companies work hard to proactively identify to reinvigorate and improve our Policy Standards—and Code of Practice and other similar trade association codes and embed preventative measures in our business to stay ahead of the relevant challenges our customers and around the world. Johnson & Johnson and our operating minimize the risk of counterfeits to help ensure that partners are seeing in the marketplace. companies follow internally established guidelines that patients and consumers receive genuine products of the apply to all forms of direct-to-consumer communication, Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. Customer relationships and customer satisfaction are including regulation of such communication by our assessed on an ongoing basis by our business units Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices & Diagnostics Pre-Market and business segments. Operating companies employ a businesses. In addition, we follow the PhRMA Guiding Taking a risk-based approach, we employ best practices variety of mechanisms to measure customer satisfaction, Principles on Direct-to-Consumer Advertisements About in brand protection that use a range of product and including surveys, website interactions, focus groups and Prescription Medicines. On the Consumer side, we packaging security measures that help identify authentic patient advisory groups. These customer satisfaction follow the various volunteer codes and guidelines of the products from those that are counterfeit. We also work measures, as collected by our business units, are not Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA). to minimize the risk of counterfeit products entering our shared externally for competitive reasons. PR5 Health Care Compliance officers conduct annual risk supply chain, from manufacturing to distribution. assessments of all businesses globally to assess whether systems, policies, procedures, training, resources and 31 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Post-Market on our Citizenship & Sustainability website. See our All employees, vendors, distributors and customers In addition, we monitor markets and investigate Corporate Annual Report story, as well. have the opportunity to anonymously report potential counterfeiting activities, collaborating with regulatory and violations of policy or law through the Company’s Credo law enforcement authorities, and engage with influential We provide all of our employees with comprehensive Hotline, available by phone and also 24 hours a day in industry leaders as well as our business partners to systems that support ethical behavior and compliance 23 languages by website. Additionally, anyone can report help identify and remove counterfeits from the market. with laws and regulations. Our policies give clear allegations through other methods (phone calls, emails, We may also prosecute or take civil action against the direction on how to act according to our ethical values, etc.) within their local business unit or to the Audit, Law, perpetrators. Furthermore, we work with governments as well as the laws and regulations where our companies and Security or Human Resource organizations. All and regulatory agencies to identify opportunities to operate around the world. Credo Hotline reports are routed by the external vendor strengthen laws, regulations and enforcement efforts to Corporate Internal Audit, which triages the reports to to help protect and secure the supply chain. We take Ethics and Integrity G4-56–G4-58 corporate, sector or operating company personnel for measures to raise awareness among our stakeholders of follow-up investigation and action. In addition, a Triage the dangers of counterfeit health care products through Training on Our Credo and our Policy on Committee comprised of the Chief Compliance Officer, training events, seminars and industry association Business Conduct is made available through the Internal Audit, the Law Department, Worldwide Security initiatives. Johnson & Johnson website to employees worldwide in and Human Resources reviews the serious allegations to 16 languages, which we estimate covers the language determine the best means to investigate. See our position on Counterfeit Health Care Products needs of more than 90 percent of our worldwide for more information. employees. The training provides information on Each substantial operating company has its own health Johnson & Johnson policies regarding conflicts of care compliance officer, part of whose job is to help interest and compliance with laws and regulations. ensure compliance with, and provide guidance on, the Ethical Performance Training on the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Company’s Policies related to the health care industry. In (FCPA) is provided to employees inside and outside addition, the Company’s Law Department also provides the United States. Senior leaders of the company direct guidance and training on the Company’s Policies. certify compliance with the Policy on Business Conduct Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such annually, with the results of the certification presented Anti-Corruption as codes of conduct and codes of ethics create the basis to the Regulatory, Compliance and Government Affairs of a company’s credibility and trustworthiness and set Committee of the External Board of Directors. It is the policy of Johnson & Johnson to comply with clear expectations of how management and employees the laws of each country in which our companies do should conduct themselves to honor commitments as a Our employees are asked to refresh their education in business, as well as all applicable anti-bribery laws and global citizen. these areas every two years, and successful completion regulations such as, but not limited to, the U.S. Foreign is recorded. Specific training on health care laws and Corrupt Practices Act, the UK Bribery Act and national At Johnson & Johnson, the ethical principles embodied in regulations applicable to our businesses is undertaken implementing statutes pursuant to the Organization Our Credo are the lenses through which our employees through an extensive network of compliance officers for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) make many business decisions each day. To help ensure throughout our worldwide business. Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public that we conduct business according to these principles, Officials. we have an extensive list of policies and procedures that define what we expect of our people and our business Accordingly, Johnson & Johnson prohibits, directly partners throughout the world. Details are provided or indirectly, offering, promising, giving or authorizing 32 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S anyone to give anything of value to or for anyone acting Internal Audit conducted 182 financial control audits at Adherence is verified through ongoing independent in an official capacity for or on behalf of: a national, operating companies in 2013. In addition, Internal Audit audits and operations testing conducted by Internal Audit regional or local government; an agency, department or and HCC&P conducted 69 and 83 audits, respectively, and Health Care Compliance & Privacy. Information on instrumentality of a national, regional or local government; for compliance with our Foreign Corrupt Practices Act reviews is part of regular updates to the Regulatory, a government-owned or government-controlled company; controls. Generally speaking, all operating companies are Compliance & Government Affairs Committee of the or a public international organization to influence any audited on either a threeor five-year cycle, depending Board of Directors. Where process reviews identify official act (or failure to act), or any decision in violation on the risk profile of the particular operating company. questionable activities, these issues are escalated to an of his or its lawful duty; or induce the use of his or its In addition, HCC&P conducts additional monitoring internal Triage Committee and for-cause investigations influence to affect any governmental act or decision; and testing operations at our operating companies for commence. or secure any improper advantage in connection with compliance with our health care policies on a regular business. Furthermore, Johnson & Johnson Companies basis, with the scope and frequency of such monitoring In addition to our own employees, we also hold many of are required to comply with all applicable laws in the being dependent on the local operating company our critical third-party intermediaries, such as distributors, countries in which they operate, including any commercial requirements and local conditions. SO3 accountable to the Company’s policies. Due diligence bribery regulations. Access to policies and procedures and background checks are regularly conducted on sales which govern fraud and anti-corruption activities Legal requirements of Health Care Compliance and intermediaries to help ensure compliance with our policies. are readily available to all employees, vendors and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act are embodied in the shareholders on the Johnson & Johnson website. Health Care Business Integrity Guide (HCBIG). The Regulatory compliance of suppliers and vendors is HCBIG is available to all employees on the Company’s monitored and audited by our Regulatory Compliance The Law Department and the Johnson & Johnson Office intranet; training is required and documented for all and Procurement organizations. Internal Audit performs of Health Care Compliance & Privacy (HCC&P) are employees in health care–related positions. annual contract reviews of a number of key vendors to responsible for setting enterprise-wide standards with ensure compliance with agreed upon contract provisions respect to anti-corruption laws and interactions with Our policies require anti-corruption training for those and requirements. Any allegations of impropriety raised health care professionals. employees with job responsibilities that are relevant regarding business dealings with third parties are to such training, with a significant emphasis placed on documented and investigated by Internal Audit, the Law As a general rule, the Finance organization is responsible the training requirement to ensure completion by the Department or other appropriate organizations within the for assuring appropriate accounting controls at all levels applicable employees. The training covers all aspects of Company. of the organization that ensure accuracy over financial the HCBIG, including charitable contributions, donations, reporting, including the investigation of potential frauds, third-party intermediary (e.g., distributors) and crossMany of such allegations are subject to confidentiality, thefts, defalcations and falsification of financial results. border interactions, all of which are deemed as highlegal, privacy or other similar restrictions and, therefore, The organization is also responsible for evaluating, risk activities. In 2013, Johnson & Johnson operating are not publicly disclosed. However, this information is testing and monitoring accounting control systems on companies met the training goal, as tracked by an online reported externally in our public filings if it meets the an ongoing basis to be reasonably assured that the training application, with training completed for more than criteria for requiring public disclosure. SO5 controls in place continue to be appropriate and function 89,597 employees. The total includes 49,584 employees properly. Part of this evaluation includes documenting all outside the U.S. who completed anti-corruption training the steps taken to evaluate and monitor controls, as well and 40,013 U.S. employees for whom U.S. HCC as documenting existing accounting and internal control Awareness Training, which includes anti-corruption systems and procedures. principles, was provided. SO4 33 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Ethical Marketing E NVI RON M E NTAL NON-COM PLIANCE S 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Johnson & Johnson is committed to marketing all products responsibly to honor the trust that consumers Accidental Releases– – 5 16 10 9 8 7 place in us in choosing our products and to ensure Number of Events efficient markets. Our product marketing and Environmental Non-Compliances– communications efforts include educational brochures, 13 20 50 57 30 29 45 Number of Individual Findings videos, direct-to-consumer (DTC) advertising and online vehicles. These forms of DTC education give people Fines Paid 31 164 7 0 5 4 0 U.S. Dollars, in thousands information they can use when communicating with their doctors about the benefits and risks of treatments. We require our people to follow industry guidelines on Compliance In addition, when public disclosure criteria are met, anticompetitive behavior, antitrust claims, product liability advertising medicines and medical devices to ensure our claims and lawsuits that cover customer health and product advertising and communications are helpful to safety, labeling or marketing, as well as corrective actions people and doctors and give them full information about and resulting fines and penalties, are outlined in our Johnson & Johnson is a large and diverse company, 10-Q and 10-K filings. See Note 21 on page 54 of our the benefits and the risks of our products. with thousands of daily transactions that must comply 10-K Annual Report. PR2 PR4 PR7 PR9 SO8 with hundreds of regulations around the world. See the Accountable Business Practices section of our We take compliance issues seriously, investigate Environmental and Safety Compliance Citizenship & Sustainability website for more information. them and revisit our operational controls on a regular Johnson & Johnson and certain of its subsidiaries are inJohnson & Johnson strives to have zero accidental basis. Our Policy on Business Conduct requires that volved in various lawsuits and claims regarding commercial releases, regulatory non-compliances and fines. all employees comply with all laws and regulations and other matters; governmental investigations; and other Compared to 2012, our accidental releases remained governing our Company’s behavior. When this is not legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the ordinary essentially flat. None of the seven accidental releases the case, information is reported up internally within the course of business. Legal proceedings that meet the criteria were significant (defined in our Environment, Health, organization to senior management and, as appropriate, for requiring public disclosure are reported externally in our & Safety—EHS—standards as resulting in significant also shared with the Executive Committee, the Board of public filings. SO7 environmental damage, e.g. fish kill or local community Directors and/or the external auditors. Many of these issues are subject to confidentiality, legal, privacy or impact or resulting in media attention or cessation of other similar restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly operations). disclosed. However, this information is reported externally The number of environmental non-compliances in our public filings if it meets the criteria for requiring increased from 29 in 2012 to 45 in 2013. Most of the public disclosure. For more information on our approach non-compliances were related to waste management to compliance, visit www.jnj.com/caring/citizenshipor air and/or wastewater permit non-conformances, sustainability/strategic-framework/compliance-withand all were corrected promptly. Sixteen of these laws-and-regulations. non-compliances were related to a permit excursion by a biological wastewater system treatment at our manufacturing plant in Greece. In 2013, we experienced 34 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S seven health and safety non-compliances, and we paid website at www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/ Medical Devices & Diagnostics – 6: Ethicon, Inc.; fines of $205,000 for a 2010 administrative safety strategic-framework/transparency. Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.; LifeScan, Inc.; violation in Venezuela. EN24 EN29 Depuy Synthes Companies; Cordis Corporation; and Post results of controlled clinical studies, regardless Sterilmed, Inc.** of their outcomes, online at www.ClinicalTrials.gov. Our Transparency researchers are committed to publishing results that are scientifically and/or medically important, including Eighty-one percent of these major brands and/or companies are now sharing sustainability information on results that affect the registration or utilization of a their websites, as follows: Company product, as well as results from discontinued Increased levels of transparency and disclosure reflect clinical research. See www.jnj.com/caring/citizenshipConsumer: the expectations of stakeholders of all kinds and the sustainability/strategic-framework/clinical-trial-safetyOverall Consumer: www.safetyandcarecommitment. proliferation of the digital landscape. The importance and-transparency. com, www.caretorecycle.com, www.healthyessentials. of transparency is underscored by the fact that Disclose the nature and volume of grants made by com/our-caring transparency was ranked highly by stakeholders in our our Pharmaceutical and Medical Device & Diagnostics materiality assessment. Transparency is being driven JOHNSON’S®: www.johnsonsbaby.com/introducingcompanies in the U.S. for professional education. More by the sense among stakeholders that it is no longer johnsons-natural, www.johnsonsbaby.com/johnsonsinformation is on our individual company websites. enough for a company to be profitable, but that it should difference/best-for-baby-natural-overview also be open about how its business is conducted. To Post a list of all political contributions to our website at NEUTROGENA®: www.naturals.neutrogena.com/ provide transparency regarding our activities, we: www.investor.jnj.com/governance/contributions.cfm. whats-inside Examine our key Citizenship & Sustainability Report our progress on our Citizenship & Sustainability AVEENO®: www.aveeno.com/recycling, performance metrics to see where expansion of data goals annually and have done so for more than 15 years. www.aveeno.com/active-naturals collection efforts may be required. We have set a Healthy Future 2015 goal to have all Le Petit Marseillais®: www.lepetitmarseillais.com/ major* brand websites share product sustainability restons-nature Follow a systematic plan to increase the amount of information. In 2013, the list of “major” brands that have information provided on material issues in this report, MD&D: been identified across Johnson & Johnson was updated including metrics on our supply chain, human rights, labor to 21, as follows: Sterilmed, Inc.: www.sterilmed.com/Why-Reprocess/ practices, and other social and environmental indicators. Pages/Reduce-Waste.aspx Consumer – 6: AVEENO®, NEUTROGENA®, Set a new standard for clinical trial transparency Depuy Synthes Companies: www.depuy.com/aboutJOHNSON’S®, LISTERINE®, o.b. ®, Le Petit Marseillais® through a clinical trial data sharing agreement with the depuy/corporate-info/social-responsibility Yale School of Medicine’s Open Data Access (YODA) Janssen – 9: REMICADE® (infliximab), STELARA® Project. For more information, see the Clinical Trials and (ustekinumab), VELCADE® (bortezomib), XARELTO® LifeScan, Inc.: www.lifescan.com/responsibility/giving R&D section of this report. (rivaroxaban), SIMPONI® (golimumab), ZYTIGA® Johnson & Johnson Vision Care, Inc.: www.acuvue. (abiraterone acetate), PREZISTA® (darunavir), com/about-us Report on payments to physicians by our U.S. NUCYNTA® (tapentadol), INVEGA® SUSTENNA® / Medical Devices & Diagnostics companies and our U.S. XEPLION® (paliperidone palmitate) pharmaceutical companies, well ahead of any regulatory * “Major” brands determined by each business segment based on a combination of ** List of major brands for MD&D was adjusted in 2013 from 8 to 6 due to requirement to do so. More information is available on our factors, including sales, stakeholder interest in sustainability considerations, etc. reorganizations and divestitures. 35 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S All Janssen products disclose through the Prescribing Information (PI), or the local market equivalent, for NUCYNTA® (tapentadol): www.nucynta.com/sites/ default/files/pdf/Nucynta-PI.pdf#zoom=100 and Governance every active ingredient and every excipient, including disposal guidance: www.nucynta.com/sites/default/ ingredients such as dyes and preservatives. In the files/pdf/nucyntaer-medication-guide.pdf examples below, this product information can be found in Johnson & Johnson has well-established governance sections 11 and 16 in the PI. We continue looking to expand product sustainability structures and accountability measures to ensure these information for those brands already providing it and in structures perform their duties to responsibly further Janssen: working with the remainder to begin the sharing of this our purpose and aims with regard to economic, social information. and environmental dimensions of our Citizenship & REMICADE® (infliximab): www.remicade.com/shared/ Sustainability. Details are provided on www.jnj.com under product/remicade/prescribing-information.pdf Another Healthy Future 2015 goal is to increase the Our Company as well as on our Investor Relations and amount of country-level sustainability, citizenship and VELCADE® (bortezomib): www.velcade.com/files/ Citizenship & Sustainability websites. economic-related footprint information. In 2013, reports pdfs/velcade_prescribing_information.pdf were prepared for: We recognize the relationship between good governance XARELTO® (rivaroxaban): www.xareltohcp.com/sites/ and sound financial performance. The economic value default/files/pdf/xarelto_0.pdf#zoom=100 Janssen Campus Belgium (Janssen Pharmaceutica generated through a well-managed and governed NV): www.janssen-verslag-samenleving-2012.be/en/ ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate): www.zytiga.com/sites/ enterprise not only benefits stock owners, it also benefits home_en_change_language default/files/pdf/full_product_information.pdf local communities through small business development Johnson & Johnson France: http://www.janssenand through the contributions made to the social PREZISTA® (darunavir): www.prezista.com/sites/ infrastructure needed to sustain community health. france.fr/Society default/files/pdf/us_package_insert.pdf#zoom=100 Over the past three years, reports have also been Governance Structure G4-34 INVEGA® SUSTENNA® / XEPLION® (paliperidone published in Singapore, China, Brazil and the United palmitate): www.invegasustenna.com/important-productKingdom. Our Board of Directors, our highest governance body, information is a diverse group of individuals who are elected by our SIMPONI® (golimumab): www.simponi.com/shared/ As part of our Healthy Future 2015 goals, we have shareholders each year. We currently have 12 Board product/simponi/prescribing-information.pdf and Safe also set a goal to expand information on our policy members, 11 of whom are “independent” under the rules Returns, which enables patients to return used sharps for perspectives on major issues; see the Political of the New York Stock Exchange. Alex Gorsky, current destruction: www.simponi.com/hcp/simponione-safeContributions, Public Policy & Lobbying section of Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Johnson & Johnson, returns this report. Our Citizenship & Sustainability website, also serves as the Chairman of the Board of Directors. www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability, serves Our independent Directors determined that for STELARA® (ustekinumab): www.stelarainfo.com/ as an ongoing resource about our sustainability effective Board governance, it was appropriate to pdf/prescribingInformation.pdf#zoom=100 and Safe performance and citizenship efforts. have an independent Lead Director and have selected Returns, which enables patients to return used sharps Anne M. Mulcahy to continue to serve as the designated for destruction: www.stelarainfo.com/stelara-psoriasis/ Lead Director for 2014. G4-38–G4-40 self-injection The Board of Directors has six standing committees: the Audit Committee; the Compensation & Benefits 36 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Committee; the Nominating & Corporate Governance practices on environment, health, safety, citizenship and Johnson & Johnson holds its annual meeting of Committee; the Finance Committee; the Regulatory, sustainability. Representatives from these committees shareholders each year on the fourth Thursday of Compliance & Government Affairs Committee; and form a Citizenship & Sustainability Working Group that April. A notice of annual meeting and Proxy statement the Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee. tracks performance and progress against our Healthy are mailed or delivered electronically to shareholders These committees advise and, as appropriate, make Future 2015 goals and assists in other Citizenship & in mid-March. The Proxy statement and the Company’s recommendations to the Board on issues for which they Sustainability strategic efforts such as the development Annual Report are available on the Company’s website are responsible. and execution of our recent materiality assessment. at www.investor.jnj.com/annual-reports.cfm. An enterprise Citizenship & Sustainability Advisory The Science, Technology & Sustainability Committee, Committee provides senior leadership support and Advance notice is required of shareholder proposals composed of non-employee (independent) directors, is includes global leaders from each business segment; and other items of business. Under the terms of the the primary committee responsible for policies, programs Worldwide Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability; Company’s By-Laws, a shareholder who intends to and practices on environment, health, safety and Government Affairs and Policy; the office of the Chief present an item of business (other than a proposal sustainability. Medical Officer; Investor Relations; and the office of the submitted for inclusion in the Company’s Proxy materials) Corporate Secretary. G4-35 G4-36 must provide written notice of such business to the The Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs Company. This advance notice and associated deadlines Committee, also composed of independent directors, Our governance structure also includes are outlined in the Company’s Proxy statement available provides oversight of regulatory, compliance, quality and Corporate Internal Audit; an independent auditor, online at www.investor.jnj.com/annual-reports.cfm. governmental matters that may impact the Company. PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP; the Audit Committee of Additional details about these and our other committees our Board of Directors; and regular review of business Topics related to economic, environmental and social are available at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/ results by our Executive Committee. performance that were raised through the 2013 committee.cfm. reporting period include a shareholder proposal seeking Communication with Our Board G4-49 adoption of a policy requiring senior executives to The Executive Committee of Johnson & Johnson is retain significant stock. This proposal and the Board’s the principal management group responsible for the Shareholders, employees and others may contact statement in opposition are presented in the Company’s strategic operations and allocation of the resources of the Board or any of our Directors (including the Lead Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement of the Company. This committee oversees and coordinates Director) by writing to them c/o Johnson & Johnson, March 12, 2014, available online at www.investor.jnj. the activities of the Consumer, Pharmaceutical and One Johnson & Johnson Plaza, Room WH 2136, New com/annual-reports.cfm. The majority of votes cast by Medical Devices & Diagnostics business segments. Each Brunswick, NJ 08933. Shareholders, employees and shareholders were against the adoption of this proposal, subsidiary within the business segments is, with some others may also contact the Board or any of the Nonas announced the Company’s Annual Meeting on exceptions, managed by citizens of the country in which Employee Directors by using the online submission form April 24, 2014. it is located. on our website at www.investor.jnj.com/governance/ communication.cfm. This communication process has Increasingly, leaders at all levels of the organization been approved by the independent Directors. G4-37 are engaged Citizenship & Sustainability champions. Each business segment has a Citizenship & General comments to the Company (including complaints Sustainability Committee made up of a diverse group or questions about a product) can be sent using the of employees representing various divisions and Contact Us form available at www.jnj.com. disciplines that accomplish the work in support of 37 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Codes and Principles G4-56 Supply Chain & Supplier 120 suppliers considered to be Segment 1, representing approximately $8 billion in spend, and approximately To help ensure that we conduct business according to Management 220 considered to be Segment 2. Supplier management the values embodied in Our Credo, we have policies G4-12 processes applied vary by Segment, with more targeted that define what we expect of the people within the management effort directed at the Segment 1 suppliers, Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies throughout followed by the Segment 2 suppliers. the world. These policies and codes can be found on our Johnson & Johnson is proud of the strong, collaborative Expectations for human rights, business ethics, Citizenship & Sustainability website. relationships we have built with our suppliers, many labor practices, health and safety, and environmental of whom have been working with us for years. We rely performance are established in our Responsibility External Commitments G4-15 on tens of thousands of suppliers to provide the materials, Standards for Suppliers, and may also be defined goods and services that the Johnson & Johnson in contracts with suppliers. Standardized terms Johnson & Johnson recognizes and subscribes to Family of Companies needs to manufacture products, and conditions exist and help guide the foundation numerous externally developed economic, environmental service our customers, and supply our offices and other of our formal agreements with suppliers. While and social charters and initiatives; select examples are facilities around the world. Johnson & Johnson follows a Johnson & Johnson does not reward or incentivize provided below and on our Citizenship & Sustainability procurement approach that is based on Our Credo: supplier performance, we maintain processes to assist website. to obtain the high quality products and services at a cost our suppliers in assessing, and where necessary, that represents the best possible value, while maintaining improving their performance. In 2013, the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) named high ethical standards, and taking our social and us the S&P 500 health care sector leader for our energy environmental responsibilities seriously. Supplier Expectations and carbon reduction programs, and we maintained our membership in the CDP Leadership Index for the fourth The Johnson & Johnson supply base numbers The Company’s suppliers are located around the world, consecutive year. We also participate in CDP Water, approximately 100,000, with an annual spend of including in countries considered to be high risk for CDP Supply Chain and the Forest Disclosure Project. All approximately $30 billion. Our suppliers are segregated labor, human rights and other issues (see table on next our manufacturing and R&D sites maintain ISO14001 into 14 broad categories by product or service, including: page). To better manage these risks, our Procurement certification or are in the process of obtaining it; many active pharmaceutical ingredients; construction, capital Sustainability Initiative (PSI) has been developed have OHSAS 18001 certification. and facilities services; chemicals; professional business to provide a foundation to guide our procurement services; external manufacturing; fleet, travel, education professionals in their purchasing decisions and to give As part of our long-standing practices and commitment and meeting services; information technology strategic them a framework to provide guidance to influence our to Citizenship & Sustainability, we joined the U.N. Global sourcing; media and advertising services; metals; suppliers. Through PSI, we evaluate several non-financial Compact in 2013 and are committed to its principles, packaging; plastics; transportation/logistics; and performance factors when contracting with suppliers, many of which have been embedded in our business research & development/clinical research organizations. seeking to partner with those that are aligned with our practices for decades. Details of the Company’s position They are further categorized into Segment 1, 2 or 3 sustainability commitments. Across our 14 procurement on and approach to each of these principles are suppliers based on a number of factors such as spend, categories, we look for suppliers that are transparent presented in the appropriate sections of this report and importance and availability of the supplied materials about their sustainability programs, that can assure us on our Citizenship & Sustainability website. or services to Johnson & Johnson. In 2013, using a that they are sustainably producing the goods and/ standardized enterprise segmentation and alignment or services we are buying, and that can verify the legal process, Johnson & Johnson identified approximately and regulatory compliance of their supply chain. We 38 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S developed a tool, known as the Sustainability Toolkit Johnson & Johnson has a Healthy Future 2015 goal SU PPLI E R EXPECTATION S for Suppliers, to assist our suppliers in understanding for all Segment 1 suppliers to publicly report on two our sustainability commitments and to improve their or more sustainability goals in any of the following sustainability processes. We also seek a preference goal categories: energy reduction, waste reduction, Publicly report Strategic two or more for products or services that demonstrate the following water use reduction, workforce injury/illness reduction, suppliers sustainability goals attributes: workforce wellness, and community and human rights Use of renewable resources investment. At the end of 2013, 93 Segment 1 suppliers (or approximately 75 percent) had met this goal. Of Use of sustainable practices Conformance to the suppliers that have publicly reported goals, the Johnson & Johnson All Energy efficiency percentage reporting in each of the goal areas is shown Responsibility Packaging efficiency in the table below. suppliers Standards for Suppliers Transport efficiency Made from recycled materials and/or can be recycled PE RCE NTAG E OF S EG M E NT 1 or reused at end of life SUSTAI NAB LE GOAL CATEGORY SU PPLI E R S Compliance with All R E S PON D I NG Products that do not contain or use in their production laws and regulations suppliers any materials listed on the Johnson & Johnson watch Community Investment 48 list (a compilation of lists of banned and/or restricted Energy Reduction 64 materials, according to country and regional legislation). Waste Reduction 59 Supplier Standards High-Risk Countries Considered by Independent Water Use Reduction 38 The decision to create and apply standards to 100 Organizations* to be at Risk for Human Rights Workforce Wellness 41 percent of our suppliers was made in 2011, after the Violations: HR4–HR6 success of a similar program targeting our external Workforce Injury/Illness Reduction 41 Afghanistan Guatemala Myanmar Serbia manufacturing partners. Our Responsibility Standards Algeria India Nigeria Sudan for Suppliers build on and expand that earlier effort. Angola Indonesia North Korea Syria We are particularly gratified that our efforts have helped Implementation across the entire supply chain will take Azerbaijan Iran Pakistan Ukraine a few suppliers to report sustainability goals publicly for time given the sheer number of suppliers involved. To Bangladesh Iraq Palestinian Uzbekistan the first time. We understand that companies require optimize the impact we believe this program can make, Belarus Ivory Coast Authority Vietnam significant internal review and support before many of we are prioritizing our suppliers based on risk, importance Brazil Jordan Panama Yemen them can share this information publicly, although many to our products and spend, and focusing initially on Cambodia Lebanon Paraguay Zimbabwe have programs and goals in place. Our challenge going those suppliers identified as strategic to our business. Cameroon Liberia Philippines forward will be to continue to work with and support the The standards are available at www.jnj.com/caring/ China Kazakhstan Thailand remaining strategic suppliers as they strive to meet this citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/supplierCuba Kenya Turkmenistan goal. As a participant in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s standards and include provisions to: Democratic Mexico Romania (CDP) Supply Chain program, we encourage our suppliRepublic of Montenegro Russia Comply with applicable laws and regulations Congo ers to measure and report their energy use and greenhouse gas emissions. In 2013, 129 of the 156 suppliers Behave ethically and with integrity *Based largely on assessments of high-risk countries done by external groups, we approached chose to participate in the program. Integrate quality into business processes such as Transparency International. 39 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Respect human and employment rights assessment, frequency and level of expertise needed to conduct the assessment (see diagram on this page). Our SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT PROCESS Promote the safety, health and well-being of employees approach, process and tools continue to evolve. Embrace sustainability and operate in an Supplier details environmentally responsible manner The process begins with an initial review of the supplier, collected/confirmed considering supplier location (high-risk country; see page Implement management systems to maintain business Supplier Review 39), spend with the supplier and product(s) or service(s) continuity, performance governance and continuous completed supplied. Those rated as high risk by the initial screen improvement Low are further evaluated using an exposure assessment that High Disclose information associated with the supplier’s looks at the type of operations conducted; the regulatory No further action impact on the environment and social issues. and physical environment in which the supplier operates; required Confirm details about the compliance history for labor, health, safety and supplies (goods or services) being These standards are designed in minimizing risks in environmental performance; incident history; company purchased our supply chain. Implementation of these standards structure; and Environment, Health & Safety staffing. began with our external manufacturing partners and Rankings of high, medium or low are assigned. An onComplete a Supplier Update Supplier active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) manufacturers Low exposure assessment exposure assessment site audit is conducted for those ranking high. Suppliers (numbering approximately 800) and has been ranked low require no further action. Suppliers ranked No further action expanded to our Segment 1 suppliers. Implementation medium are asked either to complete a self-assessment, required Med Acceptable: High 3 Years with our Segment 2 suppliers will follow. To assist or, in some instances, to have a third-party assessment our procurement professionals in implementation of or onsite audit conducted. Self-assessment and thirdComplete Complete Marginal: 1–2 Years these Standards, in 2013 we developed a Supplier supplier supplier party assessments cover Sustainability and Environmental assessment audit Unacceptable: Responsibility Guide to assure consistency when Responsibility, Ethics, Labor & Human Rights, Health 6–12 Months implementing these standards. & Safety, and Transparency & Disclosure (see table on Acceptable Marginal Unacceptable next page). The completed assessments are reviewed by Assessment Process Johnson & Johnson, and a rating of acceptable, marginal or unacceptable is assigned. If the supplier is rated Agree upon Monitor Provide Ongoing assessments of new or existing suppliers are corrective corrective assistance acceptable, there is no need for further action. A new action plan action plan to supplier based on the supplier category. External manufacturing assessment is not required unless the supplier exposure sites and API supplier sites receive the most detailed assessment changes, which is verified every three years. If assessment, which may lead to an on-site visit or audit. the supplier is rated marginal, follow-up discussions may Assessments may be conducted on the remaining 12 are required and monitored. Follow-up activities with a be conducted to assure non-conformances are corrected, supplier categories for certain factors, but emphasis is supplier on assessment findings are prioritized based and a follow-up assessment is completed within 1-3 years. based on our “priority” or Segment 1 suppliers and direct on the outcome of the audit. If non-conformances to If the supplier is rated unacceptable, follow-up discussions material suppliers (chemicals, plastics, packaging and our standards are discovered, we work with the supplier are required and an on-site audit is conducted. metals). to identify problem areas and strategies to improve For audits, findings related but not limited to performance, which may include ways to prevent The level of supplier risk is a primary driver of our human rights, labor and environmental impacts are recurrence of the problem or ways of mitigating/ supplier assessment strategy, including the type of communicated to the supplier, and corrective actions remediating the impact. If significant non-conformances 40 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S are identified that cannot be resolved, the relationship process. Information on the number and types of findings with the supplier may be in jeopardy. and corrective actions taken was not compiled at the enterprise level in 2013, but new systems implemented The approximate number of external manufacturers and in 2013 should allow the collection of this information in API suppliers screened in 2013 is shown below. We do 2014. EN33 LA15 HR11 S010 not track new suppliers differently from existing suppliers, as our system is design to identify those suppliers with Topics covered by assessments and audits include, but the higher potential risk profile. EN32 HR10 LA14 SO9 are not limited to: APPROXI MATE N U M B E R OF EXTE R NAL MAN U FACTU R E R S Environmental criteria, including: AN D API SU PPLI E R S SCR E E N E D Compliance Air emissions 2011 2012 2013 Waste Accidental releases Risk Level/ Wastewater and storm water Community 140 340 180 Exposure Assessment Human rights criteria, including: Self-Assessment 120 90 90 Child labor Freedom of association and Discrimination collective bargaining On-site Audit 40 20 20 Forced or compulsory labor Indigenous rights Ethics & Society Johnson & Johnson hosts an annual Supplier On-site Audit Sustainability Awards program to recognize suppliers 40 20 20 Labor practices criteria, including: that value and share a serious commitment to Labor & Human Rights Employment practices Industrial relations sustainability. In 2013, Kelly Services was recognized On-site Audit: Health & Safety 50 60 50 Health and safety practices Wages and compensation for incorporating sustainability concepts into their Incidents (such as of verbal, Working hours core services offering through the Company’s On-site Audit: Environment 70 50 40 psychological, physical, or formal Supplier Management program and for sexual abuse, coercion or implementing sustainability programs for 12 key tierharassment) In 2013, we selected a third-party vendor to evaluate a 2 diverse suppliers within the Johnson & Johnson WORKSENSE™ (temporary labor) program. variety of sustainability elements and score our suppliers, Society criteria, including: Kelly Services facilitated communication of standardizing our third-party assessment tool to Transparency the Johnson & Johnson Healthy Future 2015 supplement our internal assessment tools and methods. Anti-corruption requirements, championed human rights policy and Approximately 190 suppliers were evaluated and scored Fair business compliance, and coached these suppliers on developing using this process. Johnson & Johnson has determined and publishing documented, measurable sustainability goals for their organizations. In addition, Kelly holds that our initial desired target rating is being met, on these suppliers accountable for tracking and posting average, for environmental issues. Where the actual progress against these sustainability goals on their Supplier Diversity & Inclusion rating falls below the Company’s desired target rating, public-facing websites. “By working with our suppliers, such as the average ratings for labor, human rights or Diverse and small businesses are vital partners. Led we can expand our efforts and increase our influence fair business practices do, it becomes a supplier-specific by minorities, women, the lesbian, gay, bisexual and of sustainable business practices in our supply chain. task to look individually at their programs and ensure transgender (LGBT) community and veteran owners, they Kelly Services successes highlight these opportunities,” represent our customers, patients and consumers that said Marc Carlson, Director, Global Procurement, improvement. We continue to work with our suppliers Contingent Workforce at Johnson & Johnson. to address the issues identified by the assessment use our products and services. By cultivating a healthy 41 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S and growing diverse and small supplier base, we are able Over 7,000 Small Business suppliers with $2.7 billion The following chart presents our spending with local to uphold Our Credo responsibilities to the customers spend suppliers, by significant business regions. Within each and communities we serve. – Veteran Business supplier spend at over $75 million region, the proportion of spending on local suppliers is – LGBT supplier spend at over $1.5 million indicated. Local suppliers are those located within the Johnson & Johnson is committed to working with small same country as our operations. businesses and diverse suppliers that support our Tier 2 spend of $516 million in 2013 compared to growth objectives by providing innovative solutions to $216 million in 2012 S PE N D WITH LOCALLY BAS E D SU PPLI E R S PE RCE NT OF COU NTRY ($ US B I LLION S) TOTAL S PE N D our commercial, supply chain and R&D efforts. Supplier Recognized by the Women’s Business Enterprise diversity progress is reported to the Johnson & Johnson USA $16.57 90 National Council among America’s Top Corporations Executive Committee on a regular basis. (eighth time); the National Minority Supplier Development Japan $0.61 94 Council as New York-New Jersey Corporation of the Year Canada $0.67 90 Our Supplier Diversity Program was established in (one time); and the National Veteran-Owned Business China $0.12 43 1998, and it is supported by Healthy Future 2015 goals Association among the Top 10 Best Corporations for established to drive continued growth. Our Healthy Germany $0.39 78 Veteran-Owned Business (third consecutive time). Future goal for Supplier Diversity & Inclusion in the U.S. Total $18.36 89 In total, Johnson & Johnson was recognized by 23 was to reach $1 billion in tier 1 spend by 2011 with advocacy groups for its progress in Supplier Diversity & certified minorityand women-owned business suppliers Inclusion. and to increase that spend by five percent each year Human Rights thereafter. Worldwide supplier inclusion strategies are being G4-58 implemented in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Johnson & Johnson is more than meeting this goal; it is South Africa. exceeding the Healthy Future 2015 goal targets each year. In 2011, the spend goal was $1.12 billion and Diverse and small businesses are vital partners to Johnson & Johnson has a responsibility to respect the actual spend was $1.31 billion. In 2012, the spend goal Johnson & Johnson. We believe that strong, vibrant rights of all people, especially those of the more than one was $1.18 billion and actual spend was $1.23 billion. In and growing diverse suppliers are contributors to the billion people we touch with our products and services 2013, the spend goal was $1.23 billion and actual spend economic vitality of local communities. By supporting every day. We believe our most significant opportunities was $1.36 billion; a 10.3 percent increase over 2012. them, we help lift our communities and help advance the to impact human rights and our greatest areas of Furthermore, tier 2 spend in 2013, as reported to us by quality of health care globally. responsibility are human rights in the workplace, access our suppliers, totaled $108 million. to health care and clinical research ethics. Our Statement Supplier Spending EC9 on Human Rights articulates our commitments. Additional 2013 results include: Our strong commitment to supplier diversity has allowed We are committed to respecting human rights as Three years as the only health care company member us to enhance our supplier network, support job creation embodied in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the Billion Dollar Roundtable in our local communities, and strengthen ties to the and its two corresponding covenants, The International Tier 1 and Tier 2 diverse spend at 9.0 percent of total consumers, patients and doctors who benefit from our Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and The U.S. spend products and services. We have had an active outreach International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Over 1,600 certified minorityand women-owned and advocacy program in place for many years and Rights. We endeavor to ensure that we do not infringe on business suppliers with $1.36 billion spend established a formal Office of Supplier Diversity in 1998. human rights, avoid complicity in the human rights abuses 42 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S of others and comply with the laws of the countries in and our Policy on Business Conduct are consistent with apply to every employee, contractor, supplier and service which we do business. the principles identified in the U.N. Global Compact. provider, as well as subsidiaries and joint ventures of Responsibility for human rights follows our management Johnson & Johnson. HR4–HR6 Our employees around the world are the backbone of structure and resides in our local operating companies. our commitment to human rights practices and Implementation of the many policies, guidelines and Assessments against our Global Labor and Employee performance. We respect the dignity and human rights of practices that inform our commitment to human rights is Guidelines are conducted on an ongoing basis through our employees as well as those working in our external managed by the relevant corporate and business group local Human Resources and our Global Employee & supply chain. In addition to the universal statements of functions. HR4–HR6 Labor Relations function. Currently, three regional human rights noted above, we follow the principles in the leaders interact with employees, trade unions and International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Our Vice President of Human Resources reports other employee representatives (works councils), and Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, including directly to our Chief Executive Officer and is responsible government officials. They have broad oversight and non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective for overseeing our internal human rights efforts. responsibility for monitoring compliance and maintaining bargaining, and freedom from forced and child labor. Compliance is monitored under our global Policy on relationships with labor unions and works councils. Our commitments are detailed in our Global Labor & Business Conduct through individual business units. Our Assessment data is considered confidential. HR9 Employment Guidelines, our Policy on Employment of Policy on Business Conduct is communicated across Young Persons, our Standards for Responsible External Johnson & Johnson. Compliance training is required Procedures are in place to remedy any non-compliance Manufacturing and our Policy on Business Conduct. of all employees, and compliance with communication, reported to senior management. All employees, Our workplace practices and policies on providing fair training, and execution of our Policy on Business vendors, distributors and customers can anonymously compensation, equal opportunity, safe and healthy Conduct is audited. Each business and all senior leaders report potential violations through the Credo Hotline. workplaces and other commitments to human rights must certify compliance with our Policy on Business Additionally, anyone can report allegations through other reflect our belief that the success of our Company is Conduct annually, and results are reviewed by the methods within the operating companies or to Internal linked with employee satisfaction and well-being. We Corporate Secretary’s Office, Internal Audit and the Audit, the Law Department, Global Security or Human foster compliance with these policies on a continual basis Board’s Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs Resources. Hotline access is communicated broadly, and through internal training programs, certification processes Committee. While training data is not currently tracked visibility of this access and Hotline functionality are infor external manufacturers and risk-based audit programs. at the enterprise level, a global data system to gather scope for financial audits. In the North America and Latin For more information on these topics, visit the Statement enterprise wide data is under development. HR2 America regions, regional Labor and Employee Relations on Human Rights section of our website. staffs independently investigate non-compliance in Our Global Labor and Employee Guidelines articulate our employee relations matters, and verified non-compliant Many of the 60 countries in which Johnson & Johnson expectations for labor and employment practices situations are addressed at the respective business unit. operates (a list of our operating locations can be found at our sites. These guidelines require open In the Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions, investigations in Exhibit 21 of our 2014 10-K filing) are considered communication with all employees, mandate respect are the responsibility of local human resources and by independent organizations to be at risk for human for each employee’s right to freedom of association are overseen by regional Employee Relations teams. rights violations, including: forced labor, child labor and collective bargaining, prohibit discrimination and Of the approximately 690 employee relations hotline and restrictions on the right to exercise freedom of forced labor of any kind, and require adherence to and matters received in 2013, all were addressed. Of these, association or collective bargaining. To further support enforcement of child labor laws. Similarly, the Company’s approximately 90 percent were closed, along with our commitment to human rights in these operations and policies, procedures and codes of conduct strictly approximately 130 matters pending from 2012. Although in our operations worldwide, Johnson & Johnson joined prohibit bribery and corruption in any form, including additional grievance data is not tracked at the enterprise the U.N. Global Compact in 2013. In addition, Our Credo inappropriate contributions and donations. These policies level, a global system to gather this enterprise data is 43 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S under development, but implementation will take several sensitive to human rights infringements, with human locations (numbering approximately 800) have been years. G4-58 EN34 HR12 LA16 SO11 rights training. At the end of 2013, greater than 1,500 assessed, and slightly over 120 were identified as procurement professionals (or 95 percent) have being located in high-risk countries, including Algeria, Our Policy on Diversity & Inclusion sets a global standard completed this training. HR2 Brazil, China, India, Indonesia, Kenya, Mexico, Nigeria, across the company prohibiting unlawful discrimination Pakistan, Panama, Paraguay, Romania, Russian and harassment. Appropriate action will be taken to Johnson & Johnson also has programs in place addressFederation, Thailand, Ukraine and Vietnam. Of those, ensure that all employment decisions, including but not ing occupational safety and health, safe driving, balancing 88 percent have been confirmed to conform to the limited to those involving recruitment, hiring, promotion, work and family life, and employee wellness. See Workhuman rights provisions of our policies/standards. training, compensation, benefits, transfer, discipline and place Health & Safety (page 49). In 2013, we continued our efforts to assess our discharge are free from unlawful discrimination. Such Segment 1 suppliers, numbering approximately 120 actions are subject to confidentiality, legal, privacy or Human Rights and Suppliers and representing approximately $8 billion of our $30 other similar restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly billion of annual spend. Of these, just over 80 percent In 2012, we began implementing our Responsibility disclosed. However, this information is reported externally have been evaluated to see if they make or sell a Standards for Suppliers across the entirety of our supply in our public filings if it meets the criteria for requiring service from a high-risk country. Slightly less than 50 chain. Implementation will take time, due to the sheer public disclosure. HR3 have confirmed that they do, and, of these, just under number of suppliers. These standards, which previously applied only to our external manufacturing partners, have 80 percent have been confirmed to conform to the In addition, Employee Resource Groups at been extended to all of our suppliers, totaling tens of human rights provisions of our policies and standards. Johnson & Johnson companies have partnered with the thousands. Going forward, we will continue our efforts to assess Office of Diversity & Inclusion to create an open forum our Segment 1 suppliers and expand our efforts to our to exchange ideas and strengthen our ties within the We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to have all goods Segment 2 suppliers. For more information on this effort, diverse communities we serve. These groups engage suppliers in high-risk countries and any services suppliers see “Working with Our Suppliers” in our Annual Report. almost 12,700 employees across 168 U.S. chapters and in a high-risk country, with greater than $250,000 in 84 non-U.S. chapters. annual spend, confirm awareness of and conformance We have standard terms and conditions that are with the human rights provisions of our policies. This We also maintain a Policy on the Employment of considered for use in tenders and contracts with goal captures approximately 90 percent of our spend Young Persons that requires suppliers to abide by suppliers, and in particular, with external manufacturers in high-risk countries, representing approximately specific rules when employing persons under the age and Segment 1 suppliers. These terms and conditions 3,500 suppliers. For the purpose of identifying highof 18 (“young persons”) in the manufacture of any require compliance with all applicable statutes, laws, risk countries, we have used regulatory requirements product or any component of a product. Our policy ordinances and regulations, including but not limited to within the country pertaining to product safety, extends to all of our affiliates worldwide. The policy those related to business conduct, labor and employment application of good manufacturing practices and quality mandates that no person between the ages of 16 and practices, and worker health and safety. The terms and management systems, protection of intellectual property, 18 shall be employed unless such employment is in conditions also state that we may terminate the contract the enforcement of regulations and the ranking of the compliance with the health, safety and morals provisions in the event of non-compliance with our Employment of country in the Corruption Perception Index produced by of the International Labor Organization Convention 138 Young Persons Policy, supplier’s use of any forced labor, Transparency International and the Johnson & Johnson Concerning Minimum Age. HR5 or any threats or other willful practices on the part of the Export Compliance Policy. supplier that endangers the life or safety of any of its We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to provide all personnel or anyone in its community. All external manufacturing, active pharmaceutical critical employees, defined as those in positions most ingredient suppliers, re-packer and sterilizer site 44 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Financial Health & consecutive years of adjusted earnings* increases, and we are one of only six companies in the S&P 100 to have 2011 2012 2013 Economic Performance delivered 51 consecutive years of dividend increases. Direct Economic Value Generated Revenues 65,030 67,224 71,312 A complete Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition is provided in our 2013 10K Annual Economic Value Distributed Johnson & Johnson delivered strong results in 2013, led Report available online at http://www.investor.jnj.com/ Operating, Employee & by the outstanding performance in our Pharmaceutical annual-reports.cfm. 48,364 48,821 48,898 Other Costs1 business, the re-launch and strength of key brands in our U.S. over-the-counter (OTC) and other Consumer Economic Value Retained EC1 Payments to Providers of 6,727 7,146 7,868 businesses and continued progress in integrating Capital A basic indicator of our economic impact is calculated Synthes, Inc. into our Medical Devices & Diagnostics using economic value generated and economic value Community Investments 706 966 993 (MD&D) segment. Our worldwide sales were $71.3 distributed, as outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. billion, an increase of 6.1 percent. Our economic value retained is provided in the chart on Economic Value Retained 9,233 10,291 13,653 this page. 1 This line is the total for operating costs, employee wages and benefits, For the past five years, we’ve consistently invested and payments to governments about 11 percent of sales to support our R&D efforts. Risks Due to Climate Change EC2 That equated to over $8 billion enterprise-wide in 2013, Johnson & Johnson does not have a formal process be new costs incurred due to higher insurance premiums and by leveraging the power of our enterprise, we are for assessing risks and/or opportunities from climate or increased business interruptions stemming from increasing our overall effectiveness and efficiency in the change; however, there is an ongoing discussion on this changing weather patterns. However, these costs would global marketplace. topic among members of Worldwide Environment, Health likely impact other major industrial entities in a similar & Safety; Business Continuity Planning; Government fashion. In addition, under current guidance from the U.S. Our products are making a difference in the care of Affairs; Investor Relations; Finance; Legal; and Business Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), there is limited people around the world, as approximately 70 percent Unit Operations. risk to Johnson & Johnson facilities. Internationally, only of our sales come from the number one or number two three out of 110 Company facilities are currently active global-market-share position. Those risks posed to Johnson & Johnson by climate under the Kyoto Protocol Criteria. change and related policies are considered as part of our With these strong results, we delivered adjusted earnings continued involvement in the Carbon Disclosure Project. Though not financially significant, Johnson & Johnson per share* growth of 8.2 percent and strong free cash This analysis is included in a complete report filed with owns and operates several on-site renewable-energyflow** of nearly $14 billion. CDP and available at www.cdproject.net. generation facilities that could generate income from Our total shareholder return of almost 35 percent*** carbon offsets and renewable-energy credits. We are outpaced nearly every major index we benchmark Of the risks to our business related to climate change, well positioned to compete in an energyand carbonourselves against. Johnson & Johnson has delivered 30 the most significant in the next decade is an extreme constrained economy, based on our successful, ongoing weather event, such as a hurricane or flood, that would implementation of energy-efficiency, renewable-energy cause the closing of a manufacturing facility, disruption and carbon-reduction projects. * Excludes special items. See “Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial in the supply chain or loss of product inventory. There is Measures” on page 72 of the 2013 Annual Report. ** Free cash flow is defined as operating cash flow less capital spending. also the possibility that climate change could affect the *** Including dividends. availability of raw materials for our products. There may 45 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Defined Benefit Obligations EC3 from a government, in comparison with taxes paid, can be useful for developing a balanced picture of the Health-Conscious, Safe Johnson & Johnson sponsors employee-related transactions between the organization and government. Employees* obligations, among them pension and post-retirement benefits. These include defined benefits (a pension and In 2013, Johnson & Johnson had an effective tax rate of savings plan), defined contributions (voluntary 401[k]) 10.6 percent. The effective tax rate was 23.7 percent in and termination indemnity plans, benefits that cover most 2012 and 21.8 in 2011. It used to be that the greatest threat to global health employees worldwide. The decrease in the 2013 effective tax rate as compared was infectious diseases—influenza, polio and common to 2012 was attributable to a tax benefit associated infections took the lives of millions. Thankfully, At the end of fiscal year 2013, the projected benefit with the write-off of assets for tax purposes associated innovations in diagnosis and treatment of such afflictions obligation was $21,448 million, and the fair value of with Scios Inc., increased taxable income in lower tax have reversed this trend. the assets equaled $20,901 million, for a shortfall of jurisdictions relative to higher tax jurisdictions, and the $587 million. Discretionary contributions are made inclusion of two years of benefit of the U.S. Research Today, however, the greatest threat to health is when deemed appropriate to meet the plan’s long-term and Development (R&D) tax credit and the Controlled often rooted in our behaviors and lifestyles. Nonobligations. For more information, see Note 10 in our Foreign Corporation (CFC) look-through provisions. Communicable Diseases (NCDs)—or chronic diseases 2013 10-K Annual Report. The R&D tax credit and the CFC look-through provisions such as diabetes, heart disease, stroke and cancer take The U.S. pension plan is provided at no cost to the were enacted into law in January 2013 and were the lives of 35 million people annually (according to the employees, and all employees aged 21 and over with at retroactive to January 1, 2012. World Health Organization**). There is also an economic least one year of service participate in the plan. Pension toll—the World Economic Forum rates NCDs as one During 2013, the Company reached a settlement plan offerings vary outside the U.S. and do not exist in all of the top three risks to the global economy (estimated agreement related to certain issues regarding the U.S. countries. to cost $47 trillion over the next 20 years). However, Internal Revenue Service audit related to tax years changes to lifestyle alone can have a huge impact. 2006–2009. As a result of this settlement, the Company The voluntary 401(k) plan is based on a minimum of a 3 Employers have begun to see this as a critical issue, not adjusted the unrecognized tax benefits relating to these percent, and up to 6 percent, employee contribution from only in terms of subsidized health and disability care, matters, which lowered tax expense. In addition, the each paycheck, matched at 75 percent by the employer. Company recorded additional U.S. tax expense related to There is no standing obligation, as funds are disbursed 80 percent of heart disease and stroke, increased dividends of foreign earnings. The above items 80 percent of type 2 diabetes and each pay period. resulted in a net gain of $180 million. Also included in 40 percent of cancer 2013 results were incremental tax expenses associated could be prevented... Tax Credits & Benefits with the establishment of a valuation allowance of $187 The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) defines financial million related to the Company’s Belgian foreign affiliate. ...through lifestyle changes assistance as direct or indirect financial benefits that do The above items had no net impact on the effective associated with diet, exercise and smoking not represent a transaction of goods and services, but income tax rate for the fiscal year ended 2013. which are an incentive or compensation for actions taken, For more information, see Note 8 in our 2013 10-K the cost of an asset or expenses incurred. The provider * This information is based on data gathered from all Johnson & Johnson Annual Report. locations/operating companies (> 25 employees) worldwide. of financial assistance does not expect a direct financial This represents 100 percent reporting for all Johnson & Johnson sites return from the assistance offered. Furthermore, GRI (> 25 employees) worldwide. ** www.who.int/nmh/publications/ncd_report2010/en considers that significant financial assistance received 46 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S but also in terms of productivity and engagement of Risk Assessment (Health Profile or similar) and “knowing Preventing Non-Communicable Diseases (NCDs) their employees. Recent employer trends illustrate this their numbers;” and that as wellness offerings become a key future focus with In the U.S., where we have consistently been tracking 3. Greater than 80 percent of the assessed population aggregate data over time, we continue to reduce health growing prevalence across all regions. are considered “low”* health risk. risks as well as trend significantly better than similar Johnson & Johnson Response This year**, we exceeded our 2013 target (55 percent) companies (book of business) and the national norms for our Culture of Health programs with approximately (from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control). Johnson & Johnson is committed to improving health. Caring for health is at the heart of Our Credo, and 84,000 employees (64 percent) having access to the full 100% nothing illustrates this commitment more than how we complement of all 12 programs. 90% care for the health and well-being of our employees. 80% 100% Caring for our employees is a legacy value; in fact, 70% 90% 100 years ago the Company provided medical centers, 60% 80% 75% 74% health education and physical activity resources for its 50% 70% 64% employees. 55% 65% 40% 60% 30% 50% 46% Today, these values continue to flourish. In 2013, this 20% 40% was evidenced by expansion of our Culture of Health 10% 30% programs, which included innovative offerings such 0% 20% 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2013 as the ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE IN LIFE™ 10% program, Health Coaching, the Global Corporate Low Medium High 0% Challenge (walking competition) and a Health e-center Goal 1 Goal 2 Goal 3 Linear (Low) Linear (Medium) with accompanying tools. It also meant applying an 2013 Target Enterprise U.S. Outside U.S. Note: 2011/2012 data combined and, for consistency sake (variant from enterprise-wide mindset, via leadership endorsement of the normal sampling), these data were not included—although the results are similar to 2010. the Company’s One Global Health services organization, Regarding our second goal, in the U.S., where our Health which will standardize and optimize health and wellProfile program has been implemented for many years, 100% being services delivery for the entire Johnson & Johnson we have consistently met this target. However, outside 90% employee population. the U.S. (OUS), while not meeting the goal, we have seen Johnson & Johnson 80% steady improvement over time (from 14 percent in 2010 National Norms (CDC) To drive these efforts, we have established several 70% to 38 percent in 2013). We also expect further increases Similar Companies Healthy Future 2015 goals: 60% as the Health Profile (or similar) will be accessible to 50% 1. Access to fully implemented Culture of Health more of the global population (currently reaching 76 40% programs to greater than 90 percent of the entire percent, with implementation of an OUS “one” health 30% Johnson & Johnson employee population; profile website with onboarding of 123 sites in 2013). 20% And in 2013, 74 percent of the assessed population was 10% 2. Having greater than 80 percent of the entire found to be low risk. 0% Johnson & Johnson population participating in a Health Unhealthy Obesity Inactivity HyperHigh Tobacco tension Cholesterol Use Learn more about employee health programs in our * 0-2 Health Risks (of the 11 Health Risks measured) Corporate Annual Report. ** 100 percent reporting (384 locations) 47 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Credo Survey Results Percentage of Sites Worldwide (n 400) with Full Implementation of 12 COH Programs The One Global Health Organization is Not only does Johnson & Johnson score well in these committed to: areas compared to other companies, but our employees CU LTU R E OF H EALTH PROG RAM 2010 2013 Excellence in Service score us well, too. Simplification and Standardization, and Tobacco Free 70% 77% E M PLOYE E CR E DO QU E STION 2011 2013 Creating Value HIV/AIDS 50% 79% My company helps me Health Profile 52% 78% in my efforts to achieve 79% 82% Protecting Our Employees Agree Agree EAP 76% 90% health and well-being. Protecting our employees’ health while on the job is a top Medical Surveillance 79% 82% priority. At Johnson & Johnson, this is realized by on-site Driving a “Culture of Health” (COH) health care professionals at our major manufacturing Physical Activity 71% 88% Creating a healthy culture means providing an environand R&D facilities. Work-related injuries and illnesses are ment that will nourish well-being and encourage healthy Health Promotion 66% 85% immediately cared for and managed for the life of each choices. We have defined and measured what this means case. Medical examinations (surveillance) are completed Stress & Energy Management 70% 74% to ensure employees have no unintentional health effects by expecting full implementaIn 2013, tion of 12 distinct programs, from possible exposures while on the job and to ensure Johnson & Johnson Cancer Awareness 60% 88% was one of two including in the areas of tobacthey are fit to perform certain tasks (e.g., able to wear a multi-national co-free work sites, HIV policy, Healthy Eating 54% 84% respirator). Regional regulations often dictate some of companies to earn these exams. Our health professionals also make the the distinguished health profile access, employee Modified Duty 68% 83% final determination for how an occupational injury/illness CEO Roundtable assistance, exercise facilities, on Cancer GLOBAL medical surveillance, health case is recorded for the purpose of workplace safety accreditation. Travel Health 65% 71% promotion, stress and energy statistics. management, cancer awareOne Health Organization It is critical, therefore, that the care provided to our ness, healthy eating, return-to-work and travel health. Since measuring the implementation of these programs, Through the Company’s newly formed One Global employees is of the highest quality and remains we have seen steady progress in their implementation Health Organization, Johnson & Johnson seeks to compliant with the local regulations. To this end, in 2013, and access for our employees. leverage best employee health care practices and Johnson & Johnson implemented a Quality Assurance 80% resources while optimizing health programs and process that provides for a standardized approach to 2010 measure the quality of services delivered at our on-site 70% services to every corner of the globe. This model has 2013 facilities. The score informs the Occupational Health 60% 64% been applied in the U.S. since 1995, as well as via 50% a piloted approach in China and India in 2012. The (OH) index, a newly designed internal metric with the 50% 40% model’s success in these regions has led us to believe intent of measuring the quality, compliance, efficiency 30% 34% that this will accelerate our progress in achieving our and satisfaction of our Occupational Health Services. 20% Health Future 2015 employee health goals worldwide 10% and strengthen our position towards our future 2020 7% 0% objectives. Enterprise Outside U.S. 48 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S This is why we are excited about the ENERGY FOR The Johnson & Johnson Employee Assistance Program COMPLIANCE PERFORMANCE™ program at Johnson & Johnson. (EAP) provides emotional support services for a Medical Surveillance; QUALITY Modified Duty/Return This program is a customized “in-house” version of the variety of situations whether it is one-to-one counseling, Medical Records Review; CORPORATE ATHLETE™ program developed by the or helping an organization with critical incidents and to Work; Recordkeeping; Health Clinic Inspection change. In 2013, we maintained 100 percent EAP access Travel Health; Human Performance Institute Division of Wellness & Assessment for the U.S. and Asia-Pacific regions, 95 percent in EMEA Prevention, Inc. It looks at managing energy through all and 93 percent in Latin America. Johnson & Johnson Action Closure the dimensions (physical, mental, emotional and spiritual). Global EAP usage is 7.8 percent (trending higher than Occupational Health Index industry standards of 3–4 percent). Our goal is to have 50 percent of all our employees SATISFACTION exposed to this program by 2015. EFFICIENCY establishes our belief that “employee safety is a core Stakeholder and Surveillance value, inseparable from our mission of improving human Employee Survey Corporate Athlete Community health” and goes on to note that “we foster a culture of safety for our employees, contractors and key partners.” 2013 Reach to Date GOAL We are guided by our EHS Standards, which cover 12,000 33,000 50,000 a wide range of safety and health requirements. All Employees Employees Employees U.S. & Puerto Rico Data Johnson & Johnson manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, The following data provide a snapshot of utilization/ distribution center and office buildings must comply outcomes from U.S. and Puerto Rico on-site clinics: with these standards. To monitor our compliance against In 2013, we exceeded our target to reach 10,000 these Standards (for more details, see www.jnj.com/ CU LTU R E OF H EALTH PROG RAM 2013 employees. By training internal trainers, we also have caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ Health Promotions 36% allowed for a cost-effective, regionally based approach. workplace-health-and-safety), we have an established assessment program that includes annual selfand Clinic Visits 27% third-party assessments. Finally, we support our sites in Physical Therapy 6% Workplace Health & Safety obtaining third-party certification to the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series management Wellness 25% system (OHSAS 18000). In 2013, 28 percent of our sites were so certified. E4PIL Programs 3% Johnson & Johnson is a large and diverse organization, In 2013, an effort to develop a consistent, standardized EAP 3% with employees working in manufacturing facilities, approach to safety culture across the enterprise was warehouses, R&D centers, laboratories, offices and initiated. Pilots will take place throughout 2014, with Employee Well-being and Performance vehicles. Our safety programs are designed to ensure a full implementation planned by the end of the year. safe and healthy workplace for all employees, no matter The program is built on three pillars: leadership; safety Health, well-being and performance are interdependent. where they work, and performance is regularly monitored. education and awareness; and processes and habits. To this end, we work to ensure an integrated and holistic approach to how we perceive and encourage good The foundation of our program is the Johnson & Johnson Most of our operating company manufacturing and R&D health. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) Policy. It locations have formal joint management-worker health 49 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S and safety committees. Our sales force is represented in To address STFs, we are continuing StepRight, a LA6 health and safety committees through our SAFE Fleet two-year campaign initiated in 2013 that includes LOST TOTAL WOR KDAY R ECOR DAB LE program. In addition, one-third of those working in office quarterly communications, using materials created to R EG ION CAS E RATE* I NJ U RY RATE settings are represented in health and safety committees raise awareness of the causes of STFs. In 2013, the Asia-Pacific 0.11 0.22 through our Office EHS program. Where local collective campaign included an employee video contest, and Europe, Middle East and Africa 0.10 0.38 bargaining agreements exist, requirements for working the winning videos became part of the materials made Latin America 0.07 0.47 conditions, including health and safety, are typically available to our sites. Locations that experience two or North America 0.12 0.74 incorporated into the agreements. These requirements more recordable STF injuries per year must develop Worldwide 0.11 0.51 may include personal protective and safety equipment, and implement a fall prevention action plan. The top * Calculated based on calendar days health and safety committees and their designated 10 manufacturing locations with the highest incidence representatives, inspections, complaint processes and of STF-related LWDCs must also conduct an annual We track our Lost Workday Case (LWDC) and Total training. More information on the Company’s commitment fall prevention site assessment, include fall prevention Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) frequency at an enterprise to Health and Safety can be found at www.jnj.com/ as part of our Management Awareness and Action and regional level, as illustrated in the table above, per caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ Review System (MAARS) joint assessments, and provide our Injury and Illness Recordkeeping and Reporting health-conscious-safe-employees. LA5 LA8 quarterly progress reports to the Environment, Health, Guidelines. We do not track absenteeism at an enterprise Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) Leadership Council. level. Occupational disease also is not tracked, since We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve a 15 This requirement has been extended to the top five large these types of diseases are not prevalent due to the high percent improvement in employee safety performance office locations that have high numbers of STF cases. level of external and self-regulated safety protection enterprise-wide, as measured by our Lost Workday Our goal is to see a 25 percent reduction in STF injuries afforded our employees from any type of exposure Case (LWDC) rate, with a goal of < 0.09. In 2013, our by the end of 2014. that could cause disease (such as asbestos or other performance decreased, from an LWDC rate of 0.09 in cancer-causing substances). We track non-injury type 2012 to a rate of 0.11 in 2013. The major contributor to Our Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) rate was statistics that are classified as “illness,” such as mental the performance decrease was a single incident involving 0.020 compared to our goal of 0.035; it improved from stress cases, which are included in our total recordable food poisoning at a location in China. Going forward, our 0.027 last year and 0.028 the year before, and is at rate. These statistics are not tracked by gender. We have challenge will be to integrate our safety programs with our lowest rate since 2007. The SIIC category includes extensive wellness programs for our employees, including our new acquisitions, where LWDC rates are higher than death, amputation, fracture and hospitalization for more education, training, counseling, prevention, risk control our own. than just observation. It does not include minor first aid and treatment. These are discussed in the Healthor recordable injuries. While we are meeting our SIIC Conscious, Safe Employees section of this report. LA7 We continue to focus on the leading causes of LWDC, goal, we experienced six fingertip amputations in 2013 ergonomics and Slips, Trips and Falls (STF), which (4 employees and 2 contractors). To improve our safety Enterprise-wide safety performance is discussed with were 34 percent and 26 percent of our LWDC rate, programs and results, we plan to implement several the Corporate Compliance Committee and the Science, respectively. refinements that will strengthen our machine guarding Technology and Sustainability Committee of the Board risk assessments and enhance our safety culture. of Directors. A formal report of safety performance is In ergonomics, the focus is on improving competency and provided annually to the full Board of Directors. on assuring a thorough identification of the ergonomic In 2013, we experienced seven health and safety risks at key locations. In 2013, we revised and updated non-compliances, essentially flat compared to the six Johnson & Johnson continues to compare our safety our Computer Workstation Risk Assessment Tool and experienced in 2012, and we paid fines of $205,000 for results to two industry benchmarks: ORC HSE Strategies developed standards for our flexible workplaces. a 2010 safety violation in Venezuela. and the Pharmaceutical Safety Group (PSG). ORC 50 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S HSE Strategies data include companies from a broad segments changed as follows: Consumer (0.03 to since 1995, our crashes per million miles driven (CPMM) cross section of the global economy, and PSG is based 0.06), Medical Devices & Diagnostics (0.09 to 0.16), rate has decreased by 30 percent. However, our ultimate exclusively on 14 companies in the pharmaceutical and Pharmaceutical (0.31 to 0.14). The decline in mission is zero: zero crashes, zero injuries, zero incidents. segment. In this way, we compare ourselves to both our our pharmaceutical segment can be attributed to the Key to this mission is driver accountability for safe driving. peers and to companies outside of our sector. As of the following actions, which were taken in 2013: time of this report, the ORC HSE Strategies Lost Time Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to achieve a 15 percent Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2013 benchmark was The Contractor LWDC rate became a key EHS metric improvement to a target rate of 4.7 CPMM in fleet safety 0.47 (based on the input of 45 companies), and the PSG monitored monthly. performance worldwide. In 2013, our CPMM increased 2013 benchmark was 0.27. Johnson & Johnson’s LTIFR The Pharmaceutical contractor safety team developed to 6.14, a six percent increase from 2012 and an 11 was 0.11 in 2013. an action plan to improve job safety risk analysis, percent increase over our 2010 baseline. Our vehicle intensify oversight and further optimize the use of count increased by three percent, and our Percent of Contractors contractor work permits. Vehicles in Crashes increased minimally by Johnson & Johnson maintains a comprehensive Johnson & Johnson safety expectations were clearly 0.1 percent (11.55 in 2013 vs. 11.43 in 2012). occupational safety program that includes systems to communicated to embedded service contractor manageprotect contractors working at Johnson & Johnson ment and were supplemented with routine follow up. Our Injuries Per Million Miles (IPMM) rate increased facilities. We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to in 2013 by 29 percent, from 0.07 in 2012 to 0.09, The Johnson & Johnson Step Right program, designed but remains well below our target rate of 0.20. achieve a 15 percent improvement in contractor safety to reduce the incidence of Slip, Trip and Fall injuries While all regions experienced an increase in their performance at all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing (STFs), was extended to contractors. CPMM rates, our Asia-Pacific region did meet its and R&D facilities with a LWDC rate target of 0.12. In 2013, our overall contractor LWDC rate trended individual target. All regions except Latin America We have not had a contractor fatality since 2008, and experienced increases in their IPMM rates. Our top downward to a rate of 0.12. No contractor fatalities we attribute this success to the additional rigor required crash type was “the other driver hitting the rear of occurred in 2013. Our challenges include increased by our Contractor Safety Standard and the new actions our vehicle,” which makes up 21 percent of all outsourcing activities that increase the number of we have taken in 2013. Part of that additional rigor crash categories. “embedded” contractors on-site, as well as an increase is requiring best practices sharing across facilities in the number of large capital construction projects. in a common geography, among other actions. This In October 2013, we announced a global full-ban Going forward, we plan to review our existing contractor standardization effort, which is being implemented mobile phone (and electronic device) policy, effective management program to increase focus on embedded in several locations worldwide, should continue to January 1, 2014. The policy prohibits both hand-held and contractors and to review application of the developed improve both the efficiency and the effectiveness of hands-free mobile phone use while driving a Company Construction Safety Strategy. the contractor safety approach. In parts of the U.S. and owned, leased or rented vehicle. In one of our larger The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) for Puerto Rico, we are also using ISNetworld, a contractor country fleets, speeding continues to be the number one independent contractors working on-site was 0.38 in evaluation service, to improve our contractor selection violation. To address high-risk driving behaviors, such as 2013, improved from our rate of 0.74 in 2012. process. speeding and harsh braking, we are launching in-vehicleIn 2013, we experienced an improvement in monitoring system pilots in three countries. The objective Fleet Safety contractor LWDC rate (0.22 to 0.07) associated with is to assist our drivers in identifying and improving unsafe large construction projects managed by Worldwide The company vehicle is the main workplace for many of driving habits to reduce the risk of crash and/or injury. Engineering and Technical Operations. The Contractor our employees; some spend up to 50 percent of their Approximately 35 percent of collisions between vehicles LWDC rates realized across our three manufacturing time driving on company business. We are pleased that in motion are due to rear-end crashes (another driver 51 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S rear-ending our vehicle and our driver rear-ending the TOTAL PE RCE NT FU LL-TI M E AN D PART-TI M E E M PLOYE E S TOTAL PE RCE NT N EW E M PLOYE E H I R E S BY G E N DE R 1 BY G E N DE R 1 other driver); 21 percent of total crashes (collisions NORTH AM E R ICAN R EG ION 3 WOR LDWI DE between vehicles in motion,) are due to “the other driver GENDER HIRES Female 47 Female 45 hitting the rear of our vehicle.” Male 53 Male 55 Going forward, we will continue to expand our inTOTAL PE RCE NT FU LL-TI M E AN D PART-TI M E E M PLOYE E S TOTAL PE RCE NT N EW E M PLOYE E H I R E S BY AG E G ROU P 1 vehicle monitoring programs; improve our driver BY G E N DE R 1 NORTH AM E R ICAN R EG ION 3 training compliance rate; ensure fleet safety metrics BY R EG ION AG E G ROU P HIRES are included in the driver’s and manager’s performance AS IA-PACI FIC E U ROPE, M I D D LE EAST, LATI N NORTH < 30 23 AM E R ICA AM E R ICA standards; enhance field manager engagement AFR ICA 30–50 63 by providing improved post-incident coaching and Female 40 50 45 46 > 50 14 Male 60 50 55 54 performance monitoring tools; and continue to include new and advanced safety features in our fleet selector In 2013, our total turnover rate in the North America region was 10 percent; the voluntary turnover rate was approximately 5.6 percent. requirements. TOTAL PE RCE NT E M PLOYE E S BY JOB CATEGORY AN D G E N DE R 1 TOTAL PE RCE NT E M PLOYE E TU R NOVE R BY G E N DE R 2 WOR LDWI DE NORTH AM E R ICAN R EG ION 3 Labor Practices & MG R & GENDER VP+ PROF OTH E R TOTAL DIR GENDER TU R NOVE R Workforce Female 30 42 50 44 46 Female 47 Male 70 58 50 56 54 Male 53 TOTAL PE RCE NT E M PLOYE E TU R NOVE R BY AG E G ROU P 2 TOTAL PE RCE NT E M PLOYE E S BY JOB CATEGORY AN D AG E G ROU P 1 NORTH AM E R ICAN R EG ION 3 WOR LDWI DE AG E G ROU P TU R NOVE R The Company’s greatest asset is our employees, who GENDER VP+ MG R & PROF OTH E R TOTAL < 30 8 DIR work in more than 275 operating companies across 30–50 53 < 30 0 2 21 22 17 approximately 60 countries. Our Credo, Global Labor and > 50 39 30–50 52 77 65 59 66 Employment Guidelines, Global Policy on Diversity and > 50 48 21 14 19 17 Inclusion, Policy on the Employment of Young Persons, WOR KFORCE D IVE R S ITY— U.S. DATA ON LY 1 our Standards for Responsible Suppliers and our signing principles in labor and employment. The Guidelines PE RCE NT OF TOTAL WOR KFORCE of the U.N. Global Compact reflect the Company’s require that our policies and actions are in full Female 47 commitment to fundamental rights at work, including Male 53 compliance with the laws and regulations of the countries Minority 30 non-discrimination, freedom of association and collective in which we operate. They address communication with Non-Minority 70 bargaining, and freedom from forced and child labor. For our employees, freedom of association and good faith AG E more information on Johnson & Johnson policies and collective bargaining, while prohibiting unlawful retaliation < 30 8 practices related to human rights, see the Human Rights and discrimination, forced labor, child labor and physical 30–50 61 section of this report (page 42). punishment. > 50 31 Our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines ensure 1 Estimated based on existing database platforms; excludes recent acquisitions. that our operating units worldwide follow consistent 2 Estimated based on existing database platforms; includes retirees; excludes recent acquisitions. 3 Includes U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada. 52 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S As local laws vary, we ensure that policies, practices and The regions are North America, Latin America, Asiacomprehensive written policies or individual employment agreements are in place to ensure fair and equitable Pacific and Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA). In the contracts, which are reviewed and implemented at treatment for all employees across our enterprise. Our EMEA region, up to 100 percent of Company sites the local operating company level. Where terms and Standards for Responsible Suppliers require external have the ability to establish an employee representation conditions of employment are not regularly bargained, partners, including external manufacturers, to have structure or framework. Where employees choose our operating companies consider employee input and appropriate policies for the treatment of their employees. to establish these structures, management provides feedback received from a variety of sources, including support. However, employees at some of the Company’s an anonymous Credo survey, our intranet, newsletters, Several global functions support and share responsibility sites have chosen not to establish these employee webcasts, town hall meetings, legislative update for various aspects of labor practices. These include representation structures. In the North American region, meetings, quarterly business updates, training sessions, Global Diversity & Inclusion, which reports to the less than 10 percent of employees have employee employee surveys, anonymous hotline communications Chairman and Board of Directors through its Vice representation structures in place. We do not currently and work councils. President and Chief Diversity Officer, and Human have information for the Asia-Pacific or Latin American Resources, whose Vice President is a Corporate region. Johnson & Johnson and our operating companies Where workers elect to bargain collectively, working Officer and a member of the Executive Committee. The also respect employees’ choices not to establish a conditions are collectively bargained in good faith. Supply Chain Vice President of Human Resources for formal employee organization. Our Credo, our Global Subjects covered by collective bargaining agreements in Johnson & Johnson is responsible for the oversight and Labor and Employment Guidelines, our Global Policy effect or negotiated with trade unions include, but are not implementation of our labor relations policy. on Diversity and Inclusion, and our signing of the U.N. limited to: wages, hours of work, terms and conditions of Global Compact require that employees make these employment, work rules, health and safety, grievance and The tables on the previous page show our workforce by disciplinary processes, organization structures, holidays, decisions free from unlawful discrimination, harassment several key metrics. G4-10 LA1 LA12 vacation, training, active and retired employee benefits, or retaliation. drug testing, seniority, travel expenses, leaves of absence, We currently have 12 Board members, 11 of whom are Consistent with internationally recognized expectations shift premium pay, overtime pay, overtime administration, “independent” under the rules of the New York Stock for business ethics, health and safety, and labor and bonuses, rest periods, job bidding procedures, severance Exchange; three women (25 percent), 9 men; racial employment standards, we have established our Global pay, equal employment opportunity, union dues minorities equaled three (25 percent). LA12 Labor and Employment Guidelines. These Guidelines payments, trade union representation, restructuring and The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies offers are available to all employees and are followed reorganizations, job security, layoffs and recalls. parental leave to our employees in most countries by our operating units worldwide. They expressly recognize employees’ right to decide if they wish to In addition to addressing these issues during collective in which we operate in accordance with statutory join associations or labor unions free of coercion, bargaining, our operating companies regularly requirements and/or based on local competitive discrimination and retaliation, as well as their right to communicate with unions and work councils on these practices. Wherever possible, we also offer flexibility bargain collectively and each operating company’s matters. We also assess labor and employee relations and flexible work arrangements for employees. These obligation to bargain in good faith. In addition, all of our through local Human Resources and our Global programs, as with all our benefit program offerings, are employees are expected to adhere to the responsibilities Employee & Labor Relations function. Local and regional aligned with Our Credo commitments. LA3 and priorities set forth in Our Credo. leaders interact with employees, trade unions and other Collective Bargaining G4-11 employee representatives (such as work councils), Where workers elect not to bargain collectively, job and government officials; regional leaders have broad Employee representation structures vary throughout requirements, performance expectations, compensation oversight and responsibility for monitoring compliance the world, and Johnson & Johnson is assessing the and benefits, as well as the aforementioned terms and maintaining relationships with labor unions and work status of sites with employee representation by region. and conditions of employment, are set forth in councils. Our operating companies consult with trade 53 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S unions when required by law, local practice or where a alignment, leadership accountability, transparency and talented employees. Plan provisions may differ for certain company deems it appropriate. fairness, and employee growth and development. part-time employees and by country. In the U.S., the Choices Benefits Program is designed to meet the needs Furthermore, our Global Labor and Employment Minimum Notice Periods LA4 of employees and their families by providing a wide Guidelines require that policies and actions are in range of health, survivor, disability and retirement options. full compliance with the laws and regulations of the The management of reorganizations and layoffs and the Choices Benefits are provided annually to active salaried respective countries in which Johnson & Johnson policies associated with them vary depending on the and non-union hourly employees, as well as regular and operating companies do business. Significantly, the Board location, nature, size and scale of the restructuring, as casual part-time employees who are scheduled to work of Directors adopted the Quality and Compliance Core well as the qualifications of the employees impacted. 19 or more hours per week. Under the program, eligible Objective in the first quarter of 2013 (publicly available Local laws and regulations are followed, as are employees may create personalized benefit packages at www.jnj.com/sites/default/files/pdf/Core-Objectivenotice periods incorporated into collective bargaining for themselves and their eligible dependents. Benefits Doc-FINAL-28Feb.pdf). In part, the Objective affirms our agreements. Where employees are negatively impacted offered include: resolve to operate our businesses, sectors, entities and by operational changes, operating companies have franchises in compliance with applicable laws, regulations measures in place to help and support impacted Medical and Company policies and standards. The evaluation and employees, including but not limited to severance Dental compensation of our employees considers the adherence payments, access to outplacement support and Vision to and furtherance of the Objective. Additionally, new employee assistance programs. These measures may Tobacco Cessation Leadership and Performance standards have been exceed statutory requirements. Additionally, companies HealthAccount (Flexible Spending Account) developed, which are part of a new Performance and may implement other people management strategies, including rigorous control over headcount, to minimize CareAccount (Flexible Spending Account) Development approach being phased in across operating compulsory redundancies where appropriate. Life Insurance companies. Accident Insurance Our Performance and Development approach consists of In addition, local operating leaders endeavor to Disability Coverage two dimensions of equal weight: Results and Leadership. communicate significant plans of operational changes to employees and their representatives, where they are Long-Term Care Insurance “Results” are based on a Management by Objectives present, in a timely and practical manner in advance Group Legal Insurance framework for aligning employees’ goals and actions with the goals of their company. “Leadership” is based on our of actions being taken. Feedback and suggestions Auto and Home Insurance Leadership Imperatives. These two components—Results from employees and representatives may be taken into Commuter Benefits Program and Leadership—are weighted equally to provide the consideration before final decisions are made. Where involvement of employees’ representatives is legally In addition, in the U.S., we provide a base level of life basis for annual performance evaluation of all employees, required, our operating companies follow established insurance and business travel accident coverage to with a strong link between performance and pay. consultation processes to ensure compliance. eligible employees at no cost. The Company also Where there is no legal minimum notice period, provides a noncontributory pension plan and offers To ensure an effective transition to this Performance and Johnson & Johnson companies attempt to provide notice employees the opportunity to participate in a savings plan Development approach, managers are offered training at the earliest feasible time. with a company match. Employees may also be eligible on stakeholder feedback, assessment, performance for retiree medical coverage and company-provided calibration, as well as clear, candid and actionable Benefits LA2 retiree term life insurance. Plan provisions may differ for communications. To measure the effectiveness of the Johnson & Johnson offers a comprehensive and certain part-time employees and also vary by country. new approach, key performance indicators have been competitive benefits program to attract and retain Benefits are provided to union employees through developed, which are designed to measure clarity and 54 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S collective bargaining agreements. Additional information is available in Note 10 and Note 11 of our 2013 Employee Retention, to lead the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies into the future. Topics covered below are all strategically Annual Report and in the Financial Health & Economic Development & aligned with the Leadership Imperatives. Performance section of this report. Recruitment Talent Acquisition As the largest health care company in the world, enhancing the health and wellness of our employees The opportunities for development and career is a logical extension of our corporate mission. We advancement are strong components of Global Talent believe that promoting employee health and wellness “At Johnson & Johnson, the single most important Management. We are focused on effectively acquiring increases productivity and engagement, while decreasing opportunity to achieve our purpose and drive our longhigh quality and diverse talent. Our recruiting organization health care costs and providing personal benefits to term growth is developing our talent.” —Alex Gorsky continues to implement recruiting models in countries our workforce. Our Healthy People program provides around the world to focus on university recruiting, Employee Assistance, as well as Occupational Health In the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, diversity, social media platforms and continuing a and Wellness and Health Promotion services, all of which our people are a competitive advantage, and human healthy pipeline of skilled talent. The Global Job have expanded globally since 2005. Additionally, we resource leaders and business leaders jointly own talent Posting program promotes our commitment to the now offer a full suite of online resources (Digital Health management on behalf of the enterprise. Our leaders are advancement and development of our employees by Coaching) through HEALTH MEDIA™ and a unique accountable for attracting and recruiting talent, managing providing them transparency in job opportunities within approach to increasing physical and emotional capacity performance and development, building a pipeline of Johnson & Johnson. The Company also has implemented through the HUMAN PERFORMANCE INSTITUTE™ global and diverse leaders, and creating an environment a new employee orientation to help accelerate an and OUR ENERGY FOR PERFORMANCE IN LIFE™ that embraces diversity and inclusion. We are committed employee’s entry into the Johnson & Johnson Family of programs. Additional information about our Healthy to delivering business value through a high performing, Companies. People programs is provided in the Health Conscious, engaged workforce. The Leadership Imperatives have been integrated into Safe Employees section of this report. Our Leadership Imperatives our selection process through two primary vehicles. Johnson & Johnson provides a range of benefits to The first is the Leadership Imperatives Interview Guide Our Leadership Imperatives clearly articulate a core tool that provides interviewers with a set of customized employees impacted by reorganizations. The benefits set of performance and behavioral expectations for all may include severance payments and access to questions, translated into 10 supported languages, for employees to deliver business value. The Leadership the Credo and each of the Leadership Imperatives. The outplacement support, as well as Employee Assistance Imperatives—Connect, Shape, Lead, Deliver—foster a programs. tool allows interviewers to develop custom interview common language to ignite the organization around a guides through the use of the web-based application In providing employee benefits around the world, common purpose of accelerating the pace of innovation or the mobile app. The second vehicle is through the Johnson & Johnson regularly compares the value and growth. As the new driving force for our talent customized Johnson & Johnson Behavioral Based delivered to that of our competitors and seeks to rank in agenda, the Leadership Imperatives integrate our Talent Interview (BBI) training program. The one-day training the upper half among these world-class companies. We Practices—Recruitment, Development, Succession equips interviewers (both recruiters and hiring managers) assess this competitive view on a country-specific basis. Planning, Performance Management, and Reward with tools and techniques to conduct an effective We also consider benefit adequacy as well as attracting and Recognition—as a consistent reinforcement to behavioral-based assessment of a candidate’s technical and retaining critical talent in designing our benefit those behaviors. The Leadership Imperatives apply to and leadership competencies. programs. everyone—across all geographies, businesses, roles and levels—giving all employees a clear and consistent way 55 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Talent Development innovation. Johnson & Johnson encourages employees severance pay, job placement services and assistance Talent Development is core to our Talent philosophy. The to seek cross-sector, cross-functional and cross-regional (e.g. training, counseling) for those transitioning to a nongoal of development is to maximize the potential of the experience; this is facilitated by our global operations working life. LA10 whole self. In alignment with the Leadership Imperatives, around the world. Temporary workers do not participate in Johnson & Johnson learning or leadership development Succession Planning we promote a culture of learning and development for all employees, and there is a shared accountability between offerings. Succession Planning is a key process that enables employee and manager to ensure that opportunities for us to review the health of our talent pipeline and development are identified and pursued. Since development Approximately 12,000 employees participated in establish plans to address critical gaps. It also identifies means different things to different people, the content management and/or leadership training or executive development plans for leaders, including nominations to of each individual development plan will be different. The coaching in 2013. For more on our leadership our Leadership Development Programs. Both internal creation of a development plan starts with the employee, development efforts, visit our website at www.jnj.com/ and external executive pipeline candidates go through who knows best where they are motivated to grow and caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ an integrated process for selection, assessment, learn. Development is approached holistically and consists leadership-development-and-performance-management. development and onboarding. Insights gained from a of identifying and leveraging strengths, as well as areas standardized executive assessment process inform for improvement. It is a combination of learning from new Training is provided, tracked and documented by the selection decisions and, for those selected, their experiences, learning from others, as well as learning from operating companies. Employees receive an average of executive development plans. Insights from assessment trainings, courses and materials. Managers help to identify eight hours or more of training per year, although many are used to inform the standardized onboarding process key areas of focus and help to connect the employee with receive much more. Senior management, high potential and individual transition plan. The combination of these development opportunities (projects, mentors, training, etc.). employees (below vice president) and other critical efforts better position executive leaders for success in positions receive six to seven days of education per year; their new role. Development is an ongoing process that requires regular middle management and front line management receive reflection and feedback on progress throughout the year. four to five days of education a year; and vice presidents Performance Management and above receive eight to 19 days of education per Talent Development has three main objectives: year. Because training records are currently maintained The Performance Management and Development 1. A ccelerate Talent to prepare for the future at a local or operational level, we are not able to approach (P&D) at Johnson & Johnson has a focus on 2. Allow Talent to Achieve their Potential within provide a detailed report on this information on a global conversations between manager and employee that are their role level for all employees; however, systems are being frequent, meaningful and continuous. Each employee implemented that will compile this information across the and manager is expected to engage in clear and candid 3. D evelop Diverse Talent to help realize their Johnson & Johnson enterprise within the next several dialogue throughout the year within the “5 Conversations potential and prepare for the future. years. LA9 Framework,” which consists of the Performance Development encompasses a vast array of topics and Planning, Midyear, Succession Planning, Year-end and Transition assistance programs offered to support Compensation conversations. For more information is offered via both on-the-job training and online to all employees who are retiring or who have been terminated on this framework, visit our website at www.jnj.com/ fulland part-time employees globally and includes from employment comply with regulatory or collective caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ independent study courses, web-based courses, bargaining agreement requirements, with many locations leadership-development-and-performance-management. interviewing simulations, assessments, intensive providing more than what is required. Offerings may workshops and action planning courses. International include pre-retirement planning for those contemplating The new P&D approach consists of two dimensions: assignments are used to develop global leadership retirement, retraining for those who will continue working, Results and Leadership. The first dimension, Results, talent and to a foster global mindset, diversity and 56 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S is based on aligning employees’ goals and actions with with our colleagues and the values we hold ourselves to; situations are addressed at the respective business unit. the goals of their company. The second dimension, and we remain committed to taking the steps necessary Of the approximately 690 employee relations hotline Leadership, is based on the Leadership Imperatives. The to meet the needs of our patients, customers and matters received in 2013, all were addressed. Of these, Leadership Imperatives and Our Credo represent the key communities we serve. Our most recent survey had a 96 approximately 90 percent were closed, along with behaviors that are critical to the future success of the percent completion rate. The responses are anonymous, approximately 130 matters pending from 2012. Although Johnson & Johnson enterprise. These two components but the results are provided to companies, regions and additional grievance data is not tracked at the enterprise provide the basis for annual performance evaluation of all departments to review and address any opportunities for level, a global system to gather this enterprise data is employees. The evaluation on each dimension is based improvement. under development and being implemented in 2014. on a four-point rating scale, with a strong link between EN34 LA16 HR12 SO11 performance and pay. In 2010, we established a set of five-year Healthy Future goals, one of which is to achieve a 90th percentile In addition, the Common Ground program in the U.S. Performance is rated on a dual performance scale that employee engagement rating when compared to external is a three-step process (Open Door, Facilitation and independently assesses performance and leadership, benchmarks. Engagement levels for Johnson & Johnson Mediation) through which employees are afforded and is linked to the leadership imperatives. Performance in total and for each of the business segments exceeded the ability to have their grievances and complaints is directly linked with merit and bonus increases at Mayflower Global Norm, according to the most recent confidentially aired and addressed. The program has Johnson & Johnson; and, Leadership is a critical factor in survey. been recognized both internally and externally as a rewarding talent. The transition to the new P&D approach leading resource in encouraging employees to raise and continues to be phased in by level globally. The transition Grievance Resolution G4-58 resolve disputes. The Company also maintains a nonbegan with 1,200 senior Company leaders in 2012, and retaliation policy. continued with 27,000 Directors and Managers in 2013, Johnson & Johnson maintains a variety of mechanisms followed by the rest in 2015. LA11 for collecting and addressing employee grievances and Optimizing Work, Family and Personal Life complaints to ensure that workers can raise concerns Retention Rewards and Recognition confidentially. These mechanisms include an employee Our comprehensive programs and services for employees hotline through which employees can confidentially and reflect a holistic view of work, family and personal life The Total Rewards program is another important part of anonymously raise their questions and concerns. The to help support individual effectiveness at work and at Global Talent Management and includes compensation, Company also has an Open Door policy; employees home. Specific programs, including those for flexible benefits and health resources services across the are encouraged to air their grievances to any manager, work arrangements, education, adoption, child care and Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. We offer regardless of level, within the Company, and those grievelder care may vary around the world based on local competitive compensation programs as well as costances will be addressed. circumstances and business needs. In all cases, however, effective and country-focused services related to they reflect our fundamental goal of helping employees health and wellness, pension, disability and leave of Additionally, anyone can report allegations through other live well, work well and be well. An example of a program absence. These offerings meet the needs of our diverse methods within the operating companies or to Internal that may be offered within our companies includes workforces. Audit, the Law Department, Global Security or Human the Corporate Athlete Training provided by the Human Resources. Hotline access is communicated broadly, and Performance Institute, a Johnson & Johnson Company. Johnson & Johnson administers a Global Credo Survey visibility of this access and Hotline functionality are inAdditional examples can be found on our website at every two years to ensure that: Everyone across our scope for financial audits. Regional Labor and Employee www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategiccompanies is inspired by the goals we set both personally Relations staffs independently investigate noncompliance framework/optimizing-work-family-and-personal-life. and for the future of our business; we feel connected in employee relations matters, and verified non-compliant 57 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Compensation employees, communities and shareholders. In assessing our employees’ contributions to Company performance, professional and patient organizations, civic groups and suppliers. See the Supply Chain & Supplier Management Johnson & Johnson not only looks to results-oriented (page 38) for more information on supplier diversity. For measures of performance, but also considers how those more information, visit www.jnj.com/about-jnj/diversity. We design our compensation programs to achieve our results were achieved and whether the decisions and goals of attracting, developing and retaining employees actions leading to the results were consistent with the Employee Resource Groups who can drive financial and strategic growth objectives values embodied in Our Credo. and build long-term shareholder value. We use the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) at For more information on executive compensation, please Johnson & Johnson companies have partnered with following guiding principles to design our compensation see the Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy Statement. the Office of Diversity & Inclusion in creating an open programs: forum to exchange ideas and to strengthen the linkage Competitiveness: We compare our practices against appropriate peer companies so we can continue to Diversity & Inclusion to and within diverse communities. ERGs, formerly LA12 known as Affinity Groups, engage almost 12,700 attract, retain and motivate high-performing employees. employees across 168 U.S. chapters and 84 non-U.S. Pay for Performance: Base salary increases, annual chapters. Our 12 enterprise-wide ERGs are uniquely bonuses and grants of long-term incentives are tied to positioned to provide key insights, strategically focused performance, including the performance of the individual People and values are our greatest assets. Every on driving better outcomes on behalf of our people, and his or her specific business unit or function, as well invention, every product and every breakthrough we’ve our marketplace and our communities. For instance, as the overall performance of our company. brought to human health and well-being has been ERGs worked with the Johnson & Johnson Supplier powered by the people of Johnson & Johnson. Our Diversity group in support of Company efforts to become Accountability for Shortand Long-Term Performance: commitment to diversity and inclusion is deeply rooted in the first health care company to be inducted into the We structure performance-based compensation to the values instilled by Our Credo and is exemplified in a Billion Dollar Roundtable, an elite group of corporations reward an appropriate balance of shortand long-term number of our companies’ programs and activities. Our that have achieved spending of at least $1 billion with financial and strategic business results, with an emphasis Global Diversity and Inclusion Vision (available at www. diverse suppliers. In 2013, we marked our third year of on managing the business for long-term results. jnj.com/sites/default/files/pdf/Global-Office-Diversitymembership in the Billion Dollar Roundtable. Alignment to Shareholders’ Interests: We structure and-Inclusion.pdf) challenges us to maximize the power performance-based compensation to align the interests of Diversity & Inclusion to drive superior business results Another example is the work being done with PFLAG’s of our employees with the long-term interests of our and sustainable competitive advantage. (Parents, Families & Friends of Lesbians and Gays) shareholders. Care with Pride campaign, where a five dollar donation We recognize that differences in age, race, gender, is matched dollar for dollar by The Johnson & Johnson With these guiding principles in mind, our global nationality, sexual orientation, physical ability, thinking Family of Consumer Companies to help bolster PFLAG’s compensation practices promote fairness across our style and background bring richness to our work anti-bullying initiatives. These efforts include “Cultivating employee base and business levels commensurate environments. Such differences help us connect better Respect; Safe Schools for All,” which places trained with professional experience and ongoing individual with the health needs of people in communities around PFLAG members directly into schools to give them performance. the world. We believe that attracting, developing and the support, resources, model policies and programs retaining a base of employees that reflects the diversity necessary to stop bullying and harassment of youth in For 70 years, the Johnson & Johnson Credo has guided of our customers is essential to our success. We also their tracks. us in fulfilling our responsibilities to our customers, believe success hinges on relationships with diverse 58 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S ERGs also: by seeking elected office. We seek to support candidates Lists of all PAC and corporate political and ballot Have served as a business resource in attending who recognize the importance of medical innovation measure contributions are updated annually and national recruiting events for diverse talent and in in improving lives and that a fair, free-market system archived on our Investor Relations website. All political providing leadership development opportunities to provides the best environment for continued innovation. contributions are posted semi-annually at www.investor. employees. We also seek to support candidates who recognize the jnj.com/governance/contributions.cfm. Contributions importance of broad access to quality, affordable health are aggregated to reflect the totals per election for the Support several community patient initiatives through care. When selecting candidates for funding, priority is specified disclosure period. Federal candidates can our businesses to drive greater health and wellness given to candidates’ views on issues that concern the receive up to $5,000 in PAC contributions per election. education for underserved markets. One such example businesses of Johnson & Johnson and also the impact State contribution limits vary. Our latest filings are also is the Company’s Global Orthopaedics business for of candidates’ views on our employees or facilities in a found on the U.S. Senate Lobbying Disclosure Act joint replacements, which uncovered a unique untapped candidate’s state or district. Reports website. market opportunity within the U.S. based on insights from two ERGs: HOLA and AALC, to create market-specific Our contributions are intended to promote the interests Public Policy education and community outreach pilots and programs of the Company and the patients and customers we for the underserved markets within the African-American serve, and are made without regard to the private political Johnson & Johnson continues to support the and Hispanic communities. preferences of Company officers and executives. development of sound public policy worldwide. With good policy, we can better serve doctors, nurses, patients See Labor Practices & Workforce (page 52) for While U.S. federal law prohibits and consumers, as well as our employees and our Chairman’s Letter corporations from making workforce diversity data. LA12 political contributions to federal candidates, companies communities around the world. can establish political action committees that are Global and U.S. Policy Goals Political Contributions, funded solely through voluntary employee contributions to an employee political action committee, the In all corners of the world and in countries with all types Public Policy & Lobbying Johnson & Johnson Political Action Committee (JJPAC). of health and political systems, Johnson & Johnson SO6 For more about JJPAC, see www.investor.jnj.com/ works with providers, patient groups, governments and governance/contributions or the U.S. Federal Election other stakeholders to ensure that patients have access Commission website. to affordable, safe, quality health care that recognizes and values medical innovation. Our global and U.S. policy As a large multinational company, Johnson & Johnson In certain states where permitted, Johnson & Johnson goals can be found on our website at www.jnj.com/ works with providers, patient groups, governments and makes contributions to support state election campaigns, caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ other stakeholders worldwide to ensure that patients state party committees and state ballot measures. global-policy-positions. have access to affordable, safe, quality health care that All contributions to candidates are made based on recognizes and values medical innovation, and we may the interests of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Our Participation with Trade and support others seeking the same. Stakeholders have an Companies, as well as the patients and customers those Policy Development Organizations interest in knowing what positions we take, as well as businesses serve. whom we may support. Johnson & Johnson is committed to supporting the Outside the U.S., political contributions may be made in development of sound public policy in health care. One aspect of advancing sound public policy is Canada and Japan. These contributions are tracked at We work with many organizations across the political supporting those women and men who serve the public the local level. spectrum on a variety of policy issues related to health 59 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S and other topics that impact patients, consumers and CPIA – Chinese Pharmaceutical Industry Association cells in culture. Unlike small-molecule drugs, which our Company. In the U.S. and elsewhere, this means E FPIA – European Federation of Pharmaceutical are made using predictable “recipes” based on organic engaging with stakeholders, policy experts and others Industries and Associations chemistry, it’s not possible for different manufacturers to develop well-considered policies that reflect diverse G AKESLAB (Indonesia Medical Device and Laborato make identical biologic products. After a drug perspectives. tory Association) patent expires, competitors may come to the market HealthCare Institute of New Jersey (HINJ) with versions of the originator’s product. In the case We are a member of trade associations that advocate of small-molecule drugs, these versions are identical for our industry and market-based health solutions, and Healthcare Leadership Council (HLC) to the originators’ products and are called generics. we provide financial support for policy development IFPMA – International Federation of Pharmaceutical However, in the case of biologics, these versions are organizations and think tanks whose purpose is to Manufacturers & Associations highly similar—but not identical—to original products, develop policy position papers or model legislation, IPMG (Indonesia Pharmaceutical & Manufacturing which are why they are known as biosimilars in most among other civic activities. While we express our views Group) parts of the world. Therefore, the regulatory framework to organizations with which we work, we may not align J PMA – Japan Pharmaceutical Manufacturer Assogoverning generic products is not applicable to with or support every public position each of these broadciation biosimilars. Johnson & Johnson supports a regulatory based groups takes. Medical Technology Association of Australia (MTAA) framework for the approval of biosimilars as long as the M edical Technology Association of New Zealand standards and policies are based on sound science, with Johnson & Johnson does not currently make direct (MTANZ) an understanding of the complexities of biologics. To expenditures toward U.S. federal grassroots lobbying Medicines Australia date, we have supported the policies and requirements communication to the general public. National Health Council (NHC) established around the world. Trade Associations G4-16 O PPI – Organization of Pharmaceutical Producers of India Consumer Product Ingredient Safety Following is a selected representative list of trade Personal Care Products Council (PCPC) associations with which Johnson & Johnson participates: Consumers today are more aware than ever of the P harmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of ingredients in products they buy. Around the world,  dvanced Medical Technology Association America (PhRMA) A people are concerned with making choices that are (AdvaMed) US-ASEAN Business Council healthy and environmentally friendly. For this reason, we  IPM – Association of International Pharmaceutical A U.S. Chamber of Commerce advocate government policies and standards that ensure Manufacturers (Russia) decisions about ingredients in personal care products  MIIF – Association of the Pharmaceutical Industry A Positions on Selected Issues are made on the basis of sound science. According to of Innovation (Mexico) these principles, we are the first major company to go As part of our Healthy Future 2015 goals, we have Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation beyond safety alone, making a major commitment to also set a goal to expand information on our policy AusBiotech remove a number of ingredients about which consumers perspectives on major issues. Information on our public have expressed concern. We have done this to assure Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO) policy positions for major issues is detailed below: consumers’ peace of mind when using our products, even California Healthcare Institute (CHI) though these ingredients are safe by scientific standards  anada’s Research Based Pharmaceutical CompaC Biosimilars and meet all national and international regulations. nies Biologic medicines are large, complex therapeutic Consumer Healthcare Products Association (CHPA) proteins produced by living organisms, typically by 60 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Payment & Delivery Reform U.S. FDA Policy Governance and Oversight of Government Affairs Activities There is growing interest in the United States in payment In the U.S., many of the Company’s products are and delivery reform centered on value-based payment approved, cleared for marketing and/or regulated by the Johnson & Johnson policies and positions are developed mechanisms that increase provider accountability for U.S. Food & Drug Administration (FDA) under the Food, in coordination with Corporate and operating company population health management, quality and efficiency. Drug and Cosmetic Act (FDCA) and the Public Health leaders through thorough analysis and discussion. This represents a system-wide shift away from traditional Service Act (PHSA). We are committed to providing the General oversight is provided by the Regulatory, fee-for-service (FFS) payment models toward models point of view of our businesses, customers and patients Compliance & Government Affairs Committee of the based on bundled services such as episode-of-care to stakeholders and decision-makers as these laws are Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors. An advisory payments and capitated payments. While these new amended and updated over time. Our aim is to ensure a committee comprised of employees who are JJPAC models provide opportunities as well as risks for health care regulatory environment that protects patients participants and who represent U.S. domestic operating Johnson & Johnson companies, our primary concern is and consumers by promoting innovation, quality and companies assists the Company’s Government Affairs whether they will sufficiently balance quality improvement safety. Often, we work together with trade associations to and Policy team in selecting candidates, committees with system savings. advance sound regulatory policy on behalf of the health and state ballot measures to support. Members of senior care industry and those who rely on our products and management approve all JJPAC and corporate political Regulatory Harmonization services. Key associations include the Pharmaceutical contributions. Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), Regulatory harmonization is the convergence of Biotechnology Industry Organization (BIO), Advanced As part of its oversight role in government affairs and regulatory practices and standards to ensure the safety, Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed), Consumer policy, the Regulatory, Compliance & Government Affairs effectiveness and quality of health products across Healthcare Products Association (CHPA) and Personal Committee of the Johnson & Johnson Board of Directors different jurisdictions. Johnson & Johnson supports Care Products Council (PCPC). also receives an annual report of the Company’s political regulatory harmonization to manage divergent, redundant, contribution and lobbying policies, practices and activities. conflicting and unnecessary regulatory requirements, Counterfeiting & Supply Chain Security This Committee also receives an annual report of the which can be time-consuming, expensive and impede Company’s payments to trade associations of $75,000 access to health care products. Global and regional Counterfeiting of health care products is a serious and or more, where a percentage of payments may be used regulatory harmonization initiatives promote innovation, growing concern because it causes fake, untested, for lobbying. The Company’s PAC and corporate political expedite market access, facilitate international trade unapproved and potentially dangerous products to enter spending is audited biennially. Finally, Johnson & Johnson and align standards and technical requirements. the marketplace. Moreover, it can undermine confidence has a code of conduct that prohibits employees from Johnson & Johnson supports regulatory harmonization in product safety and effectiveness while putting people’s using corporate funds or assets for political purposes through training; capacity building; information sharing; health and lives at risk. Johnson & Johnson is committed unless approved by the appropriate member of senior implementing harmonized standards, best practices to working with governments and regulators to identify management. and technical requirements; and minimizing redundant opportunities to strengthen laws and enforcement efforts or conflicting regulatory requirements. We also support in order to ensure the integrity of distribution channels. Questions about contributions should be directed to: equal participation by industry and regulators in global Johnson & Johnson believes that federal serialization Treasurer and regional harmonization initiatives. and so-called “track & trace” legislation is necessary to Johnson & Johnson Political Action Committee properly secure the U.S. pharmaceutical supply chain by One Johnson & Johnson Plaza eliminating varying and conflicting state regulations. New Brunswick, NJ 08933 61 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Intellectual Property agreements, national laws and enforcement efforts in order to provide for the integrity of effective and strong Stakeholder Engagement G24–G27 IP protection systems globally. Our approach to IP is outlined on our Citizenship & Within the global economy, intellectual property Sustainability website at www.jnj.com/caring/citizenshipAs the largest broad-based health care company, protection is vital. Intellectual property rights give sustainability/strategic-framework/intellectual-property. Johnson & Johnson recognizes the importance of inventors and authors an economic incentive to originate, stakeholder engagement on a daily basis. On any given develop and share new ideas by promising them the right day, Johnson & Johnson colleagues around the world to exclude others from copying their creations for limited Data Protection & Privacy have engagements with many different stakeholder periods of time. Intellectual property rights also protect groups that share our interests in advancing human consumers from illicit or pirated products that may be health and well-being, safeguarding the planet, and passed off for the originals. We are strongly committed to protecting the privacy of leading a strong, responsible business. We believe that those who entrust us with their personal information. Our business is strengthened by the level of engagement Johnson & Johnson believes that the protection of employees, and all those who do business with us, trust it has within the communities in which it lives and intellectual property (IP) is essential to rewarding and expect that we will protect personal information in operates, as well as with the various internal and external innovation and promoting medical advances. We are accordance with legal requirements and our policies. stakeholders in social, environmental and governance committed to raising awareness of innovation in human matters. health care and IP protection; to providing economic incentive and safeguard mechanisms; and to helping Multiple Johnson & Johnson companies in the U.S. have We foster and maintain ties with the suppliers and increase local economic growth. We are committed certified to the Safe Harbor Principles with the U.S. external manufacturers who help us make our products; to extending life-saving medical technologies and Department of Commerce with respect to personal data the customers who purchase our products; the doctors, addressing unmet medical needs in developing countries processed as part of our human resource activities and nurses, patients and consumers who use them; and our around the world. As part of our commitment to other processes, like clinical research and complaint own employees and shareholders. We routinely engage compassionate health care, Johnson & Johnson believes handling. with civic society leaders in our efforts to ensure access in helping the world’s poorest countries face local public to health care for all and nongovernmental organizations, health crises. Privacy complaints are investigated, addressed and governments and UN groups on advancing maternal monitored by the local operating companies involved with and children’s health around the world. We believe the We believe that the best way to address the needs of the support of the Privacy organization in collaboration uniqueness of each group we interact with affords us the countries facing public health crises is for companies with our IT Security group. The Global Privacy Team opportunity to gain better perspectives on those we serve to work with local governments to develop approaches oversees privacy incidents and breaches globally, and so that we can contribute to society in a greater way. that benefit all involved parties, while continuing to complaints have to be reported to the Vice President We consider a variety of factors before engaging with uphold the value of IP in all parts of the world. In addition, of Corporate Internal Audit in accordance with the stakeholders to ensure the most optimal outcome. Some Johnson & Johnson recognizes the importance of Johnson & Johnson Escalation Procedure. PR8 of these factors include: international efforts that seek to improve and harmonize IP protection throughout the world. We continue to work The possible alignments of our goals and values with with international organizations, national governments that of the stakeholder group. and regulators in areas surrounding international trade Our ability to improve health conditions. 62 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our ability to improve social, environmental or other Some of these issues include product quality and safety, in line with Our Credo. We are committed to working conditions. global health, access to medicine and transparency. Our with small businesses and diverse suppliers that support findings have contributed to how we have structured our growth objectives by providing innovative solutions The opportunity that we and the stakeholder group this year’s report. See the Citizenship & Sustainability to our commercial, supply chain and R&D efforts. Our have to learn from one another. Materiality Assessment Process (page 11) of this report strong commitment to supplier diversity has allowed us to The identity, including the composition and values, of for more details. enhance our supplier network, support job creation in our the stakeholder group. local communities, and strengthen ties to the consumers, The potential for the stakeholder group to have While the topics, issues and comments from stakeholders patients and doctors who benefit from our products and a positive impact on other stakeholder groups, our vary, we seek to understand and respond to our services. customers, the public at large and Johnson & Johnson. stakeholders. We are continually expanding the ways Our ability to effectively participate in the engagement. in which we obtain feedback from all who use our Philanthropy products and services, including consumers, doctors and Stakeholder engagements are taking place at the hospitals. We use a variety of methods, including direct majority of our locations, whether at an enterprise contact, feedback forms, website links, social networking level, within our business units, at a specific site or at a sites, email, conventional mail, customer surveys, At Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo inspires us to advance product-specific level. These engagements inform our market research and customer call centers. Each of our the health of communities in which we live and work, business decisions and our work in communities around businesses maintains a website with contact information and the world community as well. This unwavering the world and help us to set priorities that guide us into commitment to making the world a healthier place is at accessible from our Corporate website. the future. They also help us to understand how our the heart of our giving. stakeholders think we can assist in addressing emerging societal needs. Job Creation We fulfill our mission by developing enduring partnerships that deliver community-based solutions to health Selected Engagements & Collaborations challenges. We focus in three strategic areas: saving and improving the lives of women and children, preventing See the chart on the following page for a select Job creation is at the core of economic vitality. Jobs bring disease among the most vulnerable and strengthening sampling of our stakeholder engagements. Additional opportunity. Higher levels of employment lead to higher the health workforce. Visit www.jnj.com/our-giving to engagements can be found at www.jnj.com/caring/ citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ consumption levels, which generates greater output of learn more. stakeholder-engagement. goods and services produced in the local economy, which in turn leads to higher standards of living for community In 2010, we made a significant five-year commitment Citizenship & Sustainability Materiality residents. As higher job growth increases economic to the United Nations’ (UN) Millennium Development Assessment Engagement activity, greater tax revenue is generated for the local Goals (MDGs) to improve the lives of women and government. In 2013, Johnson & Johnson spent $3.6 children worldwide, and we are on track to deliver our In 2013, we conducted a Citizenship & Sustainability commitments in five areas by 2015: preventing motherbillion on additions to property, plant and equipment, a materiality assessment to prioritize the issues that are to-child HIV transmission; making childbirth safer; portion of which is related to job creation. most important to our business and our stakeholders. reaching mothers with life-saving health information We identified a group of 11 key representative through their mobile phones; treating children at-risk Additionally, a diverse supplier base reflective of our external stakeholders and asked them to rank the for intestinal worms; and preventing reinfection and patients and customers that creates jobs in local topics for importance of the topic and importance for increasing research and development for new medicines communities around the world is mutually beneficial and Johnson & Johnson to address the issue. to treat HIV, tuberculosis and other conditions. 63 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S G4-27 S E LECTE D E NGAG E M E NTS AN D COLLABORATION S* STAKE HOLD E R G ROU P R E SU LT Developed the Total Cost of Ownership Tool to identify ways to translate sustainability product attributes into a standard way to measure Practice Greenhealth cost reduction during the procurement process. Janssen Research & Development, LLC, entered an agreement that extends our commitment to sharing clinical trials data to enhance Yale School of public health and advance science and medicine. Under this agreement, announced in January 2014, YODA will serve as an independent Medicine body to review requests from investigators and physicians seeking access to anonymized clinical trials data from Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson and make final decisions on data sharing. Stop TB Partnership Janssen’s partnership with them resulted in providing access to bedaquiline for the treatment of pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis Global Drug Facility (MDR-TB) as part of therapy in adults who are in need. Engaged NMQF to develop the Childhood Obesity Index (COI) that maps childhood obesity prevalence across the U.S. down to zip code National Minority level and by gender and ethnicity. It is a significant and effective web-based tool available free of charge that facilitates understanding of Quality Forum the problem and helps inform development of programs to address it in every community. Executed a data sharing agreement with Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative (DNDi) for preclinical research on flubendazole as a PATH potential new treatment against parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis (river blindness); a licensing agreement with PATH on TMC278LA pre-exposure prophylaxis; and in-licensing agreements with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in the field of dengue. In 2013, Johnson & Johnson signed Guiding Principles on Access to Medicines developed by BSR’s Healthcare Working Group to Business for Social frame industry’s approach to expanding access to quality health care globally. Johnson & Johnson is a founding member of the Responsibility (BSR) Healthcare Working Group. *Additional engagements can be found at www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/stakeholder-engagement. 64 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S The lives of women and children are at increased birth asphyxia, a potentially fatal inability to take the measure outcomes while improving partners’ evaluation risk without adequate prenatal care, the presence of a first breath of life. With Save the Children, the American capacity. Embracing evaluation thinking has improved skilled birth attendant or ongoing guidance on the care Academy of Pediatrics and the United States Agency for the Company’s practice on many levels, especially in and nutrition of infants. In 2011, more than 287,000 International Development (USAID), our Helping Babies relationships with community partners. mothers died from complications in pregnancy and Breathe partnership aims to prevent this condition in childbirth, and more than three million newborns died Malawi and Uganda. This is an extension of a decade of As part of our enterprise’s Healthy Future 2015 goals, in their first month of life. The statistics are staggering, work to address birth asphyxia, including a partnership Johnson & Johnson has committed to raising the especially because the vast majority of these deaths are in China that saved more than 90,000 babies in the first standard of measurement and evaluation within the preventable. five years and cut birth asphyxia deaths by half in 360 philanthropy programs we support by increasing the hospitals. We are now supporting programs to address capacity of our partners and us to measure program As part of our MDG commitment, Johnson & Johnson birth asphyxia in 12 countries. outcomes. In 2013, 90 percent of our partners measured became a founding member in partnerships focused on health-related outcomes. To further close the gap increasing the number of frontline health care workers Survive & Thrive, a Global Development Alliance created with remaining partners, our Worldwide Corporate with the skills to recognize and quickly address the in 2012, brings U.S. obstetric, pediatric and midwifery Contributions team is conducting a pilot in 2014 to complications that often arise during and immediately professional associations together with USAID, private provide the necessary funding, consulting resources, after pregnancy and childbirth. Learn more here. sector and civil society organizations in a first-oftraining and technical assistance to our nonprofit partners its-kind partnership to improve the quality of facilityto improve their ability to measure and evaluate the Johnson & Johnson is also recognized as a global based maternal, newborn and child health services. health outcomes within their communities, and to share leader in public-private partnerships (PPPs) with groups Johnson & Johnson is supporting the initial work of this the knowledge they gain from these studies with the that focus on maternal, newborn and child health. The program in Burma, also known as Myanmar, in support of global health field at large. Company is one of two private sector partners in the a new U.S. government partnership with that country to World Health Organization’s (WHO) Partnership for lay the groundwork for a peaceful and prosperous future. Johnson & Johnson spearheaded a number of initiatives Maternal, Newborn and Child Health and participates in within 2013 to capture, measure and evaluate data with nearly a dozen major PPPs. Together with our partners, we are able to make lifethe intent of being able to spread best practices among changing, long-term differences in human health, helping pioneering organizations that are changing the landscape Some of these partnerships include the United Nations families to survive and thrive. of global health. Health Four+ (H4+), which is a first-of-its-kind partnership between private and public institutions. Measuring Impact One of the most recent innovations in the field of global Through this partnership to develop the health care health has been mobile technology used to provide workforce in Ethiopia and Tanzania, we have been able With a robust strategic giving plan, Worldwide Corporate health information (mHealth) to people in developing to train birth attendants in emergency obstetrics and Contributions is continuing to improve the Company’s countries and areas where access to medicine and health newborn care to ensure better outcomes for more ability, and that of our partners, to measure and information has traditionally been sparse. In its role as an mothers and babies. The partners include UNAIDS, the communicate program results. We are interested in the early innovator in the mHealth space, Johnson & Johnson UN Population Fund (UNFPA), UNICEF, the World Bank, quantitative and the qualitative results of our partnerships developed the “mHelp” program in partnership with the UN Women and the WHO. around the world. We have embraced “evaluation mHealth Alliance and the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS thinking” within the context of a global corporate giving Foundation in 2013 to document and share data and Helping Babies Breathe trains health care workers in program and created a cross-discipline sub-team that best practices within this groundbreaking field. mHelp low-resource settings to intervene when newborns have works to continuously improve the team’s ability to will provide NGOs, foreign governments and the private 65 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S sector in lowand middle-income countries with data coming from the field to inform these bodies in how Community Involvement In its focus on health and wellness, several communitybased partnerships are making progress in contributing to strategize, implement, monitor and sustain mHealth & Engagement to active and healthy living. In 2013, in a collaborative interventions at scale, especially those focused on partnership with the city, New Brunswick Tomorrow, reproductive health, maternal, newborn and child health, and Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, New and HIV and AIDS. Brunswick Ciclovia was launched. Ciclovia began as As part of our longstanding commitment to Our Credo, part of a community change project, designed by New In an innovative partnership advancing the fields of we are aware of the responsibility that companies have Brunswick Tomorrow’s leadership development program microfinance and global health, Johnson & Johnson within the communities they operate. We share the to: 1) improve the health and wellness of residents; has developed an initiative with Freedom from Hunger obligation to make our community a better place to live. 2) build stronger community vitality through the and the Microcredit Summit Campaign to develop sustainability and vibrancy of the community; and a standardized set of indicators that microfinance In each community in which we live and work, and 3) increase social integration. institutions (MFIs) can use to monitor the progress and within the world community, we are called to be good impact of their health services over time. With these citizens, supporting good works and charities, bearing More than 4,000 people attended the inaugural New indicators, MFIs will be able to measure their impact on our fair share of taxes, encouraging civic improvements, Brunswick Ciclovia, providing the opportunity to use the their clients’ knowledge and understanding of health and better health and education. We maintain in good streets as paths for physical activity and also as a space conditions, as well as their ability to save for, afford and order the property we are privileged to use, protect the for community building. Through community partners, we pay for health services and products. Named the Health environment and natural resources. envision Ciclovia as being part of the fabric of the health Indicators Project, the goal is to provide these leading and wellness of community residents. A robust evaluation partners of the microfinance industry with indicators that These efforts are supported by our decentralized program was established as part of the strategic planning can be used in one-off evaluations of specific programs business strategy, which meets corporate needs and process with the intent to highlight best practices for and projects, as well as in routine monitoring of MFI allows each facility to become a part of its community. making an open streets program operational and to clients. This project currently concentrates on serving document its impact in the community. women at the bottom of the pyramid in urban and rural While there is no formal tracking of social impact areas of India, but provides a model that partners can use assessments at the regional levels, the vast majority of Ongoing efforts in New Brunswick are informed by the to replicate globally. our facilities engage within their communities in various longest-running community survey in the U.S. Conducted capacities based on local needs. SO1 by the Eagleton Center for Public Interest Polling at In 2013, UNFPA recognized Johnson & Johnson for its Rutgers in partnership with New Brunswick Tomorrow long-standing partnership and work with hundreds of In our headquarters community of New Brunswick, New and Johnson & Johnson, it serves to capture perceptions organizations on more than 700 programs promoting the Jersey, the Company has committed its resources and of the quality of life in New Brunswick, as well as health and dignity of women and girls in more than 50 leadership to revitalizing the city. This began with the reactions to the changes and developments that have countries around the world. physical transformation of the city and an identification occurred as a result of revitalization over the past threeof priorities in health, human services and education. and-a half decades. As a global health care company, we are privileged to This commitment continues today with the leadership work with many partners to help address the unmet of Corporate Contributions galvanizing collaborative Each survey provides valuable data that guides actions, needs of women and children all over the world. networks to identify and address priorities impacting and data collection at regular intervals over time allows residents. monitoring of progress toward the mission of improving the quality of life in New Brunswick. 66 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Johnson & Johnson uses the survey to understand commitment letters were signed by parents from 20 efficiently and effectively to our stakeholders within the issues, identify trends and provide insights that can primary schools in Ha Tinh, Quang Binh and Dong Nai community. impact other health initiatives we support to effectively provinces. The success of Helmets for Kids created meet the needs of residents in our headquarters momentum for enhanced road safety initiatives in the Community Hiring Practices community. One of the top concerns among the New three provinces and a solid base for sustaining these Brunswick community revolves around food security initiatives beyond the project duration. All the schools In a global, decentralized business, hiring locally helps us within vulnerable populations. Johnson & Johnson has and participating partners reported having learned how best meet customer needs. Each subsidiary within our taken a leadership role in galvanizing collaborative to plan and implement road safety activities and become business segments is, with some exceptions, managed networks and building capacity of local partners to motivated to leverage their own resources to supplement by citizens of the country where it is located. Our contribute to healthy and livable communities so that and sustain the impact of these activities in their schools operating companies hire from the communities in which people have access to nutritious, safe, affordable, and communities. we do business and follow all applicable labor laws and culturally appropriate food at all times in a socially requirements. In most cases, the Johnson & Johnson just, sustainable food system. Our partnership with Influencing environmental impacts within the community Family of Companies does not offer visas or work Rutgers and the City of New Brunswick launched the that we work in are considered in our business decisions permits. Candidates must be authorized to work in the New Brunswick Community Farmers Market, providing and actions. We pursue a path of continual improvement country they are applying to. Applicants must be fluent in residents with access to affordable and nutritious fresh to investigate, understand and mitigate environmental the language of the country where a job is based. EC6 produce that contributes to healthy eating behaviors to risks. For example, in Brazil, “catadores” are people within prevent obesity and its consequential diseases. In 2013, the community who collect and process waste material Corporate Contributions the market served over 1,500 customers and, importantly, for recycling. For many catadores—even those who the number of residents using public assistance vouchers have organized themselves into cooperatives—life is a Johnson & Johnson is among the largest corporate has consistently increased over time and served over dangerous journey that literally revolves around a trash donors, having contributed $993 million in cash and 1,000 residents last season. dump. Our Consumer Group developed Project Phoenix, products in 2013 toward nearly 600 programs in an initiative that helps these recycling cooperatives more than 50 countries, impacting tens of millions of In our Asia-Pacific region, our local Janssen employees improve operational processes, document their policies lives worldwide. Our total cash contribution in 2013 to collaborated with the Asia Injury Prevention (AIP) and develop a stronger social infrastructure. The end organizations in the U.S and around the world was $157 Foundation to promote Helmets for Kids in Vietnam, result is that the cooperatives become more attractive million. a program to improve safety on the roads through business partners, which means an increased market increased helmet wearing rates in target schools. for their recycled goods and improved living and safety Further, as the health care system continues to evolve, Helmets for Kids participating schools are located along standards for the catadores. we understand the unmet need of those who are unable or near dangerous national highways in low-income to receive the care they need. We believe we have communities where the majority of parents are farmers Johnson & Johnson is attentive to the communities we the responsibility within our communities to provide or fishermen. Therefore, it was difficult for them to afford work in by maintaining a variety of mechanisms to collect assistance to those who are not able to access medicine. a quality helmet for their children. A high percentage of and address issues and concerns. To ensure that the In 2013, through our Johnson & Johnson Patience students ride a bicycle or are driven to school on their community can raise its concerns, we have established Assistance Foundation (JJPAF), we provided $711.3 parents’ motorbike along these dangerous roads. hotlines within local facilities. While they vary, from million worth of prescription products, free of charge, to concerns at a local facility level to questions about the about 150,000 patients. In the past three years, we have Nearly 11,000 helmets were provided to students materials or processes used to make our products to the assisted nearly half a million U.S. patients. and teachers in the program and more than 10,000 positions we take, we seek to understand and respond 67 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S We manage our Contributions Program within guidelines to various careers in the health industry and motivated to approved by the Johnson & Johnson Executive pursue higher levels of academic progress and take the Committee. Our Contributions budget is established well steps necessary to build a better future and achieve their before the start of each fiscal year, so our giving as a full potential. Johnson & Johnson employee volunteers percentage of year-end pretax income thus varies from are mentors for these students, and in 2013, over 250 year to year, as fluctuations in year-end pretax income employees served as mentors with over 4,200 hours of become apparent. service. Volunteerism In our Asia-Pacific region, 25 percent of our employees participated in our 2013 June volunteer month, impacting more than 16,700 lives. Giving back to the communities in which we work and Each year, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies live in is woven into the fabric of Johnson & Johnson. celebrates the exceptional volunteer achievements of Inspired by Our Credo, the employees of the employees through our volunteer recognition programs. Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies are committed Through these programs, the Company awards grants to making a positive impact in the communities where to the nonprofit organizations where these employees they live and work. They play active roles in educational, volunteer their time. civic, cultural and faith-based organizations around the world. Through their involvement, these dedicated While many Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies volunteers improve the quality of life in their communities employees around the world participate in meaningful and serve as a reminder of the difference every person volunteer work in their communities, we are pleased can make. to have recognized 27 of our employees from North America, Asia-Pacific, and Latin America and the Our Volunteer Support Program serves as a resource Caribbean for their volunteerism. for the our employees by creating partnerships and relationships with local nonprofit organizations; These recognition grants reward employees who are coordinating volunteer days for Johnson & Johnson highly engaged in community volunteer efforts that companies, groups and individuals; and recognizing have a tremendous local impact and reflect Our Credo excellence in volunteerism. commitment to the communities in which we live and Medical students Natasha Ramsey (left) and work. Jeneba Abass-Shereff are graduates of the One of our key programs is Bridge To Employment Bridge to Employment (BTE) program in (BTE), a global initiative to inspire young people ages New Brunswick, New Jersey. Over the last 20 14–18 from disadvantaged communities to stay in years, BTE has involved Johnson & Johnson school, excel academically, and elevate their career employees who volunteer as mentors in aspirations. Through academic enrichment activities, programming to help prepare young people for career readiness and exploration opportunities, and brighter futures. higher education preparation, BTE students are exposed Learn more at www.bridge2employment.org. 68 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Safeguarding the Planet • Product Stewardship • Ingredients • Sourcing of Raw Materials • Environmental Responsibility • Water •G reenhouse Gas Emissions / Climate Change • Air Emissions • Waste Management • Biodiversity Conservation Engineering experts, like Ibrahim Khadra, who was involved in building a biomass boiler for CENTOCOR Biologics in Ireland, help Johnson & Johnson devise and implement innovative ways to reduce our carbon footprint. 69 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Product Stewardship solutions at every stage of a product’s development, and recognizing them for their achievements. Our Earthwards® Target: Recognizing 60 Products When we launched the Earthwards® process in 2009, Our target is to have 60 Earthwards® recognized we used it to focus our product teams and, as part of our products in our portfolio by year-end 2015. In 2013, we For more than127 years, the Company’s desire to make a Healthy Future 2015 goals, challenged them to have a advanced this target by recognizing an additional 20 difference has inspired every invention, every product and total of 60 products achieve the Earthwards® recognition. products, for a total of 55 products. Each of our three every breakthrough we have brought to human health. In 2013, we focused on integrating and expanding the business segments demonstrated a strong commitment This commitment to serving the needs of others is guided original process across our Company. We will use the to improving the sustainability of its products in 2013. by Our Credo, which shapes our approach to business Earthwards® approach to drive continuous innovation for The 20 product additions were comprised of: 15 and defines our responsibilities to society at large. One every new product in 2014 and beyond. products from our Consumer segment, four from our of the most important responsibilities emphasized in Our Medical Devices & Diagnostics segment and one from Credo is our obligation to the environment: The Earthwards® approach focuses on improving the our Pharmaceutical segment. Based on this significant We must maintain in good order the property we social and environmental impacts of our products and progress, we are well on our way to meeting our are privileged to use, protecting the environment targets improvements in seven key areas: materials used, 60-product target and anticipate achieving it in 2014, and natural resources. packaging, energy reduction, waste reduction, water a year ahead of schedule. reduction, positive social impact or benefit, and product Product stewardship integrates the concept of innovation. To improve our performance, we collaborate EARTHWAR D S ® R ECOG N I Z E D PROD UCTS YEAR Chairman’s Letter (Cumulative count at year-end) sustainability into product and packaging development, with internal teams across all three sectors, our suppliers improvement, transportation, sales, use and disposal. and our customers to identify opportunities across our 2009 3 Improving the sustainability profiles of our products and/ value chain. 2010 9 or packaging has been an integral part of the Company’s goal-setting efforts since the early 1990s. 2011 24 2012 35 The Earthwards® Approach Materials Water Innovation Energy 2013 55 Designing and bringing more sustainable products to market is integral to how we fulfill Our Credo, and the Packaging Earthwards® approach defines how we think about and Waste Social The improvements, much more than the number of address our environmental and social impacts across recognitions, reflect the positive impacts that product product life cycles—from formulation and manufacturing Each product seeking Earthwards® recognition is changes can deliver. Our portfolio of 55 Earthwards® to product use and end of life cycle. Achieving evaluated against a proprietary scorecard that is updated recognized products currently reflects approximately Earthwards® recognition is an honor celebrating our on a regular basis by a group of product sustainability 40 improvements in material selection, 37 improvements most innovative and improved products. If a product experts from government, academia, business and in packaging materials, 25 improvements in energy, achieves at least three significant improvements, a board environmental nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). 15 improvements in waste and five improvements of internal and external experts determines if the product Once a product has earned Earthwards® recognition, in water usage. The total revenue generation for the warrants Earthwards® recognition. This recognition also it must undergo and pass an annual review in order to Earthwards® portfolio in 2013 was $8 billion. EN7 EN27 motivates us to improve the sustainability of our products retain it. Likewise, the Earthwards® process undergoes by engaging our people in designing sustainable an annual third-party assurance audit by UL Environment. 70 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our Earthwards® products include: Some recent highlights of products that have received Earthwards® recognition include: Consumer Products (34 products)  AVEENO ® PURE RENEWAL™ Shampoo and Conditioner (two products) Aveeno® Clear Complexion Sterilmed® API buprenorphine  BB Cream Fair to Light Tint Trocar (base & HCl)  AVEENO ® Clear Complexion BB Cream – Medium & Fair (two products)   BAND-AID ® Brand Adhesive Bandages (four products)   JOHNSON’S ® Naturals (two products)   NATUSAN Uses 25 percent PCR content in bottle Use > 50 percent less materials 42 percent reduction of Process Mass ® First Touch (three products) through reprocessing** Intensity***   Neutrogena ® Naturals™ (10 products) Reduced bottle weight by 23 percent   o.b. Tampons (Europe) ® and reduced carbon material by > 50 percent reduction in waste at 64 percent reduction in raw materials   SUNDOWN ® 32 percent* end of life cycle through re-use and for equipment clearning***  Le  Petit Marseillais® (eight products) energy-from-waste Improved shipping efficiency 71 percent reduction in water use from   LISTERINE ® Naturals Antiseptic 58 percent by increasing the number Support access to life-saving medical 309 to 89 liters/kg API* of units per pallet from 2604 to 4416* devices through product donations to Medical Devices & Diagnostics (14 products) International Aid 28 percent aggregated reduction in  CUVUE® Advance® Brand Contact Lenses A hazardous waste***  CUVUE® OASYS® Brand Contact Lenses A Chairman’s Letter 23 percent energy reduction through ONE TOUCH Ultra® Blue Test Strips elimination of multiple drying O  NETOUCH® Ultramini Testing Kit processes***  URGICEL® S  aluTrus™ (four products) V Ortho Clinical Diagnostics VITROS® 3600 S  terilmed® Trocar  ePuy Reach Knee System D  rtho Clinical Diagnostics™ Workstation O  TRATAFIX™ Symmetric PDS Plus S Pharmaceuticals (7 products) INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/XEPLION® (paliperidone palmitate)  NUCYNTA ® (tapentadol) R EMINYL®/RAZADYNE® (galantamine)  IMPONI® (golimumab) S  TELARA® (ustekinumab) S ZYTIGA® (abiraterone acetate) A PI Buprenorphine (an active pharmaceutical ingredient) *Compared to previous version of product **Compared to a new original equipment manufacturer trocar ***Compared to previous API synthesis process 71 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our Approach Moving Forward: working with our suppliers and partners to produce Roundtable (ACS GCPIR), an international preImproving All New Products the very best products for families as we work to competitive partnership that was established by meet our commitment to make further enhancements the ACS Green Chemistry Institute. And in Europe, While we are proud of our performance against the to our products by the end of 2015. Learn more Johnson & Johnson is a member of the Chem 21 project, Healthy Future 2015 target, we recognize improving 60 about our Safety and Care Commitment at which is part of the larger Innovative Medicines Initiative products is only our first step. To accelerate a healthy www.safetyandcarecommitment.com. (IMI). IMI is Europe’s largest public-private partnership future for all, we must apply the Earthwards® approach to every new Johnson & Johnson product. In our Medical Devices & Diagnostics (MD&D) segment, aiming to improve the drug development process by efforts continue to remove compounds identified by supporting a more efficient discovery and development In 2014 and beyond, Johnson & Johnson will continue to of better and safer medicines for patients. The goal the Restriction of Hazardous Substances directive in integrate and expand the Earthwards® approach to drive of both the ACS GCPIR and the IMI Chem 21 is to Europe, which bans electrical and electronic equipment continuous sustainability improvements and innovation stimulate innovation and to promote integration of green across our Company by: containing more than agreed-upon levels of lead, cadmium, mercury, hexavalent chromium, and flame chemistry and green technology principles in the global Requiring every new product to meet product retardants with polybrominated biphenyl (PBB) and pharmaceutical industry to reduce the environmental stewardship requirements and understand life cycle footprint of drug development and production. polybrominated diphenyl ether (PBDE) from being placed impact areas; on the EU market. Compliance deadlines vary, depending Packaging Inviting every product team to implement and validate upon the product, and we have target metrics which span improvements; and across the next few years. Several of our business units As a global producer of thousands of products, the Encouraging the most sustainable products to pursue have already achieved these limits ahead of schedule, use of paper and paper-based packaging is relevant Earthwards® recognition for their products. including our LifeScan, Inc. and Ethicon, Inc. businesses. to Johnson & Johnson and can be thought of in terms Conflict Minerals are also a topic of interest; see the of three basic objectives: to optimize the packaging Where we get our ingredients and raw materials from Conflict Minerals section of this report (page 77) for needed to deliver the product; to increase the use of is just as important as the ingredients and materials more information. more sustainable packaging materials; and to design themselves, and the Johnson & Johnson Family of In our Pharmaceutical segment, the use of green for the next life (e.g. recyclability, recovery, reuse). Companies is committed to assuring the sustainability of chemistry continues to increase yields while reducing Enterprise-wide, we have global Environment, Health & our sourcing choices. See Ingredients and Sourcing of waste generation and material use. Fate and effect Safety (EHS) Standards requiring all business units to Raw Materials on page 75 of this report. studies have been completed on all new active evaluate all product packaging for sustainable packaging One area of focus for The Johnson & Johnson Family pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs); similar studies are improvements, such as increasing the use of sustainably of Consumer Companies is supporting the demand for being completed for legacy products where there is sourced paper, increasing the post-consumer recycled sustainably grown palm oil. We have been members of determined to be risk. (PCR) content for paper, plastic and bio-based materials; the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) since eliminating the use of polyvinyl chloride (PVC), except in 2006 and have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to buy all Our goal is to keep the development and production of legacy pharmaceutical blister packaging; increasing the of our ingredients derived from palm oil from certified our active ingredients as efficient and as sustainable as recyclability of packaging materials; and reducing the size sustainable sources by year-end 2015. See Ingredients possible by applying the principles of green chemistry. and weight of packaging. and Sourcing of Raw Materials on page 75 of this report. One way that we stay current with developing green chemistry technology and trends is through industry The Earthwards® approach requires teams to consider We made progress reformulating our iconic baby collaboration. In the U.S., Johnson & Johnson has product stewardship as part of their efforts to drive products in response to the changing expectations been a long-time member of the American Chemistry excellence in packaging design and process areas, and of our customers. We also will continue to lead by Society – Green Chemistry Pharmaceutical Industry our packaging choices take into account considerations 72 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S such as safety, quality, legal compliance, performance, cost and environmental footprint. Through the use of our Forest Products Purchasing Guidelines and our Global Environmental Packaging Reference Guide, we are working toward increasing the amount or our office paper and paper-based packaging that contains post-consumer recycled content and fiber from credibly certified forests. While PVC is present in some of our packaging material, it is now used sparingly and we continue our efforts to remove it entirely, except for legacy pharmaceutical blister packages. In 2013, we eliminated an additional 43 tons. Since 2005, Johnson & Johnson has eliminated approximately 3,500 tons of PVC from packaging. The elimination of PVC has been incorporated into our Global Environment, Health & Safety Standards. a gentle reminder to recycle items used in the bathroom, The Ethicon STRATAFIX™ suture exemplifies the and the website (www.caretorecycle.com) provides useful benefits of applying the Earthwards® approach: tips and tools to help educate people on recycling and By using life-cycle thinking, the STRATAFIX™ product team to ultimately increase recycling rates. Going forward, our was able to identify more sustainable packaging solutions packaging will carry this gentle reminder, as well. and greener alternatives were chosen over historical Product End of Life and Disposal packaging configurations. Launched in 2013, STRATAFIX™ went to market with 40 percent less packaging materials The disposal of products at the end of use is a steadily and 56 percent more recycled content. growing environmental challenge. Many of our products are completely consumed in use, so product disposal Encouraging Recycling of Product Packaging is not as much of a problem as packaging disposal. We also are working to improve the sustainability of our Exceptions to this are unused medicines and some packaging after it is used. medical devices. In 2013, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer Given the diverse nature of our business, and the variety Companies launched our CARE TO RECYCLE™ of products produced, the weight and volume of products Consumer Segment campaign in the U.S., an initiative designed to raise sold by Johnson & Johnson is not considered to be a The Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer Companies awareness about the importance of recycling products meaningful metric and is not tracked at the enterprise has developed tools that help us manage the impact of from the bathroom. Our research revealed only one in five level. As a result, we are also unable to report the our products after use. Many of our consumer products Americans consistently recycles in the bathroom, where percentage of materials used that are recycled input are washed off of the body and enter local wastewater many Johnson & Johnson personal care products are used. materials. EN1 EN2 systems, which in turn connect to the broader water Forty percent of Americans reported they do not recycle supply. bathroom items at all. The CARE TO RECYCLE™ video is 73 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S To better understand how our products interact in of pharmaceuticals manufactured by Johnson & Johnson products recycled and reprocessed, which will result these water environments, we developed an ingredient that are collected. in cost savings for our customers while increasing the assessment tool we call GAIA—the Global Aquatic sustainability profiles of our products. Ingredient Assessment™ protocol. GAIA analyzes Another key issue is pharmaceuticals in the environment, what impact an ingredient might have on an aquatic or PIE. For information on this topic, see the Water Electronic product take-back is part of this goal. We did environment and on the fish and plant life that live there. section of this report on page 78. experience a reduction in the number of devices taken back in 2013 compared to 2012. Most of the reduction Life Cycle Assessment Each ingredient we use is evaluated against the GAIA can be attributed to Ortho-Clinical Diagnostics, Inc., Collaboration with the University of Ghent in Belgium criteria and given a score. By calculating how much which saw a decline in their refurbishment program due on exergetic life cycle assessment (LCA) is also of of an ingredient is used in a product and the score of to customer preferences. note. While LCA determines the total impact of a that ingredient, each product receives its own score. product, service or organization throughout its life cycle, For products with lower scores, we look to improve the 2012 2013 exergetic life cycle assessments examine the amount formulation to reduce any potential impact on aquatic life. of resources extracted from the natural environment Electronic Product Take-Back— In 2013, we applied the GAIA protocol to improve six Le 744,562 lbs 468,078 lbs Recycled throughout a product’s life cycle. Such analyses enable Petit Marseillais® products, which received Earthwards® researchers to determine the amounts of energy and raw recognition for their improvements in formulations, Sterilmed® collects devices from a wide array of materials that are needed to manufacture a particular among other improvements. manufacturers. By collecting over 11 million devices product. In November 2013, a scientific article that was a collaboration between Johnson & Johnson and the that were bound for landfill or incineration, Sterilmed® Another example is our BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive is making a significant impact. In 2013, Sterilmed® University of Ghent focusing on one of our LCA studies Bandages. We achieved a more than 10 percent implemented an improved collection program, which was published in Green Chemistry Magazine. reduction in secondary packaging and a 20 percent increased the quantity of devices collected. EN28 weight reduction of tertiary packaging. (Secondary Medical Devices & Diagnostics Segment packaging is outside the primary packaging and is 2012 2013 often used to group primary packages together; tertiary Product Recycling & Reprocessing packaging is used for bulk handling.) The manufacturing Another challenge is finding ways to keep health care Sterilmed® Devices Collected 7,170,998 11,342,149 (units) process now requires 30 percent less energy compared accessible and affordable. Our Sterilmed® business to the previous process. We also work with a socially reprocesses Single Use Devices (SUDs) and provides Sterilmed® Devices Reprocessed 5,350,283 5,625,989 responsible local Brazilian cooperative to recover postthem back to customers at a significantly lower cost. (units) consumer recycled content that is used in the outer As an FDA-registered medical device manufacturer, cartons. Sterilmed® provides an affordable solution for hospitals faced with the challenge of reducing costs without Emerging Issues Pharmaceutical Segment compromising patient care. This approach also reduces The proactive identification of stakeholder concerns is In the U.S., we conduct voluntary take-back of homewaste generation by eliminating medical waste that critical to understanding our impacts. The enterprisegenerated auto-injectors related to our immunology would otherwise end up in landfills. wide Emerging Issues Committee identifies, tracks and business. In Europe and Canada, we comply with hostcommunicates emerging issues that may impact the country directives. Any of our voluntary programs are in Using the Earthwards® approach, our goal is to continue ability of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies addition to our participation in any mandatory regulatory to work with our customers to evaluate opportunities to adequately manage risk and fulfill our responsibilities product take-back programs. We do not track the amount to increase the number and quantity of MD&D to our employees, partners, customers and patients, 74 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S the public and the environment. In 2013, our focus was consumers better understand all the steps we take to our products by 2015. Parabens will be removed entirely on a wide range of issues, including nanotechnology, ensure the safety of beauty and baby care products from baby products, and in our adult products, parabens pharmaceuticals in the environment, bio-monitoring, and the ingredients that go into them. Consumers can will be limited to methyl, ethyl and propyl parabens. endocrine disrupting chemicals and emerging chemical view our ingredient policies and learn about the rigorous These three types of parabens have been extensively policy. We will continue to evaluate and respond to these scientific standards of our five-level safety assurance studied for safety, and are approved for use in issues and any new issues that arise in the future. process. pharmaceutical and food products. Additionally, we will discontinue the use of polycyclic musks in all of our Currently, we have the following position papers available Our safety process begins with sourcing raw materials, product fragrances by 2015. Lastly, we have stopped on jnj.com: partnering only with suppliers who meet our ingredient developing new products containing polyethylene Johnson & Johnson Principles for Safe Use of safety standards and product stewardship principles. microbeads and aim to remove them from our products Chemicals in Products Next, we conduct ingredient safety assessments so that by the end of 2017. For more information, visit Responsible Use of Nanotechnology we have a full safety profile for each ingredient. The www.safetyandcarecommitment.com. third step is a clinical evaluation of our formulations, to Johnson & Johnson Statement on Conflict Minerals ensure that the ingredients provide a benefit and don’t have a negative impact on the consumer. Additionally, our International Ingredients Working Group evaluates Sourcing of Raw Materials Ingredients new science, safety opinions, and related input on our ingredients. We know safety is not limited to the lab, so in-use testing is conducted, along with ongoing Sourcing of raw materials is a complex issue, one that evaluation of our beauty and baby care products and the is intricately linked to biodiversity, water resources, While the ingredient-selection process used to ingredients they contain. This evaluation is based on new human rights, and local community involvement and manufacture our products affects each of our businesses, developments in science and changes in government engagement, to name a few. The question of where our our consumers have expressed interest and concern over regulations, as well as feedback from our customers. raw materials come from and how they are obtained the ingredients and materials used in our personal care affects the sustainability of our products. Much of what products. Over-the-counter (OTC) medicines, prescription In 2011, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer we purchase to manufacture our products is itself medicines and medical devices and diagnostics are Companies made a global commitment to remove manufactured by others, which means that the sourcing regulated differently than cosmetics, and are designed formaldehyde-releasing preservatives and reduce of the original raw material can be several steps removed to treat medical conditions and diseases that may be traces of 1,4-dioxane from products where present. from our Company. serious and, in some cases, life-threatening. Because of Although all ingredients used in our baby care products these differences, the ingredients in those products are have always been safe for use as directed, we made The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies regulated differently and covered under policies separate the decision to reduce or eliminate certain ingredients approaches the issue of responsible sourcing of raw from Our Safety & Care Commitment, which applies based on changing consumer sentiment. In 2013, we materials in several ways, reflecting the diverse nature mainly to beauty and baby care products regulated as were pleased to announce that the first phase of this of our business. Our Responsibility Standards for “cosmetics.” To address consumer concerns and improve reformulation process was completed; those products Suppliers state that suppliers are expected to operate our transparency around how we choose and ensure that were changed began rolling out globally during in a responsible manner. We encourage them to the safety of ingredients, the Johnson & Johnson Family 2014. In doing so, we became the first major company continually improve the environmental performance of of Consumer Companies created Our Safety & Care to set and meet this public commitment. We also will their operations, including natural resource consumption Commitment website. This site is dedicated to helping phase out or restrict several additional ingredients from and materials sourcing, and to implement programs 75 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S that ensure that products do not contain or use inhelp achieve zero net deforestation by 2020, and are production materials listed on the Johnson & Johnson intended to assist companies in the development of their Supporting Sustainable watch list (a compilation of lists of banned and/or own policies for sourcing pulp, paper and packaging. Business restricted ingredients identified by NGOs and, in some The Company’s Forest Products Sourcing Guidelines are Johnson & Johnson assisted the Futura cases, by governments, as being potentially harmful to currently under review and will be updated in 2014. The Recycling Cooperative in São José dos the environment and human health). Our Procurement update process will include consideration of the CGF Campos, Brazil, in becoming the first and Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability Pulp, Paper and Packaging Sourcing Guidelines, as well recycling cooperative in the world to receive (EHS&S) professionals oversee the implementation of as input from several NGOs. More information on the certification under the SA8000 standard, these standards. For more information on our efforts CGF Pulp, Paper and Packaging Guidelines can be found a global standard for workplace safety and with our suppliers, see the Supply Chain & Suppliers on the Consumer Goods Forum website. labor practices. Following achievement Management section of this report. of the SA8000 certification, the Futura Johnson & Johnson also participates with the Forest Cooperative has become a more sustainable Through our Earthwards process, we focus on ® Footprint Disclosure Project, initiated in 2008 and business enterprise, with increased demand improving the social and environmental impacts of our since incorporated into the CDP. The questionnaire for its products and increased income for its products by targeting improvements in seven key areas, asks private-sector companies to disclose aspects of workers. Johnson & Johnson uses the posttheir “forest footprint” based on exposure to five key consumer recycled material collected by including materials used in product manufacture. Going commodities—soy, palm oil, timber/pulp, cattle products Futura in our BAND-AID® Brand Adhesive forward, the life-cycle impacts of all new products are and biofuels—in their operations and/or their supply Bandages cartons. reviewed at the category level and opportunities to drive improvements are considered at the design, procurement, chains. 2013 was the fourth year that we participated manufacturing and marketing stages of a product’s in this program. improve the sustainability of palm oil since 2006. In development. For more information on Earthwards®, see 2011, we announced as part of our Healthy Future 2015 Palm Oil the Product Stewardship section of this report. goals, a goal to source all of our ingredients derived Johnson & Johnson has a long-standing commitment to from palm oil (e.g. palm oil derivatives), from certified Johnson & Johnson also has active responsible sourcing environmental stewardship, including a responsibility to sustainable sources of palm oil. We currently address programs for forest products and palm oil. As a global promote the responsible management, conservation and this goal by purchasing GreenPalm certificates, which producer of thousands of products, the use of paper and protection of the world’s forests. Increasing demand for provide a financial incentive to the growers certified to paper-based packaging is also an area of focus. Since palm oil, used in products from fuel to food, and many the RSPO standard, and have purchased GreenPalm 2005, we have followed the Sustainable Packaging household products including personal care products certificates equivalent to 100 percent of our annual Coalition Guidelines, looking to use packaging that is has led to unsustainable production of this otherwise palm oil consumption since 2010. We also supported sourced responsibly, made entirely using renewable efficient and high-yielding crop—including high rates of several NGO-led projects to certify smallholders (farmers energy and recycled after use. deforestation. Johnson & Johnson does not buy palm who own less than 50 hectares of land) in Thailand and oil directly. Rather we buy ingredients derived from palm Malaysia, and in 2013 purchased GreenPalm certificates Our Consumer business actively participates on the oil like surfactants, emollients and emulsifiers. We are a directly from these certified smallholders. Consumer Goods Forum (CGF) Sustainability Steering relatively small consumer of palm oil. representing less Committee. We supported the CGF’s development of a than 0.2 percent of the global palm oil output. While GreenPalm certificates reward positive change set of Pulp, Paper, and Packaging Sourcing Guidelines. in the palm oil market, they do not address the risk The Guidelines, approved by the CGF Board in 2013, We have been members of The Roundtable for of unsustainable palm oil that may be entering our were developed in support of the CGF resolution to Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), which was created to ingredient supply chains. Due to the complexity of the 76 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S palm oil derivatives supply chains, having visibility to the used to benefit armed groups there. In 2013, Goal-Setting actual source of palm oil is a challenge. Johnson & Johnson published a Statement on Conflict Minerals and conducted a survey of its 568 likely Our Healthy Future 2015 goals are our most To meet this challenge, we became members of 3TG suppliers to assess their sourcing practices. comprehensive to date, setting 32 corporate Citizenship The Forest Trust, an international NGO, and we have The Company received responses from 68 percent of & Sustainability commitments across seven key strategic worked with them to develop palm oil criteria and to these suppliers, and follow-up was initiated where no priorities. Progress is tracked by the Johnson & Johnson map a significant portion of our derivatives supply response was received. For the 2013 reporting period, Citizenship & Sustainability Working Group and chain, with the goal of achieving full traceability to the the Company does not have conclusive information performance is reported to the Executive Committee and plantation. We are introducing our Responsible Palm Oil regarding the country of origin of, or facilities used to Board of Directors. Progress against each of these goals Sourcing Criteria, effective May 1, 2014. To learn more process, the necessary conflict minerals in any of its is addressed in the relevant sections of this report. about the detailed criteria and implementation plan, in-scope products. For more information, see our Organizational Responsibility click here. Conflict Minerals Report for the Calendar Year Ended December 31, 2013. The Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) Additionally, as a member of the RSPO, we submit an organization is accountable for environmental, health and annual progress report to the RSPO, which is made safety performance and risk. Our operating model uses public on their website. Environmental Responsibility geography to leverage expert EHS&S knowledge across our manufacturing, R&D, distribution and commercial To learn more about the breadth of the Company’s operations, while continuing to leverage subject matter commitment and actions to source palm oil sustainably, technical experts across the enterprise, develop strategy, Environment, Health & Safety Management visit: www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/ Approach oversee talent management and execute governance. The strategic-framework/raw-material-sourcing. Executive Committee and the Board of Directors provide Johnson & Johnson is a large multinational organization, EHS&S oversight, and an EHS&S Leadership Council, Conflict Minerals operating in a wide variety of ecosystems of variable composed of regional, sector and practice area leaders, health around the world. To minimize the impact of our provides additional guidance and leadership to drive our Rule 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of operations, we set global environmental, health and EHS&S strategy and EHS performance. 1934 requires public reporting companies that safety standards for our operating companies. The manufacture or contract to manufacture products that Johnson & Johnson Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Management Systems and Standards contain “conflict minerals” (currently defined as tin, Policy, Climate Friendly Energy Policy, and statements on Ninety-five percent of our manufacturing and R&D tungsten, tantalum and gold, or “3TG”) to conduct the Human Right to Water and Respecting Biodiversity sites continue to maintain third-party certification to due diligence on the source and chain of custody of guide our activities and are made actionable through the International Standards Organizations (ISO) 14001 such products and provide disclosure regarding the our detailed Worldwide EHS standards and our longEnvironmental Management System, up from 93 percent findings of such diligence. In 2012, Johnson & Johnson term Healthy Future 2015 goals. Taken together, these last year, and 28 percent (up from 20 percent last year) formed a cross-functional Conflict Minerals Core policies and statements encourage us to carefully have achieved third-party certification to the Occupational Team to understand the usage of 3TG metals in the consider environmental challenges, to undertake Health and Safety Assessment Series specification Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain and to design a due initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility (OHSAS 18001)*. Achievement of third-party certification diligence process to attempt to determine which products and to seek to continually reduce the environmental may contain 3TG from the Democratic Republic of impacts. G4-14 UNGC Principles 7–9 *Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the Company for Congo or adjoining countries, and which may be less than three years and small R&D sites with limited operations. 77 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S to ISO 14001 is required for all manufacturing and R&D in addition to manufacturing and R&D sites. The process In Beijing, we implemented a project to increase sites; however, Company acquisitions have 36 months includes annual self-assessment, independent assessment recycling of water by capturing reverse-osmosis reject after the date of acquisition before they must comply (typically every three years), and corrective action planning water and routing it to the site’s utility plant. The site with that portion of our Worldwide Environment, Health & and tracking. Performance on these assessments is achieved approximately 20 percent reduction in the Safety (EHS) standards. As of the end of 2013, five sites tracked by Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability amount of water used. This is a very strategic reduction were not certified; all are acquisitions that are still working and business leaders of the assessed facility. Closure of because the facility is located in a region where, to obtain certification. findings is tracked at the corporate, sector and facility according to the World Resources Institute, the annual levels. We continue to implement, track and maintain an supply of water per person per year is <500 m3, which is Johnson & Johnson has worldwide EHS standards that incident notification process that alerts management considered “extreme” scarcity. are designed to ensure that all Johnson & Johnson to EHS non-compliances and accidental environmental companies achieve and maintain a consistent and high releases within 72 hours of occurrence. In Cenbo Village, Qingpu District, Shanghai, 200 level of EHS performance. These standards address 27 volunteers including employees and their family members different topics, including EHS Management Systems; Chemical Substances Management; Emergency Water partnered with Shanghai Oasis in a series of water conservation activities. The village is close to Dianshan Preparedness & Response; Contractor Management; Lake, the main water source for Shanghai, which supplies Responsible External Supply Chain; Acquisitions 70 percent of the city’s drinking water and serves a & Divestitures; EHS by Design; External EHS Our Statement on Human Right to Water recognizes population of 18 million people. Engagement; Air; Water & Wastewater Management; that everyone is entitled to sufficient, safe, acceptable, Waste Management Hazardous and Non-Hazardous; physically accessible and affordable water, and Water Usage EN10 Tank Systems; Energy Management; Noise & Hearing acknowledges that our actions can impact water quality Conservation; Biosafety; Radiation Safety; Employee and quantity. Johnson & Johnson operates in many parts Johnson & Johnson has a Healthy Future 2015 goal to Well-Being; Occupational Health; Fall Prevention; Fire of the world where water quality or water scarcity is of achieve a 10 percent absolute reduction in water use, & Explosion Prevention; Process Safety Management; concern, such as India, China, Mexico, Thailand, and parts with our 2010 consumption as a baseline. At the end Machinery & Equipment Safety; Ergonomics; Control of of Europe and the U.S. The World Resources Institute has of 2013, our water use volume was down slightly over Permit Required Work and Non-Routine Activities; Fleet predicted areas where water will be of limited availability 2012, to slightly less than 11.2 million cubic meters, a Safety; Warehouses & Storage Areas; and Environment, by 2025. According to this model, in 2013, 35.3 percent reduction of approximately 2.5 percent compared to our Health and Safety Standards for Office Organizations. The of our total water withdrawals occurred in areas predicted 2010 baseline volume. While we realized reductions in standards are reviewed annually, and, if necessary, revised. to be under water stress (areas with less than 1,700 cubic our Medical Devices & Diagnostics and Pharmaceutical meters (m3/year per person), 22.9 percent of total water segments, these are being offset by increases in our To identify and mitigate environmental, health and withdrawals occurred in areas predicted to be under water Consumer segment, where enhanced quality procedures safety risks, we maintain a global process known scarcity (less than 1,000 m3/year per person), and 10 for our manufacturing and production have resulted in as the Management Awareness and Action Review percent were located in areas of extreme water scarcity increased water use. Regionally, water use is lower in System (MAARS). It provides a framework for all (less than 500 m3/year per person). EN9 the Americas, but has increased in our EMEA and AsiaJohnson & Johnson sites to proactively identify and Pacific regions. We continue to explore opportunities to mitigate EHS risks, as well as ensure compliance with Sites located in areas predicted to experience water recycle water within our operations. In 2013, we used legal requirements and the Johnson & Johnson Worldwide scarcity or water stress are priorities for our water 0.73 million cubic meters of recycled water, meeting EHS Standards. Beginning in 2013, MAARS was reduction efforts. Examples of key water reduction approximately seven percent of our total water demand. extended to stand-alone office and warehouse facilities, projects in water scarce areas are highlighted below: 78 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our water sources remain unchanged and are shown in Water Conservation at Janssen Biologics: monitored, as required, to demonstrate compliance with the following chart: G4-EN8 EMEA Region the applicable water quality standards. Water discharge quality data is being included in this report for the first WATE R SOU RCE PE RCE NT OF TOTAL WATE R US E D The facility has an ongoing water conservation and time. In 2013, we discharged a total of 71 metric tons of Municipal 81 management program that is reviewed annually. Past biological oxygen demand (BOD-5) and 327 metric tons Groundwater 17 initiatives on-site have included installation of a rainwater of chemical oxygen demand (COD). EN22 Rainwater < 1 collection system and recovery of treated wastewater effluent for chemical makeup and cleaning operations Our EHS standard for water and wastewater manageGray Water <1 at the WWTP (Wastewater Treatment Plant). In 2010, ment requires that facilities comply with either the local Surface Water <1 treatment standards or the Johnson & Johnson Janssen Biologics initiated a rainwater harvesting and Other <1 Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) standards, whichwater recovery program which reached its full potential in 2012. All of the site’s utilities water comes from ever is more stringent. Sites conduct annual water rainwater harvesting, reducing potable water usage by inventories, and annually review wastewater sources to Johnson & Johnson continues to participate in the 25 percent or 24,000m3/annum. This is happening identify opportunities to decrease wastewater generation Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) water disclosure during a phase of production increases on the order or contaminants if they are production and/or research process; additional information on our water use and of 200 percent. Additional water projects implemented facilities. Our EHS standards also set forth clear responrisks can be found in our CDP Water submissions at at the site include: recovering and reusing gray sibilities to address water conservation, drinking water www.cdproject.net/en-US/Results/Pages/overview. water to reduce the purchase of municipality potable supply management and storm water management. aspx. water; reducing potable water treatment and water Pharmaceuticals in the Environment Water Conservation Efforts management energy costs by minimizing the volume of water treated in the WWTP; and well water abstraction. Pharmaceutical residues in the environment (PIE) are Each of our facilities has a role to play in meeting our The water conservation practices and use of well water of increasing interest to the media, regulatory agencies water use reduction goals. Tools have been developed and rainwater allows the site to operate without using and non-governmental organizations. In general, PIE to assist our manufacturing operations to identify, water from the municipal supply. are found in water bodies, where they are the result of assess and prioritize water projects, and to capture excretion of medicines by humans. water savings, financial savings and water quality At Janssen in Puebla, Mexico, our facility redirected improvements. We do face water-reduction challenges in water from the reverse-osmosis systems into nonPIE have been shown to survive conventional industrial some of our facilities, especially where we make products productive activities, reducing the water consumption at and municipal wastewater treatment processes. Because that have water as a major component, where production the site by about two percent. of this, the United States Environmental Protection rates are increasing or where water use is essential to Agency is considering whether regulation of PIE is ensuring product quality. Going forward, we will continue Water Discharge necessary. They have updated the list of chemicals that to look for water reduction opportunities across the they may examine to determine if such regulation should enterprise, with a particular focus on our facilities in In 2013, our water discharge volume was approximately be developed, and they have issued a Federal Register water-stressed areas. Some highlights from our 2013 7.8 million cubic meters, discharged as follows: 74 proposal to add hormones to the list of unregulated efforts are listed below. percent to wastewater treatment plants, 22 percent to contaminants that water companies must monitor. surface water bodies, less than two percent to the ocean, less than one percent sub-surface and the remainder Johnson & Johnson is monitoring this issue and has to a variety of other destinations. Discharges are published several studies examining the safe exposure 79 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S concentration levels for these compounds. In Europe, enhanced. Wastewater is thoroughly treated before being program, the Supply Chain program and the Forest limits have been proposed on three active pharmaceutical discharged into the environment by either a companyprogram (see our reports at www.cdproject.net). In 2013, ingredients (APIs); additional materials are being owned system or an off-site municipal wastewater CDP named us the S&P 500 health care sector leader considered for regulation. treatment system—often our wastewater is treated for our energy and carbon reduction programs, and we by both systems. Monitoring of our pharmaceutical maintained our membership in the CDP Leadership The Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of manufacturing wastewaters for pharmaceutical residues Index for the fourth consecutive year. Our performance Johnson & Johnson closely monitor scientific insights and potential toxicity to aquatic species is conducted, and compared to that of our peer companies is presented and regulatory measures by authorities in this area, and if needed, action is taken to reduce any concentrations to in the CDP’s S&P 500 Climate Change Report 2013. actively contribute to a better understanding of this topic. acceptable levels. We track and report most of our Scope 1 & 2 emissions We support further scientific research to better understand sources, but we continue to face challenges in collecting the impact of trace amounts of pharmaceutical and other We continue to support the work that the National meaningful Scope 3 emissions data. We currently provide compounds on the environment, while taking action to Science Foundation and several universities are doing to for emissions from business travel and non-hazardous be a positive force in helping to reduce pharmaceuticals in assess methods for testing and treating pharmaceuticals waste disposal. the environment. Janssen is committed to environmentally in wastewater. For more information, see www.jnj.com/ responsible operations and to working with regulatory caring/citizenship-sustainability/strategic-framework/ We also continue to participate with the CDP’s Supply authorities around the world to ensure that the environment pharmaceuticals-in-the-environment. Chain program, encouraging our suppliers to measure is protected. their energy use and greenhouse gas emissions and report them publicly on our behalf. In 2013, 129 of the Steps being taken to minimize the environmental impacts of Greenhouse Gas 156 suppliers that we requested to participate in the CDP PIE include: conducting Environmental Risk Assessments for all new drug compounds; collecting environmental risk Emissions/Climate Change Supply Chain Program did so, up from 35 participating suppliers in 2009. assessment data for all major pharmaceutical products, including a prioritized list of legacy products; working with Johnson & Johnson has taken multiple steps to reduce others in industry, academia and other non-governmental its energy footprint. Our Climate Friendly Energy Policy organizations to further the scientific research to achieve Climate Policy & Initiatives acknowledges that in the field of climate science, there is a better understanding of this issue; working closely with Johnson & Johnson takes the risks associated with climate consensus that human activity is causing climate change regulatory and environmental agencies to ensure that the change seriously and is active in shaping responsible and that a warming climate has the significant potential potential impacts of pharmaceuticals on human health and climate and energy policy around the world. We are to impair human health. on the aquatic environment are understood and minimized; signatories of the Bali, Poznan, Copenhagen, Cancun and 2 and partnering with a wide range of stakeholder groups that Degree Climate Change communiqués that called on world We have Healthy Future 2015 goals to reduce CO2 share our commitment to safeguarding the environment leaders to sign climate agreements. In 2013, we announced emissions, increase the amount of on-site clean or based on sound science and effective actions. a recommitment to our long-standing partnership with the renewable energy capacity, and to improve the energy World Wildlife Fund’s (WWF) Climate Savers program, efficiency of our sales fleet. We continue to follow the Johnson & Johnson is also committed to reducing or reaffirming our pledge to combat climate change. Greenhouse Gas Protocol issued by the World Business eliminating the small amounts of active pharmaceutical Council for Sustainable Development and the World ingredients discharged in the wastewater from our Resources Institute. We are also subject to the European Johnson & Johnson participates in all of the CDP’s manufacturing sites. To avoid pharmaceutical actives from Union Emissions Trading System program at three of (formerly known as the Climate Disclosure Project) being directed to our wastewater treatment systems, our sites. programs: the Climate Change program, the Water cleaning practices are being adjusted or filter systems 80 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Energy Use completed at six sites to date, and another 20 are in the Top 25 Companies by Solar Capacity. Our Company Our energy use has decreased from 13,274 billion British progress. The projects completed to date are averaging a was ranked seventh overall, based on our U.S. solar Thermal Units (BTUs) in 2010 to 12,852 billion BTUs in four-year financial return on investment and all the potential photovoltaic capacity of 17.43 MW, which creates enough 2013, with an increase of approximately 331 billion BTUs projects have the possibility of reducing each site’s annual renewable energy to power over 2,100 average U.S. from 2012 to 2013. Our energy intensity in BTUs/U.S. CO2 emissions by six to eight percent. As discussed in homes per year. dollar revenue ratio was 180 in 2013, compared to 186 prior reports, we have eliminated the purchase of voluntary in 2012. The increase in energy use from 2012 to 2013 carbon offsets or renewable energy credits (RECs) as a SOLAR E N E RGY I N D USTR I E S ASSOCIATION CAPACITY I N M EGAWATTS TOP 25 COM PAN I E S BY SOLAR CAPACITY is due to production increases at some of our largest pathway to reduce our carbon emissions, opting instead 1000 KW=1 MW manufacturing facilities. However, while total energy use for greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions based on Walmart 89.43 increased year to year, we offset that increase by 0.4 improved energy efficiency, conservation and utilization of Costco 47.06 percent by making energy efficiency upgrades at three clean or renewable energy. Voluntary offsets, RECs and Kohl’s 44.72 facilities and installing a solar photovoltaic system at “green” power based on RECs will not be purchased and Apple 40.73 another. EN5 EN6 used as offsets for Scope 1 or Scope 2 emissions. While we will not use voluntary offsets or RECs, we will make use of IKEA 35.08 Our energy consumption, by direct and indirect sources offsets that are part of a compliance system used to meet Macy’s 20.78 and by fuel type, is shown in the chart below. legally required national or regional obligations. Also, for Johnson & Johnson 17.43 the reporting of our goals, the direct long-term purchases McGraw-Hill 14.11 Project COLD, in its second year, is an effort launched (Power Purchase Agreements, PPA’s) of electricity from Staples 13.66 to take advantage of state-of-the-art control technology renewable sources and renewable fuels will be considered that allows us to continuously optimize our chilled water carbon-free, so long as the environmental attributes are Campbell’s 12.20 systems to maximize efficiency. Project COLD has been bundled with the energy and the carbon offset from those U.S. Foods 11.28 sources are “retired” by the Johnson & Johnson affiliate and Bed Bath & Beyond 11.27 EN3 not double-counted in any other compliance or voluntary Kaiser Permanente 10.28 2013 E N E RGY CON SU M PTION I N TE RAJOU LE S* system. We have recalculated our 2010 baseline without D I R ECT I N D I R ECT TOTAL Volkswagen 9.60 voluntary offsets or RECs. 2008 6,778 7,311 14,089 Walgreens 8.86 2009 6,480 7,034 13,514 We continue to make progress against our Healthy Target 8.39 2010 6,866 7,139 14,005 Future 2015 goal to increase our on-site clean or Safeway 7.02 renewable energy technology capacity to 50 megawatts FedEx 6.97 2011 6,543 6,936 13,479 (MWs). To date, we are on track to meet our goal, Intel 6.87 2012 6,360** 6,850 13,210*** with 47.6 MWs of on-site clean or renewable energy L’Oreal 6.84 2013 6,773 6,786 13,559 capacity —40.0 MWs installed and 7.6 MWs approved or under construction—including two 3MW wind turbines General Motors 6.70 * Billion BTU = 1.055 Terajoules completed in May 2014 in Ireland. Toys “R” Us 5.68 ** From non-renewable sources. (Clean or renewable energy generated on-site represents approximately four percent of total energy use. Clean White Rose Foods 4.89 energy includes solar photovoltaic and cogeneration systems.) The Solar Energy Industries Association® (SEIA), the Toyota 4.37 *** The increase in energy use in 2013 was mainly due to increased national trade association for the United States solar Dow Jones & Company, Inc. 4.10 production. industry, named Johnson & Johnson to its 2013 list of 81 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Two 3-megawatt wind turbines were completed at our facilities in Ireland in early 2014, helping to keep us on track to meet our Healthy Future 2015 goal for onsite clean or renewable energy capacity. 82 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Facility CO2 Emissions EN15 EN16 EN17 EN30 WOR LDWI D E CO 2 E M I SS ION S VS. SALE S (SCOPE 1 AN D SCOPE 2) CO 2 E M I SS ION S (SCOPE 3) E M PLOYE E TRAVE L AN D WASTE G E N E RATE D Our Healthy Future goal is to achieve a 20 percent In thousand metric tons In thousand metric tons absolute reduction of our facility carbon dioxide YEAR D I R ECT I N D I R ECT TOTAL OFFS ETS N ET YEAR E M PLOYE E B US I N E SS TRAVE L WASTE G E N E RATE D emissions by 2020 from a baseline of 2010 without 2010 356 913 1,269 0 1,269 voluntary offsets or renewable energy credits. Over 2008 258 178 2011 340 868 1,208 0 1,208 the past year, we realized a 0.8 percent increase in 2009 168 145 CO2 emissions, from 1,187,926 metric tons in 2012 2012 330 857 1,187 0 1,187 to 1,197,191 metric tons in 2013, while realizing a six 2013 351 846 1,197 0 1,197 2010 219 181 percent increase in global revenue. Against our baseline 2011 233 147 * We collect site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and emissions of 1,269,713 metric tons in 2010, this is leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and 2012 224 153 a 5.7 percent reduction in CO2 emissions, of which R&D sites under 50,000 square feet. 4.8 percent is a direct result of Company initiatives to 2013 229 148 reduce emissions. The remaining 0.9 percent reduction Sales fleet emissions are not included in our Scope 1 is due to the electricity grid becoming cleaner across the data because they have not been third-party assured, but CO 2 PROJ ECTS FU N D I NG PROG RAM globe. Our emissions intensity per revenue since 2010 estimates are shown below. Projects Approved 161 has decreased by over 19 percent, from 20.6 MT CO2 / million USD in 2010 to 16.8 MT CO2 /million USD in SALE S FLE ET CO 2 E M I SS ION S Aproved Spending, in millions of dollars $338 In thousand metric tons 2013. EN19 Average Internal Rate of Return 19% YEAR E M I SS ION S Projects Complete 131 Our CO2 reduction capital funding process provides a 2008 211 CO2 reduction/year, in metric tons 181,543 $40 million annual budget for energy and greenhouse 2009 196 gas reduction projects across the Company. Over the 2010 187 S PE N D I NG ON CO 2 R E D UCTION PROJ ECTS (in millions of dollars) last nine years, 161 energy reduction projects have 2011 179 been approved, and 131 have been completed. These 2005 $21.4 completed projects will collectively reduce CO2 emissions 2012 170 2006 $26.4 by approximately 181,500 metric tons per year. In 2013, 2013 157 2007 $38.3 22 new projects were approved and 31 projects were 2008 $12.0 completed, with year-end total spend of $37.6 million. To date, completed energy reduction projects since 2005 Currently, the Scope 3 emissions tracked include 2009 $44.0 have reduced our energy costs by approximately $50 employee business travel and waste generated, top right. 2010 $56.4 million. EN18 Moving forward, we are continuing an initiative to collect 2011 $48.2 data associated with our Scope 3 value chain emissions. The data collection process is extremely complex, so 2012 $22.2 we have decided to perform an input/output analysis 2013 $37.6 in an attempt to identify emission hot spots within our value chain. We will continue to evaluate the impact and business case for this exercise. EN4 83 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S In selecting 2025 as our target to complete HCFC There was also a significant increase in hybrids in EN19 phase-out, we are balancing our concerns about ozone the Asia-Pacific region during 2013, adding nearly 500 CO 2 R E D UCTION PROJ ECTS S I NCE 2005 protection and climate change. By 2025, we expect hybrid vehicles to its fleet. This increase was driven Energy Efficiency 109 that new technologies will have been developed and by policy decisions to replace traditional vehicles with Solar Photovoltaic/Thermal 29 commercialized, offering viable replacement options for hybrids in the Japan Medical and Pharmaceutical both HCFCs and CFCs. As part of our plans to phase our businesses. Cogeneration 14 HCFC use, all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing sites The EMEA region has significantly reduced CO2 Geothermal/Biomass 6 are required to prepare an HCFC phase-out plan by the emissions as a part of its Fleet2010 initiative, which Wind 2 end of 2014. In 2013, emissions of ODS were 3.98 tons, included country-level CO2 capping thresholds and has Fuel Cell 1 or 5,032 tons CO2 equivalent. We do not produce, import resulted in a 15 percent reduction in CO2 emissions Through year-end 2013, 131 projects have been completed, resulting in over 320 or export ODS. EN20 from 2010 to 2013. gigawatt hours (1,152 terajoules) of cumulative energy savings per year. It should be noted, however, that some of these projects have left the portfolio as facilities have been closed or sold. Transportation-Related CO2 Emissions Johnson & Johnson Sales Fleet Efficiency SALE S FLE ET E FFICI E NCY WORLDWIDE CO 2 EMISSIONS vs SALES (1990–2013) Johnson & Johnson has a Healthy Future 2015 goal YEAR G RAM S OF CO 2 PE R KI LOM ETE R to realize a 20 percent improvement in fleet emissions 1,400 75.0 efficiency for our global inventory of over 28,000 2010 177 CO2 Emissions (Thousand Metric Tons) 1,200 owned or leased vehicles. Progress against this goal 2011 170 60.0 1,000 is measured using calculations based on vehicle 2012 161 Sales (Billion US$) 45.0 manufacturer or government vehicle fuel efficiency 2013 149 800 ratings, such as the Corporate Average Fuel Economic 600 30.0 Standards published by the U.S. Environmental 400 Protection Agency. Shipping-Related CO2 Emissions 15.0 200 Johnson & Johnson does not own the fleet used to 0 0.0 At the end of 2013, average global CO2 emissions ship our goods; instead, we work with asset and non’90 ’91 ’92 ’93 ’94 ’95 ’96 ’97 ’98 ’99 ’00 ’01 ’02 ’03 ’04 ’05 ’06 ’07 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 Net Emissions Offsets Sales per vehicle were 149 g/km, representing a 15.8 asset based providers to transport our goods. The percent reduction in CO2 from the 2010 baseline of Johnson & Johnson Global Transportation Organization 2013 Goal vs. 2010: -6% 2013 Actual vs. 2010: -5.7% 177g/km. EN30 Our five-year goal is to reduce our manages 100 percent of goods transport for North CO2 emissions to 142 g/km. Assuming a constant rate America, as well as imports/exports into and out of the Ozone Depleting Substances (ODS) of CO2 emissions reductions going forward, we are on U.S. Regional transportation teams are used to manage track to achieve our goal. These results were driven by a our international transportation activities in the EMEA, We have eliminated chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) significant increase in the use of hybrid vehicles globally Asia-Pacific and Latin America regions. from use in our facilities. We recognize that in 2013, which produce fewer CO2 emissions than hydrochlorofluorocarbon (HCFC) gases, currently the standard combustion vehicles. Specifically: To minimize environmental impacts from goods transport, most readily available substitute for CFC use, can have we work with our transportation providers to optimize In the U.S. alone, the percentage of hybrid vehicles in implications for global warming; therefore, we will be our network, using multi-compartment trailers, taking the Johnson & Johnson fleet increased from 14 to 34 eliminating the use of HCFCs by the end of 2025 advantage of freight consolidation opportunities, percent. or earlier where required by government regulations. eliminating deadhead miles (the number of miles that 84 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S are driven from the point of unloading to the point where SUSTAI NAB LE WOR KPLACE the new load is ready for pickup) and engaging in crossRATI NG B U I LD I NG AR EA shipper moves with other companies that have similar AFFI LIATE LOCATION SYSTE M TYPE LEVE L DATE (SQ. FT.) product lines. We have increased intermodal usage by Janssen Titusville, N.J. LEED Existing Building 2.0 Silver 8/04 472,553 over 15 percent in the past year on our target lanes, J&J PRD La Jolla, Calif. LEED New Construction 2.0 Certified 4/05 150,000 and we have reduced our annual carbon emissions by over 10,000 tons in 2013 as a result of these expansion McNeil Ft. Washington, Pa. LEED Commercial Interiors 2.0 Silver 12/06 50,000 efforts. Las Pierdras, McNeil Puerto Rico LEED Existing Building 2.2 Certified 9/09 482,642 In the U.S., Johnson & Johnson participates in the J&J PRD Springhouse, Pa. LEED New Construction 2.2 Gold 11/09 150,000 U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s SmartWay program, which helps companies voluntarily increase Corporate New Brunswick, N.J. LEED Existing Buildings: O&M Gold 12/09 448,200 transportation energy efficiency while decreasing Janssen Geel, Belgium LEED New Construction 2.2 Certified 1/11 82,505 greenhouse gas emissions and air pollution. At the J&J Medical, China Suzchou, China LEED New Construction V3 Silver 1/11 52,635 same time, the SmartWay Transport Partnership helps freight companies improve fuel efficiency, increase J&J Consumer, China Shanghai, China LEED New Construction V3 Silver 2/11 68,847 environmental performance and increase supply chain J&J Consumer, Philippines Manilla, Philippines LEED Commercial Interiors 2.0 Gold 10/11 74,271 sustainability. There are more than 40 over-the-road transport providers in our U.S. network, and over 98 J&J Medical, China Suzchou, China LEED Commercial Interiors 2.0 Gold 10/11 21,528 percent of them are currently members of the program. Lifescan Inverness, Scotland LEED New Construction V3 Gold 10/11 14,500 The SmartWay membership is part of the decision criteria for awarding business to our transportation providers. J&J Sales & Logistics Mooresville, Ind. LEED New Construction V3 Gold 1/12 1,050,000 In 2013, Johnson & Johnson was one of five “Large J&J India Chennai, India LEED New Construction Gold 3/12 20,600 Shippers” to be honored with a SmartWay Excellence Centocor, US Horsham, Pa. LEED Commercial Interiors V2009 Silver 12/12 27,494 Award by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency. J&J Family of Companies Zug, Switzerland LEED Commercial Interiors V2009 Platinum 03/13 271,000 Green Buildings McNeil Ft. Washington, Pa. LEED New Construction V3 Gold 06/13 345,700 Green building design and construction at Centocor, US Horsham, Pa. (200) LEED Existing Buildings Gold 12/13 92,374 Johnson & Johnson is driven by our Policy on Sustainable Design and Construction, which requires Centocor, US Horsham, Pa. (850) LEED Existing Buildings Gold 12/13 89,718 that sustainability be incorporated into the design and Centocor, US Horsham, Pa. (800) LEED Existing Buildings Silver 12/13 107,675 construction of new buildings and major renovations, and that it be applied to all projects with a cost of at Total 4,072,602 least $5 million and to all new stand-alone facilities J&J Building Area 52,134,082* owned or leased by Johnson & Johnson companies worldwide. The policy establishes an enterprise minimum Sustainable Workspace Percentage 7.8% design standard based on the Leadership in Energy & *Inlcudes all manufacturing and R&D buildings, and Johnson & Johnson buildings over 50,000 sq. ft. Environmental Design (LEED) standard. 85 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S At the end of 2013, Johnson & Johnson had 20 EN21 LEED certified buildings, with five new facilities, the AI R E M I S S I ON S (in tons) Zug complex in Switzerland, the McNeil Facility in Fort E M I SS ION TYPE 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Washington, Pennsylvania, and three Centocor buildings Sulfur Dioxide* 165 138 146 133 114 116 in Horsham, Pennsylvania, joining the list in 2013. The Zug, Switzerland, location is the first Johnson & Johnson Nitrous Oxides* 285 271 277 260 251 268 facility to achieve Platinum certification (see the feature Hazardous Air Pollutants** Not reported Not reported 55 53 38 55 story on the Zug Complex in our Annual Report). Our Volatile Organic Compounds** Not reported Not reported 1,020 1,402 1,217 1,051 portfolio of Green Buildings appears on page 85. Particulate Matter** Not reported Not reported 169 136 127 213 Refrigerants Not reported Not reported 10.9 10.6 9.51 8.42 Air Emissions Ozone-Depleting Substances Not reported Not reported 4.8 3.3 4.0 4.0 * Estimated ** Based primarily on engineering judgment, including batch process and mass balance EN23 Relative to air emissions, our primary focus is on HA ZAR D OU S WASTE D I S P OS E D (in thousands of kilograms) greenhouse gas emission sources. We also monitor In 2013, our hazardous waste generation increased by 2013 2013 emissions of nitrous oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides just over 12 percent from 2012 (from 29.7 thousand ON-S ITE OFF-S ITE (SOX), volatile organic compounds (VOCs), hazardous kg to 33.3 thousand kg), and our non-hazardous waste Recycled 2,749 13,871 air pollutants (HAPs), particulate matter (PM) and generation decreased by just under four percent from Reused 362 448 refrigerants into the atmosphere (see Air Emissions chart 2012 (from 44.9 to 43.2 thousand kgs.). Total waste Landfilled 0 4,795 above). Our air emissions are well below those of peer generation increased 2.5 percent from 2012 (74.6 to Incinerated 0 6,741 companies in our sector. We continue to enhance our 76.5 thousand kgs.). Energy Recovery 0 19,638 data collection accuracy and anticipate that our data may be revised over time as this process continues. In 2013, we launched several new projects to continue Biologic Autoclave 6 59 our waste reduction efforts, including an initiative in Biological/Chemical Treatment 393 1,913 North America with a waste management vendor to Waste Management assist in optimizing recycling for trash. We also continue Other 0 127 to identify opportunities to recycle waste streams as an N ON-HA ZAR D OU S WASTE D I S P OS E D (in thousands of kilograms) alternative to disposal. 2013 2013 ON-S ITE OFF-S ITE Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to achieve a 10 percent absolute reduction in total waste disposed off-site using Environmental Remediation Recycled 8 63,033 2010 total off-site waste disposal as a baseline. We have Reused 1,175 8,830 focused on total waste, rather than on separated types Johnson & Johnson is remediating contamination at 18 Landfilled 0 16,063 of waste, because it allows our companies to apply their current or former facilities. In 2013, we spent $5.5 million Incinerated 0 4,095 waste reduction efforts strategically, relative to their own remediating these facilities. Energy recovery 0 18,857 operations. Our total waste disposed off-site fell by 5.7 Biological/chemical treatment 38 4,164 percent since 2010, from 81.1 to 76.5 million kilograms. Other 0 54 86 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S CARE TO RECYCLE™ environment; nonetheless, we remain committed to to sites identified under the RAMSAR Convention, an engaging in conversations about protecting the interests intergovernmental treaty that embodies the commitments In October 2013, our Consumer Segment launched of the owners of these materials. of its member countries to maintain the ecological our CARE TO RECYCLE™ campaign in the U.S., a character of their Wetlands of International Importance new initiative designed to raise awareness about the Opportunities to reduce our impact on the environment and to plan for the “wise use,” or sustainable use, of all of importance of recycling products from the bathroom. exist all along our value chain, from minimizing our the wetlands in their territories. EN11 EN13 own environmental impacts to supporting our external The CARE TO RECYCLE™ video is a gentle reminder to manufacturers and suppliers in their efforts to do the Many of our sites continue to be engaged in biodiversity recycle products used in the bathroom, and the campaign same. Johnson & Johnson has manufacturing, R&D, projects in their local areas. While biodiversity is a global website (www.caretorecycle.com) provides people with warehousing and office locations around the world, concern, most impacts occur on a local or regional level. useful tips and tools on how to be a better recycler. and, like most large manufacturing companies, we have See next page for some of our examples. air emissions, water use and wastewater discharges, waste generation, construction and transportation Biodiversity Conservation activities associated with these locations. All operations are conducted in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and in compliance with our worldwide EHS Standards, which provide the minimum acceptable Biodiversity refers to the variety of life on earth. As performance for Johnson & Johnson facilities. defined by the United Nations Convention on Biological Environmental, health and safety risks are identified, Diversity, it includes diversity of ecosystems, genes and assessed and managed locally. EN12 EN13 species, as well as the ecological practices that support that diversity. Serious threats to biodiversity, such as Using the World Business Council for Sustainable development, are increasing, and concern about global Development Water Tool, we have determined that biodiversity loss has emerged as an issue with potentially some of our sites are located in areas identified by negative health, societal and economic consequences. Conservation International as biodiversity hot spots. The Conservation International biodiversity hot spots are As a health care company, Johnson & Johnson respects broad regions rather than a set of specific locations, the importance of conserving biodiversity. We also believe providing information that a selected regional location is that preserving biodiversity and ensuring the sustainable one where biodiversity concerns may exist. We believe and fair use of biological resources is an important and that Johnson & Johnson sites that were found to be sited shared responsibility. Our position statement, Respecting within Conservation International biodiversity hot spots Biodiversity, along with other biodiversity information is are located in Brazil, Colombia, Dominican Republic, available on our website at www.jnj.com/sites/default/ Greece, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mauritius, files/pdf/biodiversity_august2010.pdf. Mexico, Puerto Rico, South Africa, Spain, Thailand, the We are not presently engaged in bio-prospecting; United States and Venezuela; however, we have not however, we have a few limited activities with business worked with Conservation International to specifically partners searching for and studying new natural products assess these sites with regard to biodiversity. We do, on our behalf. Initial screening of this sort requires a however, maintain a Global Information System (GIS) small sample size and does not negatively impact the database that enables us to locate our sites relative 87 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S B IOD IVE R S ITY EXAM PLE S S U STAI NAB LE WOR K PLACE B IOD IVE R S ITY PROJ ECT LOCATION B US I N E SS PROJ ECT D E SCR I PTION R E SOU RCE S AFFECTE D Our Janssen Biologics facility utilizes 30 acres of a 70-acre site in County Cork, Ireland. The site implemented a Biodiversity Ireland Janssen Biologics Irish Hare Habitat Action Plan, resulting in an increase in population of the Irish Hare, a species of high conservation concern in Ireland, from just a few animals in 2006 to a healthy population of over 24 animals in January 2014. Johnson & Johnson Korea has an ongoing environmental campaign, started in 2009, to enhance employee and community awareness and understanding about the importance of environmental biodiversity conservation. In partnership with the Miho Stream & Korea Johnson & Johnson Korea local nonprofit, KFEM (Korea Federal Environmental Movement), and local residents, the site has focused on increasing Miho Jonggae understanding of the Miho stream and Miho Jonggae, an endangered native species. Activities include awareness campaigns, habitat tours, cultural linkages, and preservation activities. These sites have obtained River-Friendly status in accordance with the New Jersey Water Supply Authority (NJWSA) RiverJohnson & Johnson Information River-Friendly Friendly Business Program. The goal of this external program is to protect and improve local water resources. To achieve the United States Technology Facilities & Ethicon, Inc. Business certification, sites must work to improve across four environmental categories—water quality and non-point source pollution Somerville, N.J. Certifications management, water conservation, native habitat and wildlife enhancement, and education and outreach. Neutrogena employees in the Los Angeles area spent a day cleaning up the Ballona Wetlands site and removing non-native Neutrogena Corporation, Wetland Cleanup and plant species. The Ballona Wetlands are located 10 minutes from Neutrogena’s headquarters and are an important animal United States Los Angeles, Calif. Restoration refuge and natural resource that is important for conserving water. Over 500 pounds of non-native ice plants and 175 pounds of trash were removed from the wetlands as part of this effort. Johnson & Johnson China Ltd.; In 2011, Johnson & Johnson China initiated a partnership with the nonprofit group Oasis in Cenbo village, Qingpu district, Shanghai Johnson & Johnson Ltd.; Shanghai, which is close to Dianshan Lake. The partnership helps support natural farming, which is defined as utilizing Johnson & Johnson Medical China agricultural practices that do not use herbicides, pesticides, fertilizers and other chemical substances. Natural farming helps Ltd. ; Shanghai Johnson & Johnson reduce pollution of water sources, conserves biodiversity, and builds a system of community-supported agriculture as well as China Water Conservation Pharmaceutical Ltd.; Beijing Dabao biodiversity conservation. This is important for the ongoing health of the local lake and river, and especially for the habitat of Cosmetics Ltd. (DaBao); aquatic birds in the area. The sites also have undertaken additional projects, including cleaning the river of trash, assisting with Johnson & Johnson Emergency farming operations, planting peanuts, seeding beans, water sampling and testing of the lake and local rivers, setting captive fish Marketing Innovative Center free and providing the area with increased knowledge about the local environment. Johnson & Johnson de Brasil The Ocean Conservancy began as a small organization with a simple purpose: to fight for a healthy ocean with a focus on doing Indústriae Comércio de Produtos something about trash in our oceans and along our shorelines. Since 1986, the International Coastal Cleanup has been one of para Saúde Ltda. the hallmarks of Ocean Conservancy work, growing from 12 sites along the Texas coast to more than 6,000 sites in more than Coastal Cleanup with Brazil 100 countries. With the help of the more than nine million volunteers, they have been able to remove over 145 million pounds Ocean Conservancy Johnson & Johnson sites in of debris in just under three decades. Johnson & Johnson sites in Latin America have participated since 2007, with between New Jersey and Pennsylvania several hundred volunteers each year. Our sites in New Jersey and Pennsylvania also provide volunteers for the annual New Jersey Coastal Cleanup. The problem of disappearing honeybees in Europe and the U.S. is well known, although the understanding of colony collapse, Johnson & Johnson Consumer France, France and one of the causes of honeybee loss, is not well understood. Two Johnson & Johnson facilities help preserve honeybees by Issey-les-Moulineaux; and Ethicon, Honeybee Hosting United States hosting honeybee hives on their properties. In both facilities, the hives are installed in courtyards where they are visible to the Inc., Somerville, N.J. employees. Harvested honey has been used by the cafeteria and sold to employees for home use. 88 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Healthy Future 2015 Advancing Global Health Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS Cumulative, unless otherwise noted One research partnership and three licensing Executed a data sharing agreement agreements finalized to address diseases of the with DNDi for preclinical research on developing world flubendazole as a potential new treatment against parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis (elephantiasis) and onchocerciasis (river blindness); a licensing agreement with PATH on TMC278LA pre-exposure prophylaxis; and in-licensing agreements Safeguarding the Planet with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in the field of dengue MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS Facility CO2 — 20 percent absolute reduction in Approximately 5.7 percent absolute facility carbon dioxide emissions (by 2020) reduction 90 least-developed and middle-income 112 countries have our compounds countries have our HIV therapies available either at special-effort or reduced registered and available at pricing, provided local regulatory systems Clean energy — Increase on-site renewable 47.6 megawatts installed or in progress special-effort pricing allow import prior to registration and clean-technology energy capacity to 50 megawatts All our products that address diseases of the Our TB medicine is included in World Fleet CO2 — 20 percent improvement in vehicle 15.8 percent reduction developing world achieve WHO prequalification Health Organization (WHO) interim policy fleet emissions efficiency guidance on the treatment of MDR-TB issued in June 2013. Five (out of eight) formulations of our HIV antiretroviral Water Consumption — 10 percent absolute 2.5 percent absolute reduction medicines have already achieved WHO reduction in water consumption at prequalification manufacturing and R&D locations Provide 200 million doses of mebendazole per 161 million doses provided to affected Waste Disposal — 10 percent absolute reduction 5.7 percent absolute reduction year to children infected with intestinal worms children in 16 countries in 2013 in total waste disposed at manufacturing and R&D locations Register a new triple-combination therapy for New triple-combination therapy registered Products and packaging evaluated for 55 products have received Earthwards ® HIV and finalize a generics licensing agreement in U.S. and EMEA in 2011; five generics sustainability improvements, with 60 achieving recognition licensing agreements signed for our HIV Earthwards® recognition medicine, rilpivirine, also in 2011 89 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress Cumulative, unless otherwise noted Engaged, Health-Conscious Employees Supplier Sustainability MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS 90th percentile employee engagement when Engagement levels for All strategic suppliers have two or more Approximately 75 percent of strategic compared to external benchmarks Johnson & Johnson in total and for publicly reported sustainability goals suppliers have two or more publicly reported each of the business segments sustainability goals exceed Mayflower Global Norm $1 billion in spend with diverse suppliers Achieved $1.36 billion in spend in 2013, a 90 percent of employees have access to 64 percent have access to “Culture of by 2011; five percent increase per year 10 percent increase vs. 2012 “Culture of Health” programs Health” programs thereafter 80 percent of employees have completed a 46 percent have completed a health risk All suppliers in high-risk countries confirm 88 percent of external manufacturers and health risk assessment and know their assessment and know their key health awareness of and conformance with the active pharmaceutical ingredients suppliers key health indicators indicators human rights provision of our policies confirmed conformance; 79 percent of strategic suppliers confirmed conformance 80 percent of measured employee population 74 percent of employees characterized as health risks are characterized as “low risk” “low risk” All critical employees receive human Greater than 1,500 procurement rights training professionals, or 95 percent, have received training 15 percent improvement in employee 0 percent improvement in lost workday safety vs. 2010 case rate (Lost workday case rate target of 0.09) All palm oil and palm oil derivatives Working to find/and or develop new are sourced from certified sustainable sources Certified Sustainable Palm Oil derivative sources, but until then we will continue to 15 percent improvement in contractor 15 percent improvement in lost purchase GreenPalm certificates and fund safety vs. 2010 workday case rate for contractors projects to grow capacity at farm level. In (Lost workday case rate target of 0.12) 2013, purchased sustainable GreenPalm certificates equivalent to 100 percent of our palm oil usage. 15 percent improvement in fleet safety 6.14 in CPMM vs. 2010 (an increase of 11 percent) (Auto crashes per million miles target of 4.7) 90 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Healthy Future 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Goals Progress Cumulative, unless otherwise noted Advancing Community Wellness Transparency and Collaborations MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS Advancing community wellness through health Seven various disease-related programs in All major brand websites share product 43 percent of major brands share product education—number of programs by geography nine countries sustainability information sustainability information on their websites and disease/health education area where the needs are greatest Major stakeholder engagements and new Work in progress collaborations reported publicly Report the number of people reached by these More than 4.9 million people reached in initiatives 2013 JNJ.com/responsibility shares Company Company policy perspectives are shared on policy perspectives on major issues JNJ.com/responsibility Economic and sustainability reporting Work in progress enhanced online and provided for key markets Philanthropy Measurement MEASUREMENT / TARGET PROGRESS Increase number of major philanthropic 100 percent of 86 programs measure programs measuring health-related outcomes health-related outcomes; developed monitoring and evaluation logic models for all major programs Increase percentage of major philanthropic 90 percent (208 of 230 programs) programs measuring and reporting healthmeasure and report health-related related outcomes outcomes Increase percentage of mid-tier/intermediate programs measuring and reporting healthrelated outcomes 91 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S 2013 DATA SUMMARY TABLE 2008 E MPLOYE E HE ALTH AND SAFET Y UNIT (unless otherwise 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 noted) Tobacco use1 Percentage of profiled employees 122 3.9 3.8 3.6 3.5 3.2 High blood pressure (above 140/90)1 Percentage of profiled employees 122 6.3 6.1 6.4 6.3 6.9 High cholesterol (above 240 mg/l) 1 Percentage of profiled employees 19 2 5.3 5.7 6.2 5.8 5.8 Inactivity (< 30 minutes/day, 4 days/week)1 Percentage of profiled employees 39 2 20.4 20.8 20.9 21.2 21.2 Employee satisfaction (Our Credo survey) Percentage of respondents satisfied NA 3 80 84 87 85 87 Training hours Average number of hours per employee Not reported Not reported 8 8 8 8 Serious injury/illness rate Incidents per 100 employees 0.072 5 0.034 0.037 0.028 0.027 0.020 Lost workday case rate Incidents per 100 employees 0.315 0.12 0.11 0.11 0.09 0.11 Fleet car accidents Crashes per million miles driven 8.76 5 5.75 5.53 5.94 5.82 6.14 Ergonomic injuries Percentage of lost workday cases 485 32 29 30 33 34 Contractor lost workday case rate Incidents per 100 contractors — — — 0.14 0.17 0.12 Safety non-compliances Number of findings NA 10 3 9 6 7 Safety fines paid 4 U.S. dollars NA 2,200 5,500 7,311 648 205,000 E NVIRONME NT UNIT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Environmental non-compliances4 Number of findings 20 50 57 30 29 45 Environmental fines paid4 U.S. dollars 164,100 6,630 0 5,000 3,500 0 Accidental releases 4 Number of events 15 16 10 9 8 7 Percentage of manufacturing/R&D facilities with OHSAS certifications4 Not tracked Not tracked 31 30 25 28 certification Percentage of manufacturing/R&D facilities with ISO 14001 certifications4 100 99 99 99 93 95 certification Energy use Billion BTUs6 13,354 12,810 13,274 12,766 12,521 12,852 Facility CO 2 emissions 7 Thousand metric tons 1,306 1,200 1,269 1,208 1,187 1,197 1 U.S. data. Participation rate is 78.4 percent. 2 1995–1999 average. 3 Not applicable. 4 Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the company for less than three years. 5 1995 data. 6 3.412 BTU/Kwhr. 7 Total, excluding renewable energy credits. 92 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S E NVIRONME NT (cont.) UNIT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 On-site clean or renewable energy capacity Megawatts 9.8 15.1 27.4 38.7 45.5 8 47.68 On-site solar capacity Megawatts Not tracked 4 12 18 19 20 CO 2 fleet emissions Average emissions per vehicle (g/km) Not calculated Not calculated 177 170 161 149 CO 2 project capital spent Energy/CO2 project spend, $MM 12 44.0 56.4 48.2 22.2 37.6 Cumulative CO2 emissions avoided annually, thousand CO 2 project results 71.7 99.8 m3 119.1 138.4 145.9 181.5 metric tons Water use 4 Million m 3 11.5 10.8 11.5 11.2 11.2 11.2 Recycled water use 4 Million m 3 --0.8 0.77 0.69 0.59 0.73 Wastewater discharged4 Million m 3 ------8.12 8.19 7.81 Non-hazardous waste disposed4 Million kg 52.3 42.6 52.9 43.1 44.9 43.2 Hazardous waste disposed4 Million kg 29.3 24.6 28.2 30.2 29.7 33.3 Waste site remediation4 Number of active remediation sites 21 16 17 18 17 18 Sulfur dioxide emissions Tons 165 138 146 133 114 116 Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions Tons 285 271 277 260 251 268 Hazardous air pollutant emissions4 Tons Not reported Not reported 55 53 38 55 Volatile organic compound emissions4 Tons Not reported Not reported 1,020 1,402 1,217 1,051 Particulate matter emissions4 Tons Not reported Not reported 169 136 127 213 Refrigerant emissions4 Tons Not reported Not reported 10.98 10.55 9.51 8.42 Greener products Cumulative number of Earthwards® products Not applicable 4 10 26 36 55 LEED buildings Number certified Not applicable --9 12 15 20 Suppliers participating in CDP, at JNJ request Number Not applicable 35 66 96 139 129 SUPPLIE RS AND DIVE RSIT Y UNIT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Women on the Board of Directors Number and percent of board 2 / 20 percent 3 / 27 percent 3 / 27 percent 3 / 25 percent 3 / 23 percent 3 / 25 percent Women in work force Percent of employees Not reported Not reported Not reported 44.99 47.510 46.510 Women in management Percent of employees Not reported Not reported Not reported 38.89 40.310 41.810 M/WBE spend U.S. dollars, millions ---860 1,065 1,303 1,234 1,357 4 Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the company for less than three years. 8 Online or in progress. 9 Data available for U.S. only. 10 Data are from our North American region. 93 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S SUPPLIE RS AND DIVE RSIT Y (cont.) UNIT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Small Business spend U.S. dollars, millions ---3,070 3,106 3,149 2,731 2,700 Number of M/WBE suppliers Total number ---2,400 2,500 2,200 1,700 1,600 Veteran-owned business spend U.S. dollars, millions ---84 112 103 101 85 LGBT spend U.S. dollars, millions ---1.3 1.4 1.7 1.6 1.5 M/WBE supplier spend Percent total spend 7.8 8.6 8.2 8.4 8.3 OPE R ATIONS AND STATISTICAL DATA 11 UNIT 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 U.S. dollars, millions 63,747 61,897 61,587 65,030 67,224 71,312 Sales Percent change over previous year 4.3 (2.9) (0.5) 5.6 3.4 6.1 U.S. dollars, millions 12,949 12,266 13,334 9,672 10,853 13,831 Net earnings12 Percent change over previous year 22.4 (5.3) 8.7 (27.5) 12.2 27.4 Share price (end of calendar year) U.S. dollars 59.83 64.41 61.85 65.58 70.10 91.59 U.S. dollars, millions 7,577 6,986 6,884 7,548 7,665 8,183 R&D As percent of sales 11.9 11.3 11.1 11.6 11.4 11.5 Operating companies Number (approximate) 250 250 250 250 275 275 Employees Number (approximate) 118,700 115,500 114,000 117,900 127,600 128,100 Effective income tax rate Percent of income 23.5 22.1 21.3 21.8 23.7 10.6 U.S. dollars, billions 2.9 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.3 2.5 Advertising costs As percentage of sales 4.5 3.9 4.1 4.0 3.4 3.5 Total U.S. dollars, millions 510.3 588.1 603.3 706.1 966.3 993.0 Charitable contributions As percentage of pretax income 3.0 3.7 3.6 5.7 7.0 6.4 Non-cash 365.5 461.5 495.3 587.1 835.0 835.5 11 Additional information available in the 2013 Johnson & Johnson 10-k report. 12 Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson. 94 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Recognitions World’s Most Admired Companies 100 Best Companies for Working Mothers CEO Cancer Gold Standard™ Accredited Fortune recognized Johnson & Johnson as 19th Working Mother magazine again named Johnson & Johnson & Johnson has been accredited for the most admired company overall and number one in Johnson to this list, marking our inclusion every year past consecutive nine years and was one of the first Pharmaceuticals. since the list was launched 27 years ago. Our inclusion companies to meet the accreditation requirements for the recognizes our famialfriendly policies for flexible work, CEO Roundtable on Cancer Prevention Gold Standard The World’s Most Reputable Companies child care, maternity and paternity leave and elder care, accreditation process. The roundtable was formed to The Reputation Institute ranked Johnson & Johnson as among others. make continual progress in the elimination of cancer. the 16th most reputable company in the United States. Top 50 Companies for Diversity® FTSE4Good Index Global Access to Medicines Index Johnson & Johnson ranked ninth overall. This Diversity, Johnson & Johnson has been independently assessed Johnson & Johnson ranked number two on this biennial Inc. list is based on CEO commitment, human capital, according to FTSE4Good criteria and has met index in 2012, which measures pharmaceutical company corporate communications and supplier diversity. requirements to be part of the index. The designation factors affecting access to medicines such as R&D identifies companies that meet globally recognized activities, pricing schemes, and patents and licensing Top 50 Companies for Latinas corporate responsibility standards. policies. In 2013, LATINA Style magazine recognized Johnson & The Harris Interactive Reputational Quotient (RQ) Johnson as the ninth best company for Latinas to work Dow Jones Sustainability Index, North America In 2014, Johnson & Johnson ranked number 16 on for in the United States. Johnson & Johnson stock has been included in this this survey. The RQ focuses on six areas that influence index since 2000. The DJSI family follows a best-in-class reputation and consumer behavior: social responsibility, Best Places to Work for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual approach to identify industry leaders. emotional appeal, financial performance, products and Transgender Equality and services, vision and leadership, and workplace Johnson & Johnson again earned the top rating of U.S. Hispanic Chamber of Commerce environment. 100 percent in this annual survey administered by the Johnson & Johnson was recognized as a U.S. Hispanic Human Rights Campaign Foundation. The Equality Index Chamber of Commerce Million Dollar Club member World’s Most Respected Companies recognizes employer treatment of gay, lesbian, bisexual for the fifth consecutive year, a recognition provided to The financial weekly Barron’s conducts an annual survey and transgender employees and consumers. companies that invest a minimum of $25 million in spend of institutional investors, rating the 100 largest public with Hispanic-owned business enterprises. corporations (based on market capitalization) in order of 25 Best U.S. Corporations for Veteran-Owned the respect they have garnered from these institutions. Businesses Best Global Green Brands Johnson & Johnson ranked 13th this year and has been Johnson & Johnson was named one of the 10 Best U.S. Johnson & Johnson was ranked number six by included on this list since its inception eight years ago. Corporations for Veteran-Owned Businesses for 2014 by Interbrand’s 2013 Best Global Green Brands report. the National Veteran-Owned Business Association. Top Companies for Women Executives The National Association for Female Executives selected 100 Best Corporate Citizens Johnson & Johnson to the Top 50 Companies for CRO Magazine ranked Johnson & Johnson number two Women Executives list in 2013 in 2014, up from number 17 last year. 95 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S United Nations In July 2013, Johnson & Johnson became a member of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a platform for encouraging and promoting good corporate principles and learning experiences in the areas of human rights, labor, Global Compact environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to the UNGC principles, many of which have been embedded in our business practices for decades. Communication on Progress 2013 Our Citizenship & Sustainability Annual Report provides detailed information on our corporate responsibility strategy G4-14 and performance for fiscal year 2013. H U MAN R IG HTS CROSS R E FE R E NCE U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E… TO G R I I N D ICATOR S 1. Support and respect the protection Our commitment to respect human rights is embodied in several of our Human Rights HR4–6 of internationally proclaimed human policies and statements, including: Policy on Business Conduct, Statement Pages 42–44 LA14–15 rights. on Human Rights, Global Labor & Employment Guidelines, Policy on Employment of Young Persons, and Standards for Responsible Labor Practices LA2, LA4, LA12 2. Make sure that business is not External Manufacturing. Pages 52–55 complicit in human rights abuses. Supply Chain & Supplier HR10, HR11 Management LA14–15 Pages 38–42 SO9, SO10 LABOR STAN DAR D S U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E… CROSS R E FE R E NCE TO G R I I N D ICATOR S 3. Uphold freedom of association and Our Statement on Human Rights incorporates references to the key labor issues Human Rights HR4 the effective recognition of the right to identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of child labor, forced labor, human Pages 42–44 collective bargaining. trafficking and discrimination. Our Global Labor and Employee Guidelines articulate our expectations for labor and employment practices at our sites. These guidelines Labor Practices HR6 4. Support elimination of all forms of require open communication with all employees, mandate respect for each Pages 52–55 forced and compulsory labor. employee’s right to freedom of association and good faith collective bargaining, prohibit discrimination and forced labor of any kind, and require adherence to and Supply Chain & Supplier HR5 5. Support effective abolition of enforcement of child labor laws. Our workplace practices and policies on providing Management child labor. fair compensation, equal opportunity, safe and healthy workplaces and other Pages 38–42 commitments to human rights reflect our belief that the success of our Company 6. Elimination of discrimination in is linked with employee satisfaction and well-being. We foster compliance with respect of employment and occupation. these policies on a continuing basis through internal training programs, certification processes for external manufacturers and risk-based audit programs. 96 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S E NVI RON M E NT CROSS R E FE R E NCE U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E… TO G R I I N D ICATOR S 7. Businesses are asked to support a For 128 years, the Company’s desire to make a difference has inspired every Product Stewardship EN7, EN27, EN28 precautionary approach to environmental invention, every product and every breakthrough we have brought to human health. Pages 70–75 challenges. This commitment to serving the needs of others is guided by Our Credo, which shapes our approach to business and defines our responsibilities to society at Ingredients 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater large. One of the most important responsibilities emphasized in Our Credo is our Page 75 environmental responsibility. obligation to the environment: “We must maintain in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the environment and natural resources.” Sourcing of Raw 9. Encourage the development and Materials diffusion of environmentally friendly Our commitment to the environment is embodied in several of our policies Pages 75–77 technologies. and statements, including: Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, Climate Friendly Energy Policy, Statement on the Human Right to Water and Respecting Environmental G4–14 Biodiversity. Responsibility Pages 77–78 We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking continuous improvement in energy Water EN8–10, EN22 efficiency, emissions reductions, resource conservation, and waste reduction. Pages 78–80 We strive to minimize the environmental impact of our products—from design through disposal—and we collaborate with others to develop innovative ways that Greenhouse EN3–6, Gas Emissions/ EN15–20, EN 30 technology can help address long-term sustainability challenges. Climate Change Pages 80–86 As a global company, we work to exercise far-reaching influence with regard to sourcing of materials and set a goal for our most important, or Segment 1, Air Emissions EN21 suppliers to publicly report on two or more sustainability goals in any of the Page 86 following goal categories: energy reduction, waste reduction, water use reduction, workforce injury/illness reduction, workforce wellness, and community and human Waste Management EN23 rights investment. Pages 86–87 Biodiversity Conservation EN11–13 Page 87 Supply Chain & Supplier EN32, EN33 Management Pages 38–42 97 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S ANTI-COR R U PTION CROSS R E FE R E NCE U NGC PR I NCI PLE S JOH N SON & JOH N SON APPROACH LEAR N MOR E… TO G R I I N D ICATOR S 10. Businesses should work against The ethical principles embodied in Our Credo are the lenses through which Ethical Performance SO3–SO5 corruption in all its forms, including our employees make many business decisions each day. To help ensure that Pages 32–34 HR2, HR9 extortion and bribery. we conduct business according to these principles, we have an extensive list LA16 of policies and procedures that define what we expect of our people and our Human Rights business partners throughout the world. Details are provided on our Citizenship & Pages 42–44 Sustainability website, www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability. Our policies require anti-corruption training for employees who may present a compliance risk to the Company and place a significant emphasis on the training requirement to ensure compliance. In 2013, more than 89,597 employees completed this training. The total includes 49,584 employees outside the U.S. who completed anti-corruption training and 40,013 U.S. employees for whom U.S. Health Care Compliance Awareness Training, which includes anti-corruption principles, was provided. 98 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Global Reporting Index PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization Chairman’s letter, page 2 G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Chairman’s letter, page 2 Successes and Challenges, page 4 G4-3 Name of the organization Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services section Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that Organizational Profile, page 9 are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report Form 10K Annual Report: Item 2. Properties Form 10K Annual Report: Exhibit 21, Subsidiaries G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries) Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization Organizational Profile, page 9 G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region Labor Practices and Workforce, pages 52-53 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Labor Practices and Workforce, pages 52-53 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Organizational Profile, page 9 Supply Chain Management, pages 12 and 38 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, structure, or ownership or its supply chain Organizational Profile, page 10 G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization UNGC, Principle 7, page 96 Environmental Responsibility, page 77 G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters Governance: External Commitments, page 38 G4-16 Memberships in associations Political Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying: Trade Associations, page 60 G4-17 Operational structure: List all entities in the consolidated financial statements Organizational Profile, page 9 Form 10K Annual Report: Item 2. Properties Form 10K Annual Report: Exhibit 21, Subsidiaries 99 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Global Reporting Index (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 Materiality Assessment Process, page 13 G4-19 List Material Aspects Identified Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 Materiality Assessment Process, page 13 G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization The aspect boundaries for each material issue are shown by the use of icons next to the header for each topic G4-21 Aspect Boundary Outside the organization The aspect boundaries for each material issue are shown by the use of icons next to the header for each topic. G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements Form 10K Annual Report: Consolidated Financial Statements G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Materiality Assessment Process, page 13 Form 10K Annual Report: Item 2. Properties Form 10K Annual Report: Exhibit 21, Subsidiaries G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement, page 62 http://www.jnj.com/caring/citizenship-sustainability/ strategic-framework/stakeholder-engagement G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement, page 62 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Stakeholder Engagement, page 62 G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns and organization response Stakeholder Engagement, page 62 G4-28 Reporting period Report Profile, page 10 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Report Profile, page 10 G4-30 Reporting cycle Report Profile, page 10 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Report Profile, page 10 G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen, and GRI Index GRI Index, page 99 Report Profile, page 10 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Report Profile, page 10 100 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Global Reporting Index (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance, page 36 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental Stakeholder Engagement, page 62 and social topics Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-39 Indicate if Chair of highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-40 Process for nomination and selection of highest governance body Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-41 Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy Statement; Nominating and Governance Committee G4-42 Roles for development, approval, and updating of organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy Statement: policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Corporate Governance G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 environmental and social topics Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-44 Processes for evaluating highest governance body’s own performance Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy Statement: Corporate Governance G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing effectiveness of organization’s risk management processes for Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 economic, environmental and social topics Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 opportunities Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves organization’s sustainability report and ensures all Citizenship & Sustainability, page 11 material aspects are covered Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to highest governance body Governance; Communication with Our Board, page 37 101 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Global Reporting Index (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of highest governance body, senior managers, and executives, and Governance; Communication with Our Board, page 37 organization’s performance G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Johnson & Johnson 2014 Proxy Statement: Compensation Decision Process G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Governance; Codes and Principles, page 38 Ethical Performance, page 32 G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to Ethical Performance, page 32 organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines Ethical Performance, page 32 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related Human Rights, page 42 to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention; page 55 Grievance Resolution, page 57 Ethical Performance, page 32 Quality & Safety of Products PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Customer Health & Safety DMA Quality & Safety of Products; Quality & Compliance, • Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement page 29 PR1 Percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Quality & Safety of Products; Quality & Compliance, page 30 Product Service & Labeling DMA Product Quality & Safety; Customer Satisfaction, • Organization-wide practices in place to assess and maintain customer satisfaction page 29 PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product and service Quality & Safety of Products; Product & Service information and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information Labeling, page 31 requirements 102 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Quality & Safety of Products (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Product Quality & Safety; Customer Satisfaction, page 31 Results of customer satisfaction surveys are not shared publicly for competitive reasons PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Product Quality & Safety: Marketing Communications, page 31 Access to and Affordability of Health Care PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Global Health PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Ethical Performance PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Anti-Corruption DMA Ethical Performance; Anti-Corruption, pages 32-34 • Describe risk assessment procedures for corruption • Describe management processes to prevent corruption SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks Ethical Performance; Anti-Corruption, pages 32-33 identified Human Rights; Assessment Process, page 40 SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Ethical Performance; Anti-Corruption, pages 32-33 Supply Chain & Supplier Management, page 37 SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Ethical Performance; Anti-Corruption, pages 32-33 Supply Chain & Supplier Management, page 38 SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Ethical Performance; Ethical Marketing, page 34 103 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Product Pipeline PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Compliance PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Compliance; Environmental & Safety Compliance, page 35 Supply Chain & Supplier Management; Assessment Process, page 40 EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with Compliance; Environmental & Safety Compliance, environmental laws and regulations page 35 SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Compliance; Compliance with Laws & Regulations, regulations page 34 PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety Compliance; Compliance with Laws & Regulations, impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes page 34 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service Compliance; Compliance with Laws & Regulations, information and labeling, by type of outcomes page 34 PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing Compliance; Compliance with Laws & Regulations, communications, (advertising, promotion, and sponsorship), by type of outcomes page 34, and Online PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use Compliance; Compliance with Laws & Regulations, of products and services page 34, and Online R&D and Clinical Trials PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None 104 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Supply Chain Management PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Procurement Practices DMA Supply Chain & Supplier Management: • Actions taken to identify/ adjust procurement practices that cause or contribute to negative impacts Supplier Diversity & Inclusion, page 41 • Describe policies and practices used to select locally-based suppliers Supply Chain & Supplier Management: • Describe policies and practices used to promote economic inclusion Supplier Spending, page 42 G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain & Supplier Management: pages 38–42 EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation Supply Chain Management: Supplier Spending, page 42, and Online Freedom of Association /Collective Bargaining DMA Human Rights, page 42 • Describe the policy or policies which may be considered likely to affect employees’ decisions to join a trade Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 38 union, or to bargain collectively. Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining Human Rights, page 43 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Human Rights, page 43 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Human Rights, page 43 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 Supplier Assessment for Environmental, Labor Practices, Human Rights and Society DMAs Supply Chain & Supplier Management, page 42 • Describe the systems used to screen new suppliers using environmental criteria • Describe processes used, such as due diligence, to identify and assess significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts • Describe how the organization identifies and prioritizes suppliers for assessment • Describe actions taken to address the significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts identified • Describe how expectations are established and defined in contracts • Scope, frequency, current implementation of assessment and audit, and which parts of the supply chain have been certified and audited • Describe the systems in place to assess the potential negative impacts of terminating a relationship with a supplier EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Supply Chain & Supplier Management; Assessment Process, pages 40–41 105 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Supply Chain Management (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain & Supplier Management: Systems are being established that will allow reporting LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria Supply Chain & Supplier Management; Assessment Process, pages 40–41 LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain & Supplier Management: Systems are being established that will allow reporting HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Supply Chain & Supplier Management; Assessment Process, pages 40–41 HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain & Supplier Management: Systems are being established that will allow reporting SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Supply Chain & Supplier Management; Assessment Process, pages 40–41 SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain & Supplier Management: Systems are being established that will allow reporting Product Stewardship PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Given the diverse nature of our business, and the variety of products produced, the weight and volume of products sold by Johnson & Johnson is not EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials considered to be a meaningful metric and is not tracked at the enterprise level Product Stewardship, page 73 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Product Stewardship: Our Earthwards® Target—Recognizing 60 Products, page 70 and Online EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services Product Stewardship: Our Earthwards® Target—Recognizing 60 Products, page 70 and Online EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Product Stewardship, page 74 and Online 106 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Innovation PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Human Rights PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Human Rights Investment DMA Human Rights, page 42 and Online • D escribe strategies for extending applicable policies and procedures to external parties, such as joint ventures and subsidiaries. • D escribe the use of human rights criteria or clauses in contracts, including the types of clauses and the types of contracts and agreements in which they are commonly applied (such as investments, joint ventures). G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related Human Rights, pages 42–44 to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights Human Rights, pages 43–44 that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Human Rights, page 44 HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining Human Rights, pages 43–44 may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to Human Rights, page 43–44 contribute to the effective abolition of child labor Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Human Rights, pages 43–44 measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Supply Chain & Supply Chain Management, page 39 Labor Practices & Work Force, page 52 HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Page 43, and Online EN34 Number of Grievances about environmental impacts filed, addresses, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights, page 44 LA16 Number of Grievances about labor practices impacts filed, addresses, and resolved through formal grievance Human Rights, page 44 mechanisms SO11 Number of grievances about society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights, page 44 HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights, page 44 107 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Transparency PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Financial Health/Economic Performance PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Health & Economic Performance, page 45 and Online EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change Financial Health & Economic Performance, page 45 and Online EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Financial Health & Economic Performance, page 46 and Online Product Ingredients/Materials PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Workplace Health & Safety PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Occupational Safety & Health DMA Health Conscious, Safe Employees, page 46 • Describe programs related to assisting workforce members, their families, or community members regarding Workplace Health & Safety, page 49 serious diseases, including whether such programs involve education and training, counseling, prevention and risk control measures, or treatment LA5 Percentage of the total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees Workplace Health & Safety, page 50 that help to advise on occupational health & safety programs. LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work Workplace Health & Safety, page 50 related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation Workplace Health & Safety, page 50 Health Conscious, Safe Employees, page 46-49 Online 108 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Workplace Health & Safety (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions Workplace Health & Safety, page 50 and Online Market Access PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Public-Private Partnerships PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Stakeholder Engagement PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Stakeholder Engagement, page 62-63 and Online G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Stakeholder Engagement, page 62-63 and Online G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, page 62-63 and Online G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement, page 64 Health-Conscious, Safe Employees PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Online 109 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Labor Practices & Workforce PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Employment DMA Supply Chain & Supplier Management, page 38–42 • Describe actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken within the organization’s and Online supply chain does not take place within appropriate institutional and legal frameworks. • Describe actions taken to determine and address situations where persons working for suppliers are not provided the social and labor protection that they are entitled • D escribe actions taken to determine and address situations where working conditions in the organization’s supply chain did not meet international labor standards or national labor law • D escribe actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken within the organization’s supply chain is inadequately remunerated Describe actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken within the organization’s supply chain is inadequately remunerated • Describe actions taken to determine and address situations of disguised employment relationships where workers in the organization’s supply chain are falsely considered to be self-employed or where there is no legally recognized employer G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region Labor Practices and Workforce, page 52 G4-11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Labor Practices and Workforce, page 52 LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region Labor Practices & Workforce; Benefits, pages 52– 53 and Online LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant Labor Practices & Workforce; Benefits, page 54 locations of operation and Online LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave Labor Practices & Workforce; page 53 and Online LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in collective Labor Practices & Workforce; Minimum Notice Periods, agreements page 54 and Online LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age Labor Practices & Workforce; pages 52–53 and Online group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Employee Recruitment/Development/Retention PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Grievance Mechanisms – DMA Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: • Describe the availability and accessibility of grievance mechanisms and remediation processes related to Grievance Resolution, page 57 and Online environmental, labor, human rights and society issues G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Grievance Resolution, page 57 110 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Employee Recruitment/Development/Retention (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: Talent Development, page 56 and Online LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: assist them in managing career endings Talent Development, page 56 and Online LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: employee category Talent Development, page 57 LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: Grievance Resolution, page 57 HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: mechanisms Talent Development, page 57 SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: mechanisms Talent Development, page 57 EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention: mechanisms Talent Development, page 57 Sourcing of Raw Materials PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Water PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water: Water Usage, page 78–79 and Online EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water: Water Usage, page 78 and Online EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water: Water Usage, page 78 and Online EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water: Water Discharge, page 79 and Online 111 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Intellectual Property PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Environmental Responsibility PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization Environmental Responsibility: Environment, Health & Safety Management Approach, page 77 Strategic Leadership PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, Strategic Leadership, page 29 environmental and social topics G4-45 Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social Strategic Leadership, page 29 impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body’s role in reviewing effectiveness of organization’s risk management processes for Strategic Leadership, page 29 economic, environmental and social topics G4-47 Frequency of highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Strategic Leadership, page 29 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves organization’s sustainability report and ensures all Strategic Leadership, page 29 material aspects are covered Political Contributions/Lobbying PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Public Policy DMA Political Contributions/Lobbying: • Describe the significant issues that are the focus of participation in public policy development and lobbying. Positions on Selected Issues, page 60 • Provide the organization’s core position for each of the identified issues, and describe any significant differences between lobbying positions and stated policies, sustainability goals, or other public positions G4-16 Memberships in associations Political Contributions, Public Policy & Lobbying: Trade Associations, page 60 SO 6 Report the total monetary value of financial and in-kind political contributions made directly and indirectly by country Political Contribution/Lobbying, page 59 and Online and recipient/ beneficiary 112 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Compensation PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Equal Remuneration DMA Labor and Workforce Practices, page 52 • Describe the legal and socio-economic environment that provides opportunities for, and barriers to, gender Positions on Selected Issues, page 60 and Online equity in the workforce. This may include women’s workforce participation rates, their participation at highest governance level, and equal remuneration LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men1 Labor Practices and Workforce, page 52 Greenhouse Gas/Climate/Energy Use PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Emissions DMA Greenhouse Gas/Climate; Climate Policy & Initiatives, • Explain whether the organization is subject to any country, regional, or industry regulations and policies for page 80 emissions. Provide examples of such regulations and policies. Greenhouse Gas/ Climate; Energy Use, page 81 • Identify whether offsets are used to meet the target. Specify the type, amount, criteria or scheme of which they and Online are part. Energy DMA Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Climate Policy and • Describe whether the organization is subject to any country, regional, or industry regulations and policies for energy. Initiatives, page 80 and Online EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Energy Use, page 81 and Online EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 83 and Online EN5 Energy intensity 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Energy Use, page 81 and Online EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Energy Use, page 81 and Online EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 83 and Online EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 83 and Online EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 83 and Online 1 Due to the complex nature of the Company’s various employee databases and payroll systems and differences in how employees are compensated in different countries, the Company is not able to reliably calculate this information, nor is it legally required to do so. 2 Third-party verified 113 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Greenhouse Gas/Climate/Energy Use (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 83 and Online EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 2 Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Facility CO2 Emissions, page 84 and Online EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Ozone Depleting S ubstances, page 84 and Online EN30 Transportation of products, goods and materials Greenhouse Gas/Climate: Transportation-Related Emissions, pages 83–84 and Online Governance PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters Governance: External Commitments, page 38 G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance, Governance Structure, page 36 G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental Governance; Governance Structure, page 37 and social topics G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-39 Indicate if Chair of highest governance body is also an executive officer Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-40 Process for nomination and selection of highest governance body Governance; Governance Structure, page 36 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to highest governance body Governance; Communication with Our Board, page 37 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. Governance; Codes and Principles, page 38 2 Third-party verified 114 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Diversity & Inclusion PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age Labor Practices and Workforce, page 52 and Online group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Product and Financial Donations PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Philanthropy PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Air Emissions PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions 2 Air Emissions, page 86 and Online Waste PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste Management, page 86 Community Involvement & Engagement PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Local Communities DMA Community Involvement & Engagement, page 66 Describe: Labor Practices & Workforce, page 52 • References and statements regarding the collective rights of local communities • How both women and men are engaged in local communities • How works councils, occupational health and safety committees or other independent employee representation bodies are empowered to deal with, and have dealt with, impacts on local communities 2 Third-party verified 115 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Community Involvement & Engagement (cont.) PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development Community Involvement & Engagement, page 66 programs EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of operation Community Involvement & Engagement: Community Hiring Practices, page 67 Data Protection and Privacy PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 3 Data Protection & Privacy, page 62 Biodiversity Conservation PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E Biodiversity DMA Biodiversity Conservation, page 87 and Online • Describe the organization’s strategy for achieving its policy on biodiversity management. EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value Biodiversity Conservation, page 87 and Online outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and Biodiversity Conservation, page 87 and Online areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity Conservation, page 87 and Online Job Creation PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None Volunteerism PR OFI LE D E S CR I PTI ON CR OS S R E FE R E N CE / PAG E D I S CLOS U R E None 3 Many such allegations are subject to confidentiality, legal, privacy or other similar restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly disclosed. However, this information is reported externally in our public filings if it meets the criteria requiring public disclosure. 116 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report CONTENTS Advancing Leading a Dynamic Safeguarding H EALTHY FUTU R E S 2015 GOALS & PROG R E SS U.N. G LOBAL COM PACT CHAI R MAN’S LETTE R Human Health & & Growing Business the Planet DATA S U M MARY G R I I N DEX S UCCE SS E S & Well-Being Responsibly CHALLE NG E S Our Credo We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, nurses and patients, to mothers and We are responsible to the communities in which we live and work and to the world fathers and all others who use our products community as well. We must be good citizens— and services. In meeting their needs everything support good works and charities and pay our we do must be of high quality. We must fair share of taxes. We must encourage civic constantly strive to reduce our costs in order improvements and better health and education. to maintain reasonable prices. Customers’ We must maintain in good order the property orders must be serviced promptly and we are privileged to use, protecting the accurately. Our suppliers and distributors must environment and natural resources. have an opportunity to make a fair profit. Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. We are responsible to our employees, the Business must make a sound profit. We must men and women who work with us throughout experiment with new ideas. Research must the world. Everyone must be considered as an be carried on, innovative programs developed individual. We must respect their dignity and and mistakes paid for. New equipment must recognize their merit. They must have a sense be purchased, new facilities provided and new of security in their jobs. Compensation must be products launched. Reserves must be fair and adequate, and working conditions created to provide for adverse times. When clean, orderly and safe. We must be mindful of we operate according to these principles, the ways to help our employees fulfill their family stockholders should realize a fair return. responsibiliities. Employees must feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical. 117 Johnson & Johnson 2013 Citizenship & Sustainability Report
