SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 The OKI Group´s initiatives of corporate social responsibility (CSR) focus on contributing to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world through sound corporate activities based on our corporate philosophy. Corporate Philosophy The people of OKI, true to the company’s “enterprising spirit,” are committed to creating superior network solutions and providing excellent information and communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of communities worldwide in the information age. OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct For the betterment of corporate value, the OKI Group (Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. and members of its group of companies) seeks to provide satisfaction to its customers at all times and to become a trusted partner for our stakeholders, including shareholders and investors, employees, customers and suppliers, and the local societies of the areas in which it operates. In addition to complying with all related laws and regulations, the OKI Group will implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms, and contribute to the improvement of the quality of life for people around the world. Customer Satisfaction The OKI Group is dedicated to developing and providing products and services that ensure continued customer satisfaction, in full consideration of safety and ease of use. Fair Corporate Activities The OKI Group conducts appropriate transactions and works to ensure fair, transparent, and free competition. Good Communication The OKI Group engages with society through a variety of interactions, and discloses company information in manners that are appropriate and fair. Intellectual Property and Information Management The OKI Group recognizes the importance of intellectual property, and properly manages and protects company and customer information, including personal information. Respect for Human Rights The OKI Group respects the human rights of all persons involved in its corporate activities and eliminates illicit discrimination of any kind. It does not allow child labor nor forced labor. A Better Working Environment The OKI Group ensures and maintains a safe and comfortable working environment for all employees. Respect for Employees Respecting the individuality of each employee, the OKI Group creates a corporate culture in which its personnel are encouraged to engage in challenges facing the group with courage and determination. Environmental Conservation In order to realize and pass on a better global environment, the OKI Group promotes environmental management and makes efforts to conserve the environment through its products and its business activities. Social Contribution As a good corporate citizen, the OKI Group implements social contribution activities dedicated to the betterment of society. Regional Awareness The OKI Group endeavors to build a positive relationship and grow together with local societies, respecting the cultures and customs of the countries and regions in which it operates. 2 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 The OKI Group, as described in its corporate philosophy, aims at contributing to improve the quality of life for people around the world through its core business, namely the manufacturing and distribution of products and services that can serve the development of the information age. Our commitment to the pursuit and fulfillment of this idea underlies the group’s corporate social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. Based on this understanding, in order to cohesively promote our CSR initiatives, we enacted the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, as a statement of values to be shared by all OKI Group companies. We also established “OKI Group Code of Conduct”, which is to be conformed to by all executives and employees of the group. We are working to thoroughly implement the charter and the code across the group, through various means such as training programs. We have also defined priority themes to be pursued. The CSR Division, an organization dedicated to CSR-related efforts, takes the initiative in promoting activities under these themes. We will continue to consider the United Nations Global Compact which states 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption, and the international standard ISO26000 regarding social responsibility. OKI Group will reconfirm the social responsibilities it should fulfill in its global corporate activities, and expectations from stakeholders. We will reconsider CSR activities from both aspects, and further strengthen contributions in our core business. Foundation of CSR at the OKI Group CSR Initiatives by the OKI Group Contributing to the Improvement of the Quality of Life Corporate Philosophy for People around the World Customers Shareholders/Investors Business Partners Local Communities Global Environment Governments NPO/NGO Statement of values OKI Group companies need to share Corporate Activities Creation of Economic Value コーポレート・ガバナンス Corporate Governance Corporate Governance OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct Respect for HumanRights IntellectualProperty and Customer Satisfaction Fair Corporate Activities Good Communication Respect for Employees A Better Social Contribution Regional Awareness Environmental Information Management Working Environment Code of conduct to be conformed by Conservation all OKI executive officersand employees Compliance OKI Group Code of Conduct Employees The OKI Group’s Activities Social Responsibilities Stakeholders in Business Participation in the United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment In May 2010, OKI signed the United Nations Global Compact Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; to declare its support for the Compact. It also became a member Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental of the Global Compact Japan Network, which is a local network responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally in Japan. The OKI Group supports the ten principles of the United conscious technologies. Nations Global Compact in the area of human rights, labor, Anti-Corruption environment and anti-corruption, and engages in activities for Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, helping create sustainable societies. including extortion and bribery. OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 3 A Message from the President We keep people’s trust through our unlimited drive based on an “enterprising spirit” and sincere business activities. We execute our responsibilities toward while its ATMs and printers are widely used overseas. societies based on our corporate philosophy. In order to continue to live up to the expectations of customers OKI’s predecessor was Meikosha, the first communication as well as of societies even in this rapidly-changing era, Mid-term device manufacturer in Japan. Its founder, Kibataro Oki, founded Business Plan 2016, announced in November, 2013, stated the Meikosha in 1881, just 5 years after Graham Bell had invented management policy of “Realize sustainable growth through telephones. His challenge for the domestic production of phone continuous investment by securing stable profitability.” At the devices had led to building the foundation of the OKI Group today. same time, the OKI Group also proposed its ideal image, namely Our corporate philosophy, “The people of OKI, true to the to “become a high-value added creation group, contributing to the company’s ‘enterprising spirit,’ are committed to creating superior realization of safe and comfortable society.” The OKI Group will network solutions and providing excellent information and accelerate activities toward growth with the following three pillars; communications services globally to meet the diversified needs of “Expanding business in global markets,” with its ATMs and printers communities worldwide in the information age.,” has inherited the as its core, “Supporting customers’ ‘asset-free’ management,” strong determination it has held since its foundation to “create new through the cloud services maintenance and EMS businesses, and businesses with new technologies” and “make the world more “Realization of safe and comfortable society” through ICT. At the convenient,” and has become the core of what the OKI Group same time, it will achieve its ideal image as a high-value added considers “corporate social responsibility (CSR).” creation group by placing each individual employee’s “Marketing and Innovation” as its activity focus. We contribute to society through our products and services. We promote responsible corporate Based on this philosophy, the OKI Group’s mission is to management as a global corporation. contribute to society through our products and services. The OKI In order to advance responsible management, the OKI Group Group has been undertaking a series of activities to correctly has enacted and thoroughly implemented the OKI Group Charter understand the social needs, establish technologies, achieve quality of Corporate Conduct, the statement of values to be shared with to satisfy our customers, and sustain the maintenance system as all group companies, and the OKI Group Code of Conduct that part of our sales and marketing, technology development, should be conformed to by all executive officers and employees. production, and maintenance. As a result, the OKI Group now Part of such efforts was the enactment and thorough plays an important role in Japan for supplying and maintaining implementation of the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, various systems including telecommunication infrastructures for the statement of values to be shared with all group companies, telecom carriers, systems for financial institutions, and various and the OKI Group Code of Conduct that should be conformed to public systems such as transportation and disaster prevention, by all executive officers and employees. The Group also joined the 4 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 United Nations Global Compact in 2010, whose ten principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption are used as the Group’s references to further enhance its CSR activities. In the course of promoting its major pillar for the mid-term business plan, i.e. business expansion in the global market, the OKI Group will ensure to recognize and assume its responsibility as a global company while enhancing the Group’s governance, and work toward contributing to building sustainable societies. We contribute to the realization of a better global environment, in accordance with the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020. From this perspective, we believe that proactive actions for reducing environmental load are some of the most important corporate activities of the OKI Group. Taking the global environmental issues into consideration, the OKI Group has developed the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 for the purpose of contributing to the realization of a better global environment, in which the targets for 2020 are established in the following four areas; “Realization of low-carbon societies” “Prevention of pollution,” “Resource circulation” and “Biodiversity conservation.” To achieve these targets, we will enhance our efforts in business activities and products. This Social and Environmental Report 2014 is intended to help all stakeholders better understand the OKI Group’s initiatives. We sincerely hope that as many people as possible will read this report. Your honest opinions regarding our CSR initiatives would be greatly appreciated. June, 2014 President Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 5 Company Profile / Editorial Policy Company Profile 《 Net Sales 》 Profile Billions of yen 600 483.1 Corporate Name: Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. 432.7 455.8 423.5 Founded in: January 1881 400 Company Established: November 1,1949 Capital: 44 billion yen 238.8 226.0 Employees: 21,090 (Consolidated), 189.9 205.1 200 3,788 (Non-consolidated) * As of March 31, 2014 Head Office: 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan 0 TEL: +81-3-3501-3111 2010 2011 2012 2013 Consolidated Non-consolidated (Fiscal year) Business Segments Number of employees 《 Employees 》 25,000 Info-Telecom Systems 21,090 The OKI Group offers telecom systems, social infrastructure 20,000 systems, mechatronics systems, and solutions & services, 17,459 16,697 16,736 utilizing its core technologies of info-telecommunication and mechatronics, etc. 15,000 Printers 10,000 The OKI Group manufactures printers for business use utilizing its LED technology, and distributes them throughout the world. 5,000 3,373 3,678 3,788 3,103 EMS and Others The OKI Group offers EMS (Electronics Manufacturing Services) and other 0 services, based on its highly sophisticated design and production expertise 2010 2011 2012 2013 developed within the group. Consolidated Non-consolidated (Fiscal year) Editorial Policy ■The OKI Group “Social and Environmental Report” featuring our social [ Information featured in this report ] and environmental efforts and results is published in order to inform our greater Stakeholders’ interests ● Discussions related to GRI and stakeholders of the group’s CSR (corporate social responsibility) initiatives ISO26000 in an easy-to-understand way. Meeting ● Initiatives in the industry such as EICC, Stakeholders’ interests ■Since the establishment of CSR Promotional Organization in fiscal 2005, Our CSR GeSI and JEITA Commitments ● Opinions from stakeholders on last OKI has worked continuously with a focus on the defined activity areas year’s Social and Environmental Reports (currently 7 areas), assuming the OKI Group’s social responsibilities that ● Opinions from stakeholders collected through various surveys of employees are deeply rooted in our Corporate Philosophy. The present report mainly and others describes the results of the activities in each of these areas for fiscal 2013. ●Corporate governance ●Priority themes Significance to the OKI Group ■In the Special Features section, the two themes are featured as (Achievements in fiscal 2013) ● Corporate Philosophy “Meeting Our CSR Commitments.” In the articles, the important issues ● The OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct, the OKI Group Code of Conduct for the OKI Group as it works toward the achievement of the Mid-term [ Information provided on the website ] ● Mid-term Business Plan 2016 Business Plan 2016 are placed on the horizontal axis, while the global ●Priority themes (Policies and systems ● The OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 initiatives such as EICC and the stakeholders’ voices received in various and other related information) ● The OKI Group Environmental Policy ● The United Nations Global Compact aspects of the corporate activities are placed on the vertical axis. greater ● Priority themes about CSR Significance to the OKI Group ■Detailed information on each priority theme, such as that on specific ● Risk management and other issues policies and systems for it, are provided on our website. The information on the website also includes a comparative table that shows the ● GRI (Global Reporting Initiative): An international NGO that develops and relationship between the OKI Group’s CSR activities and the core disseminates globally applicable sustainability reporting guidelines. themes of ISO26000. ● ISO26000 (International Organization for Standardization 26000): An international standard providing guidelines for social responsibility Reference Guidelines (published in November, 2010). ‧ Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 4.0 (GRI) ● EICC (Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition): An alliance of electronic This report includes the information on items for standard disclosures manufacturers focusing on CSR that has enacted a code of conduct in indicated by GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. the supply chain. ‧ Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 (Ministry of the Environment) ● GeSI (The Global e-Sustainability Initiative): A partnership of information ‧ Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 (Ministry of the Environment) and communications technology companies that collaborates with EICC ‧ UN Global Compact COP (Communication on Progress) Policy about CSR management in the supply chain. 6 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 CONTENTS 《 Net Sales by Business Segment in fiscal 2013/Consolidated 》 Other 3.6% OKI Group’s CSR 2 EMS 7.7% A Message from the President 4 Info-telecom Company Profile / Editorial Policy 6 systems 483.1 62.9% CONTENTS 7 billion yen Printers Special Features: Meeting Our CSR Commitments 25.8% 1 Toward a High-value Added Creation Group Contributing to the Realization of a Safe and Comfortable Society 《 Net Sales by Market in fiscal 2013/Consolidated 》 On “Mid-term Business Plan 2016” 8 Other 4.1% China 10.5% 2 New Approach to the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 10 Japan Europe 69.8% 11.1% Corporate Governance 14 483.1 North billion yen Promoting CSR at the OKI Group 15 America 4.5% Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations 16 Information Security 17 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction 18 Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors 19 Respect for Employees 20 Scope Covered by this Report Social Contribution 21 Time Period Consideration for the Environment 22 This report covers fiscal 2013 (the year from April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014). However, the report also discusses some facts precedDetailed Data 24 ing this period, as well as policies and plans to be implemented in subsequent periods. Organizations The report covers the activities of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. (OKI), and its consolidated subsidiaries. However, the environmental performance data covers OKI’s 15 locations and 29 subsidiaries in Japan, and 37 overseas subsidiaries. Corporate Names / Names of Organizations Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. aims to be a globally known growth company. It is commonly called “OKI.” In this report, Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. is referred to as “OKI,” and its corporate group, including its subsidiaries and affiliates, as the “OKI Group.” The names of the organizations referred to in this report, in principal, are those used as of April 2014. Forecasts, Plans and Targets In addition to factual information about the past and current activities of the OKI Group, this report also includes forecasts, plans and targets for the future. They reflect assumptions and For further information, please contact judgments based on information available at the time of writing. Thus, readers are requested to understand that the future results of Oki Electric Industry Co., Ltd. CSR Division the company’s activities could be different from what is described email : oki-csr@oki.com in this report. OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 7 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Toward a High-value Added Creation Group Contributing to Special Feature 1 the Realization of a Safe and Comfortable Society On “Mid-term Business Plan 2016” In fiscal 2014, OKI launched various activities for the Mid-term Business Plan 2016 which ends in fiscal 2016. While engaging in continuous investments by securing stable profits, we will strive to become a high-value added creation group that contributes to the realization safe and comfortable society by achieving sustainable growth through enhanced overseas operations and participation in the infrastructure markets for the next-generation society. Moving from Mid-term Business Plan Securing Stable Profits and Achieving 2013 to Mid-term Business Plan 2016 Sustainable Growth During the period of its Mid-term Business Plan 2013 which Mid-term Business Plan 2016 will ensure that various ended in fiscal 2013, OKI engaged in “program for the measures are executed for “securing stable profits” and enhancement of management bases” and “a program for growth” “achieving sustainable growth,” as indicated in the management which were aimed at management reconstruction. In the process policy, with the objectives to achieve sales of 560 billion yen and of the enhancement of management basis, OKI operating income of 34 billion yen for fiscal 2016. successfully reduced a large amount of costs through various measures including retirement Securing Stable Profits benefit scheme reform, procurement cost We will generate stable profits in our base operations through reduction and effective human resource capturing demand for the renovation of social and distribution. The program for growth has also telecommunication infrastructure systems and streamlining produced successful results, including the various operations through productivity and design innovations introduction of ATM sales in China as a core and procurement cost reduction, in addition to securing operation, procurement of fire-fighting and opportunities for expanding domestic markets for financial defense demands in social infrastracture systems as well as ATM markets in China. ATM-Recycler G7, systems operations, and growth in the EMS now being (Electronics Manufacturing Services) business. introduced overseas Achieving Sustainable Growth With these achievements, in Mid-term Business Plan 2016, The three pillars, namely, “Expanding business in global which was launched in fiscal 2014, we shifted our focus from markets,” “Supporting customers’ ‘asset-free’ manegement,” “structual reforms” to “growth” and defined the OKI Group’s ideal and “Realization of safe and comfortable society” are established form as to “become a high-value added creation group, to add a new approach to encompass the changing business contributing to the realization of safe and comfortable society” environment. Together with the OKI Group’s dominant position, along with its management policy: “to realize sustainable growth which is the Group’s core property cultivated through the Group’s through continuous investment by securing stable profitability.” past activities, we will implement these three pillars to maximize We are determined to help in the improvement of our customers’ business opportunities and achieve sustainable growth. lives and their societies by providing safer and more comfortable products and services not only to the customers within the Expanding Business in Global Markets Japanese market, including customers in financial and In the ATM business, the core operation of OKI, we will telecommunications fields and public offices, but also the cultivate new markets following Chinese, Russian and Indonesian customers in global markets. For this purpose, we will take markets by leveraging the advantage of our cash recycling ATMs. advantage of the OKI Group’s strength to create products and As a part of this activity, OKI has launched an ATM business services that further add values. company in Brazil in January 2014 as a strategic site for the entire Central and South American markets, while establishing an ATM Ideal Form sales subsidiary in India in April. We will continue to expand our Become a high-value added creation group, line of products and services such as cash handling machines contributing to the realization of safe and comfortable society and deployment of maintenance services, along with the market Shift the mode toward expansion. “Stable profits & sustainable growth” Mid-term Business Plan 2016 <Stable profits and sustainable growth> Profit maximization through the base operations/ Maximization of business opportunities in the growth areas Mid-term Business Plan 2013 <Structual Reforms> program for the enhancement of management bases OKI Brasil: program for growth ATM business company in Brazil 8 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 In another core operation of OKI, through disaster prevention and reduction, maintenance of social printer operation, we will promote infrastructure, and next-generation traffic systems. In April 2014, global penetration to the office the company set up Next Social Infrastructure Business Planning solution (i.e. multi-functional devices) Taskforce to accelerate these activities. market and professional market with our high-value added products. Toward a High-value Added Creation MICROLINE VINCI C941dn, the LED color printer capable of 5-color printing Group Supporting Customers “Asset-free” Management In addition to the above-mentioned business strategies, we will OKI will enhance its cloud services “EXaaS,” which set priorities in our Mid-term Business Plan 2016 to promote incorporates the company’s advantages in hardware like ATMs, enhancement of the financial base, as well as implementation of information terminals and printers, in order to develop new various human resource-related measures such as global human markets. In the maintenance and EMS businesses, we will support resource recruitment/development and encouragement of the customers’ “asset-free” management through participation in diversity including promotion of female workforce members. By new sectors, including medical and new energy sectors. doing so, each individual employee in the OKI Group will be able to act in accordance with “Marketing and Innovation,” in which Realization of Safe and Comfortable Society he/she gains the customers’ and stakeholders’ viewpoints to Taking advantage of its areas of expertise such as sensing and understand what should be done to deliver true added network technologies, OKI will push for its entry into the high-values, leading the OKI Group toward its ideal form as a next-generation social infrastructure sector, with an aim to high-value added creation group. contribute to the realization of safe and comfortable society Realization of Sustainable growth ATM Printers EXaaS Expanding Business in global markets Enter field of EMS ●Development of new ATM markets and product expansion next-generation social infrastructure ●Introduction of high-value added printer products Supporting Customers’ “asset-free” management Expa ●Enhanced EXaas services and market development taking in glo nd busine bal m s arket s s advantage of our ATM, information terminal and printer businesses Su p ma port ●Cultivate medical and new energy fields with maintenance and nag ‘a em sset high-end EMS operations ent -fre e’ Re Realization safe and Comfortable Society co ali m zat (Entering field of next-generation social infrastructure) fo io rta n ble sa ●Disaster prevention & reduction, and maintenance of social so fe a cie nd ty infrastructure taking advantage of sensing and network technologies Core businesses Securing Stable Profits Mechatronics/ Printers / Solutions & Services/ Telecom systems/ Social systems/EMS ●Market expansion in Japanese financial market and Chinese ATM market ●Procurement of demand for renovation of social/telecom infrastructure Solid management base ●Business structural reform, and streamlining of operations Industry-Academic Collaboration Project IC S between OKI Data & HAL Tokyo TOP MICROLINE VINCI CM Production Contest OKI Data, a company engaging in the printer business, released “MICROLINE VINCI C941dn” in fiscal 2013, a highly regarded 5-colored printer for professional use capable of printing spot colors on a wide range of media. The commercial ad for this product was solicited through “MICROLINE VINCI CM Production Contest”, held by OKI Data in January 2014 in collaboration with HAL Tokyo, an incorporated technical school. The participants of this contest submitted their works for judgement. 95 HAL Tokyo students in the IT and digital contents courses with aspirations to become future pioneers of the design industry, participated in the contest, and competed using their creativity. Production presentation and awards ceremony OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 9 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Special Feature 2 New Approach to the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 The OKI Group focuses on four areas for implementing activities based on its “Environmental Vision 2020,” developed in April 2012. Further improvement of our corporate value is expected through achievement of this Vision, after revising it to add more specific targets linked to the mid-term business plan. Aiming for Further Corporate Value Some major activities conducted in fiscal 2013 for achieving each goal are described in the following. Improvement through Implementation of High-level Environmental Management Realization of low-carbon Societies The OKI Group set out quantitative objectives for its Countermeasures against global warming are some of the OKI “Environmental Vision 2020,” in April 2014, to clarify the goal for Group’s major themes. The Group signed onto Keidanren's environmental load reduction. The Group will implement activities Commitment to a Low-carbon Society in March 2012, to promote to ensure the enhancement of its environmental management energy conservation measures in its business operations and promotion scheme aiming at achievement of these objectives. products. Here are the three specific target values; 1. Reduce energy use by 8%, in terms of consumption per Automated Teller Machines (ATMs) that nominal sales (corresponds to 12% reduction in terms of consumption per real sales) from fiscal 2012 Fulfill the Needs for Lower Power 2. Reduce emissions of chemical substances by 8% in terms Consumption of consumption per nominal sales (corresponds to 15.5% reduction in terms of consumption per real sales) from fiscal One of the OKI Group’s core products, 2012 automated teller machines (ATMs) continue 3. Increase amount of recycled used products by 25% from to evolve as they adapt to the customers’ fiscal 2012 requests. “ATM-BankIT Pro”, whose By achieving these objectives, we will also contribute to the shipping was launched in April 2013, conservation of biodiversity. successfully reduced its power Through the new approaches toward its Environmental Vision consumption during idle state between 2020, the OKI Group will contribute to becoming a high-value transactions to 75% lower than added creation group, which is the goal of its Mid-term Business conventional machines. The activities that Plan 2016. enabled this success are indicated below. ATM-BankIT Pro OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 The OKI Group will bring about and pass on a better global environment to the next generation. For this purpose, the Group will promote environmental management and implement proactive measures to achieve the objectives for 2020 in the following four themes; “Realization of low-carbon societies”, “Prevention of pollution”, “Resource circulation” and “Biodiversity conservation”. 1. Realization of low-carbon Societies 3. Resource circulation Maximize energy consumption efficiency in the business operations, Increase the amount of recycling of used products by 25% and reduce energy consumption by 8% per nominal sales from fiscal 2012. In addition, minimize the new input (corresponds to 12% reduction per real sales) from fiscal 2012. resources through expanded recycling of waste materials, Contribute to the realization of low-carbon societies by continuously reduced input material during production and promotion of providing environmentally friendly products and services. environmentally friendly designs. 2. Prevention of pollution 4. Biodiversity conservation Reduce emission of chemical substances, that can adversely affect Engage in conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity people’s health and environment, into the atmosphere and water through prevention of global warming, prevention of air and system by 8% per nominal sales (corresponds to 15.5% reduction water pollution caused by chemical substances, expansion per real sales) from fiscal 2012. of recycling processes and minimization of new input resources. 10 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Establishing the Shortest Routes for Banknote Transport Saving Electricity in the Clean Rooms The banknote transport routes, previously very complicated, was simplified and minimized, while reducing the number of OKI Digital Imaging, a Group engaging in development and electronic components controlling the media transport, and manufacturing of print heads of LED printers, formed a project team controlling the electric power to cut power consumption. to comply with the power consumption restriction code that was enacted after the Great East Japan Earthquake in 2011. The team’s Expanding the Scope of Power Supply Reduction during Idle energy-saving activities still continue today. Various activities, State (between Transactions) including renewal of air-conditioning systems and the use of partitions Power consumption during idle state (between transactions) to limit the air-conditioned areas, were implemented to reduce power was significantly reduced after expanding the application scope of consumption. Among these activities, the one that rendered a power supply reduction during such periods to the bill identificasignificant result was the improvement in the operation of refrigerating tion sensors, etc. machines, which consume large amounts of electricity to control Introduction of Advanced Technologies Contributing to temperatures and humidity in the clean room, the heart of production. Power Reduction The two refrigerating machines operate at full capacity during the Power reduction was achieved through the introduction of summer season due to the large amount of refrigerated water power-saving CPUs (Mobile CPUs) and LED backlighting for required for cooling and dehumidification. To increase the efficiency of display areas. Moreover, highly power-saving, fast accessible and their operation, enforced temperature control was implemented for the impact-resistant SSD* were introduced in addition to the refrigerated water to be supplied to air conditioners. Further reduction conventional HDDs. Although a short rewritable life of the SSD of power consumption was achieved by reviewing and relaxing the was the issue at its introduction, it was resolved by distributing control criteria of temperature and humidity in each area. In fiscal the blocks for rewriting (i.e. leveling the numbers of rewrites). 2011, peak power was reduced by 28.6% from the previous year. Redundant systems and high-level monitoring further enhanced As a result, in 2013, even during August when power these measures. The utilization of these advanced technologies consumption reached its peak, has simultaneously enabled ATM’s “reduced power consumption” refrigerated water was accumulated in and “stable quality”. the morning to be used in the * SSD (Solid State Drive): A memory device utilizing flash memories as its afternoon from 13:00 to 16:00, data recording medium. allowing the two refrigerating machines to be turned off during these hours. Also, it was Turbo refrigerating machine demonstrated that the humidity ■Comparison of Power Consumption Reduction control criteria could still be met even though the machines were (vs. OKI’s Conventional Machines) turned off for five hours at night, which indicated that the refrigerating Conventional machines (ATM-BankIT) machines could be turned off for an extended period of time. Power consumption during normal mode: approx. 340W ■Shift in Power Consumption of OKI Digital Imaging (kwh) 9,000,000 8,000,000 ATM-BankIT Pro ATM-BankIT Pro ▲13% ▲13% 《During energy-saving mode》 《During normal mode》 7,000,000 ▲22% Power consumption: Approx. 80W Power consumption: Approx. 190W 6,000,000 75% power consumption 45% power consumption reduction reduction 5,000,000 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) ■Comparison of Power Consumption Based on the Transaction Flow (vs. OKI’s Conventional Machines) ATM-BankIT ATM-BankIT Pro :Power consumption reduction Power consumption Transaction Transaction Transaction Transaction Transaction Transaction approx. in progress in progress 340W in progress in progress in progress in progress Standby Standby Standby approx. approx. 190W 170W Energy-saving mode Standby Standby Standby approx. 80W Energy-saving mode OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 11 Meeting Our CSR Commitments Prevention of Pollution substances in products, assesses the conformity with regulations such as RoHS Directive and REACH Regulation, and provides Ever stricter regulations have been imposed on chemical features for managing related documents. This system is used by substances that can affect people’s health and the environment, a wide range of customers mainly in the electrical and electronics of which measures include expanded coverage of substances industries. The system, with its new features for implementing and revised emission caps. In order to properly meet these operative improvements and compatibility with the latest regulations, the OKI Group is engaging in various activities regulations and industry-standard investigation tools, has helped including adequate management of chemical substances in improve conformity with regulations as well as investigation products or those handled during the production processes, use efficiency. of alternative substances with less adverse impact, and COSMOS-R/R’s assessment function was further enhanced in usage/emission reduction. fiscal 2013, allowing the conformity assessment for more regulations. Assessments of the conformity with the Packaging Information System for Complying with Material Directive and RoHS Directive, using JAMP’s* the Regulations of Chemical communication tools, which had been difficult with previous information systems of a similar type, have now become possible, Substances in Products leading to improved operative efficiency. * JAMP: Joint Article Management Promotion-consortium. OKI’s COINServ-COSMOS-R/R, an information system used The consortium established in September 2006 with the aim to promote to track chemical substances in products (hereinafter referred to the establishment of concrete mechanisms for properly managing as “COSMOS-R/R”) manages and calculates the chemical chemical substance information and for disclosing and transmitting such information smoothly within the supply chains. ■Outline of System to Manage and Calculate Chemical Substances in Products C O I N S e rv-C O S MO S R /R AIS MSDSplus Product SVHC: Chemical contents Calculation/assessment/regulatory judgment JGPSSI MSDSplus composition Calculate, Chemical contents sheet → AIS data determine registration � AIS conversion submission, function monitor Submission � MSDSplus Supplies registration AS connection module composition � JGPSSI data registration Number of Packaging composition units shipped Handle latest formats data JAMP registration Report to application consumers service Composition data association (AS) Capable of determining conformity with various regulations and system improvement Create Judgment by the directive on packaging AIS/JGP Report to materials/corporate standards sheet downstream companies JAMP information Regulatory judgment/ core global definition setting functions portal (GP) Collect chemical substance data Assess design Product data report ICS TOP Industry leading “Revised RoHS Directive Compliance Support Services” Launched In January 2014, OKI Engineering launched a one-stop service for providing support for collecting information on chemical substances, analyzing constituents for the 6 hazardous substances, and obtaining CE marks* for electrical and electronic products under the scope of “Revised RoHS Directive.” Support is available for medical equipment, to which the regulations will be applicable in the future. Conformity with RoHS Directives is assessed in each stage of design, material procurement, prototype and mass production, and comprehensive support is offered for preparation of technical documents, etc. * Refers to European Conformity. A mark indicating a product’s conformity with European directives, including Analyzing the constituents for the 6 hazardous substances RoHS Directive. 12 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Special Feature 2 New Approach to the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 Management and Reduction of Chemical Biodiversity Conservation Substances in Business Activities The OKI Group has carried out forest conservation activities The OKI Group makes continuous efforts for proper with the participation of volunteering employees since the 1990’s, management and operational improvement of chemical substances and co-sponsored the National School and Kindergarten Biotope which are used during production, in order to promote the Contest held by the Ecosystem Conservation Society-Japan reduction of their use as well as emissions. The Group continues to since fiscal 2001. In fiscal 2010, the Group endorsed the engage in such activities as substitution for less hazardous chemical Declaration of Biodiversity by Nippon Keidanren, and participated substances and reduction of input through better operations. in the Japan Business & Biodiversity Partnership to promote its involvement. ■Shift in Use and Emission Amount of Substances Covered In fiscal 2013, the Group made an assessment of its business by PRTR t Use Emission activities’ dependency and impact on eco-system services using 120 113.6 the Corporate Ecosystem Services Review (ESR), a method 109.1 101 published by the World Business Council for Sustainable 93.1 90 Development (WBCSD). The assessment results showed a high dependency on the provisioning services of paper and fresh water 60 used for cleaning and cooling, while a high impact was observed 46.9 in the regulating services that affect climate changes by 30 21.1 greenhouse gases emitted into the atmosphere through the use 15.6 16.2 17.7 9.6 of electricity during the business activities and product use. To 0 address these results in an effective manner, the Group will 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) continue to promote the themes of its Environmental Vision including “Realization of low-carbon societies (e.g. greenhouse Resource Circulation gas emission reduction),” “Prevention of Pollution (e.g. of water systems, the atmosphere and soil)” and “Resource circulation The OKI Group is actively involved in resource saving and (e.g. expansion of recycling and minimization of new input recycling in its business activities. When recycling its used resources),” in order to contribute to biodiversity conservation. products, the Group utilizes the Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme in order to expand further waste The OKI Group will continue to implement pro-active activities treatment. In fiscal 2014, the Group aims to expand its treatment toward the achievement of its “Environmental Vision 2020,”, and amount by adding consumables to the applicable used products. bring about a better global environment to pass on to the next generation. ■Shift in Amount Treated Using Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme t ■Assessment Result of Dependency & Impact 3,600 3,424 3,300 on Ecosystem Services 2,870 2,700 Corporate operations Customers Eco-system services Dependency Impact Dependency Impact 1,800 Provisioning services 1,453 Wood and other wood fibers ●― 900 Fresh water ●― Regulating services Climate regulation (at the global scale) ●― ●― 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 (FY) ● High ○ Medium ＋ Positive impact ― Negative impact ICS TOP Eliminating Alien Plants in Shenzhen, China In April 2013, OKI Electric Industry (Shenzhen), the OKI Group’s affiliated company in China, carried out an activity to eradicate Mikania micrantha, a alien plant, with the participation of approximately 100 volunteering employees. Mikania micrantha is listed as one of the World's 100 Worst Invasive Alien Species, issued by the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN), and causes a serious impact on the native ecosystem. Eliminating non-native plants OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 13 Corporate Governance The OKI Group regards ongoing improvements in corporate value as its most important management priority in its quest to earn the trust of stakeholders. To this end, we are working to reinforce corporate governance based on our fundamental policies, including “the enhancement of management fairness and transparency,” “the acceleration of decision-making processes,” and “full compliance and fortification of risk management.” Corporate Governance Structure Committee Organizations OKI maintains a corporate auditor system, with a Board of As part of its efforts to reinforce corporate governance, the Directors and an Audit & Supervisory Board. To enhance Compensation Committee, whose members include an outside management efficiency, it has also introduced an executive officer director, takes responsibility for ensuring transparency in the system, with the aim of separating the roles of the Board of criteria and mechanisms used to set executive remuneration. We Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board members/ Audit & have set up the Risk Management Committee to ascertain and Supervisory Board (supervision and auditing of business address risks related to our business activities. We also have the execution) and executive officers (business execution). CSR Committee to deliberate basic policies related to our CSR The Board of Directors makes decisions on fundamental activities as well as several dedicated committees. These include management policies and other important issues, and also the Compliance Committee to deliberate fundamental supervises the execution of business. Audit & Supervisory Board compliance-related policies and the Information Security members audit the business execution functions of directors— Committee to ensure the thorough implementation of information based on audit policies and methods decided at Audit & security measures. In addition, the Disclosure Committee ensures Supervisory Board meetings—through attendance to Board of that disclosure to stakeholders is accurate and timely. Directors’ meetings and other important meetings. Audit & Supervisory Board members also liaise closely with the accounting auditors and the Internal Auditing Division to accurately ascertain Internal Control the overall status of company operations as well as to carry out audits of business executions. The Board of Directors and Audit & In accordance with Japan’s Companies Act and the Ordinance Supervisory Board include three independent director/Audit & for Enforcement of the Companies Act, the Board of Directors in Supervisory Board members who have no conflict of interest with May 2006 passed a resolution concerning the Basic Policy for the general shareholders. Establishment of an Internal Control System and OKI has been The Executive Officer Committee makes decisions related to developing a system to secure appropriate business operations. the execution of Group operations. Through participation by all Pursuant to the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act, we also executive officers, the Committee seeks to accelerate have an internal control reporting system in place, through which decision-making and business advancement and clarify business we submit internal control reports to the Kanto regional bureau of responsibilities. the Ministry of Finance and disclose the assessment results of the effectiveness of internal controls related to financial reporting. ■Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Selection / Dismissal / Supervision Audit & Supervisory Board Board of Directors including Outside Audit & including Outside Compensation Committee Accounting Auditors Collaboration Supervisory Board Members Audit Director Supervision President Risk Management Committee Internal Auditing Audit Executive Officer Committee Collaboration CSR Committee Audit Division Corporate Compliance Committee Marketing & Sales Section Business Section Information Security Committee Audit Subsidiaries and Affiliates Disclosure Committee 14 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Promoting CSR at the OKI Group In order to comply with CSR that is rooted in our corporate philosophy, the seven priority themes shown in the table below are promoted by the Group’s organization dedicated to CSR promotion through collaboration with related divisions. The CSR Division, which had specialized in the activities, was integrated into the Corporate Planning Division in April 2014 in order to strengthen its governance. In the following pages, the details of activities carried out in fiscal 2013 for each theme are explained. CSR Priority Themes: Focal Points and Achievements Priority Themes Focal Points for Fiscal 2013 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Focal Points for Fiscal 2014 Full Compliance ●Solid sharing and communication ●Establishment of fundamental ●Enhanced responses to overseas of risk information, and anti-corruption policies and their compliance risks with Laws and enhancement of its management implementation within the Group ●Enhancement of measures to Regulations ●Enhancement of measures to communicate the contents of ●Awareness survey for confirming training effects and their issues communicate the contents of education programs P16 education programs Information ●Safe use of smartphones ●Expansion of the environment for ●Enhancement of security ●Deploy information security smartphone usage through OKI’s management in oversea sites Security management policy to overseas cloud services ●Enhanced responses to cyber P17 sites ●Establishment of guidelines for 9 overseas sites attacks Improvement of ●Enhance quality control training, ●Enhance quality control training ●Enhance quality control training, matching unique aspects of in business units matching unique aspects of Customer business ●Development of applications for business Satisfaction ●Expansion of the application range of universal design technique supporting barrier-free tourism ●Implementation of investigations ●Expansion of the application range of universal design technique P18 on CSR procurement and ●Further promotion of CSR conflict minerals procurement Good ●Fair and timely disclosure of how ●Business briefing meeting on the ●Disclosure of activity status for the the mid-term business plan is mid-term business plan Mid-term Business Plan 2016 in a Communication being implemented in its final fiscal ●Thorough communication of timely and appropriate manner with Shareholders year revised provisions for preventing insider trading and Investors P19 Respect for ●Recruitment and training of ●Launching of the Diversity ●Promotion of diversity diverse human resources Promotion Team ●Continuing entrenchment of the Employees ●Continuing entrenchment of the ●Support for employment of supports for the development of the P20 supports for the development of the next generation challenged people ●Introduction of a scheme for next generation ●Continuing promotion of work-life ●Continuing promotion of work-life granting paid vacation on an balance balance hourly basis for different ●Continuing support for the mental ●Continuing support for the mental purposes and physical health of employees and physical health of employees Social ●Study for continuation of Great ●Participation in new activities ●Continuing activities for East Japan Earthquake aimed at long-term reconstruction support Contribution reconstruction assistance reconstruction support ●Continuing promotion of social P21 ●Continuing promotion of contribution activities inside and ●Implementation of activities leading to educational support in contribution activities inside and outside Japan outside Japan Japan and overseas Consideration for [Realization of low-carbon societies] [Realization of low-carbon societies] [Realization of low-carbon societies] ●Improvement of OKI Group’s ●Realization of improvement goal ●Increase in energy consumption the Environment basic unit for CO2 emissions for OKI Group’s specific energy efficiency in business activities P22 ●Start full scale operation for Nippon keidanren’s commitment consumption ●Start full scale operation for ●Minimization of CO2 emissions through innovation of products with to a low-carbon society Nippon keidanren’s commitment low power consumption to a low-carbon society [Prevention of pollution] [Prevention of pollution] [Prevention of pollution] ●Improve operational procedures ●Completion of incorporation of ●Reduction of emissions of and IT systems in compliance with measures for revised RoHS hazardous chemical substances relevant laws and regulations, as Directive/REACH Regulations. into air and water systems well as industry standards Completion of enhanced ●Improvement of compliance with compliance judgment using regulations on chemical substances JAMP AIS information in products [Resource circulation] [Resource circulation] [Resource circulation] ●Establish targets for reducing ●Examine targets for reducing ●Continuing examination of the materials newly input at materials newly input at targets for reduction of new input production sites, and recycling production sites, and recycling materials ratio targets ration targets ●Expansion of the treating amount of the Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme [Biodiversity conservation] [Biodiversity conservation] [Biodiversity conservation] ●Study and build assessment ●Assessment of impact on ●Involvement in prevention of methods eco-system services using ESR pollution from a biodiversity assessment tools viewpoint ●Development of future engagement policies OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 15 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Full Compliance with Laws and Regulations The OKI Group has worked to strengthen compliance, in order to comply with all related laws and regulations and implement sound corporate activities consistent with social norms. Under the leadership of the Compliance Committee headed by the Chief Compliance Officer, we focus on the enhancement of training and the promotion of integrated, systematic, companywide risk management. Furthermore, we have established consultation and reporting channels as well as whistle-blowing regulations such as those about the protection of whistle-blowers. We thus try to discover and rectify improper activities at an early stage. appointing the controlling divisions, implementing preventive Enhancement of Compliance Training measures within the Group and carrying out regular verification of In order to deploy compliance-related measures across the group, the implementation status. the OKI Group gives training sessions for Compliance Managers at six In fiscal 2013, some improvements were made in the sites in Japan as its regular training. Participants learn in these implementation methods of preventive measures, in such a way sessions, and roll out this that the operational headquarters could manage their compliance knowledge in their business units. risks more precisely in their own operations, including the ؕᄽዻ 䖃㻻㻷㻵䜾䝹䞊䝥⾜ືつ⠊ 䛂බṇ䛺௻ᴗάື䛃 Question CASE The deployment of such knowledge No.13 27 ࡽẨӳẟỉႻ৖ầӒᅈ˟ႎѬщểЙଢẲẺỤ ἉἋἘἲೞ֥ỉࡽẨӳẟầẝụẆấܲಮỉểẮỨửᚧբẲộẲẺẇՠԼỉᛟଢểấܲಮỉắࠎஓễỄử operations of the group companies under their responsibility. is checked through an e-learning ˨ẾềẨộẲẺẇẲẦẲᚧբέỉᅈ‫ދ‬ửỊẳỜᅈϋỉᩎ‫׊‬ൢầẆỄạờ˂ỉ˟ᅈểီễỦज़ẳỂẲẺẇ ᩼ࠝỆൢỆễẾẺỉỂẆẟỨẟỨᛦỔẺểẮỨẆӒᅈ˟ႎѬщỆ‫ޓ‬ẴỦ‫˳ׇ‬ầኺփẴỦ˟ᅈểẟạẮ ểầỪẦụộẲẺẇẮỉέỄạẲẺỤợẟỂẲỢạẦᾎ program for all executive officers Answer and employees of the group. Ӓᅈ˟ႎѬщồἉἋἘἲೞ֥ởᡫ̮ೞ֥ễỄử੩̓ẴỦẮểỊẆࢬỤỉ෇ѣửяᧈẴỦẮểỆ ếễầụộẴẇᡫࠝỉՠӕࡽỂኳỪụẸạẻẦỤẆႺ੗ỉᘮܹầễẟẦỤẆ٥ɥỆếễầỦẦỤẆ Establishment of the Fundamental Anti-Corruption Policies for the Group ể‫ܤ‬ତỆՠᛩửᡶỜỦẮểỊẆᵭᵩᵧầӒᅈ˟ႎѬщỉ෇ѣỆңщẲềẟỦ࢟ỆễụộẴẇ In addition, various measures are Ắỉợạễ‫ئ‬ӳỊẆҥ཯ỂЙૺẴỦẮểễẪẆႺẼỆɥᧈỆ‫إ‬ԓὉႻᛩẲẆӕࡽửᚐෞẴỦễỄ ᢘЏễϼፗửӕụộẲỢạẇ‫ئ‬ӳỆợẾềỊẆἅὊἯἾὊἚỉ‫ᧉݦ‬ᢿፙởᜩ‫ݑ‬Ệਦᅆửˏẫ࣏ᙲ ờЈềẨộẴỉỂẆଔỜỆ৑ሥዮѦᢿᧉỆႻᛩẲềẪẻẰẟẇ promoted to communicate the In December 2013, OKI established “Fundamental Rules ᚐ ᛟ இᡈ↖↞ദ˳⇁ᨨↆ↕ኺฎӕࡽ↚Ӹ⇁͈↹↕˖ಅ↚੗ᡈↈ↺⇗∞⇟ⅻ‫ٶ‬ⅾ↙→↕ⅳ↭ training information in specific against Bribery,” along with “OKI Group Anti-Corruption and ↈ⅛फⅳʙ७↚↙↸↙ⅳ↎↰↚⅚ӕࡽ↝᧏‫↚ڼ‬ⅱ↎→↕↞⅚Ⴛ৖ⅻӒᅈ˟ႎѬщ↖↞↙ ⅳⅺ⅚ʙЭ↚җЎᛦ௹∝ᄩᛐↈ↺ↂ↗ⅻ‫ٻ‬Џ↖ↈ⅛ formats, including the booklet Anti-Bribery Policy” the group policies for fully informing and ↭↎⅚բ᫆ⅻឪↂ↹↌ⅵ↙‫ئ‬ӳ↚↞⅚ൿↆ↕ ҥ཯↖ᚐൿↆ↷ⅵ↗࣬↾↙ⅳↂ↗ⅻ˴↷↹↱᣻ ᙲ↖ↈ⅛࣏ᙲ↚ࣖↇ↕⇙∞∃−∞⇮↝‫ᧉݦ‬ᢿፙ called “Case Examples of implementing the rules within the Group. These rules and policies ↳ᜩ‫↝ݑ‬щ⇁͈↹↺ↂ↗⇁़ↆ⇂↖↞ⅳↀ↭↊ ⇂⅛⇖∑∞⇽˖ಅ↚↓ⅳ↕↱‫↞ࣖݣ‬ӷಮ↖ↈ⅛ Compliance” and regular articles in take account of the global trends toward stricter sanctions our company news (Intranet) that imposed by laws and regulations relating to anti-corruption (e.g. features possible complianceForeign Corrupt Practices Act, and UK Bribery Act), and set out 䕔㛵㐃ἲ௧ 䛂௻ᴗ䛜཯♫఍ⓗໃຊ䛻䜘䜛⿕ᐖ䜢㜵Ṇ䛩䜛䛯䜑䛾ᣦ㔪䛃 䛂ྛ㒔㐨ᗓ┴䛻䛚䛡䜛䛀ᭀຊᅋ᤼㝖᮲౛䛁䛃 related issues in operations and Article explaining compliance examples 13 the fundamental points for carrying out operations properly while actions to be taken. complying with the related regulations applicable to each country As a part of the recurrence prevention measures for addressing and region in which the OKI Group operates. By March 2014, all of the inappropriate accounting practices in the previous year, the the OKI Group companies both in Japan and overseas had above-mentioned regular training sessions and trainings for each adopted these “Fundamental Policies.” rank were held in fiscal 2013 to fully implement the newly established In fiscal 2014, the OKI Group will continue to further inform and “Compliance Commitment” and the revised “OKI Group Code of implement these policies to its employees through training, and Conduct” that aims at fostering the corporate culture in which proceed with the operation of specific rules concerning gift-giving people “express, encourage others to express and listen,” as well as and business entertainment for clients. the procedures for responding to risks. Furthermore, a compliance awareness survey was held in February 2014 for confirming the Joining GC-JN’s Anti-Corruption Working Group effects and issues of this training and reflecting them to new actions. The results showed the improved awareness from the previous year OKI is a managing member of the Anti-Corruption in regards to the structure for responding to the risks. Working Group of Global Compact Japan Network (GC-JN), which was established in fiscal 2013. The Working Group ■Participation rates in compliance training programs (for the OKI Group in Japan) in fiscal 2013 shares issues for engaging in anti-corruption measures with the participant companies, promotes information exchanges Training session for Compliance Managers with experts in Japan and overseas, and discusses Focused themes: Revised Code of Conduct, laws related 100% anti-corruption measures that should be taken by the to financial report, labor-related risks (e.g. harassment), actions to be taken in the event of risks participant companies of the UN Global Compact. e-learning program (about on-the-job compliance) 100% Emergency / Disaster Response Ensuring Risk Information Sharing and The OKI Group has established “Safety Countermeasure Communication, Enhancing Management Committees” at its domestic and overseas sites, as well as in its In October 2012, OKI set up the Risk Management Committee group companies, in order to ensure “protect people lives“ “prevent (with the President as Committee Chairman, and outside director secondary accidents“ “contribute to local communities and foster and company audit & supervisory board members as advisors), good relationships with them“ and “continuity of business operations“ whose meetings have been held on a regular basis to uncover in the event of disasters. For “continuity of business operations“ each various risks involving its business activities in a precise manner business and corporate (headquarter) division develops a Business and to prevent them from materializing. Continuity Plan, or BCP, based on BCP Development Guidelines. The At the same time, the compliance risks (i.e. risks associated contents of the BCP are reviewed annually. with violation of laws, regulations and in-house rules) requiring In fiscal 2013, the Group’s emergency communication structure common management across the Group are managed by the was reviewed to address various risks in a precise and prompt Compliance Committee, who establishes and manages the manner. The revised structure was notified and implemented management cycle of defining such risks as “registered risks,” thoroughly across the Group through Intranet and training. 16 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Information Security Based on the OKI Group Security Policy, the OKI Group has established a system to ensure information security under the leadership of the Information Security Committee. We properly manage and protect company and customer information, including personal information, through various activities such as reviews of efforts for information security (biannual), and information security audits. In order to enhance our preventive measures against threats to Three Perspectives of Information Security System computer security and improve our capacity to respond to them, As a company which provides products and services designed we established OKI-CRIST*1 as an organization specializing in for information security, in order to boost its own information responding to security accidents. It also coordinates our Group security, OKI Group uses the 3 perspectives shown in the diagram with outside organizations; Nippon CSIRT Association (NCA), below to advance its security measures. other company CSIRTs, related ministries and agencies, etc. In fiscal 2013, in order to address the increasing targeted Network invasion Verification of security patches IT usage email*2 attacks, OKI further strengthened the anti-virus measures detection and virus patterns monitoring and the exit controls for blocking the information leakage routes Systems for Visibility from infected PCs and servers. In addition, it informed its (monitoring, etc.) employees in a timely and appropriate manner through Intranet and company news to raise their awareness. OKI Group Information Security Basic Policy *1 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team Systems for Support (IT governance) Systems for Protection *2 Targeted email: Email sent to a specific organization or individual, as a cyberattack to (introduction of IT) (rules, training, etc.) steal information Management of confidential Clarification of data definition and data using a shared server regularization of business processes Development of IT infrastructure Implementation of information security training Enhanced Actions at Overseas Sites Since fiscal 2008, the OKI Group has promoted the implementaIn fiscal 2013, as part of “Systems for Support,” OKI’s own tion of information security measures at Chinese site. As we have cloud services for smartphones called EXaaS Mobile Desk Service, worked to apply anti-virus software suited for viruses observed in of which introduction was initiated in the previous fiscal year, was China, set up the local help-desk system, and implemented measures applied to all internally-connected smartphones, putting in place for information leakage via mobile PCs, the implementation level has an environment that allows safe and easy access to in-house almost been reduced to the level of the Group companies in Japan. information. In fiscal 2013, enhancement of security measures was also launched in the other Asian sites as well as Oceania sites, by ■Major activities in fiscal 2013 establishing the Information Security Guidelines for 9 sites and Systems for Visibility • Further enhancement of monitoring for cyber attacks designating security managers at each site. Systems for Support • Full implementation of safe use of smartphones Systems for Protection • Collective training for staff members responsible for promoting the introduction of information security measures Promotion of Acquiring ISMS Certification in all divisions of OKI and the Group members (June) The OKI Group is working to acquire the ISMS* certification for • E-learning sessions on “Personal Information Protection and Information Security” for all employees (August) divisions involved in building and operating internal information • “Information Security Simultaneous Inspection” covering systems, and for divisions engaged in general system design all the employees (October) development, in order to improve the reliability of network solution construction and related services. As of June 2014, five companies and seven business units of the OKI Group are ISMS-certified “Visualization” of Action Implementation Level organizations, and are currently proceeding with the review of at the Supplier Side provisions that are applicable to the standard revisions for fiscal Aiming at an improved information security level across the 2013. supply chain, OKI continuously verifies how the information * ISMS: Information Security Management System security measures are implemented at the suppliers to which we provide critical confidential information. Specifically, we ask our suppliers to carry out self-evaluations based on the check list Enhancing the Protection of prepared by OKI. The results are converted into points using our Personal Information unique method, to allow sharing of their activities and issues. In The OKI Group has enhanced the protection of personal fiscal 2013, OKI used these self-evaluations to share the issues information, based on the Privacy Policy. We have committed to with the suppliers whose previous survey had rendered a relatively the protection of personal information under the leadership of our low evaluation, with the intention of solving the problems. As a Chief Privacy Officer. Privacy managers have been appointed at result, all the targeted suppliers achieved “high evaluation” against the corporate level, and in business units and group companies. the OKI’s criteria. The OKI Group has also promoted its group companies’ acquisition of the PrivacyMark certification, so they can take OKI-CSIRT for Prompt Response appropriate measures to protect personal to Security Accidents information. OKI and seven group OKI has established an organization specializing in security companies have acquired the PrivacyMark incident responses called OKI-CSIRT*1, which collaborates with certification as of June 2014. OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 17 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Improvement of Customer Satisfaction Under its quality philosophy of “providing products that always make customers happy,” OKI incorporates its “Product Safety Basic Policy” and related rules into its quality control system and operates them in accordance with the nature of each operation. Furthermore, we have obtained ISO9001 certification at all our production sites, and have built the most appropriate quality control system for each production line or product. Also, continuous efforts are being made in each operation to incorporate the customers’ voices, which are received through daily communication and the surveys on their satisfaction levels, to improve our products, services and systems. participants were divided into ATM and printer categories to Newly Established Engineering Support Center compete using their ability to provide customer support, in a In April 2014, OKI established the Engineering Support Center simulated situation in which a customer’s device failed to function. at its corporate headquarters to strengthen the support across the They demonstrated how they could perform each process from Group in such areas as quality, engineering and production. By customers’ perspectives, starting from the site visit, repair concentrating functions such as production management, product operation to exit from the safety, the environment and intellectual property, which were site. The performance of the previously dispersed across the divisions, into this center, efficient top engineer can be viewed support can be provided to the manufacturing processes of from the company PCs and operational divisions and each Group member, while further smartphones which all CEs enhancing the risk management. possess, so that other CEs can learn how to excel in their maintenance operations and Improvement of Training on Quality customer services, leading to OKI has provided training on quality for different types of the improved service quality employees at different levels, such as when joining OKI, after of the entire Group. Performance at the printer division assigned to a department, and mid-level engineers. We have also offered various elective training programs, from among which each employee can choose the most appropriate program for his or her Universal Design Initiatives need. OKI Group achieves universal design at high levels of usability For example, case-study presentations are held biannually in and accessibility (consideration for the elderly and disabled, etc.). collaboration with its group company, OKI Software, at the We define this as a situation where all customers properly and Software center that provides support for software development efficiently use with satisfaction. User opinions gathered in for OKI’s information-related products, in order to put into practice verification experiments etc. are reflected in our products and our quality policy, “Act according to the basics, taking our services. 【 】 customers’ satisfaction into consideration,” based on our quality Example of introduction of universal design applied philosophy. Another signature activity is the training for thoroughly technology: implementing the operational rules for promoting product Sightseeing Application: Ise Tabi BarriPhone development projects. This training is intended for the thorough implementation of the interface unification between development In April 2013, OKI Consulting Solutions (OCS) fully launched an sites and the Software Center at each focusing point in the application named “Ise Tabi BarriPhone.” This smartphone & tablet projects. Other training programs include development of application is intended to assist pedestrians to walk around the quality-check specialists, or QAers, and “e-learning for field area, and was developed by OCS based on the plan by Ise Tabi operators,” held annually to prevent possible operational errors BarriPhone Development Council (Secretariat: NPO Iseshima that software engineers are Barrier Free Tour Center). likely to commit at the clients’ sites. In this manner, we strive for the improvement of both software and operational qualities across Ms. Ayumi Noguchi Secretariat of Ise Tabi BarriPhone Development Council all processes ranging from (Executive officer of Iseshima Barrier Free Tour Center) development to the operations at the clients’ There are countless types of disabilities sites. Quality training and accordingly, each person faces different types and degrees of barriers depending on his or her condition. Thus, mere information of whether certain places are barrier-free or not isn’t Activities for Improving Customer Satisfaction sufficient enough. A person can determine whether or not in Maintenance Services visiting a certain destination is possible, as well as what preparation he/she should make to visit there, if measurement OKI Customer Adtech, the company undertaking maintenance data on the uneven pavements and slopes that are found in that services, holds an annual “IT Technology Competition” for area is provided. Ise BarriPhone was developed as “a device customer engineers (CEs) who carry out maintenance operations enabling easy updates and anytime-anywhere uses” of such and failure handling at the customers’ sites, with the aim of information. I hope that similar services will be offered across improving their technical abilities and customer support. the country in future so that more physically challenged persons 19 CEs selected form branches and group companies across can enjoy sightseeing at various places. Japan participated in its 20th competition in November 2013. The 18 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 The application is intended to support the barrier-free tourism shops, as well as safe routes and barrier information required by of Ise Jingu, and developed by OCS with the mandate from the each person. Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism (MLIT), after the plan by the Development Council was adopted as MLIT’s “Local project for supporting pedestrians’ movements conforming Enhanced CSR Procurement Activities to universally-designed society.” Based on the tourism information To comply with social responsibilities while responding to our provision system called stakeholders’ and customers’ requests, cooperation from the “TweetLine@Kanko,” OCS suppliers within the supply chain is essential. Recognizing this has completed this point, OKI will dedicate itself to build a trusting relationship as a application that offers various partner, and promote CSR procurement based on the “OKI Group types of sightseeing contents Procurement Policy”. for various types of tourists In fiscal 2013, based on the Japan Electronics and Information visiting Ise Jingu, including Technology Industries Association (JEITA)’s “Supply-Chain CSR senior citizens and physically Deployment Guidebook,” we conducted a survey on our major challenged persons, suppliers in Japan, regarding their CSR promotion structures and providing them with the activities in the seven areas, including human rights, labor, information on facilities and App’s menu screen quality and safety, as well as their status of the use of conflict minerals. Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Good Communications with Shareholders and Investors The OKI Group appropriately discloses useful information to shareholders and investors in a timely and appropriate manner, including, management strategies and operating results. We actively work on disclosure and IR activities, focused on the IR Unit which is dedicated to such work. The group also makes every effort to prevent insider trading. OKI’s IR website received a bronze prize for “Gomez IR Site Corporate Briefing on Mid-term Business Plan Comprehensive Ranking 2013” released by Gomez Consulting OKI recognizes that the appropriate utilization of the views of (Gomez) under Morningstar Japan in April, 2013. the market in management practices and business activities serves to further increase operating efficiency and raises corporate value. Based on this recognition, the President and the other Thorough Prevention of Insider Trading members of the management team conduct investor briefings, In order to protect shareholders and investors and gain the hold IR meetings and engage in various other communication trust of securities markets, OKI Group clearly states in our OKI activities. In November 2013, corporate briefing was held to Group Code of Conduct that we will neither buy nor sell stock or explain the company’s mid-term business plan, where president other securities based on insider information, nor provide any such Kawasaki gave a review on the Mid-term Business Plan 2013 information to other parties. We strive to prevent insder trading. (from fiscal 2011 to 2013) In fiscal 2013, relevant rules were revised to better address the and explained the manageenhanced regulations on insider trading resulting from the ment policy, objectives and amendment of Financial Instruments and Exchange Act in April strategies for the Mid-term 2014, which was communicated thoroughly to the employees of Business Plan 2016 (from the Group through Intranet and company news. fiscal 2014 to 2016). Corporate Briefing (November, 2013) SRI Index Efforts A socially responsible investing (SRI) index is a stock index Communication via IR Website and Email Newsletters which looks at CSR as important evaluation criteria in addition to financial aspects. As of April 1, 2014, OKI is a stock in the OKI delivers e-mails called “OKI News Emails” (in Japanese and English) to approximately 1,500 corporate investors on an Morningstar Socially Responsible Investing Index (MS-SRI).* * The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first as-needed basis. The contents of the News Emails include financial socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects closing information, filing information for stock markets, press 150 companies from among companies in Japan by assessing their social responsibility, and converts their stock prices into the index. releases for new products and services, and IR Website updates. In order to maintain fairness in information disclosure, IR information, including financial closing information, is posted on its website (IR website) simultaneously in Japanese and English. The website is continuously improved to serve our investors better. OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 19 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Respect for Employees Believing that protection of each employee's human rights underlies all business activities, the OKI Group has proclaimed “Respect for Human Rights” in the OKI Group Charter of Corporate Conduct and the OKI Group Code of Conduct, and works for their thorough implementation through training new hires, training by rank, e-learning, etc. The group has a strong commitment to pursuing fair recruitment, and building work environments with respect for diversity based on its vision: “Pride, Passion and Sincerity.” Based on this basic concept, we have also made various efforts at overseas group companies, such as encouraging the acquisition of certifications on human rights and labor, and expanded and enhanced training and systems, meeting the needs of each country or region. Good Labor-Management Relationship Ongoing Support for Development of through Dialogue the Next Generation OKI respects the freedom of association and collective OKI was granted the “Act on Advancement of Measures to bargaining based on the laws in each country and region, and Support Raising Next-Generation Children” certification (nicknamed puts great importance on building trust between labor and “Kurumin”) by the Tokyo Labor Bureau in 2009 and 2012. management. In Japan, OKI holds general labor-management During fiscal 2013, efforts were made by the labor union and meetings between OKI’s top executives and union leaders, and management to fully inform our employees of various systems, divisional labor-management meetings, to sincerely exchange including teleworking, for supporting the development of the next opinions and information on the business environment and labor generation on the basis of “The 4th Action Plan issues. (from 2012 to 2014),” of which the concept is to “establishing work-family balance through various support programs that help employees Newly Established “Diversity Promotion Team” take specific actions,.” In November 2013, OKI set up a new “Diversity Promotion Team” under the Human Resources Division. The team assumes the role of promoting the two priority actions for the management Promotion of Work-Life Balance strategies included in Mid-term Business Plan 2016, namely, In order to help its employees to achieve balance between “Human resource enhancement” and “Corporate culture reform.” work and family life, OKI established the Work-Life Balance Recognizing the needs to exert maximum capabilities from Promotion Committee, comprised of labor union and management each individual in a diverse workforce in order to adapt to the members, to verify the employees’ work hours and leave changing social environment and make continuous progress, OKI eligibilities. We have also amplified various systems such as the continues to create an environment that allows recruitment and flextime system, HOP work (i.e. discretionary labor) system, development of global human resources, promotion of female systems to provide special work conditions for persons caring for workers, and engagement by each employee who works toward children/nursing the elderly, as well as “Special Leave for Particular the growth of the company with a sense of satisfaction. Purposes” which can be used to participate in volunteer activities, to treat illness and injuries, to nurse family members, or to attend children’s school events, to further promote the employees’ Promoting the Employment of Challenged People work-life balance. The OKI Group has been working to recruit challenged people, In fiscal 2013, the company introduced the new system for especially in OKI Workwel, a special purpose subsidiary* of the hourly-based leave eligibility for particular purposes, to enable the group which promotes telework for the severely disabled. As of employees to arrange their schedule more flexibly for nursing their April 2014, it provides work at home via telework to 61 people with families and attending the children’s school events. In addition, a disabilities, including 40 teleworkers utilizing IT. new attendance system (entry/exit hour management system) was The percentage of challenged employees at the group in fiscal introduced to allow the employees and their superiors to better 2013 was 2.17 %, exceeding the defined employment rate grasp and manage the employees’ leave and days-off. (revised in April 2013) of 2.0 %. We will continue to promote the employment of challenged people, especially in our special purpose subsidiary. Labor Safety and Health, and * Special purpose subsidiary: Company established to provide special considerations Health Improvement Initiatives for the employment of challenged people, as defined in the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with OKI established “Safety and Health Committees” in each region, Disabilities. with members from management and the labor union. These strengthen the safety and health system, create a labor injuries and accidents prevention plan, patrol workplaces, provide safety and ■Employment rates of challenged people health training, etc. The Central Safety and Health Committee % Employment rate of challenged people 2.2% shares information on situations and initiatives in each region. OKI’s fiscal 2013 incidence rate of occupational accidents* was 0.00. 2.1% 2.17% Furthermore, the OKI Group promotes a fitness promotion activity called “Kenko OKI21” for encouraging the mental and 2.0% 1.99% physical health of the employees by providing health information 1.95% 1.94% through the dedicated Intranet site and company news. In 1.98% particular, mental health is addressed by setting up the “The 1.9% Mental Health Working Group” an expert committee of the Central 1.83% Committee of Safety and Health. This working group engages in 1.8% Mandatory employment rate promoting the use of “Kokoro Wellness Navi,” a support tool for self-care, while offering enhanced support by specialists including 1.7% 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 industrial doctors through a consultation counter. (Fiscal year) * Incidence rate of occupational accidents: Number of casualties due to industrial accidents, per million man-hours worked. 20 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Social Contribution In accordance with the Basic Philosophy and Basic Policy for Social Contribution Activities, OKI Group has promoted various social action projects. More specifically, the group has made donations, participated in regional contribution activities, and supported social action programs by employees. In order to be involved in a wide range of social contribution activities, we have interacted and collaborated with various nonprofit organizations, and enhanced such activities in Japan and overseas. to move robots’ arms and hands through simple programming On-going Reconstruction Support for Great using the icons on the PC, succeeding in giving commands to East Japan Earthquake Disaster-Affected Areas carry an object, and learned the joy of programming through their The OKI Group is engaged in ongoing support activities to help experiences. rebuild areas damaged by the Great East Japan Earthquake. As part of its voluntary support activities, the Group continues its activities in Shichigahama Town, Miyagi Prefecture, started in Wheelchair Riding and Physical Assistance fiscal 2011. In addition, in fiscal 2013 the Group joined “Collective Experiences for Elementary School Children Action for Recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake OKI Workwel (OWW), a special purpose subsidiary of the OKI Disaster” organized by Global Compact Japan Network, and sent Group, utilizes its experiences with teleworking employment for its employees as volunteers to challenged people to carry out activities including class visits to Watari Town, Miyagi Prefecture, special schools to teach classes, remote workplace apprenticeon 4 occasions. Through this ships for students with severe disabilities and welfare education at activity, we support the local schools, on an on-going basis. As part of these activities, resident-led project called OWW organized a summer course titled “Wheelchair Riding “Watari Green Belt Project,” Experiences: Ride and Learn!” in August 2013 at Shibaura which aims at the re-growth of Elementary School, situated in the tide-prevention forest based Minato Ward in Tokyo. OWW on the town’s long-term plan. Improving the farmland in Shichigahama employee with severe disabilities instructed the course, in which 40 pupils from 1st to 4th Support Activities in fiscal 2013 grades experienced assisting persons in wheelchair as well as • Volunteer activities for reconstruction support by employees maneuvering wheelchairs (Shichigahama and Watari Towns, Miyagi) themselves. This wheelchair • Organizing Tohoku product fairs at OKI Warabi Culture Festival (in experience course was initiated Fukushima and Miyagi Prefectures) in 2004, and has been held • Participation in the “Send Picture Books to Fukushima Children” Project about 120 times as of fiscal Assisting the wheelchair over simulated organized by the Japan Philanthropic Association 2013. gaps and slopes • Donation of a refrigerated blood transport vehicle to Japan Red Cross Iwate Blood Center (donated with the funds raised from the employees’ “OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love*”) Support for Children’s Education in the Mountain Region * OKI 100 Yen Fund of Love: A fund in which 100 yen is collected monthly by executives and employees of the participant companies that endorse In February 2014, OKI Precision Thailand (OPNT), a production the program (30 companies as of April 2014), to be used for supporting site located in the northern area of the Kingdom of Thailand, volunteer organizations, etc. donated school supplies, sports equipment, a drinking water filtration system and housewares to the Hilltribe Learning Center in Mesage village, Tha Kat City in Mae Tha District, Lamphun. Science Education Activities for Children The Hilltribe Learning Center is situated in Mesage village, a OKI Software (OSK), an OKI Group company engaging in mountain region with very limited accessibility by car, and is the only software development and SI services for the Group, collaborated place offering elementary school education in the region. Since no with the Faculty of Engineering at Fukuoka University in August electricity was available, the Thai government provided the center with 2013 to organize the “Parent and Child Learning Course for Robot solar panels. However, school facilities and children’s school supplies, Arm Programming,” aimed at elementary-school pupils. The event as well as housewares, still ran short. Responding to requests from was held as part of the two entities’ ongoing efforts since 2010 to local people, OPNT donated school supplies including PCs, offer science education activities for children, to address the textbooks, notebooks, pencils, erasers, rulers and crayons, as well as growing concern for the lack of interest in science among children. sports equipment and The course was held at Robot Square in Fukuoka City. The housewares including instructors, comprised of clothing for cold members from OSK and the weather, blankets and Engineering Faculty at Fukuoka gloves. OPNT also University, gave lectures on installed a drinking robot functions and programwater filtration ming and offered help for the system, as many local participants’ activities. The people suffer stone elementary school pupils who formation due to lack participated in the course tried Programming course of running water. Installation of a drinking water filtration system OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 21 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Consideration for the Environment OKI Group achieves a better global environment for the next generation, and inherits the environment. To do that, in order to reach the targets in the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020 (see p10), we implement across the entire group the environmental management systems that underpin our environmental management commitment. OKI Group Environmental Business OKI Group Environmental Policy Promotion Organization The OKI Group develops an environmental action plan for each The OKI Group achieves a better global environment by providing products and services that contribute to the of the 4 themes in the OKI Group Environmental Vision 2020, development of the information society for the next which correspond to the critical operational issues, to implement generation, and inherits this within the group. management. In addition, the Group dedicates itself to continuously reducing environmental loads through its products and 1 Aim to maximize measures’ effects by implementing the business activities. Furthermore, the management system’s OKI Group environmental management. (1) Take actions to provide environment-friendly compliance and effectiveness are regularly verified by third-party products and services in all business processes examining bodies. through product planning, manufacturing and maintenance operation. OKI Group (2) In the business activities, strive to save energy/ Environmental Management System resources and take actions to reduce and recycle Review by third-party examining bodies wastes. In-house (3) Work on the biodiversity conservation and sustainEnvironmental OKI Group Top Executives Audit able use. Committee Group Environmental Report on Group Policy Group Environmental Activity Plan results and improvement proposal 2 Comply with applicable environmental legal requirements and regulations, and with customer requireManager Responsible for ments and other requirements to which the OKI Group Environmental Management subscribes, and prevent pollution. Monitoring and measurement of plan Reports on direction implementation, compliance status and 3 Adequately implement PDmCA (Plan-Do-multiple remedial status Check-Act) in the environmental management system, Business Unit / Group Company and take actions to progress environmental performances and to continue improvements of its operation ●Environmental impact reduction activities system. through products Lower power consumption, manage chemicals in ● products Environmental impact reduction activities 4 Disclose environmental information, and make wide through business activities contribution to the society by supporting environmental Save energy, save resources, reduce waste matter activities. ■OKI Group Environmental Activity Plan (Fiscal 2013): Targets and Achievements Applicable themes Achievements in Fiscal 2013 of Environmental Activities Targets for Fiscal 2016 Targets for Fiscal 2013 Visions, etc. Results Evaluation See Page Business Activities Improvement of energy consumption Realization of efficiency in business activities Consumption: –4% or more Consumption: –1% or more 11, 23, 24 low-carbon societies (planned facility renewals, (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) Consumption: —5.8% ○ Website re-examination of operations, etc.) Emission reduction of hazardous Emissions intensity: –4% or more Emissions intensity: –1% or more Prevention of pollution chemical substances into air and (vs. FY2012) (vs. FY2012) Emissions intensity: —3.7% ○ 12 water system Response to substances added to Incorporation of measures for revised Completion of incorporation of Improvement of compliance with RoHS Directive/REACH Regulations, measures for revised RoHS RoHS Directive and to the industry Prevention of pollution regulations on chemical substances in survey tools complying with enhancement of judgment for Directive/REACH Regulations. ○ 12 products compliance with laws using JAMP AIS Completion of enhanced compliance international standards information judgment using JAMP AIS information. Products CO2 emission acontrol through Register five or more new OKI Eco Realization of low-carbon societies innovation of low electricity10 or more new registrations Products in accordance with the new Registered five new Eco Products ○ Website consuming products certification standards Expansion of amount treated under Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Resource circulation Manufacturer Scheme (promotion of Result of previous FY + 100 t 3,000t or more 3,200t ○ 13, 26 proper treatment and recycling) Reduction of dependency and impact Continuing promotion for global Assessment of dependency & impact Biodiversity on ecosystem services and Completion of assessment using the conservation contribution to biodiversity warming and prevention of pollution, of business activities and products on ESR assessment tool ○ 13 as well as resource circulation. eco-system services conservation On-site verification of waste treatment Common Compliance audit for verifying the consignees Implementation of measures for status of compliance with regulations Expansion of regulations covered by No items to be corrected, nor revised Water Pollution (Prevention) Act and preventing environmental audits (e.g. energy-related) violation Compliance audit and incidents Training for in-house auditors, and trainings Revision of accreditation condition for Corporate Briefing on regulations 313 in-house auditors trained, pass ○ 23 Implementation of training aimed at in-house auditors, expansion of (Waste Disposal and Public Cleansing rate of Eco Test over national Law & Cross-jurisdictional improving effectiveness of EMS regulations covered by briefings average Accreditation Scheme) activities Training on chemical substances, and seminars for Eco Test 22 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 distributions, thus eliminating the material accumulation generated Environmental Contribution through Products from the different operation times between the processes and The OKI Group is researching and developing products which achieving the improved production efficiency. Other measures contribute to realizing low-carbon societies with the use of include the modification of design drawings which can be easily IT-based services and solutions. understood by the production divisions, modification of parts to [ Wireless Multi-hop Technology for Reducing enable automatic assemblies, a parts order system suited to the Power Consumption across a Sensor Network ] production lead-time, OKI has developed a energy efficient wireless multi-hop which were promoted technology which can be used for a wireless sensor network that through the collaboracollects a wide-range of sensor information in an effective manner. tion of design and sales The technology has enabled the intermittent (i.e. sleep) operations divisions. A significant of all the wireless sensors, including repeaters (i.e. routers), reduction in power resulting in a higher energy efficient effect across the network. In consumption was made traditional sensor networks, as typified by ZigBee*, the only possible through the terminal that could be put in sleep mode was the wireless sensor implementation of these installed at the end of the network, with routers in the middle still reforms. requiring power supply. This newly developed energy efficient OTPS production lines working toward production reforms technology allows routers to operate with batteries for years, and the application scope of the wireless sensor network can be extended to maintenance and operation of social infrastructure Enhancement of Environmental Compliance with difficult power source installation, e.g. bridges and tunnels, as In fiscal 2013, as part of the efforts to enhance its environmenwell as monitoring of buildings and plants. tal compliance, OKI reviewed the contents of its training for * ZigBee: A standard for short range wireless communication. Although it is low-speed improving compliance with laws regarding industrial waste and and has short transmission range, it has the advantage of low power disposal of used products, and held Corporate Briefing with the consumption and low cost. ZigBee is a registered trade name of ZigBee relevant divisions to explain the details. In addition, OKI encourAlliance. aged the use of the Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme* to promote appropriate ■Image of energy efficient wireless multi-hop method (example of building & plant monitoring) treatment of used products, while conducting periodical Capable of intermittent (sleep) operation on-site visits to the consigned treatment agencies across Japan to verify their treatment and storage conditions. On-site visit of a consigned treatment agency * Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme: A special scheme nder Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act which allows product manufacturers to dispose their waste outside their own prefectural regions. The scheme is intended to Routers on sleep ensure reduction, appropriate treatment and recycling of waste materials. OKI, OKI Data and OKI Customer Adtech received certifications from the Ministry of the Environment in June 2006. ×: indicates AC mains connectors that are no longer required after battery operation is enabled Responses to Environmental Pollution, etc. Contributions to Environmental Conservation in Business Activities [ Pollution of Groundwater and Soil ] Various energy-saving activities are promoted at each OKI The OKI Group installed observation wells at business Group site to contribute to the realization of low-carbon societies. locations, and is monitoring groundwater. A survey was done for a land transaction in fiscal 2012, which found environmental [ Production Reform with a Focus on Material Flow ] pollution in the soil and groundwater of the OKI System Center in OKI Techno Power Systems (OTPS) a company located in Warabi City, Saitama Prefecture. This finding was reported to the Fukushima City that develops and produces power-supply units for government, and appropriate measures are currently being taken electronic devices, launched the production process reform in fiscal to prevent the contaminated soil and water from spreading into 2013, resulting in an about 20% reduction of power consumption other areas and groundwater. from the previous year. In the process, OTPS placed particular The details are available on our website. emphasis on improving the material “flow” through involvement of all employees. The first step was to improve material transportation [ Environmental Accidents, Claims, etc. ] between the processes. Previously, materials were stacked in and There were no environment-related accidents nor serious large transported by racks, which caused accumulation of reserves. New claims made against the OKI Group in fiscal 2013. Whenever such bearing-type conveyors were built between the processes, an event occurs, we take action to alleviate the effects, and in resulting in smoother transportation of materials and reduced accordance with rules for corrective and preventative actions, we reserves. The company then incorporated packaging, previously find the causes and take action to prevent reoccurrence. We also outsourced, into its own production line, thus further reducing the do appropriate disclosures in accordance with rules on external reserves before and after outsourcing. Furthermore, operation communication. times were measured and analyzed daily to review personnel OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 23 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmental Impact of Business Activities (Material Balance) The OKI Group uses energy, water and chemical substances as “inputs” to conduct business activities focusing on development and production, while discharging substances with environmental impact into the atmosphere and waters, and emitting wastes as “outputs.” In fiscal 2013, 31 overseas business locations were added to the application scope. Emissions into the Energy Consumption Atmosphere Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2012 2013 ●Greenhouse gases 2012 2013 Electricity [Million kWh] 142 151 CO 2*1 [1,000 tons CO2] 88 94 Heavy oil [㎘] 707 894 PFC [1,000 GWP-tons] 0.4 0.4 ●Acidifying gases Gasoline [㎘] 1,286 1,208 NOX [ｔ] 12.3 13.7 Kerosene [㎘] 74 90 SOX [ｔ] 3.8 4.8 Light oil [㎘] 122 160 ●Chemical substances City gas [km3] 1,558 1,904 Input Output Substances subject to [ｔ] 17.2 20.8 PRTR Liquefied petroleum gas [ｔ] 137 197 *1: Emission amount in Scopes 1 and 2 Liquefied natural gas [ｔ] 0 0 Crude oil equivalent total [㎘] 41,027 43,024 OKI Group Water Use Input Development & Output Emissions into Waters Fiscal Fiscal Production Activities Fiscal Fiscal 2012 2013 ●Chemical substances 2012 2013 Substances Tap water [1,000 tons] 519 566 subject to [ｔ] 0.5 0.3 PRTR Industrial water [1,000 tons] 280 268 Groundwater / well water [1,000 tons] 448 428 Input Output Total [1,000 tons] 1,247 1,262 Use of Chemical Substances Waste Emissions Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2012 2013 ●Chemical substances 2012 2013 Substances Substances subject to [ｔ] 101 112 subject to [ｔ] 15.1 22 PRTR PRTR ●Waste Emissions Quantity of waste emitted [ｔ] 7,339 7,893 Final waste disposal [ｔ] 441 487 ■CO2 emissions in each scope Region Category Fiscal year Emission (1,000t-CO2) 2012 10.3 Scope 1 (direct emission) 2013 11.1 2012 60.4 Japan Scope 2 (indirect emission) 2013 65.7 2012 4.5 Scope 3 (other indirect emission)*2 2013 6.5 2012 1.3 Scope 1 (direct emission) 2013 1.5 Overseas 2012 16.4 Scope 2 (indirect emission) 2013 15.2 *2: from transportation of products and waste 24 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Reducing Environmental Impact of Business Activities and Products The OKI Group has been active in reducing environmental impact of its business activities and products, in order to contribute to environmental conservation. Reducing Environmental Impact of Physical ■CO2 Emissions from Transport Activities Distribution t CO2 7,000 OKI Proserve, a company in charge of OKI’s logistics opera6,524 tions, has promoted the modal shift since a very early stage to 6,000 reduce CO2 emissions during transportation, while creating a data 5,000 4,677 base of transportation information to aggregate the data required 4,213 4,479 by the Energy Saving Law. In fiscal 2013, it achieved a reduction 4,000 3,259 of 612t-CO2 emission (a 13% increase from the previous fiscal 3,000 year) through modal shift. Meanwhile, CO2 emissions from all of the transportation activities were 6,524t-CO2 (a 46% increase from 2,000 the previous fiscal year) due to increased production, and other 1,000 reasons. 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Promotion of Material Recycling (Zero Emissions) ■Material Recycling Rates of Main Production Sites % The OKI Group appropriately recycles its waste generated at 100 production sites etc., and has been active in improving its material 99.7 recycling rate*1. In 2002, we achieved “Zero Emissions”*2 at our 99.1 99.6 99.1 99.1 main production sites, and have been continuing our efforts since 99 then. In fiscal 2013, the material recycling rate was 99.1%. *1 Material recycling rate: (quantity of material-recycled resources) / (quantity of materialZero emission (over 99% recycled) recycled resources + quantity of wastes subject to final 98 disposal) x 100 *2 Zero Emissions: defined by the OKI Group as a material recycling rate of 99% or more 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Amount of Waste Subject to Final Disposal ■Amount of Waste Subject to Final Disposal Emitted from Main Production Sites t The waste generated by the OKI Group’s major production 80 sites in fiscal 2013 and subject to final disposal, combining their 64 industrial waste and general waste, amounted to 25t due to 60 increased production, and other causes. 40 28 25 20 19 18 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 (Fiscal year) Recycling of Used Products ■Recycling of Used Products % % 1 100 OKI, OKI Data and OKI Customer Adtech actively utilize the 99.97 99.86 99.86 Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme, which was granted by the Ministry of the Environment in June 0.8 99.8 2006, to promote the recycling of used products. The recycling 99.7 99.71 rate reached 99.71% in fiscal 2013. 0.6 99.6 0.4 99.4 0.35 0.2 99.2 0.13 0.03 0 0 0 99 *1 Reuse rate: the ratio of reused parts and materials, to collected used products (in mass). 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 *2 Recycling rate: the ratio of material recycling, thermal recycling and reuse, to collected (Fiscal year) used products (in mass). Reuse rate*1 (left axis) Recycling rate*2 (right axis) OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 25 Achievements in Fiscal 2013 Consideration for the Environment Detailed Data Environmentally Friendly Products and Services The OKI Group provides its customers with products and services that are environmentally friendly. MC562dnw/MC362dnw, Wireless LAN-Compatible Multifunctional Printers that Help Reduce Office Energy Consumption In October 2013, OKI Data launched the MC562dnw and MC362dnw, A4-sized color LED multifunction printers with high energy-saving performances. The products are equipped with Green ASIC, OKI Data’s unique integrated circuit, which keeps its power consumption at less than 1.5W during the sleep mode. Other functions include the One-touch Energy Efficient Button for switching to the power-save mode, and the Auto Power-Off Function. They also comply with the latest International ENERGY STAR Program, which has been revised to further tighten the power consumption standards. The excellent performance and durability that can only be accomplished by LED printers is achieved, including the device operating life of 5 years or approximately 420,000 pages of printing (for MC562dnw). These small-sized complex machines are ideal for small offices and stores with limited installation space. They also feature wireless LAN to enable direct printing from iOS terminals including iPhone and iPad to allow printing from mobile devices. Wireless LAN compatible MC562dnw CrosCore, an Office Communication System with a Maximum 30% Power Consumption Reduction through Energy Saving Features OKI launched the CrosCore Series in April 2013, a private branch exchange that supports communication in small-and medium-sized offices. The devices are equipped with a range of energy-saving features to contribute to our customers’ efforts to save energy consumption. Electrical power supply is cut automatically and the devices are switched to the energy-saving mode during the hours in which phones are not used, such as night hours and companies’ long vacation period. Other features, to automatically detect when the phones are not connected for a prolonged time and cut their electricity supply, and to activate the energy efficient mode during battery operation, are also available. These energy-saving features can reduce power consumption by up to 30%. CrosCore Series Promotion of Recycling of Used Products OKI Customer Adtech established the intermediate industrial waste treatment facility in Tamamura Town, Gunma Prefecture, to promote recycling of used products through utilization of the Cross-jurisdictional Waste Treatment Manufacturer Scheme (see p23). It handles approximately 900t of waste annually, the majority of which is information communication devices and printers. Through meticulous separation works, such as categorizing the waste into 56 types, it has reduced the amount of final disposal to as low as 1.2% of the total amount brought to the facility. The company also works on the reuse of components and units. In terms of security, it guarantees the security of the customers by establishing appropriate procedures for deleting confidential information. ■Recycle Flow at OKI Customer Adtech Used products Disassembly and separation Recycling rate: 98.8% Disposed They are disassembled and Reuse→Equipment and components are returned to use information processing separated manually, to ●Reuse of components ●Reuse of unit equipment machines and communication minimize the final disposal ●Reuse of devices devices Recycle→Reused as raw materials Categorized into 56 types ●Iron ●Gold and copper ●Other rare metals ●Plastics Final disposal rate: 1.2% Final disposal→Volume is reduced by pulverization and compression. ●Waste plastic 26 OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 Environmental Accounting The OKI Group introduced environmental accounting in fiscal 1999. Since then, we have been conducting environmental activities in a highly efficient way to optimize investment effects. Environmental Conservation Costs When OKI Group makes capital investments to renew or introduce infrastructure, it selects equipment with low environmental impact. Capital investment in fiscal 2013 amounted to 1.332 billion yen (compared to 313 million yen in fiscal 2012), while the amount of costs was 945 million yen (compared to 1.237 billion yen in fiscal 2012). ■Investment / Costs (Unit: million yen) Investment Costs Category Main Efforts 2012 2013 2012 2013 Prevention of pollution Investment in pollution control facilities, and maintenance and operation costs 26 89 64 61 Global environment Investment in energy-saving facilities, and maintenance and operation costs Cost in business conservation cost 145 1,215 50 253 areas Resource recycling cost Investment in facilities for internal treatment of organic waste liquid, waste recycling costs 39 12 263 264 Total 210 1,316 377 579 Green procurement (chemical substances survey) costs, costs for remodeling systems to Upstream / downstream cost collect data on chemical substances in products 77 11 183 97 Costs for obtaining environment management certifications, and maintenance and Administration cost operation costs 25 4 243 220 R&D cost R&D costs for creating energy-saving products 1 0 430 46 Costs for planting trees in production sites, costs for activities contributing to local Social activity cost communities 1 0 3 3 Environmental damage cost Costs for reserves to respond to environmental damages, insurance costs and surcharges 0 0 1 1 Other costs ― 0 0 0 0 Total 313 1,332 1,237 945 Benefits Related to Environmental Conservation Costs Despite various efforts to reduce energy consumption at each business location, the economic effects decreased to 123 million yen (compared to 291 million yen in fiscal 2012) as the production volume increased. ■Economic Effects (Unit: million yen) ■Environmental Conservation Effects Effects Impact Difference Category Main Efforts Environmental compared 2012 2013 Impact Indices 2012 2013 to previous Effect of saving Reduction of electricity, petroleum, gas, packaging materials, etc. fiscal year Cost −18 −180 energy and resources used in business activities reduction CO2 emissions (tons-CO2) 88,444 93,540 5,096 effect Effect of reducing Reduction of waste generated from business activities through 20 −10 Waste Final waste treatment cost recycling 441 487 46 Sale of valuable waste generated from business activities 286 310 emissions disposal (tons) Real income effect Sale of used valuable products 3 3 Total 291 123 〈Accounting Conditions〉 ① When environmental conservation costs and other costs are used for a single activity, only the environment costs are calculated for environmental accounting. ② The depreciation cost of investment is calculated using the fixed installment method for a period of three years. The economic benefits achieved due to these investments are calculated for three years, in line with the depreciation period. ③ Personnel costs are calculated by prorating the personnel costs for the total time spent on environmental conservation activities. ④ The real income effect represents the value for the current fiscal year. Major Environmental Conservation Efforts The following tables show the main efforts with respect to investment, costs and economic effects that are calculated in our environmental accounting. ■Main Efforts by OKI Group in Japan (Unit: 1,000 yen) ■Main Efforts by OKI Group Overseas (Unit: 1,000 yen) Category Main Efforts Amount Site Category Main Efforts Amount Site Renewal of extra-high-voltage transformers 534,000 Tomioka district Renewal of air conditioning OKI Electric Technology equipment 30,000 (Kunshan) Investment Investment Demolition costs for aged buildings 253,000 Takasaki district Purchasing/modification costs of Oki Micro Engineering Renewal of heat source equipment 167,000 Takasaki district production equipment 10,226 (DG) Renewal of lighting fixtures 107,600 Honjo district OKI Electric Technology Renewal of lighting equipment 6,000 Renewal of air conditioners 62,000 Honjo district (Kunshan) Maintenance/operation costs of OKI Data manufacturing Waste disposal outsourcing costs 113,204 OKI Printed Circuits 1,938 air conditioning equipment (Thailand) Environmental equipment operation monitoring costs 73,692 Takasaki district Costs Costs for greening plan 1,636 OKI (UK) Costs Waste disposal outsourcing costs 47,415 Tomioka district Environmental facility OKI Electric Technology Outer wall thermal barrier coating costs 19,960 Numazu district operation/monitoring costs 1,190 (Kunshan) Development costs for environmentally friendly * Exchange rates : 159.45 yen /€, 3.19 yen / Baht 14,081 OKI Data products Energy saving effect by the introduction of 12,627 Tomioka district highly-efficient equipment Economic Effects Energy saving effect by the introduction of invertors 1,882 OKI Circuit Technology to air conditioning refrigerators Energy saving effect by the introduction of 1,750 Honjo district highly-efficient equipment Energy saving effect by the introduction of invertors 1,558 OKI Metaltech to air conditioning refrigerators Enhanced management of power consumption 1,150 OKI Micro Engineering OKI GROUP SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL REPORT 2014 27 <For inquiries> CSR Division 1-7-12 Toranomon, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-8460, Japan oki-csr@oki.com http://www.oki.com Published in June 2014
