UN Global Compact Communication on Progress for the 2013/14 financial year Dear Readers, pursuing sustainable business practices is a fundamental principle of the Otto Group. It is part of our self-understanding and is consequently embedded deeply within our Group’s organisational structures. As a globally active retail and services group, complex supply chains present a major challenge in this regard. This is why we have been promoting the ten principles of the UN Global Compact since 2002, wherever we can bring our influence to bear, in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection and fighting corruption. The Otto Group chose this path over 28 years ago and has unerringly followed it ever since. In the last financial year the Otto Group developed the CR management process ‘impACT’. This supports us in capturing and evaluating the environmental impacts and social risks resulting from our business activities along the whole value lication in July 2015; in this we will provide more detailed chain. ‘impACT’ provides us with an holistic view of our busiresults of the impACT analysis. Along with our website, the CR ness, enables us to better identify interrelations and interdeReport makes key information available to our stakeholders. pendencies and to take more precise measures. impACT thus opens up new opportunities in supporting the ten principles Hamburg, September 2014 of the UN Global Compact, as we can measure and evaluate on behalf of the Otto Group Executive Board, our sustainability-related activities and align our CR manageYours, ment correspondingly. This UN Global Compact Communication on Progress offers Hans-Otto Schrader information on the most recent action the Otto Group has Chairman of the Executive Board and Chief Executive Officer taken and its results. Our next CR Report is scheduled for pubOtto Group (CEO) Progress made by the Otto Group to the previous year to reach approximately priority objective to be achieved by 2020. Only Executive Board was established in 2012. in the implementation of the 12 billion euros. The Multichannel Retail segsustainably cultivated cotton is to be used in From the 2014/15 financial year onwards, ten principles of the UN Global ment contributed a share of 83% to Group the textile assortment of own and licenced the degree of achievement of the CR Strategy Compact in the 2013/14 financial sales in the 2013/14 financial year. The share brands, while under the Durable Goods Stratobjectives will be an integral factor in the calyear in sales from the Financial Services and Seregy only FSC® -certified wood types will be culation of Group Executive Board Members’ vices sectors were 6% and 11% respectively. used in furniture. The objective of the Climate performance-related bonus. From the 2013/14 Founded in Germany in 1949, today the Otto Strategy is to halve location, shipment and financial year onwards the Otto Group also Group’s companies and over 54,000 employTaking responsibility towards people and mobility-related COc emissions, while the publishes the most important non-financial ees are present in over 20 countries in Europe, nature has been a guiding principle for the Paper Strategy aims to increase the share of key figures in its Annual Report. North and South America and Asia. The busiOtto Group in all its business activities since FSC®-certified paper in catalogues and adverness activities of the globally active retail and 1986. This self-understanding is anchored in tising materials to 50%. The Social Programme The table below shows the systems that we services group comprise the three segments the Group through systematic CR managetargets the complete integration of all supplihave created to implement the UN Global of Multichannel Retail, Services and Financial ment and forms the basis of the CR Strategy ers for own and licenced brands by 2015. To Compact and its principles, which measures Services. In the 2013/14 financial year the Otto 2020 endorsed by the Executive Board in 2012. secure the implementation of the CR Strategy, we took over the past year and what results Group increased its sales by 1.8% compared This comprises five sub-strategies, each with a the CR Board headed by the Chairman of the we have achieved with these. Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Human Rights and Labour Principle 1 • Otto Group Vision and mission • Execution of the modelling and management method impACT to capture • Training of employees active in purchasing marSupporting • Code of Conduct (Merchandising Goods, and and evaluate the environmental impacts and social risks caused by the busikets in compliance with the Code of Conduct human rights Non-Merchandising Goods and Services) ness activities of the Otto Group along the value chain • Implementation of supplier-qualification pro• A Social Programme for checking compliance • Implementation of qualification measures to achieve compliance with the cesses for compliance with Social Programme Principle 2 with and improving labour standards and human Code of Conduct standards Exclusion of any rights in risk countries • Training to create employee awareness for the implementation of the Social • Transparency regarding production-facility struchuman rights abuses • Code of Conduct of the Hermes Logistik Gruppe Programme tures and their status, compliance with social Deutschland • Roll-Out of the new Social Programme with the objective of integrating all standards, fire-protection and building safety • A uniform Group Guideline Sustainability in Prosuppliers with production facilities for own and licenced brands in risk counregulations and possible corrective-action plans curement tries and to expand qualification measures • Roll-Out of the Social Programme launched at • Qualification training in factories international Group companies 1 For exact data on the Group companies integrated in the sub-strategies of the CR Strategy 2020, see the CR Report 2013, p. 16. 2 Quantitative figures relate to the 2013/14 financial year and unless otherwise indicated refer to the 13 reporting companies: baumarkt direkt, Baur, bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt. 2 Communication on Progress for the 2013/14 financial year Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Human Rights and Labour Principle 3 • Continual expansion of the effective scope of the Social Programme • Working conditions audited at supplier factories Upholding freedom of • Start of implementation of a supply-chain database and selected importer factories (Top 40 importassociation • O tto Group joins the sector initiative Accord on Fire and Building Safety in ers; Level 1 of the Social Programme) Bangladesh • 200 factories took part in the Qualification ProPrinciple 4 • baumarkt direkt GmbH & CO KG joins the sector initiative Business Social gramme training (Level 2 of the Social ProElimination of all forms Compliance Initiative (BSCI) gramme) of forced labour • Continuous supplier audits for compliance with the standards of the Busi• Pilot phase of the Excellence Programme: factory ness Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) selection process in preparation (Level 3 of the Principle 5 • Successive reduction of the supplier portfolio to enable more extensive qualSocial Programme) Abolition of child labour ifications of the remaining suppliers • 98% of Otto Group employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Discrimination Principle 6 • Group Agreement to strengthen diversity and • Carrying-out of training on the German General Law on Equal Treatment • Training of all new employees on the AGG Elimination of protection against discrimination (AGG) • Workplaces individually equipped for handidiscrimination • Diversity Charter • Group-wide Diversity Controlling capped employees • Code of Conduct for Merchandising Goods, and • Group-wide Diversity Management under the banner of ‘Diversity first!’ • Cooperation with the Specialist Integration Serfor Non-Merchandising Goods and Services (for • Holding of Otto Group Diversity Conferences (2013 and 2014) vice (IFD) on the topic of people with handicaps specific measures and results see the section • Presentation of a Diversity Award • Share of women in upper and middle manage‘Human Rights and Labour’) • Initiative ‘Power of Diversity’ undertaken by female top managers ment increased to 16.9% (previous year: 15.6%) • The Social Programme for improving compliance • Carrying-out of the programme ‘Boost your Career’ to promote the careers • Share of severely handicapped employees in Gerwith labour standards and human rights in highof young female managers many increased to 4.5% (previous year: 4.1%) risk countries (for specific measures and results • Network meetings of female managers • Three programme cycles of ‘Boost your Career’ see the section ‘Human Rights and Labour) • Project-related integration of former employees in retirement completed since autumn 2013 1 For exact data on the Group companies integrated in the sub-strategies of the CR Strategy 2020, see the CR Report 2013, p. 16. 2 Quantitative figures relate to the 2013/14 financial year and unless otherwise indicated refer to the 13 reporting companies: baumarkt direkt, Baur, bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt. 3 Communication on Progress for the 2013/14 financial year Principles Systems1 Measures Results2 Environment Principle 7 • Code of Conduct • Expansion of the Group Climate Protection Strategy to integrate the interna• Adjusted3 COc emissions vs. previous year Precautionary • Group Risk and Crisis Management Guideline tional companies Crate & Barrel, 3 Suisses, Freemans Grattan Holdings, Eddie reduced from 249,000 t to 246,0004 t environmental • CR Board Meetings held three times a year for Bauer Japan, Otto Group Russia, Hermes UK and bonprix in Italy, France and • Adjusted COc emissions reduced by 17% vs. the protection strategic planning and further development of Poland benchmark year 2006/07 the CR Strategy • Renewal of heat-distribution systems; installation of more efficient lighting • Share of FSC®-certified catalogue / advertising Principle 8 • Climate Protection Strategy with the objective of systems materials paper increased to 8% (previous year: Initiatives to promote reducing relative COc emissions in the areas of • Execution of the modelling and management method impACT to capture 7%) greater environmental shipping, location and mobility by 50% by 2020 and evaluate the environmental impacts and social risks caused by the busi• Share of sustainable cotton (organic cotton, Cotprotection • Textile Strategy with the objective of progresness activities of the Otto Group along the entire value chain. ton made in Africa) in the whole textile assortsively increasing the share of sustainable cotton • Use of cotton produced under the Initiative Cotton made in Africa (CmiA), ment increased to 7% (previous year: 6%) Principle 9 in the cotton assortment of own brands to 100% which has significantly lower environmental and social impacts than conven• Share of FSC®-certified articles in the furniture Diffusion of by 2020 tional cotton thanks to resource-conscious smallholder cultivation methods assortment5 increased to 26% (previous year: 16%) environmentally • Paper Strategy with the objective of increasing and rainwater irrigation • Overall electricity consumption at locations friendly technologies the share of FSC®-certified paper in catalogues • Switchover of work apparel of 13,000 Hermes parcel deliverers to CmiA reduced in the 2013/14 financial year by 5% vs. and advertising materials by 50% by 2020 cotton the previous year to 286,186 MWh • Durable Goods Strategy with the objective of • Construction of Hermes buildings in accordance with the Silver Standard of • Increased efficiency in route planning and vehiraising the share of FSC®-certified furniture prodthe German Sustainable Building Council (DGNB) cles used by delivery and logistics services proucts to 100% by 2020 vider Hermes • External certification of 18 Hermes subsidiary buildings constructed according to the DGNB Silver Standard Anti-Corruption Principle 10 • Code of Conduct • Standard requirement for all employees to participate in an e-learning • E-learning course passed by all employees on Measures to • Group Anti-Corruption Guideline course on handling business gifts how to handle gifts and other benefits combat corruption • Group Gifts Guideline • The Group Data Protection Officer has been a permanent member of the • All employees of the German Group companies • Group Guideline Sustainability in Procurement Compliance Committee since 2010 trained in anti-trust law • Group Risk and Crisis Management Guideline • Group-wide IT Security Officer network • Embargo measures • Group IT Security Guideline • Global Compliance Management System 1 For exact data on the Group companies integrated in the sub-strategies of the CR Strategy 2020, see the CR Report 2013, p. 16. 2 Quantitative figures relate to the 2013/14 financial year and unless otherwise indicated refer to the 13 reporting companies: baumarkt direkt, Baur, bonprix, EOS, Frankonia, Heine, Hermes, OTTO, OTTO Office, Schwab, SportScheck, UNITO and Witt. 3 CO2-emissions are performance-unit adjusted, thus enabling comparison with the benchmark year 2006/07. For details on the adjustment method see the CR Report 2013, p. 44. 4 Key figures relate to the 2013 calendar year. 5 Data for baumarkt direkt GmbH & Co KG still gathered under a previous, slightly divergent definition. 4 Communication on Progress for the 2013/14 financial year
