Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer Statement of the company's chief executive (CEO or equivalent) expressing continued support for the Global Compact and renewing the company's ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. October 1st 2014 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that ORYXRED Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Oliver Gross Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. Declaration of Support: ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ensures that all their employees abide to the same principles. All health and safety regulations required by the German law and European Union Directives are strictly followed. We will not carry out business with any countries or companies where flagrant human rights abuses are known. Any Asian factory is audited before orders are placed to make sure that we are working only with factories which are respecting the human rights. The audit-results are checked with every order placed. Any employee who detects a potential human rights abuse should report it to the management of ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH. In case of a confirmed abuse the business relationship with the concerned factory will be terminated. In the future we will try to maintain the zero abuse level we have so far and we will ask our significant supply chain partners to support and join the United Nations Global Compact. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Pre-Order-Audits of factories  Check of audit-results with every order placed  Human-Rights-Abuse-Report Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Evaluation of all Pre-Order-Audits  Evaluation of all checks of audit-results  In the past year no incident has been reported LABOUR Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights. Declaration of Support: ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH supports the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. All regulations required by the German law and European Union Directives are strictly followed. We will not carry out business with any countries or companies where flagrant labour rights abuses (e. g. childor forced labour) are known. Any Asian factory is audited before orders are placed to make sure that we are working only with factories which are respecting the labour rights. The audit-results are checked with every order placed. Any employee who detects a potential labour rights abuse should report it to the management of ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH. In case of a confirmed abuse (e. g. childor forced labour) the business relationship with the concerned factory will be terminated. In the future we will try to maintain the zero abuse level we have so far and we will ask our significant supply chain partners to support and join the United Nations Global Compact. Implementation Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  Pre-Order-Audits of factories  Check of audit-results with every order placed  Labour-Rights-Abuse-Report Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Evaluation of all Pre-Order-Audits  Evaluation of all checks of audit-results  In the past year no incident has been reported  Company demographic: Women 48,0% management 33,3% Men 52,0% management 66,6% 20 – 30 years 23,0% 30 – 40 years 28,0% 40 – 50 years 27,0% 50 – 60 years 22,0% Nationalities 3 ENVIRONMENT Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. Declaration of Support: ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH supports the mission statement of the WWF World Wide Fund For Nature. Except that all regulations required by the German law and European Union Directives are strictly followed we e. g. use green power (0% nuclear power), low power IT and office machines, print as little paper as possible and our company cars are equipped with low consumption diesel engines. Our office is located in a low energy building. In the future we will continue reducing the packaging of the products imported by us and recycled material will be used whenever possible. We will not carry out business with any factory where flagrant environmentally harmful production methods are known. Any Asian factory is audited before orders are placed to make sure that we are working only with factories which are producing environmentally friendly. The audit-results are checked with every order placed. Any employee who detects a potential environmentally harmful production method should report it to the management of ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH. In case of a confirmed environmentally harmful production method the business relationship with the concerned factory will be terminated. In the future we will try to maintain the zero environmentally harmful production method level we have so far and we will ask our significant supply chain partners to support and join the United Nations Global Compact. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  Pre-Order-Audits of factories  Check of audit-results with every order placed  Environmentally-Harmful-Production-Method-Report  We are registered with RoHS (Restriction of certain Hazardous Substances) and WEEE (Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  Evaluation of all Pre-Order-Audits  Evaluation of all checks of audit-results  In the past year no incident has been reported ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessment, policy and goals Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anti-corruption riskassessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anticorruption. Declaration of Support: ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH supports the UN Convention Against Corruption. All regulations required by the German law and European Union Directives are strictly followed. We will not carry out business with any company where corruption is known. Any employee who detects a potential corruption should report it to the management of ORYXGREEN Warenhandels & Marketing GmbH. Any corruption situation detected that involves employees, business partners or suppliers must be investigated and may lead to contract termination and/or legal action against the people involved. In the future we will try to maintain the zero corruption level we have so far and we will ask our significant business partners to support and join the United Nations Global Compact. Implementation Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anticorruption risks and respond to incidents.  Corruption-Report Measurement of outcomes Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  In the past year no incident has been reported
