CSR REPORT 2013 PFA and Corporate Responsibility Priorities and results CONTENTS Introduction......................................................................................................................3 PFA overview and key figures 2013....................................................................................4 Corporate responsibility and ethics at PFA.........................................................................6 Responsible corporate practice Policies and guidelines are the cornerstones of responsible corporate practice..................8 Responsible corporate culture Committed employees create value ................................................................................10 Responsible value creation Responsible products and services..................................................................................14 Responsible investmentS.................................................................................................16 Green operations and green investments .......................................................................20 Relationships and dialogue Openness is the best foundation for learning and insight ...............................................22 Dialogue with customers creates real value.....................................................................24 PFA Brug Livet Fonden (PFA Live Life Foundation)............................................................26 Aid to associations and for voluntary work......................................................................28 About this report...............................................................................................30 Csr – key figures and facts 2013.........................................................................32 Employees and working conditions..................................................................................34 Investments and active ownership...................................................................................36 Environment and co2 consumption .................................................................................37 Stakeholders and society................................................................................................40 Focus areas in corporate responsibility in 2014...............................................................42 About the images in this report PFA’s headquarters are located in the Nordhavn district of Copenhagen, an area under development. PFA is contributing to the development of this new district of the city via a series of investments. With the images in this report, we intend to show how Nordhavn looks today. TRANSLATION: In case of any discrepancy between the Danish text and the English translation, the Danish text shall prevail. 2 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Introduction Corporate responsibility in times of change expected to work for longer – and we expect PFA will soon be celebrating its that our health will allow us to do so. We have to centenary. We intend to remain abreast assume more responsibility for staying healthy and of the times. In the past, changes in assuring our own financial security while we work the world around us have often forced and when we retire. PFA to change, and PFA is therefore a very different company today than in These developments have provoked the corporate 1917 when it was founded to ensure sector into examining how it best can handle financial security for people once its corporate responsibilities. At PFA, corporate they were too old to work. responsibility is an integral part of how we run our business. We recognise that our corporate Changes in the pension sector in the past decade responsibility goes hand in hand with earning our have been driven by changes in the public welfare customers’ confidence. First and foremost, we have system in combination with new opportunities to create value for our customers. Then, wherever provided by technological innovations. The result we can bring our knowledge and experience is a new set-up for pension plans and new into play, we are duty-bound to seek to make a market conditions. These fresh impulses affect difference. the customers’ expectations of PFA as the adviser Our CSR Report 2013 describes how we and administrator of their pension savings. incorporate the ten principles of the UN Globalisation has created a new and different Global Compact into our work with corporate transparent world in which we observe responsibility and PFA’s policies on which our CSR important changes in national and regional work is based, and presents the results achieved economies alike. Financial crises and economic within focus areas in 2013. imbalance continue to rear their ugly heads. They are no longer isolated phenomena but have become global issues. At the same time, Yours sincerely Politicians resort to radical reforms and largescale transformations in an attempt to steer Henrik Heideby the economy back onto a path to growth. Group CEO and President Most of us can expect to live longer and we are PFA · CSR Report 2013 3 PFA overview and key figures 2013 1,299 Employees (annual average) 7.7 % Staff turnover 3.1 % 366,000 Sickness absence Health insurance plans 100,000 200,000 Visitors to the Pension Estimator at pensionstallet.dk Enquiries to PFA’s Health Centre and Claims Centre 101.5 TONS CO2 saved at headquarters and on operations 4 PFA · CSR Report 2013 DKK 417 billion Assets under management Approx. 1 MILLION Individual customers DKK 25.6 billion Payments DKK 16.8 billion 53,000 Disbursements pension consultations 62,000 225,000 E-mails to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre Calls to PFA’s Advisory Services Centre PFA · CSR Report 2013 5 Corporate responsibility and ethics at PFA partner. These initiatives included our climate The objective of PFA’s policy for corporate partnership with DONG Energy, communication responsibility and ethics is to ensure that and aid from the PFA Live Life Foundation, as well its principles are integrated into projects as partnerships with and donations to associations. and initiatives at the company. Human rights at the forefront One key element in our policy for corporate Progress in creating commitment to the responsibility and ethics is that PFA, as a partner, policy for corporate responsibility and employer, pension fund and investor, is also ethics at PFA working to maintain respect for human rights. PFA has striven to create commitment to Our policy is based on the ten principles of the corporate practice and ethics by means of three UN Global Compact, of which PFA became a parallel tracks, which range from developing new signatory in 2009. As respect for human rights policies to the implementation and performance is an integral part of PFA’s principles and policy, of established corporate responsibility projects. we have no separate human rights policy. The first track focused on implementing initiatives PFA regularly assesses whether there are spheres that were introduced in 2012. For example, we of PFA’s activities where there is a potential have worked on PFA’s Code of Conduct, the risk that PFA may be linked to human rights whistle-blower scheme as well as dialogues infringements. In the last two years, in our and customer consultations based on the purchasing and partnerships with suppliers as Pension Estimator. well as in our investments, PFA has paid special attention to safeguarding basic respect for human The second track focused mainly on new project rights. developments. Examples include a policy and goals for gender distribution on PFA’s Supervisory PFA has also set up a whistle-blower scheme, Board and in management generally, and setting which provides our employees with an additional up a screening model and analysis framework for opportunity to expose illegal or irresponsible assessing investments in government bonds. conditions which contravene PFA’s set of values or regulations. In 2013, PFA made a special effort Our third track focused on continuing to drive to ensure that the due diligence principle was initiatives launched at PFA as part of the Group’s better integrated into the investment process. CSR efforts and which are intended to help draw public attention to PFA as a committed social 6 PFA · CSR Report 2013 PFA’s responsibility model PFA’s responsibility model is founded on the four basic principles in PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and ethics. The model illustrates themes and activities, on which PFA has chosen to focus in implementing the policy in 2013. The outer ring of the wheel specifies the areas which this report covers in detail. Responsible investments Sustainable Responsible operations products WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships corporate responsibility dialogue management and dialogue practice and ethics Policy for gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in corporate culture management Employee Skills satisfaction development Health PFA · CSR Report 2013 7 Responsible corporate practice Policies and guidelines are the cornerstones of responsible corporate practice The objective of responsible corporate Responsible investments practice is to ensure that PFA maintains Sustainable Responsible policies and guidelines which uphold operations products fair and responsible corporate behaviour and ensure that PFA retains WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation its reputation as a trustworthy partner. Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships PFA manages pension savings and insurance plans management corporate responsibility and dialogue dialogue practice and ethics for about one million customers. PFA policies and guidelines are based on integrity and reliability to Policy for ensure that our employees act responsibly. PFA has gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in a clear position on this and we dissociate ourselves management corporate culture from any form of speculation or corruption. These attitudes are listed in PFA’s policy for corporate Employee Skills satisfaction development responsibility and ethics, which all our employees Health are obliged to know and recognise. Policy for gender distribution in management In 2013, PFA’s Supervisory Board passed a policy and target figures for gender distribution in management. We have set goals for the number of seats to be held by women on PFA corporate boards and in management generally. The policy also describes the initiatives we will take to help ensure that PFA achieves these goals. When we assemble management teams and corporate boards, PFA wishes to replicate the distribution of men and women in society. Where boards comprising three members are concerned, the goal to achieve one-third female membership has been achieved. For the PFA Holding and PFA Pension boards, the ownership structure and associated procedure for elections to the board mean that it will be difficult to reform conditions in the short term. The goal for PFA Holding’s board is to have at least 30 % of the seats held by women by 2017. For PFA Pension’s board the goal is for at least one-third of the seats to be held by women by 2016. At the end of 2013, the Supervisory Board of PFA Holding and PFA Pension was identical and the share of seats held by women elected at the general meeting was 10 %. 8 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Lessons learned from whistle-blower scheme PFA has prioritised agreements with suppliers The objective of the whistle-blower scheme reached in 2013, at which time PFA’s Code of is to provide an additional means by which to Conduct was launched and replaced environmental track down illegal or irresponsible conditions supplier screening. In addition to the central which contravene PFA’s value set or regulations, purchasing function, other areas of the company and to give employees a better way to report engage in purchasing and enter agreements. objectionable conditions. A special effort has been made across the board to ensure that both the Code of Conduct and Cases may be reported in confidence or the self‑assessment sheet are integral parts anonymously to PFA’s internal auditor, who of agreements with PFA. Every year, PFA signs investigates the matter and reports to the agreements with partners, large and small. Audit Committee. The scheme was launched In future, minor suppliers will be required to and implemented in 2012. In 2013, one incident complete a self-assessment process using was reported. It was related to IT security a new and simpler questionnaire. and employees’ handling of sensitive data. This case has been resolved. Dialogue with suppliers on PFA’s Code of Conduct In 2013, PFA worked to integrate PFA’s Code of Conduct into the dialogue with our suppliers. We also focused on the responses on a self‑assessment sheet, which our suppliers are asked to complete. PFA has integrated the principles of the UN Global Compact into its dialogue and work with suppliers. We communicate our expectations very clearly. When they complete the self-assessment sheet, suppliers can include a brief report on the efforts they make to promote corporate responsibility. PFA · CSR Report 2013 9 Responsible corporate culture Committed employees create value The objective of a responsible corporate culture is to cultivate Responsible investments leadership and skills development Sustainable Responsible operations products as well as to introduce initiatives to improve employees’ health. WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships corporate responsibility dialogue management and dialogue practice and ethics This year, PFA has yet again increased the number of customers and received higher Policy for payments. PFA has also invested in new growth gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in corporate culture areas. For example, we have set up our own management bank, PFA Udbetalingsbank, and acquired Mølholm Forsikring (a health insurance company). Having Employee Skills satisfaction development grown the business, PFA is an extremely busy place Health to work and we have focused on motivating and creating committed employees and on maintaining high levels of employee satisfaction. Skills development and highly qualified employees PFA wishes to have highly qualified employees who can make a professional contribution to the business and thus create value for our customers as well as for PFA. All our pension advisers are certified by the Forsikringsakademiet (the Danish Insurance Academy) in 2013. The objective is to ensure that all advisers have a broad knowledge base and can give our customers uniform, technically competent advice. During the year, the 10 PFA · CSR Report 2013 certification was extended also to include activities sent just under 450 employees to train at relevant for PFA Udbetalingsbank. A total of Forsikringsakademiet (Danish Insurance Academy). 30 advisers were MIFID-certified (i.e. to work In addition, a number of other minor courses, with markets and financial instruments), which including skills building courses, were held. is imperative when advising private customers on investment issues. This certificate is an EU A healthy, non-smoking work environment requirement to protect consumers. From 1 January 2013, PFA introduced a non‑smoking work environment. The objective In 2013, we focused on organisational and was to achieve complete parity between how leadership development, including improving we behave at PFA and our role as a healthcare how we use target management and KPIs (Key provider. Smoking is now prohibited both indoors Performance Indicators) in our business. Leaders and outside at every PFA location. We encourage have undergone a developmental process in the employees not to smoke at all during working shape of performance interviews and applying hours. Therefore, smoking breaks are no longer a strengths-based approach to day-to-day permitted. A small number of our employees management. Performance interviews are used (less than 30) have accepted an offer to take part to systematise and create a framework, within in a free course to help them quit smoking. which the leader conducts individual employee performance interviews. To date, 79 % of managers PFA has also launched an initiative to encourage have undergone training in the new leadership more employees to cycle to work. For example, tool. The remainder will take the course in the we have set up many new bicycle racks and, early months of 2014. in partnership with Kræftens Bekæmpelse, (The Danish Cancer Society), we are involved PFA has developed and introduced a performance in the “From car to bicycle” project, which, in excellence programme for 20 top performers addition to information material, provides free at PFA. The objective of the programme is bicycle maintenance at the workplace for people to retain the top performing 5 % through a who cycle to work. PFA also offers employees the development programme which focuses on PFA’s chance to buy bicycles at competitive prices. Just strategy, personal development and to direct over one in five employees regularly cycles to and senior management’s attention to each of the from work at PFA. We aim to raise this to 25 % of 20 candidates individually. A second intake will employees during 2013-2014. be recruited to the programme in 2014-15. PFA held a total of more than 70 in-house skills development courses for employees and PFA · CSR Report 2013 11 PFA has made special efforts to offer pregnant The overall goal is to achieve at least 40 % women employees advice in connection with pregnancy. in PFA at management level. In 2013, the total The advice given includes work-related issues, share of women managers in PFA was 39 %. and personal, physical and mental welfare. The This is at the same level as the share in the objective is to avoid uncertainty and to reduce previous year, which is satisfactory. the number of pregnancy-related sick days to Gender distribution at different management levels a minimum. The immediate superior also has at PFA in 2013 was as follows: 47 % female team a dialogue tool and has been asked to arrange leaders, 35 % women managers, 12 % women handing over agreements with pregnant employees directors, 25 % women group directors and 10 % at a very early stage in their pregnancy. female board members elected at the annual The pregnancy coach programme was introduced general meeting of PFA Holding and PFA Pension. in mid 2012, and the effect was measured in 2013 There is also a 40 % share of women in project for the first time. The figures show that PFA has management positions. reduced the proportion of pregnancy-related sick PFA intends to maintain this relatively high days, which has been stable at about 60 % in the proportion of women leaders and gradually to previous four years, to 36 % in 2013. The positive increase it with more women represented in effect can also be tracked in feedback received senior management, including the Supervisory from the participating women, who expressed their Board. In recruitment, we are especially aware appreciation for the advice because it covered of the need to ensure that recruitment material every aspect of their lives, not just their working is gender-neutral. We conduct personality tests lives. at job interviews in order to eliminate indirect Stable level of women in PFA management discrimination and, in search assignments for PFA wishes to see competent women gaining managerial positions, we stipulate that there access to management positions on an must be at least one qualified woman among the equal footing with men, and thus achieve candidates. In our skills development programmes, an equal distribution of men and women we strive to achieve a balance between the at management level. genders. In 2013, 45 % of the participants in 12 PFA · CSR Report 2013 the performance excellence programme were three dialogue meetings between the group women, 39 % of the participants in the PFA talent management team and the employees, and four programme for pension advisers were women meetings of the group management team with and 49 % of the participants in the most recent leaders to discuss PFA’s strategy and results have leadership talent programmes in the period indeed borne fruit. The video films are a new 2008‑2010 were women. type of communication at PFA. They create an understanding and esprit de corps in connection High employee engagement with the tasks we resolve at PFA and boost PFA regularly measures employee satisfaction employees’ support for managerial decisionand engagement among all its employees and making. A clear result of the new communications leaders. In 2013, we introduced a new measuring effort is, for example, that the employees give method, which focused on performance. In 2013, group management’s ability to communicate 93 % responded to the survey, which is itself an a relatively high score (70) in the annual expression of how engaged our employees really engagement survey, and the statement “I have are. Job satisfaction scores at 74.2 %, which is a clear understanding of PFA’s strategy and goals” slightly lower than 2012 but still a high score. scores more than 76 points. The survey revealed that, for the six dimensions which were repeated from previous surveys, all scored higher than last year for the labour market generally. The high level of engagement among PFA employees is partly explained by the fact that we have intensified internal communications at PFA. The combination of more than 360 articles and 62 information video films about projects, results and PFA as a workplace on our Intranet, PFA · CSR Report 2013 13 Responsible value creation Responsible products and services The goal for responsible value creation entails that our products, advisory Responsible services and investment processes investments create value for our customers in Sustainable Responsible products operations a responsible way. WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation Based on the main principles of the policy for corporate responsibility and ethics, PFA continues to work to create value for our customers in a Supplier Responsible Corporate Relationships Customer corporate responsibility dialogue responsible way. PFA emphasises the importance management and dialogue practice and ethics of providing personal advisory services, in which our customers meet very competent employees. Policy for Online tools and the digital universe generally gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in corporate culture provide excellent tools which customers can elect management to use as an easy way to supplement personal service. When making a claim, customers prefer Employee Skills satisfaction development to receive personal service. Health Qualified advice PFA’s pension advisers conducted more than 53,000 personal pension consultations in 2013. Almost one in four consultations took place over the telephone and using PFA’s online advisory service, in which the adviser and the customer can see the same screen views. This figure is expected to increase in coming years. All our pension advisers are certified externally. We have drawn up and publicised professional guidelines for providing reliable advice on pensions and investments. PFA puts its customers in a position to make decisions of their own based on qualified advice from PFA. In 2013, PFA updated its advisory code, which is also available at pfa.dk. In 2013, PFA launched PFA Optimator, a service which allows companies to see what other companies in the same branch and of the same size are offering in the way of pension plans and services. PFA Optimator is available at pfa. dk. The service is based on experience and data from e.g. PFA’s corporate customers and Statistics Denmark. PFA Optimator gives companies easy access to relevant data and insight into their own pension plan compared to other opportunities in the market. Since it was launched in November, there have been more than 25,000 visits to the PFA Optimator website. 14 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Renewed focus on prevention Advisory partnerships in cases of illness In 2013, PFA relaunched its prevention and health and death offers. Based on our knowledge and data about Every year in Denmark, about 140,000 children the customer, we can develop initiatives which and adolescents face either illness or death in help to improve productivity and job satisfaction their immediate family. In October 2013, PFA at customer companies. The results and effects signed an agreement with the Danish organisation, of such initiatives will be measurable and Børn, Unge & Sorg, to launch a campaign to documented. The goal here is to create lasting draw attention to the organisation, which helps changes and positive effects for the customer – children and adolescents who find themselves to the benefit of both the individual employee in this difficult situation. and the company. Every year, PFA is in contact with 4,500 customers At the end of 2013, we kicked off the PFA and the dependants, who are entitled to Sundeffekt (Health Effects) project in several disbursement from life insurance or payouts companies. The project aims to improve energy in connection with critical illness or loss of levels and productivity and, at the same time, occupational capacity. Initially, we focus on give employees excellent opportunities to prevent ensuring that these customers are aware that Børn, the negative consequences of sedentary work. Unge & Sorg provides professional advice and help The results were a significant improvement in job for the children, their parents and their network. satisfaction, more energy and better productivity, as well as fewer neck, shoulder and back problems. In 2012, PFA entered into a partnership with the Danish Cancer Society, Hjerteforeningen (Danish Extra focus on Active Claims Management Heart Foundation), Hjernesagen (Danish Aphasia During 2013, PFA upgraded initiatives to help and Stroke Association) and Scleroseforeningen sick customers to return to the labour market. (Danish Multiple Sclerosis Society). These The objective is to intervene effectively at an organisations provide professional expertise early stage in order to avoid long-term periods and a network in their respective professional of sickness involving a greater risk of the fields. In connection with this partnership, PFA customer never returning to employment. PFA’s offers one year’s membership with one of the Active Claims Management scheme has assessed four organisations to customers who receive 1,192 cases and engaged in a dialogue with 405 a disbursement in the event of critical illness. customers. Of these, 195 are currently sparring In 2013, 834 customers were offered membership actively and receiving help from the Active with one of the four organisations. 34 % accepted Claims Management service. the offer. In 2014, PFA will focus on encouraging more customers to accept the offer of membership and the opportunity to get advice and support An example of Active Claims Management A customer, aged 41, had psychological issues due to family problems and in connection with redundancy. His condition deteriorated into a severe depression with fulltime sickness absence. The customer applied for disability pension in December 2012. PFA helped this customer by funding a course of therapy with a psychologist under his health insurance. As the therapy was insufficient, from May 2013 he received more support for psychiatric therapy via Active Claims Management. PFA coordinated the course of therapy. The customer felt he had benefited from seeing the psychiatrist and in October 2013, with support from his psychiatrist, he started a new job. At the end of November 2013, the customer reported fit for duty. Disability pension was stopped and the customer returned to the labour market. PFA · CSR Report 2013 15 Responsible investmentS Our objective is to ensure that the yield on PFA’s investments is achieved Responsible investments with respect for human rights and Sustainable Responsible the environment, and in line with operations products internationally recognised standards. WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation PFA’s policy and guidelines for responsible investments ensure that PFA relates to the Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships dilemmas that occur when international management corporate responsibility and dialogue dialogue practice and ethics environmental standards and social and leadership norms are integrated into the investment process. Policy for gender Reponsible Our responsible investment work is based on the Partnerships distribution in corporate culture management UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investments. These six principles describe the general methods Employee Skills that should be applied to ensure that responsibility satisfaction development is an integral part of the investment process. Health Supports international principles In the wake of a prolonged dialogue with PRI, an organisation whose primary objective is to promote the UN-backed Principles for Responsible Investments, PFA decided to withdraw at the end of 2013. PFA signed up to UN-PRI in 2009. However, over a period of time, PFA observed that PRI’s own leadership and governance conditions have developed in a direction which does not entirely meet all the basic conditions that are expected of a responsible company. PFA continues to uphold decision‑making processes regarding companies the six international principles, which PRI promotes, and subjects on PFA’s focus list. and the same principles continue to provide the framework for PFA’s responsible investment In 2013, the RI Board continued to assess positive work. As a responsible investor, PFA will continue developments in Burma – Myanmar. Despite huge to report on the challenges faced as well as the challenges faced in the country, PFA, along with progress and results achieved from screenings several international initiatives, has decided to and active ownership. These reports will form part waive exclusion and thus to remove the ban on of the CSR report and will be available at pfa.dk. three oil companies with activities in the country. These are Chevron, China Oilfield Service and Total. Responsible Investment Board PFA continues to follow the situation in the country PFA’s Responsible Investment (RI) Board is very closely. responsible for the continued development and implementation of PFA’s policy and The RI Board has also focused on objects in the guidelines for responsible investments. The RI energy sector, including development and testing Board is also responsible for creating a resilient of new technologies and extraction methods. screening method for government bonds and for 16 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Responsible investment in government bonds standards and recognised indices. It provides a PFA has developed a screening process to be simple and factual basis on which the PFA RI Board conducted in parallel with half-yearly company can reach a decision as to whether a country screenings. is suitable for investment. For example, when assessing human rights issues in these countries, PFA’s screening is a three-step process, which PFA applies a process which includes the due includes a number of indicators and countrydiligence principle in the UN Guiding Principles on specific information which are relevant to the Business and Human Rights. assessment of a country, the population’s needs and the overall situation in the country. The screening model is based on international PFA’s screening model Countries suitable for investment 1. Hurdle criteria Advanced Sanctioned Economy 2. Country Score Model 3. Individual country analysis Suitable for investment Excluded Step 1 – Hurdle criteria The first step defines, through hurdle criteria, the country’s economy according to the IMF categorisation of ‘Advanced Economy’ and whether any financial or trade sanctions exist against the country. Countries that are not categorised by the IMF and which are not subject to any sanctions move on to the next step. Step 2 – Country Score Model The second step is a Country Score Model which is based on a number of internationally recognised indicators and indices, which covers human rights, employee rights, the environment and anti-corruption. If a country’s total score is assessed to be unsatisfactory, the country must be analysed further. Step 3 – Individual country analysis The third step consists of a country analysis which is based on a range of descriptive indicators from internationally recognised sources, which contributes to identifying the country’s and the population’s situation and development in a number of areas. After the analysis, it is decided whether the country is suitable for investment or not. At all steps in the screening process, current events, which have not yet been included in the recognised sources, may be considered to be of such importance that PFA decides either to exclude the country based on the events or proceed with further steps in the screening process. PFA · CSR Report 2013 17 In 2013, all the countries included in PFA’s The three countries reinstated in PFA’s investment investment portfolio were screened at halfportfolio are Angola, Nigeria and Ukraine. yearly intervals in accordance with the internal PFA’s guidelines for responsible investments in process and model (see page 17). The RI Board government bonds and a more detailed description has decided to exclude a total of eight countries. of the screening model are available at pfa.dk/csr. During 2013, three countries were reinstated. Based on their country analyses, the RI Board found that they were suitable for investment. At the end of 2013, PFA had investments in 61 countries: • Albania • El Salvador • Mexico • South Africa • Argentina • Finland • Morocco • Spain • Armenia • France • Netherlands • Sri Lanka • Austria • Gabon • New Zealand • Sweden • Belgium • Germany • Norway • Trinidad & Tobago • Belize • Ghana • Panama • Turkey • Bolivia • Guatemala • Paraguay • UK • Brazil • Hungary • Peru • Ukraine • Chile • Iceland • Philippines • Uruguay • Colombia • Indonesia • Poland • USA • Costa Rica • Iraq • Romania • Venezuela • Croatia • Italy • Russia • Vietnam • Denmark • Latvia • Senegal • Zambia • Dominican Republic • Lithuania • Serbia • Ecuador • Macedonia • Slovak Republic • Eire • Malaysia • Slovenia Extract from conclusion of the Angola assessment In PFA’s assessment of Angola, we considered that the country is a new democracy and a relatively homogeneous state but that it has an unsteady state system and is therefore prone to major challenges related to corruption. On many parameters, Angola scores lower than neighbouring countries in the region but is moving in the right direction. Angola has, for example, made remarkable progress on most human rights indices. Despite facing challenges, living conditions in the country have improved significantly in the last ten years (measured on World Bank millennium development goals). 18 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Active ownership In 2013, PFA continued its collaboration with the The active ownership principle is the cornerstone of screening agency GES. GES has integrated the due PFA’s work with responsible investments. PFA sets diligence principle from the UN Guiding Principles store by its dialogue with other companies. We on Business and Human Rights in its dealings with seek to persuade them to create value responsibly companies and their supply chain. and thus to ensure highest possible long-term GES screened PFA’s portfolio of about 2,000 returns on their investments. corporate shares and bonds throughout 2013. Active ownership is based on screening the PFA’s The norm-based screening process meant that holding of corporate shares and bonds at sixGES entered into a engagement dialogue on month intervals, and on a strategy for handling PFA’s behalf with 43 companies in PFA’s portfolio companies in which either non-compliance with that have violated or have shown indications international norms is observed or when there is of violating PFA’s guidelines. Three of these reason to suspect that non-compliance has taken cases were resolved during the year. These were place. The PFA investment portfolio is screened in the ExxonMobil case in Russia, Dollar General line with international conventions, included in the Corporation in China, and Vedanta (via subsidiary ten principles of the UN Global Compact regarding company Bharat Aluminium Company Ltd.) in India. respect for human rights, labour rights, climate, GES has assessed a further 106 cases involving environment and anti-corruption. companies in the PFA portfolio and in which, The PFA RI Board determines whether a company is through a dialogue with the company concerned to be excluded or whether to pursue the dialogue. and other parties, it has been ascertained whether PFA does not regard engaging in active ownership there was a breach of the PFA guidelines or not. At over foreign states as an opportunity for investors the end of 2013, there were 13 companies on the as this is a foreign policy issue. PFA focus list. Non-compliance with PFA’s standards has been observed at each of these companies Engagement dialogue completed – Non-compliance with UN Global Compact principle 7: Environment An ExxonMobil subsidiary, Exxon Neftegas Limited (ENL), extracts oil in the Sakhalin area, which is the natural habitat of an endangered species, the Western Gray Whale. In March 2011, the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) reported that ENL’s lack of data regarding whale activity in the area may be directly connected with the dwindling population of endangered whales in the area. The IUCN also claimed that preserving the whale population was difficult because not all of the oil companies working in the area were actively involved in whale preservation initiatives. In an engagement dialogue with ENL, GES emphasised, among other things, that ENL should participate in the IUCN dialogue with the other oil companies and should publish up-to-date data regarding the impact of oil extraction activities on the local ecosystem. Following a prolonged dialogue, GES found in 2013 that ENL has significantly improved its stakeholder dialogue and regularly publishes scientific data for the area. On this basis, ENL complies with PFA’s engagement criteria. and goals for the dialogue with these companies international law. PFA systematically excludes such have been set. There were a further 18 cases in manufacturers. Weapons of these types include progress, i.e. it is not yet established whether noncluster weapons and anti‑personnel land mines. compliance has taken place or not. PFA has listed index funds, which are offered the Externally managed funds ‘You Invest’ platform with a view to preventing In 2013, PFA pursued its ongoing dialogue with customer exposure to investments in illegal arms externally managed funds to discuss PFA’s policy manufacturers, when they invest in index funds and guidelines for responsible investment. placed at their disposal by PFA. The dialogue with Special attention was paid to companies which funds managers is expected to be fully elucidated manufacture weapons in contravention of during 2014. PFA · CSR Report 2013 19 Green operations and green investments The objective of responsible value creation also entails a certain degree Responsible investments of environmentally sustainable value Sustainable Responsible creation. These initiatives are based on operations products PFA’s environmental and climate policy. WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation PFA’s environmental and climate policy is founded on broadly integrating environmental initiatives into Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships corporate responsibility dialogue management and dialogue our business, including how PFA makes purchases practice and ethics and investments, runs its headquarters and involves employees. Policy for gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in corporate culture Optimising consumption of energy and management resources in operations and properties Employee Skills In 2013, PFA reduced CO2 consumption at our satisfaction development headquarters. As part of our efforts to maintain Health focus on permanent energy savings, PFA has been a DONG Energy climate partner since 2010. As a climate partner, PFA continues to compensate for CO2 emissions from electricity consumption at PFA headquarters by purchasing certificates from the Horns Rev 2 offshore wind farm. PFA expects to reach its goal to reduce CO2 emissions by up to 30 % within five years. In 2014, we and DONG Energy will review the results of our climate partnership. 20 PFA · CSR Report 2013 A number of the initiatives PFA introduced in 2013 CO2 (compared to a situation in which the same are not included in the climate partnership but are quantity of paper and cardboard was incinerated). nevertheless included in the calculation of PFA’s PFA also focuses on energy consumption in our total CO2 reduction. As part of general maintenance property portfolio and regularly makes adjustments of IT equipment, PFA replaced 700 PC monitors to optimise the energy required to power lighting with new and more energy-efficient monitors in and technical installations in our properties. We 2013. Replacing the 700 monitors represents an do this so that our properties can achieve a better annual electricity saving of 53,589 kWh. This in energy rating and so that our tenants’ electricity turn represents an 18.6 ton reduction in CO2, which bills are lower. Both are important factors in is about the same as the annual consumption of leasing and in retaining a good tenant when we 15 households. renegotiate the leasing agreement. At the end of 2012, PFA introduced a new waste Online advisory services reduce CO2 emissions management system. 2013 is therefore the first Since 2011, PFA has offered its customers online year, in which it is possible to measure the effects advisory services. These make it easier for the of the new system. The objective of the system is customer to choose precisely when he or she to improve security in handling confidential paper wants to receive advice. The online advisory service waste, encourage employees to change the way is a web-based tool, which helps us to advise the they behave and increase the quantity of recyclable customer over the telephone. Both adviser and waste paper produced at PFA. In 2013, PFA sent customer can see the illustrations and calculations 38.5 tons of paper and 10.8 tons of cardboard made by the adviser on their computers. The for recycling. This was mainly achieved via the number of online consultations increased in 2013. introduction of a sorting system for confidential As part of the climate partnership, PFA and its and recyclable paper. If we express the quantity partners, DONG Energy and Green Mobility, have of recyclable paper and cardboard as CO2 savings, calculated that the fact that PFA carried out we have reduced consumption by 72.9 tons of PFA’s total CO2 reduction in 2013 Online advisory services, 3,900 consultations 10.0 t Paper and cardboard for recycling 72.9 t Switch to new, more energy efficient pc monitors 18.6 t TOTAL 101.5 t 3,900 consultations online in 2013 instead of at the aim of which is to become market leader in the customer’s address means that PFA reduced onshore wind turbines in Denmark and a selection actual CO2 emissions by at least 10 tons. of neighbouring countries. Furthermore, via EKF, Denmark’s official export credit agency, PFA has Long-term investments in renewable energy released DKK 240 million to invest in an offshore PFA strives continually to review the opportunities wind farm project which is managed by the stateto invest in renewable energy or in companies owned Irish energy company. Finally, PFA has which contribute to green development. offered to invest DKK 800 million in DONG Energy In 2013, PFA’s partnership with the energy as part of DONG Energy’s total capital increase, company Sydenergi (SE) continued and the parties which will ensure that DONG Energy continues to invested DKK 760 million in a large portfolio of grow and converts to more green energy. onshore wind turbines. This purchase was the first in a new joint venture named SE Blue Renewables, PFA · CSR Report 2013 21 Relationships and dialogue Openness is the best foundation for learning and insight The objective of PFA’s dialogue with stakeholders is to create long-term and mutually beneficial partnerships which Responsible are built on trust and openness. investments Sustainable Responsible operations products We launched the Pension Estimator at the end of WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation 2012. This is an important tool which provides Life Foundation a single figure in order to communicate a message about pensions. Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships corporate responsibility dialogue management and dialogue practice and ethics Pensions on the agenda – customers, corporations and consumers Policy for The Pension Estimator is an online open source gender Reponsible Partnerships distribution in service. Anyone who wants to know if they are management corporate culture saving enough for their retirement can use it. In 2013, the Pension Estimator has become an Employee Skills integral part of PFA’s advisory services, in which satisfaction development we help customers calculate and fix goals for their Health savings in relation to their own specific pension estimate. Since November 2012, the Pension Estimator has had more than 200,000 visitors. In 2013, PFA launched PFA Optimator, which, like the Pension Estimator, is a tool which creates transparency in the pensions field. It deals with conditions for business customers, not for individual pension savers. Common to both these tools is that PFA has made them publicly available and that they therefore focus on pensions as a topic and create data and documentation that consumers and companies can use in the future. Communicating ethics and dilemmas During 2013, PFA engaged in a dialogue with different groups of stakeholders on investment and pension-related topics. PFA has also held dialogue meetings with NGOs with a view to creating a better understanding of how PFA acts in the role of investor and to discuss specific challenges, which PFA has encountered in developing a screening method for responsible investments in government bonds. 22 PFA · CSR Report 2013 In 2013, PFA’s Group CEO and President Henrik often than in 2012. At the same time, PFA has Heideby made, as a member of the Danish Council made strong progress in image surveys. PFA moved for Corporate Responsibility, two presentations up 15 places in the image survey in Berlingske about ethical challenges and dilemmas in the Business’ Gold number, which investigated investment process in connection with the 140 companies. PFA has now improved its position council’s work on responsible investments. for the fourth consecutive year. In 2013, PFA achieved 26th place. We have the third best image among financial companies and the best image in Openness and better reputation the pension sector. PFA’s openness and the company’s dialogue with customers and other players are PFA Morgenbrief (morning briefing) is a forum not only significant for understanding for the Danish business community, in which pensions. They are also important PFA encourages debate with ministers and for PFA’s reputation and create senior managers. In 2013, a new initiative a visible presence in the public was introduced to strengthen the network sphere. In 2013, PFA was of female leaders and decision-makers, PFA mentioned 3,635 times Kvindebrief (Women’s briefing), which is for in the media, which is women and features female speakers. In 2013, almost 34 % more PFA Morgenbrief held nine meetings, while PFA Kvindebrief held two. With more than 200 subscribers to each of these meetings, there is no doubt that the target groups are very interested in playing an active role in debates and networking opportunities. In partnership with Dansk Erhverv (The Danish Chamber of Commerce), PFA also held Eftermiddagsbrief (afternoon briefings) in Jutland and on Funen, which included visits to local enterprises. PFA · CSR Report 2013 23 Dialogue with customers creates real value The objective of PFA’s dialogue with customers is to increase dialogue and Responsible use these relations to pinpoint areas in investments which we can make things simpler and Sustainable Responsible products operations better. WhistleResponsible The PFA Live blowing value creation Life Foundation When we meet our customers, PFA has an opportunity to relate more closely with them, Responsible Corporate which in turn makes it easier to explain the Supplier corporate Relationships Customer management responsibility and dialogue dialogue complexities of pensions and policies in a practice and ethics simpler way and to ensure that the customer is given an optimum solution to match his or her Policy for gender Reponsible Partnerships needs. Customer feedback also helps us to develop distribution in corporate culture management and improve PFA and PFA’s products. When things go wrong, our customer can lodge a complaint or Employee Skills contact PFA’s management in order to express their satisfaction development Health dissatisfaction. Complaints and adverse criticism are registered and handled to ensure that we at PFA learn from our mistakes. Customer dialogue continues to increase In 2013, PFA continued to use the online tools, including Pension Estimator, which is fully integrated into our pension consultations. Online tools make it easier for customers to maintain an overview and insight into their pension plans. Meanwhile, legislative changes, 24 PFA · CSR Report 2013 such as the abolition of the endowment pension, Complaints Department by means of their work which has been replaced by an old-age pension, with individual complaints are communicated to and public debate on handling the transition to the areas involved. The Complaints Department market rate, have attracted public attention to the seeks to ensure that other customers do not risk pension sector. Customers show more interest and experiencing similar dissatisfaction in the future. make more enquiries compared to last year. There are two types of complaints which account for the vast majority of the total: communication We received a total of about 15,000 more enquiries and consultation on the one hand, and delivery in 2013 than in 2012. The increase is primarily and registration on the other. The number of explained by an increase in the number of emails customers whose complaints were settled wholly sent to the Advisory Services Centre and enquiries or partly in their favour has remained stable, made to the Health and Claims Centre whereas 23 % this year compared to 25 % in 2012. 2013 saw a drop in personal pension consultations and telephone enquiries to the Advisory Services In 2013, PFA received 463 complaints, of which Centre. The Health and Claims Centre received 45 % were resolved by giving supplementary 200,000 enquiries, responded to 97 % of these information and advice. with an average response time of less than Enquiries to the Customer Representative 50 seconds and achieved a customer satisfaction PFA’s Customer Representative provides a score of 9 (out of a possible 10). The Advisory supplementary claims handling service. In 2013, Services Centre received 225,000 calls, responded the Customer Representative received 63 queries, to 94 % of these with an average response time of which 57 were complaints. This was two fewer of 1 minute and 29 seconds (an improvement than the previous year. Of the 57 complaints, on the previous year) and customer satisfaction 31 were referred to the Complaints Department. rating of 8.7 (out of a possible 10). Of the cases finalised, 22 % were resolved by Managing claims and adverse criticism means of additional consultation or by sending PFA received fewer claims at the Ankenævnet for more material. 17 % of complaints were rejected Forsikring (Insurance Complaints Board). In 2013, and 61 % were settled wholly or partly in the 52 complaints cases were finally settled, of which customer’s favour. Many of the enquiries received PFA won 41. The number of complaints settled in 2013 were related to communication and fell by 40 % compared to 2012. dissemination of information and have resulted in measures which have improved communication In 2013 PFA’s internal Complaints Department of information both in letters to individual registered more complaints. Lessons learned in the customers and at pfa.dk. PFA · CSR Report 2013 25 PFA Brug Livet Fonden (PFA Live Life Foundation) The objective of the PFA Live Life Foundation is to draw attention to and Responsible support voluntary workers who help investments others to live life to the full. Sustainable Responsible products operations WhistleResponsible The PFA Live For the past four years, the PFA Live Life blowing value creation Life Foundation Foundation has provided support and information to voluntary workers who can apply for aid to fund good causes and to create awareness Responsible Corporate Customer Supplier Relationships corporate responsibility dialogue management and dialogue of them. The foundation’s supervisory board practice and ethics selects the winners and grants financial aid to the most popular cases. In 2013, the foundation Policy for gender Reponsible Partnerships launched its own website, which presented distribution in corporate culture management 94 applicants and conducted online voting to select the “winning” causes. The campaign and Employee Skills communication with the voluntary workers and satisfaction development their network takes place on Facebook. The Health website received up to 27,000 unique visits per week in the two weeks, in which voting took place. In 2013, the below four organisations were selected as our good causes and received donations • Walking Future received a donation of DKK 50,000. The organisation is working to set up a prosthetics centre in Kabul, Afghanistan so that the Afghans can produce their own prosthetic limbs for civilian casualties of the war. • The organisation ‘Street Children in India’ received a donation of DKK 50,000. The organisation is working to set up a home for street girls in India. The goal is to accommodate 100 girls who have fled their homes due to e.g. sexual harassment and domestic violence. • Spor (Tracks – The Danish National Association for adults with long term consequences from sexual abuse in childhood) received a donation of DKK 35,000. Tracks is a voluntary association which hopes to establish a framework for members to network with each other. • The Danish Hydrocephalus Association received DKK 15,000. This is a small patients association which creates a network and promotes awareness of hydrocephalus, a chronic condition caused by abnormal accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) within cavities of the brain called ventricles. 26 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Facts about the PFA Live Life Foundation • The PFA Live Life Foundation supports dedicated individuals who help others live life. • The foundation was set up in 2009 with initial capital of DKK 3 million which was a gift from PFA’s shareholders’ equity.. The first donations went to Girltalk.dk, Servicehunde for Handicappede, Danske Hospitalsklovne and TUBA (a chat line for girls aged 12-24, an association which provides service dogs for handicapped people, a voluntary organisation which entertains children in hospitals and an association which helps children affected by parental alcoholism, respectively). • In 2013, the foundation distributed DKK 150,000. • The good causes are nominated on www.bruglivetfonden.dk and visitors to the website can vote to establish which good causes PFA should support. The foundation and good causes are also advertised on Facebook. The causes with the most support are presented to the Supervisory Board which distributes grants to one or more causes. • The Supervisory Board is chaired by Svend Askær (Chairman of Lederne (Danish managers’ trade union)). Its members are: Professor Bjørn Nørgaard, Gita Grüning (Chairman of Teknisk Landsforbund (The Danish Association of Professional Technicians)) and Henrik Heideby (Group CEO and President of PFA Pension). Read more about PFA Live Life Foundation and the causes PFA supports at www.facebook.com/pfabruglivetfonden www.bruglivetfonden.dk PFA · CSR Report 2013 27 Aid to associations and for voluntary work PFA wishes to provide aid for activities in the public sphere. We can provide financial aid or support in the shape of advertising or de facto cooperation with the association concerned. PFA provides support for non-profit-making associations and projects which serve a good cause. The support is primarily given to organisations or partners who focus on an individual issue. PFA receives many requests for support and we prioritise activities which are in some way associated with our core business. PFA has also set aside funding internally. We distribute funding for voluntary work among PFA employees. Cooperation with associations In 2013, PFA worked with two of the good causes which received support from the PFA Live Life Foundation in 2012. PFA worked with TUBA (an association which helps children affected by parental alcoholism) on an event at Folkemødet (a political event) on Bornholm and with Landsforeningen Autisme (the Danish autism association), where, for example, we produced a questionnaire for members of the association in connection with preparations for Projekt Madglad (a project to help autistic children tackle their eating disorders). PFA is also taking part in Landsforeningen Autisme’s project “Det rette Tilbud” (the right kind of job), which focuses on helping adult sufferers of autism spectrum disorders to find work at relevant companies. PFA has hired a person who suffers from autism who will start work in 2014. 28 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Support in 2013 • S enhjerneskadeforeningen Vejle (A local In 2013, PFA supported a number of different association of people with long-term brain associations and activities: damage) Business partnerships PFA also provided support by means of ads • Red Cross Denmark in the following associations’ members’ • Engineers Without Borders Denmark magazines: • WWF • Førtidspensionisten (for disability pensioners) • DR Koncerthuset (concert venue in Copenhagen) • Politiets Blå Baretter (the Danish Police Force’s • CSR Forum blue beret association) • Dansk Handicap Idræt (handicapped sports Individual support activities association) • Red Cross Denmark clothing collection • Gigtforeningen (Danish arthritis and rheumatism • The Proof of life run association) • Foreningen Hovedstadens Forskønnelse (a society • Hjerneskadeforeningen (the Danish Brain Injury dedicated to the beautification of the Danish Association) capital city, Copenhagen) • Rygforeningen (Danish spinal injuries association) • Award for best thesis by a Higher Diploma in • LEV Udvikling for udviklingshæmmede (for the Corporate Organisation student of Copenhagen mentally challenged) Business School • LFA Landsforeningen For Arbejdsskade • Børn, Unge & Sorg (Danish organisation which (association for people with industrial injuries) helps children and adolescents who have lost a • Spastikeren (for spastics) parent) • Familier med Kræftramte Børn (families with • TUBA (an association which provides therapy and children suffering from cancer) advice for children living with alcoholic parents) PFA’s employee fund PFA’s employee fund can either be financial or in PFA’s employee fund is intended to help fund the shape of the employee being permitted time the work of PFA employees who make a social off work with pay to concentrate on their voluntary difference through voluntary work. work for a few days. Through the fund, PFA supports a number of In 2013, we received seven applications from good causes, in which employees are engaged employees. PFA provided support for a total in their free time for the benefit of children, of four activities in which social engagement adolescents and vulnerable groups. Support from was a priority. The four employee projects which received support in 2013 • Support for a merger project for young girls in the IF Midtdjurs/Kolind IF football club. • Support which made it possible for all the boys on a football team at KBK Hillerød to afford to take part in a tournament. • Paid holidays to take part in a Mjølner Group (Værløse) scout camp. • Support for a school lunch project for Nepalese schoolchildren. PFA · CSR Report 2013 29 About this report that all the stakeholders expressed an interest This report describes PFA’s work with in PFA’s work on responsible investments and corporate responsibility and reports the examples we can provide of how responsible on the most important initiatives and investment processes are achieved in practice. results achieved in 2013. The general framework is our policy for corporate PFA played an active role in Rådet for responsibility and ethics, which Samfundsansvar (the Danish Council for describes PFA’s goals and visions for Corporate Responsibility’s) work with responsible the work we do with responsibility as investments. The debates within the council and a company, employer, business partner an interest in drawing up guidelines in a variety of and investor. fields indicate that there is widespread willingness to learn how institutional investors work and think. In addition to describing actions and results The report applies to the whole of 2013 and covers of PFA’s work with corporate responsibility, this the PFA Group with the exception of two associated report also focuses on our work with responsible companies. PFA Holding’s annual report, the CSR investments and active ownership in slightly more report with appendices and the CSR pages at detail than the remaining topics in the report. pfa.dk all comply with the Danish Financial Statements Act regarding the reporting of the Report structure company’s corporate responsibility. These also The report’s structure is based on the four basic represent PFA’s Communication on Progress report principles on which our policy for corporate (COP) to the UN regarding PFA’s implementation of responsibility and ethics is built. Each principle UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. comprises several key areas and specific actions. The report mirrors the structure of the policy and Assessment of the importance of the report the topics described illustrate how PFA’s work content with CSR has progressed. The four basic principles During 2013, PFA engaged in dialogue with of the PFA responsibility model are identical to a number of stakeholders concerning corporate the four basic principles in the policy. See page 7. responsibility. Common to these dialogues was 30 PFA · CSR Report 2013 The final part of the report is a collection of PFA has participated in a pilot project regarding CSR key figures and facts, which are compared to peer review of the CSR report within the Global previous years’ results. Where relevant, specific Compact Nordic Network and has taken into figures or comparisons are quoted in the report. consideration the comments and reflections For an overview, please refer to the final section in this report. of the report. The data has been systematised and Contact for the CSR report and PFA’s work with improved in some areas. PFA will continue to work corporate responsibility is: to improve on this. CSR Manager Mette Vadstrup, mev@pfa.dk, PFA continues to base its reporting on indicators Corporate Communications & People from GRI G3 Sustainability Guidelines and Management. Financial Service Sector Supplement (FSSS), which cover the relevant areas in UN Global Compact’s 10 principles. It is PFA’s assessment that the report is at level C according to the GRI G3 assessment scheme. PFA · CSR Report 2013 31 Csr – key figures and facts 2013 The PFA Group The PFA Group structure was reformed with effect from 31 December 2013. Ownership in three companies – PFA Kapitalforvaltning, PFA Portefølje Administration and PFA Udbetalingsbank – was transferred from PFA Pension to PFA Holding. The objective was to strengthen the overarching corporate governance of the group. The change creates more openness and transparency in the individual business areas. PFA Holding now has direct ownership and insight into these business areas. Shareholders in PFA Holding include the PFA Foundation and other shareholders, primarily consisting of the organisations that co-founded PFA in 1917 and whose members and employees, for the main part, are customers in PFA. The CSR Report covers the PFA Group which comprises the following companies: • PFA Holding A/S (parent company) • PFA Pension, insurance, forsikringsaktieselskab • PFA Soraarneq, insurance, forsikringsaktieselskab • Mølholm Holding A/S and Mølholm Forsikring A/S • PFA Ejendomme A/S with subsidiaries • PFA Invest International A/S with subsidiaries • PFA Professionel Forening (the Professional Association) • PFA Kapitalforvaltning, fondsmæglerselskab A/S (PFA Asset Management) • PFA Portefølje Administration A/S (PFA Portfolio Administration) • PFA Udbetalingsbank A/S 32 PFA · CSR Report 2013 CSR management and structure at PFA The framework for PFA’s work with responsibility is PFA’s CSR policies and guidelines. They have been formulated based on UN Global Compact’s 10 principles and the UN-backed principles for responsible investments, PRI. The policy for corporate responsibility and ethics for the PFA Group, PFA’s policy for corporate responsibility and ethics and associated guidelines are available at pfa.dk. The overall responsibility for CSR at PFA lies with the Group CEO and President. The daily work with CSR and coordination of activities, areas of focus and implementation of the policy is carried out by the CSR department, which is a part of Corporate Communications & People Management. Responsibility for enforcement of the policy for responsible investment and the work with active ownership lies with PFA’s Board for Responsible Investments. The RI Board meets four times a year and its members are leading employees from PFA Kapitalforvaltning, the director of our Corporate Communications & People Management department, the CFO and the CSR manager. PFA’s CFO is Chairman of the RI Board. Integrating the ten principles of the UN Global Compact – an overview UN Global Compact principle PFA activity Page in CSR report Progress in creating commitment to corporate responsibility and 6-7 ethics at PFA 16-17 Screening the PFA portfolio Engagement dialogue with companies which do not meet PFA’s 19 1-10 standards 16 RI Board meetings, assessments and decisions 9 Code of Conduct Dialogue with customers, the media and other stakeholders 22-25 1-6 & 10 Whistle-blower scheme 9 1&6 Employee satisfaction, health initiatives and skills development 14-15 Creating commitment to the Environmental and Climate Change 7,8 & 9 20 strategy Energy efficiency initiatives and resource optimisation at head8 21 quarters 1 Customer dialogue, customer satisfaction and online tools 24-25 PFA · CSR Report 2013 33 Employees and WORKING conditions Number of employees 2013 2012 2011 Number of employees (annual average) 1,299 1,247 1,202 Staff turnover (%) 7.7 11.6 10.6 Employees in flex jobs 2013 2012 2011 No. in flex jobs 10 10 10 PFA engagement surveys PFA engagement PFA employee Labour market 2012 survey 2013 satisfaction 2012 Satisfaction 74 73 77 Image 83 74 85 Would recommend others to apply for work 75 69 82 at PFA In 2013, PFA carried out its own engagement survey. The survey was conducted in order to assess PFA’s strategic goal to become a performance organisation. There are therefore no specific benchmarks to compare with for all elements of the survey. The three questions above also appeared in previous surveys. Sickness absence 2013 2012 2011 Sickness absence (%) 3.1 2.9 3.3 Following five consecutive years of falling sickness absence, there was a small increase in 2013. The increase was due especially to short-term sickness absence. Work-related injuries 2013 2012 2011 No. of work-related injuries 3 2 7 PFA has an occupational health and safety organisation, the purpose of which is to create a safe and healthy work environment at PFA. The figures are based on PFA’s reports to Arbejdstilsynet (the Danish Working Environment Authority). 34 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Women in managerial positions, on the Supervisory Board and PFA’s Customer Board No. 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 31.12.2011 Share of Share of Share of Men Women women Men Women women Men Women women (%) (%) (%) Level 1 14 2 12 11 4 26 11 3 21 Director Level 2 26 14 35 26 16 38 27 15 36 Manager Level 3 40 36 47 45 32 42 49 25 34 Leader Total 80 52 39 82 52 39 87 43 33 • PFA’s Executive Board has four members, one of whom is a woman, i.e. 25 %. • PFA’s Supervisory Board has 10 members elected at the annual general meeting, one of whom is a woman, corresponding to 10 %. • PFA’s Customer Board has 67 members, of whom 15 are women, corresponding to 22 %. Learn more about PFA’s key figures and initiatives to increase the proportion of the under-represented gender on supervisory boards and in managerial positions at PFA on pfa.dk. Coaching project for pregnant employees Since spring 2012, PFA has offered pregnant employees and their leaders advice from a pregnancy coach to help them organise their work as best they can during pregnancy. We observe a significant reduction in the number of pregnant employees who report sick, and therefore a significant fall in sickness absence. 2013 2012 2011 Participate in coaching process 13 15 No. of pregnant women 28 36* 33 No. of pregnant women with sickness absence (%) 36 58 61 No. of pregnant women with no sickness absence (%) 64 42 39 No. of pregnancy-related sick days 272 593 549 * The offer of coaching started in April 2012, so the actual number taking part was 15 out of a possible 23 in 2012. PFA · CSR Report 2013 35 Investments and active ownership Company screenings The screening of investments is undertaken on behalf of PFA by GES, which has screened and evaluated PFA’s investments in equities and corporate bonds. PFA itself undertakes engagement dialogue with a number of companies and is involved in ongoing dialogue with external managers regarding CSR-related issues. In 2013, the PFA RI Board reinstated companies with activities in Burma Myanmar. This meant that the following companies were removed from PFA’s exclusion list: Chevron, China Oilfield Service and Total. Elbit Systems has been added to the exclusion list as this company, despite an engagement dialogue, continues to disregard fundamental human rights. Via GES, PFA was in dialogue with 43 companies in 2013. GES has also started to evaluate 106 companies in PFA’s portfolios to investigate whether a potential infringement of standards can be confirmed or not. Engagement dialogue with companies in which non-compliance with PFA’s RI policy was established 19 Engagement dialogue with companies in which there were signs of non-compliance with PFA’s RI policy 22 Cases closed 3 GES engagement dialogue total by companies 43* *There were two engagement cases at Vedanta, so the 44 cases were distributed between 43 companies. We have finalised three engagement cases in which the implicated companies met all the audit criteria. At the end of 2013, there were 13 companies on the PFA focus list. Non-compliance with PFA’s standards has been observed at each of these companies and goals for the dialogue with these companies have been set. There were a further 18 cases in progress. At these, it is not yet established whether noncompliance has taken place or not. Country screenings During 2013, the PFA RI Board decided to reinstate three countries in the investment portfolio based on country screenings. At the end of 2013, PFA invested in government bonds in 61 countries. Countries are excluded or reinstated based on PFA’s screening method, which includes an in-depth analysis, which outlines the country’s development on a number of parameters, including the human rights situation, level of democracy and corruption. Where reinstatement is concerned, PFA emphasises the importance that significant improvement of critical conditions is documented. PFA’s exclusion list with companies and investment list with countries are published at pfa.dk. 36 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Environment and co2 consumption CO2 emissions at PFA 2013 2012 2011 Total CO2 emissions (t) 2,114 2,081 2,097 CO2 emissions (t) per employee 1.77 1.67 1.74 *During Q1 2013, there were significantly more degree days than in 2012, which led, among other things, to an increase in heating consumption. Moreover, it is not possible to see all CO2 reducing initiatives reflected in the figures for 2013. These will be reflected in later figures. CO2 emissions Electricity District heating Air travel Petrol-driven cars Diesel-driven cars CO2 emissions derived from electricity consumption kWh g CO2/kWh* CO2 (t) CO2 emission/employee 2013 1,887,854 448 846 0.68 2012 1,860,663 448 834 0.67 2011 1,984,876 448 889 0.74 *The figure “g CO2/kWh” is calculated by DONG Energy. CO2 emissions derived from district heating consumption kWh g CO2/kWh* CO2 (t) CO2 emission/m2 2013 2,444,643 132 323 13,958 2012 2,136,315 132 282 12,197 2011 1,976,711 132 261 11,286 *The figure “g CO2/kWh” is calculated by DONG Energy (kWh is degree-day corrected cf. the Danish Meteorological Institute (DMI)). CO2 emissions derived from air travel CO2 emissions (t) per No. of flights Kilometres flown CO2 (t) trip 2013 789 744,629 96 0.12 2012 573 748,670 97 0.17 2011 676 603,891 78 0.12 PFA · CSR Report 2013 37 CO2 emissions derived from cars Number of cars Consumption in litres g CO2/l CO2 (t) Petrol-driven cars 2013 4 7,802 2,272 18 2012 10 20,222 2,272 46 2011 14 65,800 2,272 149 Diesel-driven cars 2013 163 310,918 2,676 832 2012 154 307,236 2,676 822 2011 141 268,823 2,676 719 Total cars Number of cars CO2 t per car CO2 (t) CO2 (t) 2013 167 5.09 850 -18 2012 164 5.30 868 -1 2011 175 4.97 869 3 CO2 offset taxi transport Share offset for transport with other Taxi transport CO2 consumption offset by taxi company companies 2013 1,020 kg 64.4 % 2012 1,247 kg 60.7 % 2011 1,035 kg 61.8 % CO2 emissions derived from paper consumption Paper (t) t CO2/t paper CO2 (t) 2013** 81 (92) 0.78 63 (72) 2012 74 0.78 58 2011* 59 0.78 46 *Increased consumption due to change of supplier from 01.07.2011, where PFA discarded a large stock of paper delivered by the previous supplier. **The figures for 2013 include 10.4 t discarding of old envelopes/paper. () The figures in brackets include paper from external sources which supply printed reports and other printed material. 38 PFA · CSR Report 2013 CO2 reduction (t) 2013 2012 2011 CO2 reduction Electricity 846 834 889 12 District heating 323 282 261 41* Air travel 96 97 78 -1 Petrol-driven cars 18 46 149 -18 Diesel-driven cars 832 822 719 10 Total 2,114 2,081 2,097 33** *During Q1 2013, there were significantly more degree days than in 2012, which led, among other things, to an increase in heating consumption. **Not all CO2 reducing initiatives are reflected in the figures for 2013. These will be reflected in later figures. CO2 reduction overview (t) 2013 CO2 reduction Consumption of petrol and diesel oil 850 -18 Consumption of electricity and district heating 1,168 53 Consumption of air travel 9 -1 Total 2,114 17 PFA applies the Greenhouse Gas Protocol method to calculate CO2 reductions. Waste (t) 2013 2012 2011 Total waste 194 239 260 PFA · CSR Report 2013 39 Stakeholders and society Customer enquiries and contact Pension Advisory Services Centre Advisory Services Centre Health Centre and Total consultations Telephone calls Email enquiries Claims Centre 2013 53,642 224,271 61,508 200,000 539,421 2012 58,333 227,965 49,823 180,000 516,121 2011 47,187 199,557 42,500 140,000 429,244 Complaints Department and Customer Representative In 2010, PFA set up a central Complaints Department and appointed a Customer Representative. The aim was to ensure high quality and that all complaints were handled in the same way. No. of complaints to Complaints Department by subject No. of Communication Products Technology and Payouts Deliveries and Total complaints and advice and solutions IT architecture and decisions registrations 2013 168 31 28 81 155 463 2012 129 27 19 68 110 353 2011 93 6 14 74 28 215 No. of complaints to Customer Representative Referred to Partially in Not in In Total Accepted In favour Complaints favour favour process Dept. 2013 57 4 6 5 3 8 31 2012 59 10 7 5 8 4 25 2011 67 N/A* 29 9 9 5 15 * The method used to register the results of complaints cases was changed in 2012. This means that the 2012 figures are not fully comparable with the figures for 2011. The complaint result “accepted” is a new category, which is used when the complaint can be settled by supplementary consultation or by sending extra material. Councils and networks to promote corporate responsibility • Member of the UN Global Compact and Global Compact Nordic Network. • Member of Rådet for Samfundsansvar (the Danish Council for Corporate Responsibility), which advises the Danish government on CSR. PFA is also a member of a working group which is mapping investments in the manufacture of weapons which contravene international law (cluster weapons and anti-personnel land mines). • Member of Dansif’s working group for events. • Participated in pilot project during Global Compact Nordic Network peer review with a view to being inspired and improving future CSR reports. 40 PFA · CSR Report 2013 Reputation PFA’s reputation is affected by a range of factors, including trustworthiness, significance and visability. PFA’s coverage in the press has made a positive contribution to the development of PFA’s reputation. 2013 2012 2011 Coverage/no. of mentions 3,635 2,713 2,335 Image measurements in the financial sector – brand position/score* Q4 2013 Q4 2012 Q4 2011 Decision-makers’ No. 3/score 11.9 No. 3/score 11.5 No. 5/score 13.3 assessment of the brand *Source: Infomedia/You Gov. Awards PFA won the following awards: • DIA Award (Danish Internet Award) in the “Financial Services” category for the Pension Estimator. • True Award, a Danish advertising film award for the Best Interactive Film Online – awarded to the Pension Estimator. • The Advertising Effectiveness Award, AEA 2013, for Denmark’s most effective advertising campaign – awarded to the Pension Estimator. • PFA Ejendomme A/S won the Best Core Investment Award at IP Real Estate Awards. PFA · CSR Report 2013 41 Focus areas in corporate responsibility in 2014 PFA will review its policy for corporate responsibility and ethics, and other policies and guidelines which form the framework for PFA’s CSR work. By means of internal communication, PFA will broaden awareness of the PFA whistle-blower scheme. PFA will resolve the challenges involved in small suppliers’ self-assessment. PFA focuses on health initiatives in daily life and is running a three-month trial with an exercise programme using rubber bands to reduce the number of employees with minor problems with their back, neck and arm.These health initiatives are intended to improve job satisfaction and reduce sickness absence. PFA will assess the partnership with Børn, Unge & Sorg (a Danish organisation which helps children and adolescents who have lost a parent). PFA will evaluate the success of its five-year climate partnership compared to the goal which was to reduce CO2 emissions by up to 30 %. 42 PFA · CSR Report 2013 PFA · CSR Report 2013 43 PFA Holding A/S 2100 Copenhagen Denmark Tel. (+45) 39 17 50 00 Fax (+45) 39 17 59 50 www.pfa.dk pension@pfa.dk CVR No. 2 24 38 018 Images: Jakob Dall
