General! ! Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP)! ! From: may 2013 to: may 2014! ! ! ! Sample Statement of continued support! ! 8/05/2014, Florence! ! To our stakeholders:! ! I am pleased to confirm that Treedom srl reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption.! ! In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business s trategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication.! ! Sincerely yours,! Federico Garcea, founder & CTO! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! ! Human Rights! ! Assessment, Policy and Goals! Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e.human rights risk‐assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights. ! Treedom respects human rights and workers’ rights, which must guarantee safety and health in the workplace. Treedom supports the protection of the right to childhood and the consequent protection against the exploitation of children. ! ! Treedom adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in all its activities and relationships with third parties, such as companies, suppliers, local cooperatives and NGOs. The respect of human rights is guaranteed in all our internal activities and in all our external operations.! ! Internally, Treedom respects the rights of the employees. Externally, we work in partnership with NGOs which implement, for example, the following programs:! protection of human rights! promotion of women’s rights and equal opportunities! support for refugee populations and victims of war! food security ! humanitarian emergency.! ! ! Implementation! Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations. ! Treedom pays strong attention to respecting the human rights in all its operations, choosing partners and NGOs which adhere to our Code of Ethics, where the value of human rights is crucial.! ! ! Measurement of outcomes! Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ! Treedom, with periodical visits to the reforestation projects it promotes, makes sure that all the values contained in the Code of Ethics are strictly respected and promoted by local project developers. Furthermore, we attentively review the Code of Ethics or similar documents of the companies, sponsors and partners with which we undergo business activities.! ! ! ! Labour! ! Assessment, Policy and Goals! Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company(i.e.labour rights‐related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies,public commitments and company goals on labour rights. ! Treedom, during the selection and the development of the projects it selects, makes sure that all the fundamental principles of the UN Charter of Human Rights are implemented by the local NGOs and cooperatives, which must comply to the recognition of the abolition of child labour, elimination of forced and compulsory labour, any form of discrimination based on ethnic origin, gender, religion, sexual orientation and respect of employment and occupation.! ! ! Implementation! Description of concrete actions taken by your company to implement labour policies, reduce labour risks and respond to labour violations. ! Treedom makes onsite visits to the project areas to make sure that all the above mentioned principles are respected together with the compliance of the values expressed in this Code of Ethics. ! ! Internally, the health and safety of all employees are ensured in accordance to the Italian law requirements.! ! ! Measurement of outcomes! Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance. ! Treedom’s team is composed of about 50% women and all the employees are very young (below 35 years). Treedom’s staff holds weekly brainstorming in order to involve everyone in discussing about actual and future activities.! ! Regularly, Treedom supervises how its partners carry on the projects and if there are any irregularities regarding the respect of human rights. Treedom has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to labor rights violation.! ! ! ! Environmental! ! ! Assessment, Policy and Goals! Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e.environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection. ! Treedom’s mission is focused on environmental protection, the fight against deforestation, combating the greenhouse effect of anthropogenic origin, contrast and mitigation of climate change and halting the loss of biodiversity, desertification and landslides. ! ! Having an exemplary environmental behavior and protecting biodiversity in all its forms is a fundamental criterion and distinctive of Treedom’s work. ! ! Treedom gets office supplies, being a company. However, working in the field of environmental consultancy, we know ho to significantly reduce our environmental impact. We have an environmental policy based on the principles of green procurement and energy savings.! ! ! Implementation! Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, reduce environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents. ! Our offices are provided with recyclable bins for paper, plastic, glass and organic trash. Our electronic devices and lighting are certified for low energy consumption.! ! We encourage our team to commute by bike or public transports.! ! Furthermore, we use only recycled paper and we pay great attention to food products that are consumed in our offices: we preferably buy kilometer zero.! ! ! Measurement of outcomes! Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance. ! Every six months we calculate our carbon footprint, in order to monitor the results of our environmental efforts. Furthermore, we plant the number of trees necessary to offset our carbon footprint. ! ! ! Anti‐Corruption! ! Assessment, Policy and Goals! Description of the relevance of anti‐corruption for the company (i.e. anti‐corruption risk‐ assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti‐corruption. ! Treedom doesn’t make business with companies, partners and sponsors which have a track record of corruption or direct and indirect involvement with actors which have such record. Furthermore, we have recently started a new agroforestry project initiative with a group of cooperatives which fight against the Italian mafia. ! ! Treedom team doesn’t accept any form of corruption. ! ! ! Implementation! Description of concrete actions to implement anti‐corruption policies, reduce anti‐corruption risks and respond to incidents. ! Treedom only accept assignments which are within the range of our expertise and experience and are compatible with our vision and mission. ! ! ! Measurement of outcomes! Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti‐corruption performance. ! There have been no cases of corruption over the course of the Treedom’s existence.
