Communication on Progress 2013 1 1. Introduction 12 August 2014 To our stakeholders: On behalf of Norrbom Vinding, I am pleased to reaffirm our support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our fourth annual Communication on Progress, which covers 2013, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. While modelled on the Ten Global Compact principles, this report also describes our pro bono partnerships. This is because a large part of our CSR activities are based on a firm conviction that we can best fulfil our corporate social responsibility by doing what we do best – providing legal advice. Sincerely yours, Mariann Norrbom, Managing Partner 2 Our values: Respect, integrity and quality We are committed to our responsibility as a provider of top-quality legal services, as an employer and as a corporate citizen. Unity, teamwork and caring for each other We are all for one, one for all and we work together to deliver the best legal solutions to our clients. Motivation, passion and fun To deliver on the above values, we strongly believe that our employees must be motivated and passionate and enjoy their work so that clients and other stakeholders will enjoy working with us. 3 2. About Norrbom Vinding Norrbom Vinding is a medium-sized Danish law firm specialising in management labour and employment law. We have the largest labour and employment practice in Denmark – and in Scandinavia as well. Our unique expertise in labour and employment law builds on more than 30 years’ experience, and our client base is a mix of national and international companies and organisations. Norrbom Vinding is the Danish member of Ius Laboris, Global Human Resources Lawyers. On a global basis, Ius Laboris counts more than 2 500 lawyers from 44 countries – all of whom are experts in labour and employment law. Although Norrbom Vinding is under no statutory requirement in Denmark to report on CSR, we recognise our responsibility to promote good corporate citizenship. We work systematically to increase awareness of our responsibility not only as a firm but also as individuals. And as a leading labour and employment law firm, we recognise our responsibility as an employer for the well-being of our employees and for communicating and thus promoting our standards in this area to our stakeholders. By way of example, our corporate presentation contains information about our involvement in the UN Global Compact, as do our brochures and leaflets on legal subjects. Read more at www.norrbomvinding.com. 4 Human rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3. Our approach to the Ten Principles We have decided to approach the Ten Principles in a context that makes sense for us as a law firm. 3.1 Human rights Employee satisfaction We respect the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and uphold individual freedom of expression and opinion. Internally, this basic principle is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee groups as well as bi-weekly office meetings. These meetings provide a useful forum for exchange of opinions, and employees and partners alike are encouraged to bring up any matter they would like to discuss. Employee engagement is a priority and necessity for us. In 2010, we therefore conducted our first employee satisfaction survey, which showed a relatively high employee satisfaction (4.14 on a 0-5 point scale). In 2011, the survey showed an increase in employee satisfaction to a level of 4.25 and the 2012 survey showed yet another clear improvement, 4.38. For 2013, however, we agreed to do something different: we decided to expand the scope of the employee satisfaction survey to also include a cultural analysis. To this end, psychologists conducted one-on-one interviews with all employees about our culture, values 5 and leadership. The 2013 satisfaction and cultural survey showed that we are a firm which lives its values to a rare degree. A very close link was found to exist between the atmosphere at work, our values and the ground rules, making it easy to understand and navigate the organisation. While there is a clear professional hierarchy, there is an absence of social hierarchy – one of the reasons why we were found to bring our values to life every day. However, the survey also showed a widespread desire for more feedback, and we are therefore in the process of implementing procedures to ensure greater feedback. Because of the sheer size of the 2013 survey and its draw on resources, it will be conducted at 2-year intervals instead of every year. Pro bono partnerships Externally, a tangible expression of our support to fundamental human rights is our partnership with the Danish chapter of Médecins Sans Frontières (Doctors Without Borders). Médecins Sans Frontières is an independent international medical humanitarian organisation that delivers emergency aid in more than 70 countries to people affected by armed conflict, epidemics, natural or man-made disasters, or exclusion from health care. Our support takes the form of pro bono work as well as general and tailor-made training courses in HR law and related areas. ”Médecins Sans Frontières is an organisation based on volunteers and commitment. We send out doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals to disaster zones all over the world to provide medical emergency aid. This requires a professional administrative organisation. With its dedicated effort and invaluable HR law services, Norrbom Vinding has enabled us to focus all of our energy on what we are here for: Delivering independent humanitarian aid wherever it is needed. Thank you. Thank you very much.” Torill Pallesen Davey, HR Director We have also continued our support for BØRNEfonden as well. BØRNEfonden is a private Danish organisation, which helps over 65,000 sponsor children and their families and communities in some of the world’s poorest countries. In practice, we provided pro bono 6 assistance in the form of a general restructure of their contractual framework and now we provide ongoing assistance with HR matters, training courses in HR law and contracts, review of individual contracts, etc. ”BØRNEfonden has forged a partnership with Norrbom Vinding to benefit from its labour and employment expertise. BØRNEfonden is an independent development organisation funded by private sponsorships and business partnerships and today assists more than 65,000 children, their families and local communities for a brighter future. The partnership with Norrbom Vinding reflects its commitment to global corporate social responsibility. As a result of our partnership, BØRNEfonden is able to free up resources to provide an even greater number of children in developing countries with an education and a safer and healthier upbringing. We are very happy with our partnership with Norrbom Vinding; it has meant a great deal to BØRNEfonden.” Bolette Christensen, CEO 7 In 2013, we added another pro bono partnership to our portfolio – the Red Cross. More specifically, we have set up a very successful hotline for the Danish branch of the Red Cross to help them with their employment issues. We are currently in the process of discussing the framework for further assistance. In addition, we continuously support other good causes financially such as families of cancer children, and we regularly donate funds to international disaster relief projects. We are still in the process of considering how to focus our efforts more effectively. 7 Goals Internally, we wish to continuously achieve high scores in our employee satisfaction and cultural surveys, as this is one way of attracting and retaining the best talent. Externally, we wish to develop and cement our partnership with Médecins Sans Frontières Denmark, BØRNEfonden and the Red Cross. In addition, we wish to explore the boundaries of such pro bono partnerships in Denmark and internationally, and to find new ways to add value to their organisation to our mutual benefit. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? Internally: We will conduct an employee satisfaction and cultural survey every other year and act swiftly on any concerns shown by the survey to exist among our employees in order to maintain our high satisfaction scores. In addition, we are already in the process of implementing systems to ensure that our employees get more feedback as requested in the 2013 survey. Externally: We meet with Médecins Sans Frontières Denmark, BØRNEfonden and, hopefully, also the Danish branch of Red Cross each year to discuss our partnership. Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of 8 employment and occupation 3.2 Labour (employee rights) Knowledge In a knowledge-driven business and industry like ours, knowledge sharing is crucial. Internally, we have a centralised knowledge acquisition and management function and we hold knowledge sharing meetings and provide training activities for all employees and for individual employee groups. In addition, we believe it is very important to provide our employees with state-of-the-art technological solutions and devices to enable them to perform at their best. Externally, we share our knowledge with clients and other stakeholders through our e-newsletters, breakfast briefings, seminars and other events. We are also very active organising industry and client seminars and courses, facilitating industry and client networks and participating in national and international lawyers’ associations. In addition, we are pleased to teach in a great number of contexts, including at universities and business schools, and to act as external examiners. For several years, our lawyers have been teaching the subject CSR at the University of Copenhagen. We expect to continue with these activities in the future. Goals We wish to continue our knowledge-sharing activities and are currently in the process of considering how to expand them. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We compare knowledge-sharing data (intellectual capital statements, training activities, courses and seminars) on a regular basis, and we also maintain statistics about our e-newsletter and events. 9 Health Health and working environment are two sides of the same story – both of them affect employees’ well-being and also their motivation. Two of our primary focus areas are therefore always working environment and employee well-being. Our constant focus on these issues is reflected in the relatively low sickness absence of our employees. Some of the initiatives we have put in place to promote and protect our employees’ physical well-being include ergonomic work place assessments, healthy organic lunches, fresh fruit, massage, health checks, training seminars, sports and social activities. As for our employees’ mental well-being, we offer our employees the opportunity to work from home (except office services) and work part-time, we conduct employee satisfaction surveys and hold employee development reviews, and also keep a constant focus on work-life balance, workplace consultation and continuing professional and personal development and training. As a new initiative in 2013 in order to reduce the risk of stress – whether work-induced or for personal reasons – we offer our lawyers one-on-one sessions with an occupational psychologist for guidance as to how to structure their time and work to perform at their best. Health being an ever present, if not growing, issue in our industry, we continuously hold health-related seminars and courses to support our general employee health programme. In 2012 and 2013, we focused on mental health in particular and on how to stress down and transition from working under great pressure to gradually slowing down. The sessions offered techniques and knowledge gained from veterans returning from war. In the coming years, however, we will increase our focus on the physical aspects of well-being. Goals We wish to continue our employee health programme for the benefit of our employees’ physical and mental well-being. In the coming years, we will focus more on physical health 10 and teamwork, and we will carry on with our courses in personal and professional development. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We regularly ask our employees to give their opinion about the activities on offer. We also compare sickness absence figures from one year to another to monitor employee health. Equal opportunities We are committed to providing equal opportunities in recruitment, training, promotion and all other aspects of employment. One tangible result of our policy is the fact that, in addition to our managing partner being a woman, we have an almost equal number of women and men partners and for the time being most of our junior associates are women. Goals We wish to maintain our gender balance more or less as is. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We measure our performance in this field by maintaining employee statistics. 11 12 Environment: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 3.3 Environment The environmental impact of law firms and our scope for reducing it may be less large-scale than in other industries. Even so, there is a lot that can be done. IT We are committed to green IT. Over the past years, we have implemented green IT solutions to reduce power draw and CO2 emissions such as energy efficient computer screens, thin clients, server virtualisation, data life cycle management, IP telephony and videoconferencing. In addition, the possibility of working from home means reduced CO2 emissions. In 2013 we replaced our laptops with the newest and most energy efficient technologies, and we are in the process of optimising data storage facilities so as to use less power and thus less CO2. Environment We have already taken measures to make our lighting environment more sustainable, and in 2013 we installed boiling water taps and water coolers in all kitchens to save water and ensure a more effective energy use. In addition, we have reduced our consumption of paper and printing supplies significantly over the past years. Our organic lunches also help towards a sustainable environment. We are currently considering other measures to further reduce our carbon footprint and general impact on the environment. 13 Goals We wish to continue reducing our carbon footprint and minimising our impact on the environment in general. In 2014, we will consider the possibilities of increasing our efforts in this area. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We have a constant focus on this issue and remind ourselves that we have a moral obligation in this regard. 3.4 Anti-corruption Transparency International works globally and locally to achieve its vision of a corruption-free world. According to its Corruption Perceptions Index, Denmark and New Zealand are the least corrupt countries in the world. As a Danish law firm, we are bound by the Code of Conduct issued by the Danish Bar and Law Society, the Danish Administration of Justice Act’s provisions on lawyers and the Danish Anti-Money Laundering Act. This means, among other things, that we are required to keep confidential all information we receive from clients and to avoid conflicts of interest. As a result of our areas of speciality, we do not receive large money transfers from clients, but even so we have an anti-money laundering policy. Anti-corruption: Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 14 In 2013, the Danish Bar and Law Society carried out a random visit to audit our compliance with the rules on money-laundering, continuing professional development and conflicts of interest – and issued us with an opinion without qualification. Goals We are committed to steering clear of anything that might give rise to ethical or legal concern in this area. As a precautionary measure, we have also decided to implement training programmes for our employees on the rules on money-laundering and conflicts of interest. How do we monitor and evaluate performance? We continue to comply with the rules we are bound by and continue to carry out our thorough scrutiny of prospective clients to see if there is reason for any concern in this area. From 2014, we will quiz our lawyers to ensure that they have in-depth knowledge of the rules. 15 4. Future initiatives In 2014 and 2015, we will: continue our intensive focus on our employees’ physical and mental well-being to ensure that they are fit and motivated to perform at their best conduct our employee satisfaction and cultural survey at 2-year intervals explore the possibilities of how to fulfil our social responsibility in other ways focus constantly on our environmental impact to ensure that we keep up awareness Dampfaergevej 26 2100 Copenhagen Denmark www.norrbomvinding.com 16
