2012 Sustainability Report Responsible mining 2012 Sustainability Report 3 About this report The Sustainability Report (SR) presents the social engagement and the environmental and economic Index management of the mining operations of Cerrejón Coal Limited and Cerrejón North Zone (both Cerrejón henceforth) from January 1 to December 31 of 2012. This eighth consecutive report is the result of Cerrejón's commitment to transparency and our wish to Cerrejón and La Guajira Actions taken to comply with continue strengthening our relations with our stakeholders the 10 Universal Principles of the United Nations Global Compact 20 1 2 are identiﬁed throughout the report. 4 Letter from the president • Covers: Operations in Bogotá, the Mine, and Puerto Bolívar. 6 Sustainability Dashboard 2012 Sustainability Informe report de sostenibilidad 2012 • Guideline: GRI G3.1 Universal Principles of the 10 History • Level of GRI application: A+ Mining and Metals Supplement. United Nations Global Compact 12 Values and strategic partners • Report assurance: SGS Colombia S.A. Cerrejon and La Guajira 14 Materiality • Financial status: Audited by Deloitte Colombia • Advanced Communication on Progress according to the 15 About La Guajira To support and United Nations Local Network Global Compact P1 respect the protection 16 P40 Expansion Project Sustainability of human rights 16 Economic value generated People Sustainability To ensure we ar Society P2 not complicit in the 20 Responsible mining violation of human Responsible mining rights 21 Map and risk management Environment 20 1 1 21 Product life cycle • Sustainability Dashboard Development. 22 Suppliers and contractors management • Portafolio Award for Corporate Social Responsibility. • Huila Family Compensation Fund Social Responsibility Award. To respect freedom 23 Mine Closure • BRITCHAM LAZOS 2011 Social Responsibility Award Honourable P3 of association and Mention for a high-impact innovative programme in the department recognition of the right to collective People bargaining 26 Characteristics 2010 28 Human Resources • Considerable work was carried out in To support the 31 Internal Control prevention and in updating Cerrejón's Risk 2009 P4 elimination of forced Management System. labour or labour 33 Attraction and selection • Award for Environmental Responsibility under coercion • The Complaints Ofﬁce was set up to service granted by the Foundation for Sustainable 37 Training employees, communities, and contractors. Development Siembra Colombia and the • Cerrejón ranked as top private exporter in British Embassy in Colombia. 39 Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OSH-MS) Colombia, with revenues of USD 2,284 million. • Strengthening our materiality base 41 Operational Safety To support the P5 erradication of child 43 Workers’ rights labour 45 Human Rights 47 Complaints Office 2008 2007 Society • 2,500 hectares of land reclaimed. To support the • 31.4 million tonnes exported. • Creation of the Cerrejón Way, a set of • 59 of every 100 workers P6 abolition of 50 Social responsibility discriminatory rules and principles of conduct. are originally from La Guajira. 55 Resettlements practices in • Creation of the Cerrejón Foundations System. • Uniﬁed Environmental employment and Management Plan established. occupation 60 Cerrejón Foundations System 62 Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira To maintain a 63 Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening of La Guajira P7 preventive focus that favours the 65 Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira 2005 environment 66 Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira • Cerrejón's First Sustainability Report. 2006 • Cerrejón begins to implement the principles • Cerrejón's motto: We don't do the minimum required. We do the maximum possible. of the Global Compact. • USD 106 million generated in royalties. Environment To back initiatives • COP 3,172 million granted through 1,478 micro-credits. • 4,424 directly-employed workers. P8 that promote greater 70 Focus, goals, and results environmental responsibility 71 Environmental and consumption figures in the operation 72 Environmental investments 72 Management of water quality and usage Report drafting process To favour the 76 Air quality management P9 development and 80 Materials used in the operation widespread use of Materiality validation technologies that are respectful to the 81 Solid waste management Definition of Analysis and Survey of Analysis of Analysis of best Gathering Field environment 82 Biodiversity management 1 topics of 2 review external/ 3 managers and 4 recommendations 5 6 area information 7 interviews practices 2012 materiality internal sources vice presidents 2012 84 Environmental education To work against 86 Land reclamation Approval by P 10 corruption, including 8 Draft of chapters 9 Cerrejón's senior 10 Final draft 11 Layout 12 Report assurance 13 Publication extortion and bribery 88 Hydrocarbon management management 89 Climate Change 4 P 1 2012 Sustainability P4 P6 Report 2012 Sustainability Report 1 Cerrejón and La Guajira 4 Letter from the president 6 Sustainability Dashboard 10 History 12 Values and strategic partners 14 Materiality 15 About La Guajira 16 P40 Expansion Project 16 Economic value generated 2 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 3 Cerrejón and La Guajira Letter from the president Also important is Cerrejón’s participation in the national government’s strategy to eradicate extreme poverty. In mid-2012, we signed an agreement of intent with the National Agency for Overcoming Extreme Poverty (ANSPE, its Spanish acronym), the government of La Guajira, and the mayor’s office of Uribia. Its aim is to create the first poverty-free zone (ZOLIP, its Spanish acronym) in this municipality, ultimately benefiting 43 communities comprised of 750 Wayuu families. In addition, on the labour front we continued to implement our hiring guidelines that prioritise the employment of personnel from La Guajira. Thanks to this policy, we now have 5,708 employees, 62% of whom originate from this department. We also generate 4,750 jobs through our contractor firms. At the end of 2012, we began the collective bargaining process with our trade unions. In 2013, we face two major challenges which are: to attract more Guajiros to assume positions at various levels in the organisation; and to prepare a programme to strengthen our suppliers so that local and regional businesses can grow, clearly define their services, and be more competitive in the market. On the environmental front, we invested more than COP 98 billion to ensure a responsible operation that is not limited to merely complying with established environmental obligations. We have adopted international management practices and standards involving technology to use natural resources more efficiently, improve atmospheric emissions control, limit wastewater discharge, continue land reclamation, ensure wildlife protecAs part of Cerrejón’s ongoing commitment to transparency with our stakeholders and of our adherence in tion, and manage the final disposal of solid waste. 2005 to the United Nations’ Global Compact, we present our 2012 Sustainability Report. This report is a compilation of our main goals and the results of our social engagement, and environmental and economic manageBy the end of the year, we had reached 3,100 hectares of land reclaimed. We also extended our conservation ment in our mining operation in 2012. It also details our proposed challenges for the next year. agreement to preserve sea turtles with the communities of Bahía Hondita and Punta Gallinas. This programme has trained forty indigenous volunteers to patrol nine kilometres of beach, and has protected over five-thouLast year was characterised by significant challenges for Cerrejón due to trends in the global economy that sand newly hatched sea turtles. In terms of air quality, we have increased control and monitoring to ensure the affected the prices of raw materials such as coal. Faced with this situation, we undertook a search for ways to well-being of the communities neighbouring the Mine and Puerto Bolívar. increase productivity and reduce operational costs. Thanks to the joint effort of our invaluable human resources and the efficiency of our integrated operation—mine, railroad, and port—we surpassed our production and Our achievements in 2012 are the direct result of our philosophy of responsible mining. While we continue to export goals by reaching 34.6 million tonnes (Mt) produced, and 32.8 Mt exported. As a consequence, we geneface challenges, we will overcome them through joint work with our employees, contractors, and other stakerated more than COP 1,2 trillion in taxes and royalties for the State. We hope these resources will be transformed holders, ultimately ensuring that we meet our proposed goals. into useful investments for development and improvements in the quality of life in the country. At Cerrejón, we believe in the future of this department, which ultimately lies in the hands of its current resiSince the start of our operations in the mid-1980s, we have carried out social and environmental practices dents. With the commitment of all stakeholders, we are convinced that together we can are building a promising that have evolved from private projects into the implementation of participative, strategic development profuture for La Guajira. grammes. In 2012, we ratified our commitment with the socioeconomic progress of La Guajira through initiatives that positively impact the communities neighbouring our operations. We invested over COP 23.8 billion to strengthen programmes in the areas of healthcare, education, culture, sports, business ventures, and the Cerrejón Foundations System. The Foundations System was created in 2008 to provide tools to resolve some Roberto Junguito Pombo of the critical problems facing the department’s development: water supply; services for, and inclusion of, the indigenous communities; institutional strengthening; and the creation of sustainable businesses. President of Cerrejón Roberto Junguito Pombo Presidente de Cerrejón 4 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 5 Sustainability dashboard Goal achieved Target not met Tendency to increase The trend will remain Tendency to decrease Issues Indicator GRI indicator Corporate Goals Global Compact ISO 26000 For more information Goal 2012 Outcomes 2012 Status Trend Challenges in 2013 Coal production (millions of tonnes). Not applicable Organizational performance and growth Unspecified Core subject: Organizational governance. See infographics of the mining process 33.3 34.6 34 Operational figures Exports (millions of tonnes). Not applicable Organizational performance and growth Unspecified Core subject: Organizational governance. See infographics of the mining process 32 32.8 34 Products and categories of significant services subject Core subject: Clients See Sustainability/ to assessment procedures that seek to reduce impacts PR1 Quality and client satisfaction Unspecified Issue: Protection of consumer health 100% of products subject to assessment procedures. 100 % Maintain Cerrejón's quality standards. Product life cycle / Page 21 on consumer health and safety. and safety. Sustainability Core subject: Clients Client satisfaction is measured and maximized by business visits by CMC, which offers clients Product responsibility Practices aimed at evaluating and maintaining See Sustainability/ Undertake business visits to offer technical technical advice on various aspects, including the implementation of good storage practices in Maintain Cerrejón's quality standards. consumer satisfaction. PR5 Quality and client satisfaction Unspecified Issue: Protection of consumer health assistance to clients. Product life cycle / Page 21 order to reduce/eliminate dust emissions. and safety. Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and Core subject: Clients See Sustainability/ regulations concerning the provision and use of PR9 Quality and client satisfaction Unspecified Issue: Customer service, support, and Zero (0) operational fines. 0 Maintain Cerrejón's quality standards. Product life cycle / Page 21 organization's products and services. resolution of complaints and disagreements. Core subject: Active participation and See Sustainability/ Increase the ratio of locally-based suppliers Percentage of local purchases compared to total development of community. national purchases. EC6 Social responsibility Unspecified Management of suppliers in the total for national purchases. 4% Issue: Wealth and income creation. and contractors/page 22 Begin preparing a program to strengthen locally-based Suppliers and contractors suppliers in order to contribute to their growth and Core subject: Active participation and See Sustainability/ increase their competitiveness. Percentage of local contracts compared to total Increase the ratio of locally-based suppliers national contracts. EC6 Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. Management of suppliers in the total for national contracts. 10 % Issue: Wealth and income creation. and contractors/page 22 Training Orientation for 865 new employees. New employees A pilot project was held with 21 of 35 direct employees from the Security Department to provide 1. Evaluation of impact of human rights training. more in-depth training in the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights. 2. Maintain 100% of training and review quality. This program was then extended to 250 employees in middle and senior positions by means of ten e-bulletins Cerrejón for Rights . 1. Share the Human Rights policy in meetings with contractors. Private security service: 962 persons, comprising 87.45% of total members. 2. Make the policy known to 100% of new employees. Stakeholders trained in human rights Principles 1, 2 Core subject: Human rights. See People/Human Rights/page 45 3. Send out five new “Cerrejón for Rights” e-bulletins. and international humanitarian law. HR3, HR8 Social responsibility Issue: Due diligence. Public Security Forces: 10 persons, comprising 0.83% of total members assigned. 4. Start designing an online training course on human rights and . social standards for Cerrejón staff members. Public and private security forces Assess Cerrejón's human rights training program 5. Carry out training for contract administrators and supervisors. Respect and policies 1. Guarantee that new members of public security forces Continuing the project started in 2011 with the Resource Centre for Conflict Analysis (CERAC, for human rights and private security receive training in voluntary principles, the acronym in Spanish), the indicators measuring the impact of the human rights training sessions security and human rights, and the traditions and customs held by Cerrejón were applied. The indicators aimed to evaluate: (1) the degree of dissemination of the Wayuu culture. of the training program, (2) the level of knowledge acquired in the training, and (3) the level 2. Measure the training impact. of interpretive and communications skills acquired. 1. Work on a plan in 2013 to reduce the case backlog and achieve a closure rate of 70% on complaints registered between 2010 Core subject: Clients 63.5% of complaints logged through the Office were addressed. and 2012, and a closure rate of 60% on complaints logged in 2013. Issue: Customer service, support, 184 cases were filed, of which: 2. The software and user's manual will be adapted. Implementing the complaints mechanisms. HR1 1 Social responsibility Principles 1, 2 See People/Complaints Office/page 47 1. Address 70% of complaints logged through the Office. 3. Projects for publicizing the Complaints Office both internally and resolution of complaints and 127 were closed. disagreements. 57 are being addressed. and externally will resume. 4. Optimize work between departments to coordinate response to complaints. 1. Keep personnel occupying positions vulnerable to corruption People Train 100% of management and 63% of employees Train 100% of management and 93% of employees holding positions identified as vulnerable trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures. Ethics and transparency Employees trained in anti-corruption SO3 Social responsibility Principles 10 Subject: Fair operational practices. See People/Internal Control/page 31 2. Stay alert for the creation of positions vulnerable to corruption policies and procedures. Issue: Anti-corruption. holding positions identified as vulnerable to corruption. to corruption. aside from those already identified. LA7 Operational integrity Principles 1,4 Core subject: Labour practices See People/Operational safety/page 41 Zero (0) fatalities. There were no fatalities. The main safety challenge continues to be operating without fatalities. Fatalities. Issue: Working conditions and social protection. Core subject: Labour practices Threshold: 0.32 1. Threshold: 0.29. Recordable injury frequency rate (RIFR). LA7 Operational integrity Principles 1,4 See People/Operational safety/page 41 0.30 for operation as a whole (0.35 for employees and 0.28 for contractors). 2. Continue reducing the rate of these injuries, a minimum of 5% a year. Issue: Occupational health and safety. Core subject: Labour practices Threshold: 0.20 1. Threshold: 0.20. Classified injury frequency rate (CIFR). LA7 Operational integrity Principles 1,4 See People/Operational safety/page 41 0.21 for operation as a whole (0.28 for employees and 0.16 for contractors). 2. Continue reducing the rate of these injuries, a minimum of 5% a year. Issue: Occupational health and safety. Incorporation of fatality risk management to operation Cerrejón has a Three star certification process where the main Cerrejón areas were assessed. Operational integrity Unspecified Core subject: Labour practices as an ongoing process assimilated and applied by all Ensure the effectiveness of and compliance with critical controls. Implementation of fatal risk control protocols. Not applicable Issue: Occupational health and safety. See People/Operational safety/page 42 Of a total of 35 superintendencies in operational departments and other areas evaluated, 13 earned employees and contractors. 3 stars and 22 earned 2 stars. Health and Safety The rising trend is due to legislative changes in the country's social security system. Actions to mitigate this situation are: . Gradually reduce hygiene risk levels in Similar Exposure Groups (SEGs). Operational integrity Principles 1,4 Core subject: Labour practices See People/Occupational Safety and Less than four (4) cases for every thousand employees. 18 cases, equal to 3.18 for every thousand employees. . Strengthen partnerships with social security agencies and other Cases reported as occupational diseases. LA7 Issue: Occupational health and safety. Health Management System/page 39 stakeholders in order to openly discuss control actions to minimize occupational diseases. . Improve technical controls at the source and in the environment to minimize occupational hazards. Supply all the conditions so that collaborators make use Trade unions/ of their right to freedom of association and so that the Continue supporting freedom of association and recognition relations with Core subject: Labour practices See People/Worker rights/page 44 100% of the technical personnel (PTC) eligible for union membership are members or affiliated Proportion of unionized workers. LA4 Human and technological resources Principle 3 Issue: Social dialogue. company effectively acknowledges the right to collective to a trade union. of the right to collective bargaining. employees bargaining. 1. Support for a massive day for assessing the feasibility, prioritization, and approval of projects, 1. Strengthen the Administrative Planning Department (DAP, Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening termed OCADTÓN of La Guajira, in partnership with National Planning and the regional government. its acronym in Spanish) of La Guajira through technical support in La Guajira (FCFI, its acronym in Spanish)/Support Core subject: Active participation and See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Support project planning in the department and In this one, 78 municipal and department projects were approved by the General Royalty System activities in planning and social investment processes and the project planning to manage resources from the Not applicable Social responsibility Principle 10 development of community. Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional municipalities of La Guajira to manage resources in the amount of COP 228 billion. organization of the Investment Projects Bank. Royalties from the new General Royalties System. 2. The OCADTÓN results were ranked by the DNP as a good practice and presented nationally. new General Royalties System Issue: Active participation of community. Strengthening of La Guajira/page 63 2. Support the DAP work team of La Guajira in the technical planning (SGR, its acronym in Spanish). 3. Direct technical assistance in preparing 19 projects from the department and municipalities for of projects for the distribution of resources from the General Royalty applying to resources from the General Royalty System worth COP 89.976 billion. System (SGR, its acronym in Spanish). 93% of resettled families overcame multi-dimensional poverty conditions, distributed as follows: 80% of resettled families overcome multi-dimensional . 17 families relocated from Roche. 1. Maintain standards of living reached. Reduction of poverty Poverty line by income and multi-dimensional Core subject: Active participation and 2. Implement production projects that contribute to family sustainability. MM9 Social responsibility Principles 1,2 development of community. poverty and also overcome income conditions concerning . 46 families relocated from Patilla. and inequality poverty index (in resettled communities). See Society/Resettlements/page 59 the poverty index. 3. Coordinate with institutions to obtain resources for development, Issue: Wealth and income creation. . 36 families relocated from Chancleta. cooperation, or financing. Progress has been made on reaching the target for overcoming income-based poverty conditions. Agricultural projects in La Guajira. Society Core subject: Active participation and See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Recovery and comprehensive management of the Paladines Stream microbasin, sustainable systems for Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. Cerrejón Foundation for Water in the production/implementation of appropriate water usage techniques that increased food production Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira. Not applicable from 3.3 to 24.4 tonnes, of which 53.4% was used for on-farm consumption and 46.6% was sold. Issue: Job creation and skills development. La Guajira/page 62 1. Farm Program: Production of 18,000 kilos of fruit and vegetables (watermelon, melon, ahuyama Core subject: Active participation and See Cerrejón Foundations System/ squash, etc.) through the system of plant beds and modern fertigation. Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira. Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous 2. Asawa Program: Construction and aid to 20 communities of plots of land to add to the 136 plots Issue: Job creation and skills development. Guajira/page 65 (yujas) built with an area of 127.8 hectares and a production of 114.2 tonnes of agricultural foodstuff. Community development Continue developing crops in La Guajira that contribute to food Promote agricultural development to increase 1. Palm Tree Cultivation: Start of production stage of growing palm oil trees in Oreganal, with 3.2 tonnes security and/or income creation for communities. Core subject: Active participation and products on offer in La Guajira. of product (total cumulative project investment to December 2012: COP 2,177.4 million). Social engagement. Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. See information Environment/ 2. An experimental farm in Los Remedios for producing fruits and vegetables using modern technology Issue: Job creation and skills development. Social Responsibility/page 53 for drip irrigation, extensive areas for growing yucca and corn, and courtyard areas for vegetable gardens. 1. Roche Community: 3 agricultural projects with 5 hectares planted, COP 16 million in income from 43 tonnes of products harvested (15 tonnes of yucca, 6 tonnes of melon, 6 tonnes of watermelon, Core subject: Active participation and 5 tonnes of ahuyama squash, 4 tonnes of paprika pepper, 3.5 tonnes of papaya, 2 tonnes of cowpeas, Resettlements. Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. See Society/Resettlements/page 57 1 tonne of corn), stevia project currently planted. Issue: Job creation and skills development. 2. Community of Patilla: There are 3 agricultural projects in the preparation and assessment stage. 3. Community of Chancleta: 8 agricultural projects in the pre-feasibility stage. 6 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 7 Goal achieved Target not met Tendency to increase The trend will remain Tendency to decrease Issues Indicator GRI indicator Corporate Goals Global Compact ISO 26000 For more information Goal 2012 Outcomes 2012 Status Trend Challenges in 2013 Training projects for communities and strengthening artisans. Core subject: Active participation and See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Training for communities and artisanal strengthening: 490 young people were trained, eight business Outreach with indigenous Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira. Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous plans were presented, of which 70% are in operation and work is ongoing on positioning the other 30%. communities. Issue: Job creation and skills development. Guajira/page 65 Train people from different municipalities in 25 Wayuu artisans certiﬁed in artisanal techniques and business administration. entrepreneurship so they can develop small Implement good business practices to promote a culture of businesses that contribute to generating income. sustainability in the artisanal businesses supported. Core subject: Active participation and Unspecified development of community. See information Environment/ 10 communities trained in artisanal entrepreneurship (total number for the Mine, Railroad, Social engagement. Not applicable Social responsibility Social Responsibility/page 52 Issue: Job creation and skills development. and Puerto Bolívar). Water supply and treatment solutions 1. Reinforce the monitoring of water quality in the supply solutions Implement, hand in hand with the community, 1. We implemented 137 water supply solutions, thereby improving access to water for 14,441 people implemented. 100 water supply solutions, and advance in the design in 101 communities. 2. Study and apply water treatment technology in rural communities and implementation of sustainability schemes 2. 68 windmill-driven water pumps in 68 communities were kept in operation. Of these, of La Guajira. for water supply and treatment solutions. 15 communities were chosen for strengthening in the areas of system operation and maintenance, 3. Strengthen the design and implementation of sustainability schemes sanitation and hygiene, project management, and community organization. in the FCAG projects. Core subject: Active participation and Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira (FCAG)/ Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified development of community. See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Number of recipients. Issue: Active participation of community. Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira/page 62 Comprehensive basin management: Expanding coverage in the project Recovery and Design and implement a model to recover and Begin implementation of the comprehensive basin management preserve the water supply through comprehensive comprehensive management of the Paladines Stream microbasin from 281 people in 2011 model in the Bruno and Pupurema microbasins, and in the basin basin management activities. to 460 people in 2012, resulting in an increase in the work areas from 435 hectares to 1,544. of the Ranchería River in the area of the San Francisco reservation. Training in best practices in water, sanitation, Sanitation and hygiene Implement the dry sanitation project (management of human waste and hygiene to 1,000 people. Training in best practices in water, sanitation, and hygiene to 967 people from 37 communities. without water) in indigenous communities and analyse the results and the appropriation levels of this solution in the community. 1. Strengthen the La Guajira Planning Department in order to support Strengthen skills of local administrations in project the planning and social investment of six municipalities with the Society Core subject: Active participation and See Cerrejón Foundations System/ planning, execution, comprehensive management, • Four agreements signed supporting the participative planning and approval of the 2012–2015 creation of an Investment Project Bank and a work team with solid Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening in La Guajira (FCFI)/Comprehensive strengthening development of community. Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional monitoring and assessment of management, and development plans for Barrancas, Hatonuevo, Maicao, and Uribia. skills in technical project preparation to implement General Royalty EC9, SO5 Social responsibility Principle 10 of public administration in municipalities of La Guajira. Issue: Active participation of community. Strengthening of La Guajira (FCFI)/ accountability in Barrancas, Hatonuevo, Maicao, Uribia, • The municipality of Fonseca came ﬁrst place for the department of La Guajira and above the System resources. page 63 and Fonseca in order to begin management of their national average in the ranking for comprehensive performance, carried out by the National 2. Support the organization of the Professional Administrative and respective Development Plans for 2012–2015. Planning Department. Decision Bodies (OCAD) of the department and municipalities for the approval of social investment projects. Foundations System Farm Program Install 32,000 m 2 of fenced-in areas for goats along • Assembly of 40,000 m 2 of fenced-in zones for goats with electric fences for silvopasture. • Planting 12,500 m2 of new forage areas with plants for fattening animals (leucaena and Mombasa Strengthen the indigenous production system and native crops, the railway corridor, plant 10,000 m 2 of new forage increasing production and consumption in local markets. areas, and produce 1,680 kilos of fruit and vegetables. guinea grass). Core subject: Active participation and • Production of 18,000 kilos of vegetables. Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira/ development of community. See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Business venture projects launched that Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified Issue: Job creation and skills Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous created new job openings. development. Guajira/page 65 Asawa Program Identify 70 communities with wooded areas along • Characterization of 72 communities with wooded areas and higher sheep-goat productivity in km 45–73 of the railway corridor, build 20 plots (yujas) Contribute to the empowerment of cultural projects and sustainable the railway sector. production projects coordinated with the programs of the Wiwa/ in communities in the area of influence, install 15 new • Assembly of 15 apiaries in new communities, producing a harvest of 500 kilos of honey per apiary. apiaries in new communities in the area of influence, Kogi/Arhuaco organizations, thereby improving their social and • Construction of the honey bottling plant and obtaining the hygiene certiﬁcate for the plant premises cultural conditions. and build a honey-bottling plant at the farm installations. and from the Colombian State Food Safety Institute (INVIMA). Hotel Waya Guajira Get the Hotel Waya Guajira fully completed and operational. Delivery of 40% of hotel's rooms (140 total). Construction and furnishing was ﬁnished on the ﬁrst 65 rooms. Core subject: Active participation and DesQbre Guajira Interactive Museum Centre Start construction of the ﬁrst stage of the museum and continue See Cerrejón Foundations System/ Begin construction of the Desqbre Guajira Museum. Finish the design of the museum’s 52 modules. raising funds for the next construction stages. development of community. Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira/ Not applicable Social responsibility Unspecified Issue: Job creation and skills Cerrejón Foundation for Progress Projects administered. development. in La Guajira/page 66 Recycling plant Finish the designs for the recycling plant. • The deﬁnitive architectural designs were ﬁnalized for the Recycling Plant project. This project aims to take used tyres (non-standard • The contract between Cerrejón and the Foundation for Progress was signed for receiving Begin construction and assembly of the plant for recycling tyres. Cerrejón equipment) and produce crumb rubber 2,500 used tyres for 20 years. for paving roads in Colombia and abroad. Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Climate change/ Direct and indirect GHG emissions per unit produced. EN16 Social responsibility Principles 7,8,9 Issue: Climate change mitigation Reduction de 383 t CO 2e Reduction de 792 t CO 2e Reduction de 1.111 t CO 2e page 91 and adaptation. Reduction and control Principles 7,8,9 Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Climate change/ of GHG emissions Direct GHG emissions. EN16 Social responsibility Issue: Prevention of pollution. Reduction de 383 t CO 2e Reduction de 327 t CO2e Reduction de 681 t CO 2e page 91 Principles 7,8,9 Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Climate change/ Indirect GHG emissions. EN16 Social responsibility Issue: Prevention of pollution. No target was set. Reduction de 465 t CO 2e Reduction de 430 t CO 2e page 91 Environment Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Administration of Reuse of domestic discharges. EN10 Social responsibility Principles 8,9 Issue: Sustainable resource use. 80 % 86 % 83 % water quality and management/page 75 Water management and solutions Maintain compliance with WQI impact indicator See Environment/Administration of Not applicable Social responsibility Principle 8 Core subject: Organizational governance. water quality and management/page 74 Over 0.30 0, 25 Over -0.30 within parameters. Concentration in µg/m³ of TSP at the Mine. EN20 Social responsibility Principle 8 Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Air quality Issue: Prevention of pollution. management/page 78 Threshold: 90 69 Threshold: 90 Concentration in µg/m³ of PM10 at the Mine. Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Air quality EN20 Social responsibility Principle 8 Issue: Prevention of pollution. Threshold: 45 Threshold: 45 management/page 78 29 Air Concentration in µg/m³ of TSP at PBV. Principle 8 Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Air quality EN20 Social responsibility management/page 79 Threshold: 90 Threshold: 60 Issue: Prevention of pollution. 45 Principle 8 Core subject: Environment. See Environment/Air quality Concentration in µg/m³ of PM10 at PBV. EN20 Social responsibility Issue: Prevention of pollution. Threshold: 45 25 Threshold: 40 management/page 79 8 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 9 History Nature and legal status The Esmeralda Cruz Award, Excellence category, was presented by the Colombian Cerrejón refers to the mining operation of Cerrejón Coal Limited and of Cerrejón North Zone Safety Council in 2012. The award recognized the Council's positive assessment of our S.A., which operate in Colombia by virtue of their partnership for the exploitation of two of the management and performance in the five mining areas, and of the operations integration agreement signed with the Colombian areas of industrial safety and preventive medicine. government. Partnership contract North Zone (Cerrejón Coal Limited, Cerrejón North Zone S.A., and the Colombian government) Large-Scale Mining Contract for the Patilla Area (Cerrejón Coal Limited, Cerrejón North Zone S.A., and the Colombian government) Large-Scale Mining Contract for the Oreganal Area (Cerrejón Coal Limited and the Colombian government) Large-Scale Mining Contract for the South Area (Cerrejón Coal Limited and the Colombian government) Mining contract with the community of El Cerrejón 2012 (Cerrejón Coal Limited) Cerrejón exceeds 3,000 hectares of land reclaimed. Cerrejón Coal Limited (formerly International Colombian Resources Corporation, or Intercor) is a foreign-owned company whose registered address is in Anguilla, British West Indies, with a branch in Colombia that is headquartered in Bogotá. 2002 The subsidiaries of Anglo American Cerrejón North Zone S.A. (Cerrejón Zona Norte, CZN) is a Colombian public company, with its plc, BHP Billiton plc, and Glencore main office in Bogotá. The contractual interest of Carbocol S.A. in the Partnership Contract International AG acquire the originally underwritten with Intercor (now with Cerrejón Coal Limited) was transferred to this 1995 remaining 50% of Cerrejón North Zone by purchasing Exxon Mobil's company via the signing of the Contract for Mining Operations and Transfers (CEMT, its SpaThe 10-year export shares in Intercor. This makes 2010 nish acronym). anniversary with a them equal partners in Intercor, Cerrejón manages to enter cumulative total of whose legal name was then the Asian market for the Both companies belong in equal parts to the subsidiary companies of Glencore Xstrata plc, one-hundred million changed to Cerrejón Coal Limited. 2008 first time in 25 years. Anglo American plc, and BHP Billiton plc. Currently, the Colombian government forms no part tonnes of coal. Its shareholders are the three . The Cerrejón Foundations System of the shareholders of either of the two companies comprising Cerrejón. aforementioned subsidiary was formed to promote and drive companies. sustainable development in La Guajira. Milestones in history 1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 E X P L O R AT I O N CONSTRUCTION GRANT UP 2034 2001 1976 Carbocol’s participation in Carbones de Colombia S.A. the Cerrejón North Zone (Carbocol) and Intercor signed a (50%) is sold to a company partnership contract to mine the 1986 comprised of the 2011 coal reserves in the Cerrejón President Belisario subsidiaries of BHC Billiton 2006 After several years of pre-feasibility and North Zone. plc, Anglo American plc, 1973 Betancur inaugurated and Glencore International Glencore sells its shares to feasibility studies, Cerrejón receives all the 1982 the mining complex. AG, which forms the the European company necessary approvals to proceed with the The vessel Bulk Xstrata plc, whose P40 Expansion Project, thereby gradually During his administration, president The partnership Cerrejón North Zone S.A. Venturer is the first subsidiaries are the current expanding production and export capacity Misael Pastrana transferred the coal began construction of company. loaded from the owners of Cerrejón, along to reach 40 million tonnes per year. reserves in the Cerrejón area to the port, railway, and dedicated pier. with BHP Billiton and Anglo Ecopetrol. Studies regarding mining infrastructure. coal-mining projects were initiated. American. 10 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 11 Values and strategic partners Engagement commitments and goals Corporate values Cerrejón's stakeholders Cerrejón way commitment Cerrejón's strategic objective Cerrejón's policy In order to promote clear processes and effective behaviours that contribute to an efficient and responsible operation, we inititated the Cerrejón Way, which incorporates several values that shape our corporate philosophy.. We shall work to ensure sustainable living conditions in our surrounding Communities communities. Health, We are aware that transparency is crucial safety, and Respect Responsibility Ethics Transparency Integrity Empowerment in our engagement with our communities. environment Social responsibility Health, Safety, From the standpoint of our position as a responsible private company, Environment, and promote and support the sustainable development of the communities in Community Policy MORE INFORMATION NGOs the area of influence of our operations to effectively contribute to progress Ethics Policy http://www.cerrejon.com/site/english/our-company/cerrejon-way/values.aspx in the region and in the country as a whole. Conflict of Interest We propose to operate the business Conduct all our activities with integrity and with respect for the principles Policy Suppliers while increasing our external focus and of conduct and action as concerns human rights, labour relations, and our awareness of the outside world. Human Rights Policy anti-corruption. Strategic partners Government, We always aim to build trust with our Run all of our operations under the concept of sustainable development by Communications authorities, public stakeholders. Policy security forces applying best practices for the effective control, mitigation, and Cerrejón has established partnerships with a variety of organisations, allowing it to move forward in imWe aspire and commit ourselves to being compensation of adverse environmental impacts. plementing strategies centred on the sustainability of the business. at the forefront of responsible mining in Political and opinion Colombia and in the world. leaders, news media, We will work to be more innovative, more MORE INFORMATION http://www.cerrejon.com/site/english/sustainable-development-•-social-responsibility/alliances.aspx trade unions, political open to change, and more participative in parties and movements both our internal and external relations. Trade unions Engagement with stakeholders Human and technological resources Create conditions within the organisation that serve to attract, motivate, After a lengthy process of identifying our stakeholders, Cerrejón developed guidelines and basic steps to train, develop, and ensure the retention of ideal human talent while at the plan for and promote stakeholder participation, the aim of which is to learn what stakeholder expectations same time effectively and permanently ensuring that employees possess We shall work to generate more trust in the skills and knowledge necessary to conduct our operations at a Social Responsibility are and to balance them with the company’s interests. our relations with our workers and world-class standard. Labour Policy Employees contractors. Provide an excellent work environment for all members of our team. Stakeholders were identified using criteria that cover inclusion and response capability. Based on this, and contractors Equal Opportunity We shall work to generate a culture of Policy specific commitments were established for each group in accordance with the Cerrejón Way, our strategic greater empowerment, self-monitoring, Operational integrity and autonomy for our workers. Establish an accident-free culture, continuously decreasing accident rates goals, and our corporate policies. while identifying and controlling risk and minimising the likelihood of the occurrence of occupational disease. Inclusion is defined as: the concept and process of integrating parties who affect the company’s activities and decisions, and who in turn can be affected by those same activities and decisions, to determine a local, regional, national, and international scope for the company’s engagement. The system’s response capability is the result of an analysis of the area compared to the needs and expectations of our stakeholders, as Quality and client satisfaction well as of their average probability of producing a response within a reasonable period of time. Satisfy the needs and expectations of clients and consumers of our coal with regard to quality, timely delivery, performance, and technical Client Relations and Cerrejón is aware of the challenges of this process that is so essential to the comprehensive performance assistance by means of integrated, coordinated efforts on the part of Product Quality Policy of any organisation. Consequently, we created an office to manage and promote direct, ongoing interacOBJECTIVE Clients planning, mining operations, crushing, transport, loading, and marketing. tion with our stakeholders based on a foundation of mutual trust. Establish operational and sales plans that are suitable for our mine product and our operational capacity, and ensure compliance. Ensure product quality in each of our operational processes. We propose to operate the business Identify and define the engagement while increasing our external focus and strategy with our stakeholders, our awareness of the outside world. guided by the company's corporate goals. We aim to always build trust with our stakeholders. Efficiency and competitiveness We aspire to and commit ourselves to Continuously improve, optimise resource use, and innovate with regard to being at the forefront of responsible all of our processes, both in operational areas and in marketing and mining in Colombia and the world. administration and their interactions to bring about conditions that enable us to maintain our position in the lowest-cost quartile of global thermal We will work to be more innovative, more coal export mines while maintaining our expansion goals and ensuring the open to change, and more participative in long-term stability of our mining operations. ACHIEVEMENTS both our internal and external relations. 2012 Identify and develop business opportunities that create added value in coal We aspire to being good citizens of the production and sales. Seventeen policies communities we interact with so that they adopted by Cerrejón. Shareholders are pleased for us to be their neighbours and want us to continue as such. Performance, organisation, and growth Identify opportunities that maximise the value of Cerrejón and bring them A weekly meeting established with to fruition. the company's senior executives to closely Attain an annual production level of 40 million tonnes. monitor talks and engagement with these groups. Promote and maintain excellent relations with our neighbouring This activity is led by the Vicepresidency communities, and local, regional, and national authorities, as well as of Public Affairs and Communications. with other stakeholders in order to establish conditions conducive to the subsequent expansion of the operation at higher levels over Creation of the Stakeholders' Committee. the middle term, and prepare the company for further growth. MORE INFORMATION http://www.cerrejon.com/site/english/our-company/policies.aspx 12 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 13 About La Guajira GDP by sectors 2012 * Department of La Guajira 874,532 Agriculture, La Guajira u 4,4% livestock, forestry, Colombia o b 7% and fishing Construction L Guajira La a 3,4% o ,4 i 6,7 % Colombia Inhabitants Projection for 2012 NATIONAL ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENT OF STATISTICS (DANE) A strategic r 1,2 % La Guajira position with access Commercial m 9 Colombia 9,1 % Capital: Riohacha to the Caribbean Sea and bordering 5 indigenous Hotels, u La Guajira 4% Venezuela restaurants, bars, and others o b 3,1 % Colombia ethnic groups Manufacturing La G ra 1,1 % Guajira industries m 114 % Colombia Mine and quarry La Guajira 56,9 % operations m 8 Colombia 8,6 % Wayuu Kinqui Ika Kogui Wiwa Social services La G Guajiraa 15,1 % activities o b 17 % Colombia PUERTO BOLÍVAR 15 COMMUNITIES Transportation, 1.300 INHABITANTS LLa Guajira a 44,6 % storage and communications Colombia C m 8 8,1 % Puerto Bolívar Other La Guajira u 9,5 % 9 Área 20.848 o a 26,44 % Colombia 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% 35% 40% 45% 50% 55% 60% * Source: National Administrative Department of Statistics (DANE ) National Department Accounts, October of 2012. Baseline year 2005 km2 56.9 % 2010 USD 13.3 2012 USD 10 Million of the GDP generated in La Guajira Million stems from activities associated RAILWAY LINE Railway line 2011 with mining and quarry 258 COMMUNITIES 27,309 INHABITANTS USD 9.1 operations. Million Materiality Relevance principle Riohacha Social Prior to the coming into force of the new Investment To define materiality (issues relevant to both the organisation and its stakeholders, focusing Consists of determining the importance of an isGeneral Royalty System sue for the organisation and its stakeholders that stakeholders and Cerrejón), we took into consideon a positive relation leading to satisfaction for all will influence their decisions, actions, and per40 of the total income % of the municipalities of THE MINE 21 COMMUNITIES ration the relevancy principle of the AccountAbiliparties. formance. To this end, the organisation took the Albania, Barrancas, Hatonuevo, Uribia, 224,540 INHABITANTS 2010 USD 40.7 and Maicao corresponded to ty 1000 standard. This standard seeks to guaranfollowing into account: financial contributions made by This standard defines a stakeholder as an indiThe Mine the Cerrejón mining operation. tee transparency in accountability, assessments, vidual, group of individuals, or organisations that 1. Internal management reports and disclosure on social and ethical aspects of affect the activities, products, services, or perfor2. Surveys of internal and external events Million corporate management. mance of an entity and that may also be impacted 3. Consolidated visit reports The AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard by it. It should be noted that this does not include 4. Monitoring of news media (SES) is part of the AA1000 AccountAbility family all of those who may know of or have an opinion of standards, which Cerrejón uses as a manageConsists of determining the importance of an is5. Recommendations from the assurance provi201 1 USD 43 ders for the Sustainability Report 2011 ment framework for design, implementation, sue for the organisation and its stakeholders that 6. Interview on material matters assurance from Riohacha R oh cha evaluation, and communication with our stakewill influence their decisions, actions, and perthe risk standpoint k 100 holders. Briefly, it aims to establish basic requiformance. To this end, the organisation took the Million 7. Survey of Cerrejón managers and vice presi2012 m rements for carrying out commitments between following into account: Santa a aM Marta t m 290 km TThe hee M h Minee dents (survey sent by email) 54.6 Albania USD m 0k 40 M A T E R I A L I T Y Environmental Sustainability Product responsibility People Respect and human rights policies People Surroundings Royalties Environment Reduction and control of GHG emissions Ba ranq Barranq rranq rran ranquilla quilla uil uill Hatonuevo Area of mining contracts Investment Million Reduction of poverty Water management and solutions Suppliers and contractors Ethics and transparency Health and safety and inequality Community development Barrancas 69,000 ha Trade unions/Relations Engagement with indigenous OPERATIONAL AREA with employees communities 12,708 ha Cerrejón Foundations System AREA RECLAIMED 3,100 ha 14 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 15 The following chart reflects the distribution of our main stakeholders: THOUSANDS OF PESOS (1) 2012 2011 2010 Total Share Total Share Total Share National suppliers and contractors 638,787,388 12 % 560,866,503 9% 509,080,787 11 % Suppliers and contractors from abroad 1,488,915,361 28 % 1,364,633,067 22 % 1,076,585,508 24 % Employees 579,929,458 11 % 547,376,113 9% 478,204,171 11 % Government 1,204,587,994 22 % 1,652,097,818 27 % 880,010,970 20 % Royalties 546,088,165 579,319,199 338,818,040 Taxes 658,499,830 1,072,778,619 541,192,930 Private royalties 81,720,114 2% 88,880,414 1% 35,446,271 1% Depreciation/amortisation. (Reinvestment)(2) 317,229,171 6% 348,212,997 6% 469,754,365 11 % Shareholders 1,077,627,924 20 % 1,575,178,908 26 % 1,022,522,609 23 % Total distribution 5,388,797,411 100 % 6,137,245,821 100 % 4,471,604,682 100 % (1) The figures reported are based on the company's status results. (2) The reinvested financial revenue is equal to the amounts not distributed to stakeholders and that are used by the company to further the operation. It should be noted that participation and the real value perceived by all these stakeholders increased considerably with the exception of the government and shareholders. This trend is the result of a drop in income before taxes (32%), a decrease in revenue, and an increase in sales costs (2%). Consequently, taxes and royalties to the government (especially revenue taxes) fell in addition to the net revenue for the period. P40 Expansion Project Additional infrastructure and railway equipment Cerrejón aims to expand its current infrastructure by building and expanding complementary works • Construction of a new, 5,400 m2 welding Cerrejón is aware of its economic growth such as facilities for handling, transporting, and workshop. and of its corporate responsibility in the loading additional coal volumes. As a result of this country's development. expansion, production and mining capacity will in• Replacement of crusher for a larger-capacity That is why we integrate ethics in our work, one, resulting in an increase of 30%. carrying out our operations responsibly and crease to 40 million tonnes per year. efficiently in order to increase our own • Sampler overhauled to take records from a sustainability and that of our area of influence. Project goal conveyor belt, increasing its capacity by 50%. The expected export amounts will substantially • Additional equipment for train maintenance. increase the annual revenue from taxes and ro• Three new locomotives with environmental yalties for the nation and for the region. advantages in the reduction of fuel consumpEconomic value generated Proyect results tion and emissions; 255 new coal wagons. • Two equipment maintenance sidings on the The economic value generated for 2012 reached COP • A new loading jetty. tracks. 5,3 billion, a decrease of 12% compared to 2011, due • A new, double-jetty shiploader in Puerto Bolímainly to a fall in sales prices of 12.1% and a re-evaluavar. • Railroad expanded by: tion of the peso to the dollar, averaging 3% in 2012. • Coal improvements due to the handling-serMine: 5.5 km Despite the adversities of the global economy, Cevice infrastructure. Port: 4.5 km rrejón managed to compensate for the situation— • Support for the Mine installations and Puerto thanks to its operational strength—with integrated Bolívar. Railway: 3 km production processes (mine-railroad-port) that • Local job creation through direct job openings guarantee more efficient activities and better quality and through contractors. for the thermal coal we export on a daily basis. 16 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 17 Sustainability 20 Responsible mining 21 Map and risk management 21 Product life cycle 22 Suppliers and contractors management 23 Mine Closure 18 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 19 Sustainability Map and risk management All companies, regardless of size, are exposed to Product responsibility With the aim of reducing residual risks (those a series of threats of a social, environmental, and that persist after implementing responses to the economic nature that can impede the achieverisks), they are assessed through the application ment of strategic targets and make the stability of of probability and severity criteria, as opposed to Identification of risk the organisation vulnerable. events record of risks those risks for which the operation establishes Responsible mining Cerrejón recognises the importance of risk idenaction plans to improve their control (regularly tification in its operation; therefore, we use a deMONITORING AND REVIEW reviewed and evaluated). centralised system of risk management in which Analysis of risk events : each area is responsible for evaluating events— in Currently, risk management is integrated into all BOW-TIE both operational and strategic terms—that might business activities and into decision-making with Application Of Severity And Probability Tables impact the achievement of objectives and busia view to having greater control over possible ness plans. eventualities in the operations. Identification of This evaluation, which includes staff at different critical controls levels, includes risk identification and their subsequent classification and analysis to determine causes and potential consequences, as well as Development of The Shareholders' Committee is regularly performance standards for controls that help prevent the occurrence of the each critical control informed about significant business risks. event or help to mitigate the impact should the In 2012, the shareholders' team conducted risk event occur. an external audit and the result was satisfactory for the company. Plans of action Risk categorization: Cerrejón’s risk management system follows the AUDIT Effectiveness of the risk analysis Health and Safety, Finance, Environment, risk management methodology of one of our Suitable design of controls Community, Reputation, and Legal. shareholders: BHP Billiton, whose process can be and performance standards Compliance seen in the following graph: Mining is a state priority for the progress of the D IBILI TY AN PONS S AND IN OCIAL S country. Therefore, Cerrejón operates with the IAL RES TI ON S YS TEM TERN T S O C FO U N D A ATIO ANDA NA L RDS best standards available for quality and safety RE with the aim of: ensuring the minimum possible repre neurship Hu rights man LA T ION Product life cycle Cerrejón manages and promotes sustainable practices, Ent S NC I AL Com guaranteeing the optimum and adequate use of coal for all elements of society. environmental impact; and respecting and safeOffi plain NA Cerrejón has witnessed huge changes and new guarding the cultural, social, and economic intend ce ts ILIT Y FI s a ties SIB EM ON YST challenges in the way that mining is approached. grity of the communities and ethnic groups that roy xe l SP N S RE ATIO Consequently, we have striven to consolidate our Disposal ring Ta AL ND a have traditionally occupied the mining developt So bou ities CI OU Management of coal Prospecting ec SO ND F position in the industry by responding in a timely combustion products ment area. igh un in accordance with Management of Ne omm ES A legislation of each country. de-centralised risks. URC fashion to current regulations and to the concept Financial pect C Employ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is part of Consumption l as RESO of sustainability. men HU MA Client satisfaction asp cia nions Cerrejón’s philosophy and culture. It is an extenevaluation Feedback Trade U HUMAN t Exploration N R ES OU R C ES to commence new This is a fundamental criterion for transcending sive set of policies, practices, and programmes Cerrejón’s the life-cycle management of coal, by taking into negotiations and as part of the post-sales service. In production: non-generation integrated within the operation that focuses on sustainability account each of the stages in the value chain and Claims arising of hazardous materials. building an ethical, transparent relationship with RCES and strategy from lack of respect ESOU pliers for privacy of client VICES all of our stakeholders. SOCI AL R the actors involved before, during, and after the Resettle AN R AND SER information: 0. HUMERIALS Supontractors men production process. t Cerrejón does not limit itself to being only a geE SP O T c nerator of employment, taxes, and royalties in the A Life &M By viewing the value chain as a tool to identify En NSIB Customer Sales Cycle Extraction viro ct I LI T region. Rather, its role is one of broad social enReduced fleet nmental aspe io an dive Y sources for value creation for the client, we can Claims due to impact of the product wait-times. gagement that includes a close relationship with Air lity a ag rs em ity propose and design strategies guaranteeing the on health and safety: 0. US$2.906 qu en millions Improved the population of the department of La Guajira, W B t coal quality. an ater appropriate risk management, a high-quality prom m Compliance ag ste nt with commercial and that takes into account the international stanem e Wa geme duct, and the best post-sales follow-up. contracts: 100%. ent L Greenhousons na dards of multilateral bodies. recla and gas em issi ma mation effect Cerrejón areas Reference Framework LAND Treatment R E C L A M AT I O N The Reference Framework for the Sustainable Transportation Incidents due to non-compliance Issuing with marketing regulations: 0. Development of the International Council on Miquality sheet. Cases of Loading in port ning and Metals (ICMM) guides sector organisaForce Majeure: 0. Issuing Material Safety Stages under We must build a future together consistent Data Sheet (MSDS). Cerrejón's responsibility tions in responsible practices for the design, use, Stages under with our values so that the communities Non-compliance with CMC/Client responsibility to which we belong are proud that we are part reuse, recycling, and disposal of materials from regulations regarding information and labelling Activities of their environment, and so that Cerrejón is Achievements the operation. Cerrejón welcomes these guideliof products: O. recognised as a responsible mining company. nes in our activity and we participate as an ICMM MORE INFORMATION member through our shareholders. http://www.icmm.com/page/84173/materials-stewardship 20 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 21 Product responsibility Programme to encourage national purchasing The aim of this programme Cerrejón does not modify the overburden involved in the production process or generate materials that represent latent danger and risks to health and the National is to reduce the importation of parts and materials by The programme began environment. Parts ¿When in 2000 and came about Achievements Purchases for COP $4,853 million to 11 suppliers from Production Manufacturing using local supplies, giving was created? as a joint initiative of the 2012 Bogotá, Medellín, Barranquilla and Bucaramanga. the domestic industry the The company has programmes and specific procedures for the management of materials, from oil recovery to waste management (for more information, Programme opportunity to supply Maintenance and Materials. see Environment). these needs. All of Cerrejón coal goes to the international market—mainly to the electrical power sector. Local suppliers The quality of the exported coal is determined by sampling and analysis procedures carried out by a third party in Puerto Bolívar, in accordance with internationally accepted standards (American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) and ISO). This officially certifies the quality of the product to the Cerrejón stimulates the economic development of our area of influence through efforts prioritising the buyer and seller. procurement of goods and services from locally based suppliers over national and international suppliers. Cerrejón is recognised as a reliable supplier of coal, thanks to our management in the areas of production, logistics, and quality. As a result, in 2012 there was no breach of commercial commitments and the company continued strengthening relations with our strategic partners. The Company has a fuel supply contract with Ayatawacoop and purchases from companies engaged in hardware supplies, wood products, signage products (security), crafts, and others. It also supports manufacturing initiatives of GFRP parts (glass-fibre reinforced plastic) and the repair of smaller fleet Transport Sales and usage Client privacy components with companies from La Guajira. Additionally, to support the mining operation, the company has 1,427 active contracts, 309 of which are with Guajiros (21.65%). In view of the magnitude of the Coal Company Marketing (CMC), the exclusive marketer of Cerrejón coal, is responsible for operation, this figure represents a major portion. Key services from La Guajira companies that Cerrejón Exports Cerrejón guarantees that the buyer has sufficient measuring and enhancing customer satisfaction. As information to identify the product that he/she has contracts include: and marketing part of after-sales support, they provide technical acquired. We provide the quality assurance sheet, advice in areas such as best practices for storage, and which allows the client to determine the quantity of reduction and elimination of dust emissions. by-products resulting from coal combustion and their Construction Transportation Road signage possible environmental impact. This quality sheet is Similarly, they regularly address requests for audits Cerrejón maintains the privacy of Topography provided to the client at the very start of all business from customers interested in learning about its clients' corporate data, as well Industrial cleaning relationships. Cerrejón's production process, as well as aspects of as the terms and conditions of Maintenance of tools quality and/or management of social and the business agreements Motor vehicle leasing Additionally, the MSDS (Material Safety Data Sheet) is environmental impacts. provided to the captains of ships that arrive at Puerto reached with them. Agricultural work and reforestation Weed cutting Bolívar and to clients who request it. This sheet CMC informs the company about the comments and Approximately 50% of the employees contains the general characteristics of coal, opinions of customers with quantitative and Operating agricultural equipment Psychological-social support of all Cerrejón's contractor firms precautions taken in the handling of the product, and qualitative data. This process of feedback allows us to make operational improvements. (whether local, regional, or national) the measures that should be adopted in case of an Wetting down of roads Maintenance of communications equipment emergency. This document is aligned with are natives of La Guajira. These observations are obtained from meetings with international standards. clients, which are part of the marketing process. Advertising agency Mining equipment training Cerrejón analyses this information prior to making a subsequent response.. Mine Closure ¿What is it? National Legislation Cerrejón’s plan for Mine closure plan Advances of 2012 this challenge Suppliers and contractors management The Closure Plan has been There is not yet any 1. Identification of Cerrejón, as a responsible With the aim of identifying the impacts Based on the 2012 mining plan, the preliminary closure plan for developed as an internal national legislation in the environmental mining company, has of the cessation of operations until the Cerrejón document that country that regulates the impacts. developed a preliminary mine year 2033 and how to prevent, the Cerrejón mine was updated aims to provide the closure of mines. Currently, closure plan that sets a period mitigate, and compensate for them, taking into account the risk At Cerrejón we know that cooperation and joint Contracts (1) necessary information for the environmental 2. Dismantling and of closure and post-closure Cerrejón has included in its analysis formulated using the the planning and gradual management plans of abandonment plan. planning, in which priority is preliminary closure plan all aspects BHP Billiton methodology. work with our suppliers and contractors are essystematic closure of the mining operations establish given to the prevention, related to the physical, biological, and The mine closure phases were Pesos 2010 201 1 2012 sential to establishing competitive contracts that mine; that is, through a environmental 3. Plans and location mitigation, minimisation, and social components, dismissal of staff, defined as: temporary, Contract value 54,904,648,272 60,227,492,709 73,573,933,846 series of technical and legal requirements and specific maps of control of the negative effects and safety considerations in the area. progressive, and final closure in provide added value for the company and for theLa Guajira measures aimed at requirements for the infrastructure and inherent in this process. The preliminary closure plan is based two scenarios: the business case # suppliers 145 189 247 preventing and mitigating dismantling and abandonment area. The plan envisages a closure on a mining plan that considers a (Cerrejón's vision based on se stakeholders. Value of purchases 525,832,368,552 626,632,974,627 773,288,180,903 the potential generation of abandonment of a project, period of five years and a production of 32 million tonnes per international practices), and the Total national liabilities, during the process work, or activity. 4. Obligations derived variable post-closure period year. contractual case (based on the # suppliers 838 892 919 and at the termination of Also, Decree 2820 of 2010, from current between five and fifteen years. obligations established in mining To that end, we ensure that our supply chain is in Contract value 26,802,512,020 33,681,560,210 43,426,165,667 the mine operation. related to environmental administrative acts. The post-closure period varies contracts and existing alignment with, and meets, our policy of operatioInternational The objective of the process licences, establishes the or is associated with the regulations). # suppliers 77 84 72 is to minimise and establish following requirements: 5. Costs of dismantling magnitude of the liabilities and Also established were nal integrity, which is based on safety, health, care Total national Contract value 552,634,880,572 660,314,534,837 816,714,346,570 control measures for risks and abandonment the environmental element management strategies and and international related to health, safety, activities, and other involved (soil, air, water, etc.). records of the proposed for the environment, and for our communities. # suppliers 915 976 991 environment, and obligations pending objectives, targets, and activities communities. compliance. in each mine closure phase for We foster our suppliers and contractors to help both scenarios analysed and the Purchases (2) time of application (before, them adopt the same ethical and fair professioduring, or after the type of nal conduct in their own business relationships, in Pesos 2010 201 1 2012 closure). Value of purchases 4,005,039,228 9,937,444,762 8,339,472,710 keeping with the highest standards in place in our La Guajira # suppliers 25 21 18 own operation. 214,836,662,444 Value of purchases 1 00,659,694,010 1 40,389,849,249 Total national # suppliers 666 612 667 Purchases and contracts Value of purchases 1,574,545,286,070 2,402,515,507,206 1,530,225,708,247 Criteria for the mine closure plan International # suppliers 353 353 348 In 2012, the value of contracts increased by 24%, Value of purchases 1,675,204,980,080 2,332,593,108,533 1,745,062,370,691 Time 25 15 years 15 10 years 10 5 years 5 0 years Year 0 ( 2033) + 0 5 years + 5 15 years Total national while the value of purchases declined by 25%. and international # suppliers 1,019 965 1.015 Preliminary Draft closure Detailed Final End of Closure Post-closure (1) The supplier/contract relationship is not one-to-one, and therefore the amount of suppliers may be different than the number of contracts. Phase closure plan plan closure plan closure plan extraction implementation period (2) National purchases increased by 53% compared to the previous year, reflecting positively on the prioritization on national products and services. International purchases, related to the acquisition of specialized machinery, returned to levels of previous years after their peak in 2011 due to equipment purchases for the P40 expansion project. Closure planning Closure and post-closure 22 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 23 People 26 Characteristics 28 Human Resources 31 Internal Control 33 Attraction and selection 37 Training 39 Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OSH-MS) 41 Operational Safety 43 Workers’ rights 45 Human Rights 47 Complaints Office 24 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 25 Characteristics Work Day Cerrejón has only full-time work shifts. 4,307 L E F T T H E C O M PA N Y NE W EMPLOYEES MINE 216 PERMANENT (open term) 266 109 18 32 18 26 15 127 24 7 0 374 TURNOVER DIRECT RATE 1,040 2% TEMPORARY (limited term) 17 0 8 1 4 4 18 16 1 1 0 36 95 AGES 20 to 30 years of age 4,368 PUERTO CONTRACTORS WORKS 31 to 40 years of age 6 3 1 0 2 0 3 3 0 2 0 8 BOLÍVAR 382 41 to 50 years of age TURNOVER RATE 5 1 to 60 years of age 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2.7 % Direct employees distributed by age, gender, position, and minority (1) 6 1 to 70 years of age MIDDLE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT PROFESSIONALS 0.42 % 0.47% 0.05% 1.16% 1.35 % 0.19% 1 1.65 % 14.59 % 2.94 % 10 2 4 0 3 1 4 1 3 0 0 8 BOGOTÁ 0 20 to 30 years of age 1 TURNOVER 0 1 20 to 30 years of age 31 to 40 years of age 0 0 9 31 to 40 years of age 2 98 20 to 30 years of age 47 TOTA L RATE 4 41 to 50 years of age 2 22 35 41 to 50 years of age 51 to 60 years of age 1 7 162 175 31 to 40 years of age 41 to 50 years of age 51 32 6 0 1 0 4 1 2 4 0 1 0 7 7.6% 18 1 51 to 60 years of age 61 to 70 years of age 1 0 0 61 to 70 years of age 0 211 51 to 60 years of age 33 20 TO 30 YEARS OF AGE 1,055 0 MINORITIES 0 0 MINORITIES 0 16 61 to 70 years of age 0 24 TOTAL 3 66 TOTAL 11 3 MINORITIES 5 3 1 TO 40 YEARS OF AGE GE 1,342 665 TOTAL 168 Ratio between current legal monthly minimum wage (CLMMW) and minimum 41 TO 50 YEARS OF AGE GE 1,619 wage paid at the company Region of origin Cerrejón has a labour and wage policy that does Abroad 51 TO 60 YEARS OF AGE GE E 1,445 not differentiate between men and women. Also, Rest 6 we pay our employees the equivalent of more than of country two CLMMW (220.4%). In addition, the rise in 61 TO 70 YEARS OF AGE GE 44 minimum wage paid at the company over the OPERATORS ADMINISTRATIVE 559 previous year was 4%, a higher percentage than the consumer price index (CPI). TECHNICIANS 5.3 1 % 6.76% 1.45 % MINORITY 203 46.30 % 47.74 % 1.44 % TOTAL 5,708 5,708 28.84 % 29.09 % 0.25 % 19 20 to 30 years of age 9 TOTAL 529 20 to 30 years of age 55 Región de origen Employees on maternity 31 to 40 years of age 57 31 to 40 years of age 18 or paternity leave 688 15 41 to 50 years of age 286 20 to 30 years of age 11 137 41 to 50 years of age 34 792 3 Rest of Res 51 to 60 years of age 337 31 to 40 years of age 2 79 51 to 60 years of age 19 481 1 5 61 to 70 years of age 0 Coast Co 13 61 to 70 years of age 0 417 41 to 50 years of age 0 La Guajira 50 140 MINORITIES 8 560 9 51 to 60 years of age 61 to 70 years of age 0 0 303 6 MINORITIES TOTAL 3 83 1,58 1,587 3,556 2,643 TOTAL 82 37 MINORITIES 1 1,646 TOTAL 14 40 42 (1) Minorities are comprised of 201 indigenous Wayuu and 2 other indigenous ethnicities. Seniority PUERTO BOLÍVAR Employees and contractors by region + 20 years 0 to 2 years 30 DIRECT PROFESSIONALS PROFESSIONALS 291 281 10 TOTAL 2,159 358 121 TOTAL 825 MINE TECHNICIANS TECHNICIANS 24 CONTRACTORS 1,801 704 20 551 524 27 DIRECT DIRECT EMPLOYEES 3 to 5 years 18 5,288 5,000 288 5,708 8 PROFESSIONALS 192 TECHNICIANS TOTAL 1,106 10 CONTRACTORS TOTAL 914 11 to 20 2 years BOGOTÁ 5.708 0 4,125 CONTRACTORS DIRECT 3,800 PROFESSIONALS PROFE TOTAL 144 129 66 63 325 4,750 829 TECHN TECHNICIANS 6 to 10 years PROFESSIONALS One-hundred per cent CONTRACTORS 685 68 122 TOTAL of employees returned to 74 44 30 TECHNICIANS 789 their jobs after completing 667 their leaves. 26 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 27 People Organisational structure BHP BILLITON, ANGLOAMERICAN, AND GLENCORE XSTRATA SHAREHOLDERS' COMMITTEE PRESIDENCY CMC Human Resources Cerrejón’s Human Resources management has been dynamically built to create an environment that: is motivating and challenging; promotes the comprehensive development of employees; and guarantees a healthy, safe workplace in which they perform their activities. It also offers opportunities for professional and EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENCY personal growth. OF OPERATIONS The company works to create a pleasant working environment, characterised by the principles of the Cerrejón Way, through which individual and group achievements are monitored, recognised, and evaluated. Within the company, labour dialogue and the right to freedom of association are respected, along with equality VICE PRESIDENCY VICE PRESIDENCY VICE PRESIDENCY VICE PRESIDENCY VICE PRESIDENCY and transparency in areas such as the treatment of employees, access to promotion, and performance evaluation. OF PUBLIC AFFAIRS VICE PRESIDENCY OF HUMAN OF EXPANSION VICE PRESIDENCY OF OPERATIONAL OF TECHNICAL AND COMMUNICATIONS OF FINANCE OF PRODUCTION RESOURCES PROJECT SUPPORT SERVICES Cerrejón has also established benefits that cover both workers and their families to help improve our employees’ quality of life. This fosters a balance between work and personal life while strengthening our employees’ commitment to our corporate goals. Focus, goals, and results Management objectives Goals Advances Challenges in 2013 DIVISION OF DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT LEGAL OF ASSURANCE DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT PLANNING OF SOCIAL DEPARTMENT AND INSTALLED OF PRODUCTION OF COAL AND FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CAPACITY NORTH HANDLING ANALYSIS Define and develop an Further steps were taken in strengthening appropriate strategy for Continue the internalisation of our engagement with technical staff and their families DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT identity and organisational cultural engagement with workers OF FINANCIAL DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT through the Division of Engagement and and their families, the OF SOCIAL OF PRODUCTION OF OPERATIONAL model, the Cerrejón Way, to raise Carry out a satisfactory bargaining process Development. Additionally, engagement with STANDARDS ACCOUNTING OF SAFETY union, and contractors. CENTRAL SERVICES awareness in our technical with the trade union. contractors through Business Partners was AND INTERNATIONAL AND TAXES employees (PTC) and their families, Maintain a safe, positive, RELATIONS strengthened. It facilitates ongoing as well as our contractors. communication with the company. and productive work environment. DEPARTMENT DEPARTMENT OF ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENT OF PRODUCTIVITY MANAGEMENT OF MAINTENANCE AND TECHNOLOGY Reinforce the safety value through Continue SEG identification the Cerrejón Way throughout all Progress was made in the identification and Begin evaluation of SEGs (similar exposure efforts. DEPARTMENT supervisory levels and those assessment of SEG psychosocial risks through the DEPARTMENT OF COAL QUALITY groups) for psychosocial risks. use of specific questionnaires (1) Develop an approved OF INTERNAL CONTROL responsible for contract OVERSIGHT administration. healthcare strategy. SYSTEM DEPARTMENT Design Cerrejón's Talent Management Define and implement a OF MATERIALS strategy to ensure all worker management is succession and AND SERVICES aligned with the Cerrejón leadership model development plan for (MLC, its Spanish acronym) based on skills, in Implementing the strategy. employees in critical order to respond to the business dynamics positions. and strategic needs and contribute to Strengthen the evaluation and Review the defined skills. business achievements. follow-up system for employees and their development plans. Finalise the draft IDP Review and update the management system Currently, the plans and descriptions for technical update for technical staff for technical staff (PTC) to ensure it is aligned staff positions included in the Individual and incorporate with the MLC and Cerrejón's future needs in Development Plan (IDP) are under review. improvements. order to contribute to business achievements. (1) These questionnaires are a group of tools used to assess psychosocial risk factors that were proposed by the former Ministry of Social Welfare, now known as the Ministry of Labour. 28 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 29 Structure of Corporate Governance Body Internal Control The department of Internal Control has adopIt is important to note that compliance is achieved Cerrejón’s corporate governance body includes the president and the vice presidents, who are ruled by the corporate principles and policies. They receive no ted a set of verification and assessment plans, when all individuals who are part of the comIn 2012, Internal Control carried out additional compensation for these positions. The roles of senior executives are aligned directly with the organisation’s performance. That is, they are responsible methods, principles, and procedures to maintain a the following actions: pany contribute to meeting the goals and comfor contributing to meeting the goals and targets set annually regarding economic, social, and environmental aspects. This monitoring is done through systematic culture that is aligned with Cerrejón’s legal, ethical, mitments established with the stakeholders, beaevaluations of professional development and performance. and social responsibilities. Strengthening of corporate policies and ring in mind that transparency is a fundamental principles of transparency and integrity Its main purpose is to provide reasonable overprinciple in operational accountability. Meeting sight in relation to the fulfilment of goals with Committee (1) frequency Objective Members Cerrejón employees must know their responsibirespect to: Implementation of processes for reporting lities and the limits of their authority. It is for this • The operation’s effectiveness and efficiency and investigating ethics deviations Monitoring of actions referred to in the annual plan and approval One main representative and a substitute for each of the affiliate reason the company runs fraud, bribery, and coof investments. Each year the budget for the following year and the five-year plan are approved. Responsible for monitoring companies of BHP Billiton plc, Anglo American plc, and Glencore • Reliable financial reporting rruption-prevention programmes. This includes Shareholders' Committee Three times yearly Xstrata plc. practices and compliance with good governance. Cerrejón's senior management. a training strategy aimed at establishing a clear • Compliance with applicable laws and regulations understanding of an employee’s duties and the Reviews of different administrative processes • Compliance with Cerrejón’s ethical standards manner in which they are performed. One representative from each shareholder and Cerrejón's senior Shareholders' Conference Call Monthly Tracking issues agreed to by the Shareholders' Committee. management. Presidency Committee Weekly Review of the action plans of each vice president.. Cerrejón president, vice presidents, and managers.. Programmes 2012 Certification in policies Comprehensive Fraud, Bribery, and Corruption Prevention Programme Newsletter Review of accounting processes. Cerrejón's financial vice president and finance managers from Stewardship Review Annually each shareholder company and from Cerrejón. Covers the principles included in the following: Sharing of topics of ethical Reinforcing knowledge in interest and experiences of relation to four Cerrejón other companies, or informing Cerrejón's financial vice president and finance managers from The Colombian anti-corruption Financial Conference Call Monthly Review of financial matters. policies and its commitments The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act on programmes or situations each shareholder company and from Cerrejón. UK Bribery Act. statute and Cerrejón's internal to compliance with them. (FCPA of the USA). from the global world of ethics. policies. Monthly Results Review Monthly Review of previous month’s results. Cerrejón president, vice presidents, and managers. Review of all aspects related to external and internal The financial vice president from each shareholder company and Auditing Committee Twice yearly controls and auditing. from Cerrejón. of the case as ethica ification l, Technical and Operational Class ict of interest, or fraud Review Committee (TORC) Detailed review of the operation's performance, mining One member and one technical representative for each of confl and Geological Review Three times yearly planning, and capital applications, and other issues. These are Cerrejón's shareholders. Cerrejón's senior management. Meeting (GERM) then approved by the Shareholders' Committee. an t da I n ew, Intern revi he claim One main representative and a substitute for each of the affiliate al C minary analysis throu ontro ent companies of BHP Billiton plc, Anglo American plc, and Glencore Preli fy t Mancom Three times yearly l Tracking issues agreed to by the Shareholders' Committee. gh o ne o receiv cum veri Xstrata plc. , do ngs to Cerrejón's senior management. f th es ed ec ar ws i vie f find ha ep reg 2 tion ist er nn or er Decisions that require high levels of approval, such as capital iga nt sis o els est Management Committee Fortnightly investment projects and contracts. President, vice presidents, and managers. The ca Inv se i aly s 1 3 Cerrejón president, executive vice president of Operations, vice Procedure Evaluates ethical deviations and conflicts of interest when president of Finance, to investigate Internal Control Committee As needed. they arise. manager of Legal Department, and manager of Internal Control. deviations from ethics policies, President, executive vice president of Operations, vice president of conflicts of Evaluate strategic plans to address the critical stakeholders and Expansion, vice president of Public Affairs and Communications, vice interest, and Stakeholders' Engagement Fortnightly advance in the integrated stakeholder management strategy, president of Human Resources, Environmental Management 20 fraud control fa s in oce e doc Meeting manager, Social Responsibility manager, manager of Social Standards ate which includes identifying and prioritising stakeholders. 6 4 me s pr p o r ck and International Relations, and Foundations System directors. am i C or e dba Re ed in w ume ogr ue th ce: ed. por e pr n n fe t an hich nt f gh th conti es pla lear dr o eco the v r the I Evaluates human management issues such as changes in the Throu es 5 r to k tak ons es. olici orde mm alidit nterna organisational structure, establishing new programmes and President, executive vice president of Operations, vice president policies, or adjustments to existing ones as regards staff, of Finance, vice president of Human Resources, and manager of and in feedbac of less amm ing p inte Assessment by the ee l Contr end y of t Management Development Monthly me progr gard performance, development of talent, compensation, labour and Cerrejón’s Legal Department. ( Se rnal co tt he ol ntrol commmuicture) Committee occupational health, and their relevant execution. gram atio ns a report is e 11 1. Pro 2. TIPS tings r rses e com ss position in organisational str ee e cou , o re inc nm ing e luded Executive vice president of Operations, vice president of erso . Onlin aft mitt h Approves and/or delegates matters related to human resources Production, vice president of Operations Support, vice president 3. In-p 4 r D m lis OHR Committee within the operation, up to the level of the executive vice of Human Resources, managers of Assurance and Installed Capacity, managers of Safety, managers of Environmental Co stab Monthly president of Operations, who relies on the expertise and e (Operational Human Resources) judgment of vice presidents and managers. Management, managers of Coal Quality, managers of Coal Analy Additionally, this committee delegates the issues that must be Handling, managers of Operation Services, managers of North sis of recommendations approved by the Management Development Committee (MDC). Production, managers of Central Production, and managers of and de (war finition of sanctions ) Maintenance. ning, t thers ermination of contract, and o (1) The increase in committees compared to the previous year is the result of an exhaustive review of all areas. The Stakeholders' Engagement Meeting was inaugurated in 2012. Note: Senior management provides employees with the summary from the previous year and the challenges for the current year through the annual meetings. The president also holds breakfasts and tours on a rotating basis with operation employees (entrance and exit by operation employees at shift changes) along with scheduled focus meetings, with participation from employees in all departments. 30 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 31 Reporting channels Training in anti-corruption policies and procedures Cerrejón has different channels and mechanisms available to its employees, contractors, suppliers, and Cerrejón performed an internal risk analysis, idenTotal percentage of staff with Total employees with anti-corruption training in vulnerable positions anti-corruption training citizens aware of a specific case in the event that the company’s policies or conduct guidelines should be tifying 476 key positions that are vulnerable to cobreached. These means include the following, among others: rruption (8.3% of total employees). As a result, we MANAGEMENT 27 of the vulnerable developed a programme to counter this practice, positions identified ETHICS HOTLINE FOR CALLING FROM ABROAD NON-MANAGEMENT 416 01 800 954 -0712 www.eticacerrejoncmc.kpmg.com.ar starting with an online course in which 443 emManagement TELEPHONE NUMBER AND EMAIL ADDRESS OF THE INTERNAL AUDIT OFFICE OF BHP BILLITON (1) ployees participated. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 +56-2-3305165 peter.h.lynch@bhpbilliton.com TELEPHONE NUMBERS AND EMAIL ADDRESS OF INTERNAL CONTROL +571-595-2433 eduardo.buitrago@cerrejoncoal.com Actions to prevent corruption incidents Internal Reporting Channels, extension 2777 or telephone number +57-1-595-2777 In 2012, there were no corruption cases of material importance (affecting reputation or image or requiring notation in the company’s financial statements), a fact (1) In 2013 this channel will be discontinued due to structural changes to the shareholders' reporting channel. that is explained largely due to the following actions: MORE INFORMATION http://www.cerrejon.com/site/english/our-company/policies.aspx 1 Senior management's commitment to organisational policies. 2010 * 9 Conflicts of interest policy 2 A clearly established culture of controls at all levels of the organisation and observance of such, particularly in groups of high vulnerability to corruption risks. EMPLOYEES DISMISSED Cerrejón’s policy stipulates that all employees conducting their own businesses. their duties. The following situations are considerefrain from any conflict between their own inFailure to comply with this policy generally occurs red conflicts of interest for an employee, spouse, 3 Confidence in open and widely publicised external and internal ethical reporting channels. terests and the company’s interests when dealing when the employee is obtaining personal benefits or any member of their family if they have not with suppliers, clients, contractors, or any other from their position, or the use of confidential inpreviously been declared and approved by senior 4 Rigorous Internal Control system. 2011 * person outside the company, as well as when formation obtained through the performance of management. 5 6 Zero tolerance for corruption risks and deviations from the established policies and guidelines for conduct. EMPLOYEES DISMISSED Maintaining an interest in or working as an employee or manager/ Acquiring and possessing Using Cerrejón's employees, Purchasing, selling, 6 A healthy organisational culture, with principles and values clearly established in our policies. consultant for any organisation Accepting commissions, or renting any type coal concessions buildings, equipment, of property belonging that conducts or hopes to or royalties rights. profit-sharing, or cash gifts. or supplies for personal use. Training programmes (virtual and in a classroom setting) regarding policies through: conduct business with Cerrejón. to Cerrejón. 7 Company induction programmes. 2012 * Routine refresher courses. In these situations, Cerrejón implements a series of disciplinary actions that generally lead to termination of the work contract. MORE INFORMATION 8 Company induction programmes. 4 EMPLOYEES DISMISSED http://www.cerrejon.com/site/Portals/1/Documents/Conflicts_of_Interest_Policy.pdf 9 Strengthening in the publicising of ethical principles through all available media (physical and virtual bulletin boards, intranet, etc.) and through programmes such as Lessons Learned, TIPS, and Ethics Newsletters. * Dismissals due to ethical reasons other than those mentioned above. Business units analysed in relation to corruption risks Attraction and selection Failure to comply with this policy generally occurs when the employee is obtaining personal benefits cial Fin Hiring of employees Finan and Accou ancial in g ntabil from In 2012, Cerrejón conducted risk analyses for the Plann lysis ity Su In 2008, the self-applications policy was developed to promote the coverage of technical and professional vacancies (PTC and MPT) at levels 1 and 2, and to moprevention of fraud, bribery, and corruption in 13 of 19 Ana s an tain tivate comprehensive individual development. In 2012, the operation continued to offer employees advancement opportunities as a priority through this internal ls d P ab areas identified (68.42%). ria Af ub ilit selection system. ate fa lic y This process is conducted based on the company’s risk M irs In cases where staff needs cannot be met internally, Cerrejón initiates external procedures. methodology and according to the exposure and vulneIn addition, employee recruitment is based on personal, educational, and professional merits, giving priority to persons originating from the areas of influence rability of each area in relation to corruption risks. under equal conditions, without discrimination against race, creed, origin, sexual orientation, gender, or age. n Inte ratio Con rnal Ope vices trol Ser Results of selection processes Selection processes / employees selected ity Productiv gy Business units analysed Expansion 20 20 hn o lo d Te c an 15 14 10 8 ns 10 10 tio ica 5 Le 6 un ga l mm Co 0 2010 201 1 2012 n ma s Hu urce o In 2012, internal selection processes took place Environmental Res for fourteen vacancies, ten of which were filled Management by company employees and four were declared vacant. 32 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 33 Professional Development Programme • Establishing a bank of temporary positions for Wayuu in the operation 1. Organisational: Associated with general performance in the company as leaders of their processes and integration with work teams. pregnant workers whose regular jobs might In response to turnover and to the need for geCerrejón hired 57 members of the Wayuu ethnic 2. Operational Integrity: Ensures the compliance of standards in safety, health, environment, and community. affect their health. nerational replacement, Cerrejón created a fogroup who participated in five workshops desig3. Skills: Required in each job and that define the nature of each position in the company. cused training initiative (20-20 programme) in • Upgrading installations for women to perform ned to ease their social-work assimilation process. 2010 aimed at professionals under thirty. It seeks operational tasks. to develop skills and deepen knowledge of the In these workshops they were able to: C E R R E J Ó N L E A D E R S H I P M O D E L This is the skillsmanagement system company’s operations and to allow participants • Five theoretical-practical workshops for 80 • Reinforce the application of ancestral tradithat Cerrejón developed to become responsible, to contribute their creative potential and highfemale workers (including apprentices) to conexcellent, and competitive. tions and customs in the work environment. impact ideas to the continued improvement of tinue reinforcing the skills of women working in • Strengthen joint adaptation, respecting their Cerrejón’s processes. operational areas and to facilitate their socialculture in order to build safe behaviour and At Cerrejón, we have integrated the elements of the Leadership Model in the mining labour adaptation, their advancement, and their truck to represent the alignment between the Skills Management Model and the The fourteen professionals participating in the habits in accordance with our policy of a pro2011–2013 course will continue the process in dipersonal growth. Coal company's essence and dynamics. ductive work environment. This is the result obtained. The model fferent company departments such as Production • Strengthening the Women’s Committee, which represents the contribution of each and Maintenance, with the possibility of taking identifies and proposes initiatives to improve Cerrejón employee on the path to part in hiring processes the following year. conditions of introduction and assimilation into Engagement and selection being a responsible mining operation. Cerrejón Leader the operation. To that end, its five representaprogrammes In the model, the driver is tives have focused on preparing and monitoring the Cerrejón leader who is very Programme Characteristics Cerrejón has continued the training programmes satisfied at the job he does and is the agreements signed. directed at young people in the region with the capable of contributing • Hiring for eighteen months, during which time Responsible mining at the highest levels. aim of contributing to strengthening their skills the participants will study two subjects. and facilitating their entry into the labour market. • Continuous mentor assistance. Cerrejón employs • For the operation of two new tugboats in Rear Wheel • Development plan: training and establishPuerto Bolívar (acquisition considered in the This wheel propels the truck ment of performance objectives for each asforward. In the model, technical Front Wheel P40 Expansion Project), a group of high498 skills and operational integrity This wheel determines the signment. school graduates from the Media Luna Wayuu provide the capacity to achieve S ORGAN ISA direction of the truck. In the needed results for the operation. ILL T model, organisational skills SK • The opportunity for Cerrejón employees to communities—settlements (rancherías) betIO define how we achieve needed WOMEN L ICA NA compete in selection processes. ween kilometres 123 and 137, Cabo de la Vela, ER ATIONAL IN L SK results for the company as 193 of whom occupy operational T ECHN part of the Cerrejón Way and TEM OF OP GRITY Manaure, Uribia, Maicao, and Riohacha—beTE ILLS positions in the departments of YS responsible mining. Maintenance, Production, Coal gan a two-stage deck-hand training process. S Handling, and Operation Services. Retirement Preparation Programme They work in positions such as Stage 1: Training for six months in the Internaoperators/technicians, operators of Cerrejón has programmes that encourage the tional Nautical, Fluvial, and Port Centre (Cenmining equipment (trucks and comprehensive development of our employees power shovels), supervisors, and tro Internacional Náutico, Fluvial y Portuario) who are approaching retirement using tools that superintendents. These numbers in the SENA (National Apprenticeship Service) include apprentices. help to prepare them for life after retirement. The in Cartagena. specific programme for these employees seeks Direct employees assessed to help them reconcile their work history, advise Stage 2: Practice for six months (during the them in their pension arrangements, and prepare first quarter of 2013) in Puerto Bolívar, where This evaluation is applied to 100% of direct CerreThe following activities were carried out in 2012: ce with the characteristics and specific needs them for this new stage of life. the young people will have the support of Cejón employees, where 83.58% of the evaluations of Cerrejón positions. This training exercise • Fourteen participants from the Talent Pool was carried out at the Center for Creative rrejón tutors. correspond to technical staff (PTC) and the reThe programme has been active since 2008 and proposed to occupy high-responsibility posts Leadership, with offices in the United States. (1) maining 16.42% to professional staff (MPT). has had 251 participants. • Additionally, 85 students from Tecnocerrejón received coaching. began their internships in 2012 in Production Corporate awards • TOEIC tests (Test of English for Internatioas technicians with skills in operations, and in MEN nal Communication) and training plans were Year Number of pre-retirees Maintenance as mining equipment mechaTechnical Personnel 4,592 designed according to the progress level for 2010 61 nics. (PTC) assessed WOMEN some of the participants. Additionally, one 179 person was sent on an immersion course to 20 1 1 39 Evaluation for development Canada for three months. 2012 45 MEN • Mentor Programme: 20 mentors monitor the In order to measure management and to individually track employee work, Cerrejón conducts Professional Personnel 755 participants in the Professional Growth proa formal performance assessment annually, (MPT) assessed WOMEN gramme. Women in the operation through a technological tool used at the Mine, 182 • Specific national and international technical Based on respect, our policies of equal opportuPuerto Bolívar, and Bogotá. training events. nity, a productive work environment, and diversity in our leadership model, Cerrejón promotes Cerrejón Leadership Model • Three people took the “Senior management Category No comprehensive employee development for woTalent Pool in administration and strategic leadership” Operational quality and effectiveness 25 In this model—which comprises part of the Evamen in our workplaces for safe, healthy working World-class operators/technicians 10 luation for Development—the knowledge, abiliThe development assessments identify persons programme. Safety, health, environment, and communities 9 conditions. In 2012, the following activities are ties, and attitudes that employees demonstrate who could eventually occupy key Cerrejón posinoteworthy: • Evaluation of potential of twenty people from Leadership 2 during their work performance are taken into tions, who are then included in the Talent Pool, Cost effectiveness 1 the Talent Pool. account. Accordingly, Cerrejón has defined three where the growth and retention of outstanding Values 1 (1) Educational institution for vocational training, set up with support from the Cerrejón Foundation for the Institutional Strengthening of La Guajira. types of skills: employees are promoted. • Customised Leadership Training in accordanTotal 48 34 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 35 System and development plans Trainning With the Leadership Model, Cerrejón continued Additionally, in 2012 the process of upgrading de• Team leadership (facilitation): Observable with the implementation of the IDP, through which velopment plans and job descriptions of all techEmployee development is one of the pillars for building a sustainable and scalable company. Therefore, Cerrejón encourages its employees to reach their full performance with direct impact on team repotential, offering training opportunities on topics relevant for strengthening the skills defined in the Leadership Model. we orient, support, and encourage our employees’ nical staff (PTC) positions began, with the aim of efforts to grow in work-related knowledge, skills, sults. synchronising development systems and procesWe do this to optimise and improve the corporate processes, as well as to contribute to the personal and ethical growth of employees and residents in the area and experience. ses with the changes being implemented in the • Leadership and team integration (transof influence who are part of this group. This plan, which has seven levels, includes work organisation. formation): Observable performance with programmes, contribution areas, development Through the Leadership Model, the professional staimpact on teams that work in an integrated activities, compliance standards, parameters, and monitoring plans. ff (MPT) forms its training plans, based on the results manner. Training hours of skills assessments, which are tailored to specific Each worker’s progress with respect to the IDP is needs and considers skills maturity levels. • Organisation leadership (vision): Observable Noteworthy training Training courses determined by his/her performance in safetyperformance with impact on the whole orgaprogrammes. Topics Description Financing related matters, operational results, discipline, and • Individual contributor (contribution): Observable Internal External nisation. absenteeism. performance with impact on the work position. Training in logistics, administrative, and operation-related Internal Company orientation X topics. Operational integrity for Safety, health, and environment events. X operators and technicians X Internal / SENA Operational integrity for professional staff Safety, health, and environment events. X X Internal / SENA Essential Leadership Occasion to promote comprehensive employee X Internal / SENA development. Leadership in Safety Training to promote safe behaviour in the organisational X Internal / SENA culture. Working at heights Training to guarantee safe work at heights. X Internal Total training hours by category A total of 385,397 employee-hours of training were reached in 2012 (30% higher than in 2011) in the following categories: Annual employee-hours* Category Description Total Professional (MPT) Technical (PTC) Generic training to develop personal skills (including training in Personal effectiveness end user tools). 3,640 13,737 17,377 Functional Training in the technology for each business unit. (specific for each area) 8,056 23,170 31,226 Management Training to improve knowledge and skills of supervisory levels. 2,800 7,918 10,718 Operational integrity Safety, health, and environment training. 18,592 80,088 98,680 Technical-operative Training to improve technical and operative skills.. 5,558 221,838 227,396 Total 38,646 346,751 385,397 * This calculation is made taking into account the number of people attending the training course by the number of instruction hours. Training hours per role Average hours of training by gender Training hours Gender hours Category Total Men Women Management 1 13 8 1 21 Middle management 29,727 6,527 36,254 6 60.4 . % Professional 1,196 1,082 2,278 Technicians/Operators 120,184 121,158 Apprentices 202,603 22,983 225,586 65 65.55% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% Total 353,823 31,574 385,397 The average number of training hours for women excludes apprentices. 36 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 37 Fringe benefits Occupational Health and Safety Management System (OSH-MS) For nearly three decades, Cerrejón has been developing this system that favours its employees and other Year Number Hours Worked OD Index stakeholders, according to their needs and tailored to the characteristics of the country and economic of cases sector. It goes beyond the execution of isolated measures to provide health, hygiene, and safety require2010 4 13,738,851 O.058 ments in the workplace and comprehensively protect employee health. 2011 6 14,126,778 0.085 Cerrejón complies with Colombian legislation and applies the highest international standards to prevent 2012 18 15,059,470 0.239 and control accidents and illness as well as to reduce factors and conditions that may threaten health and safety at the work environment. Cerrejón successfully implemented several Epidemiological Surveillance Systems (ESS), following the recommendations of the Evidence-Based Occupational Healthcare Guidelines (GATISO, in Spanish), issued by the former Ministry of Social Protection. • ESS of respiratory diseases Cerrejón cares about providing employees with fringe benefits to help improve their quality of life and that of their families. Therefore, benefits schemes were • ESS for hearing conservation developed to include education, healthcare, housing loans, insurance, and others. • ESS for psychosocial risks Plan Description Coverage ¿Who does it apply to? • ESS for the prevention of musculoskeletal disorders (MSD) associated with back pain, Survivor beneﬁt Provides ﬁnancial security and protection to the family in case 24 basic employee salaries a pathology of global and national incidence, of employee's death due to natural causes. and the foremost cause of work-related morbidity at Cerrejón. All company employees, intern Basic for accidents Covers employee's death due to accidental causes. 48 basic employee salaries students, and apprentices Among the initiatives developed under the Surveillance System are the technical and administrative changes in jobs and educational activities, Basic aviation Covers employee's death due to an aviation accident. 12 basic employee salaries such as promoting Active Breaks, which benefited 2,088 employees in 2012, in about 115 theoretical and practical sessions. Insurance: All company employees Optional aviation Covers employee's death due to an aviation accident. 12, 24, or 36 basic employee salaries Psychosocial risks Cerrejón continued to promote the psychosocial Insurance: Optional Covers employee death due to ground transportation accident All employees covered by the welfare of its employees through the following land transport between their residence and the workplace. 24 basic employee salaries Collective Bargaining Agreement (CCT) who opt for this beneﬁt. actions: • Administering and scoring psychosocial risk• Workers participate considerably in the construction and monitoring of the OSH-MS through their factor questionnaires within and outside 90% of the value of the undergraduate Intended to help workers to develop skills that will enable them enrolment (up to COP 4.97 million), All permanent company representatives to the Joint Workers Healthcare Committee (COPASO, in Spanish) and to the Health work, as proposed by the national governEducational Assistance to perform better in their current position and in positions they graduate (up to COP 8.235 million), and employees Committee, comprised of representatives from Sintracarbón and administration. Programme may occupy in the future. ment. This work was done in collaboration languages (up to COP 1.562 million) • In 2012, Cerrejón invested USD 8.9 million to carry out the OSH-MS. with COPASO and external Sintracarbón consultants covering 600 employees. • Since the start of operations at Cerrejón, seventeen employees have been retired for disability: fifSupplemental Healthcare: teen had a common disease, only two involved occupational accidents, and none for occupational • Creating action plans for 28 SEGs covering Comprehensive Healthcare Meets the user's medical needs in a private healthcare plan. Unlimited 906 employees. System disease. • No worker is exposed to any hazardous agents above the threshold limit values (TLV) after taking All permanent company employees. into account personal protective equipment. Provides a mechanism to help employees and their 80% of all medical expenses, with a Professional staff (MPT) with Supplemental Health: families in cases of illness or medical treatments that are lifetime limit of COP 66.4 million and COP ﬁxed-term contracts of less than, • To ensure workplace safety and health, Cerrejón has been certified in the OHSAS 18001 International Hospitalisation Plan 99.7 million, depending on the usually unexpected and come with high costs. membership group or over six months who opt for Standard (Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series,) since 2003 and has been recertified this beneﬁt. Technical staff (PTC) with each successive year since then. The current recertification is valid until September 21 of 2015. ﬁxed-term contracts since joining the company. • For over 26 years, Cerrejón has used the methodology of Similar Exposure Groups (SEGs) for our 70% of the value of the contribution Workplace Safety Management (WSM). The government just recently recommended that this Planning for the future Voluntary beneﬁt aimed at encouraging long-term savings. that the employee decides to make, methodology be used in Colombia for WSM. This management system has made it possible to with a limit of 10% of his/her basic salary. comprehensively control occupational risks in the company and perform the respective medicaloccupational monitoring. Employees with indeﬁnite-term Occupational Disease Index (ODI) Home Purchase Facilitates a mortgage loan to employees who 80% of home's value, up to established contracts and at least three years Assistance Plan qualify for this beneﬁt. limits. of seniority in the company. For the period analysed, the index was 0.239 for just over fifteen million hours worked. The index is higher than in 2011 due to legislative changes in the social security system in the country, which identified more occupational diseases, thus resulting in an increase of cases. 38 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 39 Psychosocial support for fatigue conOperational safety trol in the operation To strengthen the healthy habits of employees Since the beginning of its operations, Cerrejón has Injury Frequency Rate (Based on 200,000 hours of exposure) and their families, as well as reducing the incidence of fatigue effects in the workplace, Cerrejón sought to make safety one of its corporate values. 1.00 encourages the need for proper rest manageThis goal has been strengthened companywide 0.91 RIFR 0.90 ment through these activities: through risk management and implementation of CIFR safe and proper use of resources and equipment, 0.80 • Social family visits. while always taking into account the stages of a 0.70 • Training spaces (awareness of the importanproduct’s life cycle. Additionally, comprehensive 0.57 0.60 ce of rest for the proper performance of comwork has been done to ensure the proper identifipany technical operations). 0.50 cation of risks, risk control, and information dissemination necessary for a fatality-free operation, 0.40 0.30 Interventions 2011 Interventions 2012 preventing and mitigating potential accidents. 0.30 Numbers Participants Numbers Participants 0.21 Workshops 107 2,800 261 4,399 Each operational area performs a daily identifica0.20 tion, prevention, control, and assessment of risks 0.1 0 Consulting 594 594 438 438 that could affect employees, contractors, and 0.00 third parties. This activity promotes a culture free 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 20 10 20 1 1 20 12 At Cerrejón, absenteeism is classified as either which are subsidised by Cerrejón at 70% of the of fatalities and accidents Workshops increased by 144 % over the previous scheduled or unscheduled. total cost. The company has allocated USD 10.1 million for coverage of this annual plan, which .Classified injury frequency rate (CIFR) 3. Review of 144 risk events with potential indiviyear, and participants increased by 57% over the • Scheduled absenteeism is composed of unStrategies 2012 (1) same period. In 2012, many more workshops includes: dual fatalities (163 in total) using the Bow Tie justified absences, sick leave, and disability This is calculated based on the ratio of accidents • Reinforce our clear leadership in safety methodology by operations superintendents. were offered with the aim of providing personalidue to an accident. • General and specialised medical consultation per 200,000 hours of exposure compared to the sed attention in each one, with fewer participants on an open network • Reinforce management in the control of canumber of hours worked during the period. It in4. Review of critical task procedures used as per workshop. On the other hand, consulting fell • Unscheduled absenteeism includes unpaid cludes only incapacitating injuries (fatalities, lost part of the Task Observation Programme, • Emergency and intensive care tastrophic risks by 26% in quantity and participants. leave, paid leave, suspensions/licences, and time, and limited work). involving vice presidents, managers, superunion permission. • Dental care • Strengthen operational discipline (complianintendents, and supervisors. Of a total of 738 ce with regulations) For 2012, the CIFR ended slightly above the maxitasks in 2012, 147 procedures were reviewed. Preventive and Occupational Medicine • Diagnostic aids (X-rays, high-tech imaging, mum limit: 0.21 compared to a maximum limit of Programme Industrial hygiene etc.) • Ensure safe contractor performance 5. Continuity in reporting and correction of Zero 0.20. It was 0.28 for employees and 0.16 for conThe following actions allowed for comprehensive tractors. It is notable that contractors remained at Energy events.(2) Cerrejón implemented assistance programmes in • Hospitalisation, surgery, and maternity education, training, prevention, risk control, and control over several risk factors in the workplace: Achievements 2012 2011 levels, with a maximum of 0.17. • Comprehensive care for high-cost diseases management regarding health conditions for our • Creation of an environmental risk map (sus(cancer, transplants, dialysis, surgeries, and • For the second consecutive year, there were Noteworthy actions in 2012 employees’ most common diseases, using the fopended aerosols, carbon monoxide, and metal cardiac rehabilitation, among others) no fatal accidents (employees, contractors, llowing actions: fumes) in the permanent workshops area. In December of 2012, Cerrejón hit its best histo• Physical and respiratory therapies and third parties). This has been and will • Evaluation of environmental and occupational rical record without fatalities (employees, con• The participation and mutual agreement of always be Cerrejón’s priority in all of our acti• Coverage of commercial and generic drugs tractors, and third-party fatalities), which incluCOPASO, Sintracarbón, the Coomeva healthexposure in permanent workshops, such as vities. Welding, and assessing the effectiveness of ded more than 880 days (78.2 million workforce care provider, the Positiva Occupational Risk Management Company (ARL), and Comfacontrols related to metal fumes. Work reincorporation programmes • Cerrejón was awarded the Cruz Esmeralda hours). guajira made it possible to start designing a for workers Prize, Excellence category, by the Colombian Cerrejón commemorated the second anniversary • Strengthening the Comprehensive Chemical Safety Council. of the fatal accident in Silo 1 by performing 22 project to promote healthy lifestyles, such as Hazard Management System in Puerto BolíWhen a Cerrejón employee cannot continue his good nutrition and physical activity. var. usual work due to a significant health problem reflection sessions, with the participation of Cerrejón managers and vice presidents. Hard work • The start-up during the second half of 2012 • Training 4,313 employees in chemical subs(75% common origin, that is, derived from daily Safety results over these past two years has resulted in improlife or a medical predisposition), the employee enof an absenteeism-management process for tances, use of personal protective equipment Cerrejón monitors safety results by the number of vements in the identification of potentially fatal ters a reincorporation programme for placement medical reasons, which included a concurrent (PPE), and others. fatalities and the recordable injury frequency rate accidents and in the effectiveness of critical conin a new position, according to his health condimedical audit and support for individual wor(RIFR) in order to meet the targets set for 2012. trols (CC) to prevent and mitigate such accidents. • Supporting the Environmental Management tion, which will be appropriately adapted for the kers with health-related absences. Other highlights of 2012 were: Department in the implementation of a fog employee’s safe and efficient performance. Recordable injury frequency rate (RIFR) system to control particulate matter in the Production Department. In 2012, 295 employees participated in this proThis is calculated based on the ratio of accidents gramme, which includes comprehensive and Fatal risk management MEN per 200,000 hours of exposure compared to the Absenteeism 10.79 % general medical assessment, disability payment rate Complementary healthcare pronumber of hours worked during the period. It in1. Audits of critical controls over multiple fatality WOMEN insurance, technical and vocational evaluation of risk events, led by superintendents, mana7.75 % grammes for employees and their cludes all personal injuries except for those treavarious positions not approved for relocation, and gers, and vice presidents. families ted with first aid. TOTAL 10.56 % psychosocial support for workers and their fami2. Assessment of the application and impleAround 4,875 employees, along with their families lies along with their supervisors. An interdiscipliIn 2012, the goal for this rate was achieved for all mentation of Cerrejón’s HSEC management (a total of 20,363 people), have complementary nary company team monitored participants and operations (employees and contractors): 0.30 system by a team of seven representatives ( 1 ) This methodology is commonly used in the industry for risk analysis (potential The percentage of absenteeism is obtained from the following formula: Hours absent/ healthcare plans (Prepaid Coomeva Medical and ARL specialists and other individuals involved in compared to a maximum limit of 0.32. The rate from the Risk Assessment and Assurance fatal accidents). (2) These are unsafe actions and conditions that can cause a fatal accident. They hours scheduled × 100. This year we included scheduled and unscheduled absenteeism and vacations. hospitalisation, surgery, and maternity policy), social security supported them. was 0.35 for employees and 0.28 for contractors. Group (RAA) of BHP Billiton. are called Zero Energy because they are identified before an incident occurs. That is, before there is any exposure to uncontrolled energy. 40 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 41 Health and Safety Committees Made up of executives and employee representatives, these committees were established to reinforce the operation’s commitment to compliance with health and safety standards in the workplace. In 2012, 21% of employees participated in these committees. Workers Occupational Number of representatives Healthcare Committee (COPASO) The Mine 16 representatives (8 from Cerrejón and 8 from the workforce) Puerto Bolívar 8 representatives (4 from Cerrejón and 4 from the workforce) Bogotá 8 representatives (4 from Cerrejón and 4 from the workforce) Total representatives 2012 32 Other committees Number of representatives Sintracarbón Health Department 4 (1 national, 3 regional) Collective Bargaining Agreement 10 (4 from Cerrejón and 6 from the workforce) (CBA) Health Committee CBA Safety Committee 8 (2 from Cerrejón and 6 from the workforce) Safety monitors 1,085 Operational Integrity Committee 21 of Production Operational Integrity Committee 4 (1 representative from electrical and mechanical truck maintenance of Maintenance and tyre workshop, 1 from construction and welding, 1 from power shovels, and 1 from caterpillar tractors and tyre service equipment) Total of 12 representatives: “Three star” certification process and company representatives participated in a • To meet goals for the reduction of severe injuOne coordinator from Operational Support safety workshop to confirm or establish the best ries Operational Integrity Committee Operational Services: Four operational integrity coordinators and three The “Three star” process is an internal audit conmining truck operation safety practices. During of Support to the Operation coordinators for Prevention Processes for Behaviour-Based Accidents ducted in superintendencies—between zero and • To ensure that contractors maintain good the workshop, the seven near-miss incidents that (PPABC) three stars are awarded. This year, two certificasafety performance Coal handling: Three operational integrity coordinators and one PPABC occurred up until August 2012 were reviewed to tion rounds were carried out for the purpose of coordinator identify common causes and to design a work “Improvising is not the safest thing to do” ensuring sustainable performance, in addition to plan. compliance with the requirements of the Fatal In 2012, the campaign entitled “Improvising is Operational Integrity Committee 26 (vice presidents and managers) Risk Control Protocols (FRCP), and the Health, Annual Safety Week not the safest thing to do” was launched, with a Safety, Environment, and Community (HSEC) strategy aimed at the promotion of a series of Total representatives 2012 1,202 The fifth annual Safety Week was held, consispolicy throughout the company. regulations and behaviours to remain alert to the ting of activities designed to promote an injurymain risks in the workplace using analogies with The aspects reviewed during these audits were: free culture. Around one-thousand employees actions taken in response to the prior verificaand contractors participated. The event included regional animals. Workers’ rights tion round; the plan of action resulting from the workshops, conferences, supplier displays, and a Cerrejón considers it unacceptable not to comply with employment legislation and international regulapliance with labour law for their workers and procertification audit in OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001; safety fair; fourteen contractor companies were tions on child labour and forced labour. Therefore, our internal regulations respect children’s rights and tect their rights, including union membership. In present; and Cerrejón had two stands—blasting 35 the observance and effectiveness of the Fatal reaffirm our policy not to allow child labour in our operations. That is, employees under fifteen years of 2012, the company had 1,427 valid contracts, of Risk Management System; the use of basic safety processes and safety tools. age(1). In addition, the company’s regulations state it will not employ minors aged 15 to 18 in expressly prohiwhich 704 were contracts exceeding USD 25,000 tools; and workplace conditions, including comOf a total of and 723 were “delegated” or had a value of less bited activities or in working conditions that involve risks to their health and safety, as determined by law. pliance with FRCP requirements. Challenges in 2013 Furthermore, such minors may not work at night. than USD 25,000. Safety assessment at Cerrejón • To achieve widespread use of critical-task superintendencies As regards forced labour, the company strictly complies with chapter five of our labour regulations, which The contractors are committed to complying procedures of the operational Philip Fourie (vice president of Safety and Susdepartments and specifies that employees may work a maximum of 48 hours per week, distributed into day shifts from 6 with labour’s social responsibility policy and to fotainable Development at Anglo American) and • To ensure the effectiveness of and complianother areas am to 10 pm and night shifts from 10 pm to 6 am. For each day worked in operational areas, employees llowing the directives of standard SA8000, which Barry Formosa (vice president of HSEC at BHP ce with critical controls will have 24 hours of rest. It is noteworthy that all work, including overtime, performed by employees and promotes respect for freedom of association and Billiton-Energy Coal) visited Cerrejón to assess contractors in the company is done so voluntarily. collective bargaining. One hundred per cent of our the company’s safety management, especially • To finalise the review of fatal risk events contractors with contracts of over USD 25,000 fatal risk management. In addition to satisfactory • To eliminate repetitive Zero Energy events Monitoring and assessment sign appendix D, which defines human rights reresults, a plan of action was implemented to fo13 • To continue with “Three star” certification Cerrejón has corporate guidelines for work shifts aimed especially at contractors, which list the criteria quirements. llow the proposed recommendations for improA C H I E V E D vement. process reviews 3 STARS that should be taken into account for the shifts and the legal requirements in relation to voluntary labour and preventive health aspects. The company also audits its contractors to verify strict compliance with their labour obligations and 22 • To review the investigations of Zero Energy Truck operation safety workshop A C H I E V E D events and near-miss incidents in order to Along the same lines, in large, civil, and commercial contracts, clauses are included that promote comthe right to unionisation, in accordance with consRepresentatives of the Cerrejón shareholders’ Teidentify improvement opportunities for criti2 STARS titutional and legal parameters and international chnical and Operation Review Committee (TORC) cal controls (1) Paragraph 1 of Convention 138 of the ILO determines that the minimum employment age must not be lower than the age at which obligatory schooling ends or, in any event, at fifteen years of age labour agreements ratified by Colombia. 42 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 43 Human Rights Cerrejón has maintained and published its policies for social and labour responsibility and productive work environment policies in order to avoid situations of persecution, coercion, and discrimination due to union membership, politics, region, race, religion, nationality, profession, job role, In 2011, an integrated evaluation of social impacts and human rights at the Cerrejón operation was performed. Social standards recommend this evaluation be or workplace, and any other act that might prevent the free right to unionisation or the exercising of said right. Said policies are applicable to the carried out at the beginning of each project and be updated approximately every three years. Progress was made in validating the findings in 2012, and the sharing contractor companies and their compliance is verified through direct audits. and discussion of the report results began with members of the Oreganal and Tabaco communities. The World Café methodology was used for this dialogue, seeking the greatest possible participation of attendees and the creation of agreements on identified Between February and October of 2012, 26 audits of companies contracted by Cerrejón were conducted in the context of a verification programme impacts. The process equally served as a vehicle for obtaining feedback from communities about the methods the company implemented for interacting with for the Labour Social Responsibility Management System. Such matters as compliance with labour law (working hours, shifts, payment of salaries them. Four more meetings with the communities are planned for 2013. and Social Security, holiday programme, final payments) and the review of occupational health matters are assessed. Training in human rights As part of our commitment to social standards, and in compliance with our Human Rights Policy, the Department of Social Standards and International Relations The companies to be audited are selected from • Control of registration and timely payment of development programme, claims, recreation and covers three types of training in this area: general orientation given to new employees at the company, training aimed at middle and senior management, and companies belonging to the large contract daSocial Security, in accordance with the start daspecialised training in specific social standards. sport, contractors, safety, and human rights. Thetabase, managed by the Contracts Division. This tes established in contracts. re is also a committee for the verification and moEmployee training exercise takes into account criteria such as safety, • Improved compliance with workers’ holiday nitoring of the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Cerrejón does not merely present the in-house characteristics of the operation and the principles guiding its activities in its general orientation for new workers. number of employees, and labour awareness. programmes. We also introduce them to the parameters guiding our corporate conduct with respect to: human rights and related policies, the international standards followed It is important to note that this group excludes Sintracerrejón is the minority union and the • Compliance in the delivery of pay slips to worby the company, and the function of the Complaints Office in listening to the concerns and comments of participants. companies that were audited the previous year. company’s most recent. At the end of 2012, it subSafety Management, the Legal Department, the kers and monthly payment dates. mitted its list of demands for the consideration of Over the course of the year, there were 24 days of general orientation in human rights topics for 100% of new employees (865 ). (1) Contracts Division, and the head of the Labour Di• Appropriate extra payments for night work and the administrative body, as did Sintracarbón. They vision decide which companies will be audited—a work on national holidays, among others. will be negotiated in accordance with legal proviTraining for administrative personnel number that may range between 20 and 30 comsions. Cerrejón’s administration called a meeting panies. For the purpose of providing middle and senior management with greater awareness of the social stanwith the negotiation committees to begin talks. dards adopted by Cerrejón and of human rights issues, 10 editions of the e-publication “Cerrejón For The results of the audits in 2012 are summarised The Collective Bargaining Agreement signed Rights” was sent to approximately 250 staff members. below. Unions, collective agreement, and with Sintracarbón in 2010 benefited 3,750 union Specialised Training in Human Rights and Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights Indicator Goal 2012 Outcome 2012 * work environment members and 882 workers affiliated with the To comply with the standard Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, Cerrejón offered human Audits performed 25 26 union—a total of 4,632 workers. This represents rights training and customs of the Wayuu culture to private security contractors and to members of the Cerrejón respects the right to join a trade union 100% of the technical personnel (PTC) eligible for public security forces that provide security services to the operation. A total of 962 people received this Solution of training in 2012: 52 hours of training on those topics were given to 87.45 % of members of the private Non-Conformities 80 % 82.61 % and to collective bargaining, as stated in our pounion representation and 83% of total employees. licies. This shows we are committed to protecting security force, while 10 members of the public security forces (or 0.83 % of active members) received 16 * In addition to these audits, complaints/claims filed by unions and/or third parties The Collective Bargaining Agreement includes hours of training. The decrease in training for the public security forces was due to the attention demanagainst contractor companies are also investigated. workers’ fundamental rights. The company cucoverage by Cerrejón of 86% of the total cost of ded by situations that disrupted public order in the region. rrently has two unions that workers are free to Main achievements of the programme in 2012: the prepaid medicine and health aid programme The company also held a pilot workshop with the goal of providing an in-depth examination of the Volunjoin. • Regulation of shifts within contractor compaand 100% of medications. Similarly, a health sertary Principles on Security and Human Rights. Six sessions lasting four hours each were offered—a total of Sintracarbón is the larger union, with which Ce24 hours of training for 21 of the 35 direct employees (or 60%) of Cerrejón’s Protection Department who nies, eliminating extensive shifts (fatiguing). vices committee was set up that meets regularly rrejón holds regular meetings through ten comare responsible for protecting company infrastructure and the workforce. This was achieved by setting guidelines for legal for talks between the union and the company on mittees that meet once a month: health, food, compliance and occupational health established these issues. Cerrejón organised four roundtables with communities on security issues. Three of them were held with land transport, education, employee individual by Cerrejón. the Warelupalein (km 97 of the railway line), Orroco (km 63), and Ashulamana (km 139) communities, as well as with the private security company providing services there. The three events were attended by 106 community members and 18 traditional authorities. Another roundtable was held with the indigenous community of Tamaquito and the Energy and Roads Special Battalion (BAEEV No. 17, in Spanish) of the Colombian army. The goal of these roundtables is to: verify with the community that the actions for their protection are being carried out with full respect for human rights, and to constantly improve relations between the community, the security company, and the public security forces. 2010 2011 2012 Target public Hours No Hours No Hours No Employees 23 813 17 476 48 865 National army unit responsible for protecting 2 40 86 839 4 3 Public security mining infrastructure forces* Other military and police units N.A N.A 56 821 4 7 Cerrejón held activities related Private security guards 44 821 22 27 1 52 962 to promoting standards and spreading awareness of the School children from area of influence ** 18 813 10 430 N.A N.A human rights policy among Total 87 2,487 191 2,837 108 1,837 our employees through training sessions and e-bulletins, * The members of the public security force did not receive significant training in human rights and the habits and customs of the Wayuu culture in 2012 due to the outbreak of among other actions. terrorist attacks carried out by guerrilla forces. * * The work done with children from the area of influence concerning human rights was evaluated in 2012 and training sessions were not provided. (1) This number includes new direct employees, apprentices, student interns, and other temporary workers. 44 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 45 Assessment of Cerrejón’s Human Rights Training Programme Complaints Office Continuing the project started in 2011 with the Conflict Analysis Resource Centre (CERAC, in Spanish), In 2008—during the mandate of John Ruggie, the indicators measuring the impact of the human rights training sessions held by Cerrejón were applied. Description of handling complaints Through transparent and respectful dialogue, the the former United Nations Special Representatiand grievances Complaints Office seeks the resolution of comThe indicators for measuring human rights training evaluated: ve on Business and Human Rights—Cerrejón was The first step is to listen to the complainant and plaints in a timely and fair manner. During the peinvited (together with another four companies • The degree of outreach achieved by the training programme Cerrejón continued to promote record the complaint to understand how, when, riod, a total of 142 incidents was registered, of which our human rights policy among worldwide) to participate in the pilot project to im• The level of knowledge obtained in the training sessions plement a complaints mechanism to comply with and where the events occurred and who is in87.5% are related to accidents involving animals on employees, the neighbouring communities, and security the Protect, Respect, and Remedy plan and its 31 volved. Then the facts have to be established the railway line and 9.15% to relations between se• The level of interpretation and communications skills obtained personnel. through a joint investigation between the invesguiding principles. Cerrejón’s Complaints Office curity personnel and the community. These figures A total of 1,139 surveys were taken of employees, contractors, and members of the private and public We also improved was created in 2010 as part of this pilot project. tigator assigned to the case and the complainant. do not take into account requirements related to security forces. The surveys were given both to people who received the training and others who did not the performance of the Subsequently, the Complaints Office organises Complaints Office in 2012 by This office seeks to remedy the impacts caused resettlement issues, which are addressed indepenattend any sessions, with the latter serving as a control group to enable an objective evaluation of the and analyses the information on the case to claclosing 127 complaints, by Cerrejón’s operations on employees, contracdently, although they share the same software for results. 69 more than in 2011. rify the facts. tors, and communities in the company’s area of storage and processing. Similarly, there were 18 discussion groups involving employees, the public and private security forces, and influence. An additional goal is to promote and Through dialogue with the person who filed the children from schools close to the area of influence for the purpose of providing a qualitative contrast to maintain good relations with our stakeholders by complaint, an agreement is proposed and the Access points to the Complaints Office the quantitative information. steps that will be followed are defined in order to SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 005942 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SBL 00556 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 481311 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 SGK 00792 responding in a timely, efficient, participative, and Communities transparent manner to concerns due to possible close the case. operational impacts. Community members may file their complaints Results of Cerrejón actions with regard to human rights If Cerrejón was not responsible, the Complaints Office will, as far as possible, personally provide with Cerrejón officials who coordinate the social United Nations Guiding Principles a response to the complainant, explaining the and environmental management of their comObjectives Goals Results Challenges results of the information gathering, and the reamunity and operational security. They can also 1. Make the human rights policy known to 1. 865 new employees were trained in social sons why Cerrejón is not responsible for the event. approach the community affairs offices located 100% of new employees. Share and discuss the human rights policy in meetings standards and human rights. Consistent Where applicable, the Complaints Office shall also Create awareness of the human rights 2. Publicise the policy among contractors with contractors.. with human Based on at the main entrance of the Mine and in Puerto policy among workers and contractors. of private security companies. 2. Accomplished. Make the policy known to 100% of new employees. rights dialogue direct the person as to where to go to find a solu3. Accomplished. Bolívar or contact the Complaints Office officials 3. Circulate the policy among senior tion to their problem. management. through a landline, cellular phone, or e-mail. Send out five new “Cerrejón for Rights” bulletins. If Cerrejón was responsible for the event and tan1. Adjust the image of the human rights Legitimate and gible, physical damage to the property or integrity Employees and contractors Execute a campaign for employees to 1. Accomplished. Start designing an online training course on human Fair and policy and replace the old posters. trustworthy equitable spread awareness and information rights and social standards for Cerrejón staff of persons is proven to have been caused by the 2. Publish ten “Cerrejón for Rights” 2. Accomplished. members. They can register their complaints through their about social standards and human bulletins aimed at middle and senior company, compensation will be proposed. rights. management. Carry out training for contract administrators and supervisor or at the Complaints Office located at supervisors. the company’s facilities; additionally, they can file Get 500 children from neighbouring Predictable processes Transparent Management of the Complaints Office them by landline, cellular phone, or e-mail. Not accomplished due to review of the Once again attempt to get 500 children from Promote human rights in neighbouring communities to participate in neighbouring communities to participate in communities. entertainment-oriented workshops on human rights training programme. entertainment-oriented workshops on human rights. Status of complaints 2010 20 1 1 2012 Total to 2012 human rights. Source of Logged 183 129 184 496 Hold five meetings with the A meeting was held with the Oreganal and Public and continuous Closed 2010 33 33 Hablemos Aashajawaa Validate the impact and measures study accessible learning with the communities. communities to share and discuss the Tabaco communities using the World Café Hold the four remaining meetings in 2013. Closed 201 1 35 23 58 O f i c i n a d e Q u e j a s impacts study. methodology in the dialogues. Closed 2012 18 72 37 127 Closed 86 95 37 218 In process 97 34 147 278 Hold roundtables with the communities to evaluate the impacts of the security Step by Step Transferred 4 0 0 4 We accept and file complaints, gather information, and respond Hold four roundtables. Four roundtables were held. Hold five roundtables in 2013. Note. Transferred complaints refers to complaints that are not in the Complaints Office agreements and contracts. purview. Addressing complaints involves a whole process of information gathering, data comparison, and dialogues that can continue even into the year following filing of the to your complaints 1 Registration complaint. It should be noted that the Office's human resources and logistics have been gradually expanding. As a result, the total complaints cases closed has risen from 33 in File the complaint at one of the access points 2010 to 58 in 2011 and 127 in 2012. The fact that users continue to recur to the Complaints Office is a sign of the trustworthiness and usefulness it has shown since its creation. Contact us Train members of the private security or with an authorised official. force in Voluntary Principles on Security Train 100% of the 1,100 contractors of Train 90% of the employees of the private security the private security companies. 962 private security guards trained. force in 2013. Registered cases 2012 184 and Human Rights, and the traditions and customs of the Wayuu culture. 2 Classification of a complaint 142 From Bogotá Communities (safety, health, and environment) Assess whether it relates to an operational impact. 1) 595 5999 Labour rights 19 From the Atlantic coast Train members of the public security forces in Voluntary Principles on Not accomplished. The training could not be carried out due to the attention 3 Information-gathering Safety and human rights 17 (5) 350 5999 Train 800 members of public security Training of 800 members of the public security forces Land acquisition and management 2 Security and Human Rights, and the required of the public security forces to From within Cerrejón forces. shall be resumed in 2013. Clarify the facts together with the complainant. traditions and customs of the Wayuu protect the Cerrejón operation from 1 culture. terrorist attacks. Identify how, when, why, and where the Post-resettlement 5999 events occurred. Labour health and safety 1 0 Manage the human rights training 4 Agreement Indigenous rights* From your Movistar or Claro cell phone indicators, apply them to establish a Obtain a baseline on the training Make adjustments to the human rights training Social investment 0 # 742 baseline, and adapt the training Accomplished programme in 2013. On possible compensation measures. sessions in human rights. Transferred 0 programmes on this topic to it. 5 Approval Others ** 2 hablemos@cerrejon.com * Incidents related to indigenous rights are those where there is a possible aashajawaa@cerrejon.com Implementation of the agreement. involvement in the elements that constitute the identity of indigenous people: traditions, customs, territory, and culture, and others. 1. In 2012, 184 complaints were received and Work on a plan in 2013 to reduce the case backlog and ** This category refers to cases that have not been classified in any of the above achieve a closure rate of 70% on complaints 127 were closed (37 from 2012, 72 from registered between 2010 and 2012, and a closure rate 6 Closure categories.. Mine 2011, and 18 from 2010). Mine, Albania, La Guajira. 1. Address 70% of complaints received. of 60% on complaints logged in 2013. Continue strengthening the Complaints 2. 41 people received refresher training on Formalisation of the agreement with the complainant. Puerto Bolívar 2. Reinforce training for complaints The software and user's manual will be adapted. Security and human rights 2012 Office. subjects related to the Complaints Office. Uribia, La Guajira. officers and investigators. 3. Reinforce human talent. 3. The Complaints Office team was Projects for publicising the Complaints Office both 7 Lessons learned Total complaints and claims presented strengthened with more personnel, internally and externally will resume. through reconciliation mechanisms. 17 Lunes a viernes ensuring the knowledge and expertise of Work in coordination with other areas of the company 8:00 a.m. to 12:00 m. and Identification of opportunities for improvement how to work these cases. to strengthen teamwork. both in information-gathering and closure. Total complaints and claims presented 1:00 p.m. to 5:00 p.m. in 2012 that have been resolved. 6 46 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 47 Society 50 Social responsibility 55 Resettlements 60 Cerrejón Foundations System 62 Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira 63 Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening of La Guajira 65 Cerrejón Foundation Indigenous Guajira 66 Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira 48 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 49 Social responsibility Diploma in Play, Childhood, and Development Cerrejón Fulbright Scholarship for La Guajira Referees Commitment to social development Baseball Cerrejón is no stranger to the challenges facing the mining industry regarding social responsibility and engagement with stakeholders. Constant sector challenges have led the company to focus its social commitment on programmes that seek the social and economic transformation of our neighbouring communities, thereby fostering regional development and business sustainability. Diploma aimed at introducing games as part of the expeFunding for postgraduate study in the United States for In 2012, potential social impacts were detected in the areas of influence. They were detected using various diagnostic mechanisms such as: the “Social and Hurience in school, study, and research. professionals from La Guajira. man Rights Impact Assessment of the Cerrejón Mining Operation” study, the ongoing engagement with communities by means of Social Management Analysts and the Foundation System, analysis of complaints and claims made by the affected communities, and by means of the 801 environmental and social visits made to Cerrejón. Strengthening school administration in educational Culture and sports institutions in Barrancas and Hatonuevo Helping youth in the region to be aware of how they maCerrejón’s commitment to the prevention, mitigation, and control of these impacts is implemented through a social responsibility model, which contains pronage their free time, especially with regard to the consogrammes and activities aimed at the welfare and growth of communities. The main results are presented in this chapter. Cultural strengthening programme lidation of skills and talents that may benefit and improve the quality of life for their families; contributing to the Healthcare prevention and reduction of alcohol, tobacco, and drug consumption; and creating healthy lifestyles. Promotes increased coverage, quality of service, and HIV/AIDS prevention Basic and advanced resuscitation courses training of professionals to improve care for those Music and sports programmes: Promoted as education who use the hospitals in the area of influence. complementary to formal academic learning. Strengthen values, in addition to developing in children and youth the ability to establish healthy and constructive relationships. Programme for the prevention of diseases and promotion of healthcare Cultural strengthening programme: Seeks to recover and preserve the ancient cultures of La Guajira, promoting the Training conducted in the educational institutions of La Performed by strengthening the Institutional Education passing on of traditional knowledge to new generations. Inmaculada, Manuel Rosado Iguarán, Santa Catalina, NorProject, in agreement with the Education Alliance AssoProgramme to train managers in This programme increased the scope of the provision of berto Iguarán in Maicao, and Monte Alvernia in Barrancas. ciation of Bogotá. cultural entrepreneurship services under the Mandatory Subsidised Healthcare Plan, strengthening State entities, focusing on promotion and Teachers and youth shared their learning by replicating prevention programmes. what they had learned in 6,020 performances in 2012. Sports programme Mobile Healthcare Clinics Mobile Healthcare Units Teachers trained in the programme Improving Teachers’ Two courses given in Basic and Advanced Resuscitation in Skills for the Saber 11 Tests. partnership with the Pontificia Javeriana University. Cerrejón Scholarships for Excellence Education This is based on the proactive involvement of communities The objective of this training, which was performed in partto build quality education as a tool to break the cycle of nership with SENA, is to provide the communities with the A team of doctors, nurses, and dentists from area hospipoverty. Cerrejón helps to strengthen the education secability to manage cultural projects in their communities. tals are transported daily by two mobile healthcare units tor and supports access to education at different stages of (MHUs) owned by Cerrejón. They provide care to the comhuman development. munities surrounding the Mine and Puerto Bolívar and Music programme follow up in each community every 45 days General and specialised medical care, dentistry, and proviStrengthening of comprehensive assistance sion of medications three times a month along the railway during early childhood. Implementation of Awarded annually to the top ten secondary school graduaAgreements with hospitals line in the communities of Albania, Hatonuevo, Maicao, NAVES recreation centres tes in the department. Barrancas, and Uribia. Comprehensive academic assistance Visual health It promotes a love of this art form and training in human development among children and youth in the area of influence, generating the learning of values for coexistence Children from the municipality of Barrancas benefited and personal development. Increased healthcare coverage was achieved for the rural Improving the visual health of the rural population in the from educational and leisure activities aimed at restoring Academic strengthening and professional guidance to population through partnerships with hospitals in Uribia area of influence through the timely diagnosis of visual ditraditional games, led by the NAVES (a Mine of Happiness) facilitate Wayuu youth’s access to higher education while The various levels of this programme have a total of 427 and Hatonuevo. sorders and the delivery of 600 pairs of eyeglasses. recreation centre of Barrancas. preserving their ethnic identity. children from all over La Guajira, 87 more than in 2011. 50 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 51 Community engagement Recreational days Sources of safety Puerto Bolívar Social programmes Oreganal Cerrejón continued to implement the first phase of the Palm tree cultivation Thematic Maps Project, which consists of updating spatial and alphanumeric data for the projects and social programmes led by Cerrejón. The year ended with 400 projects having been established by the Vice President of Public Affairs and Communications. Promotion of sports such as football and traditional Wayuu Artisan entrepreneurship programmes games through tournaments and local matches. The Mine Children in Albania participated in two recreational days. The Oil Palm Tree Cultivation Project from the MultiActivity Oreganal Agricultural Cooperative (COOPMAO, Engagement management its Spanish acronym) continued. In December 2012, the Risk management system and emergency services for La Guajira production stage began with the production of 3.2 tonnes National Agency for Overcoming Extreme of palm fruit. Poverty (Anspe, its Spanish acronym) COOPMAO received financial support from Finagro (AgriArtisan entrepreneurship culture Financing Fund) through a loan of COP 691 million that made the palm cultivation possible. Training, development, production, and marketing of shoes, bags, and other Wayuu fabric crafts. Participation in national craft fairs. Donated to the Volunteer Fire Departments in Riohacha A programme aimed at the student population to promote and Barrancas. safety and a sense of ownership toward the railway equipment. In 2012, 44 cultural displays of traditional dance and Fisheries project An agreement was signed between Cerrejón, the goverStrengthening business and commerce for four producNew General Royalty System music were supported with the aid of the Jayeechi Theanment of La Guajira, the municipality of Uribia, and Anspe tion units on indigenous Wayuu reservations: Provincial, tre Cultural Corporation. to build an Extreme-Poverty-Free Zone (Zolip in Spanish) San Francisco, Trupio Gacho, and El Cerro, under the arin Media Luna. tisan venture agreement the Creata Foundation operates. Artisan entrepreneurship programme Programmes related to employment South AsawaYuja food security with the P40 project Launch of identification, organisation, and training for fisProjects: Livestock and fisheries hing communities. Artisans from the Wayuu indigenous reservations improPotable water supply Training in self-sufficiency in the Wayuu indigenous reservaved their production practices, management, and marketions of San Francisco and Trupio Gacho in the municipality This explanatory workshop was attended by officials from ting of their handicrafts. of Barrancas. The programme, conducted in partnership with the National Department of Planning (DNP), the mayors Based on an agreement with traditional authorities from the Cerrejón Indigenous Guajira Foundation, provides opporof municipalities in the area of influence, the president the Media Luna and railway area, Wayuu staff was temSocial oversight project for sustainable of the Regional Assembly, the regional government, and porarily hired by companies such as: Blastingmar, Ismocol, tunities for physical availability of food, economic access, and development good techniques for managing them. congressmen from the department of La Guajira. Support Ferrovial, Aramark, and Conciviles, who work on the exis given for project planning. pansion project. Community occasions for dialogue Railway Silvopasture project Training women for income generation Thirty-two members were trained in food preparation techniques by the Oreganal Association of Women and in the Embrace Life A continuous water supply was secured, with an increase Community Mothers Programme given by the Colombian Social oversight exercises aimed at the investment of puof 50 cubic metres per week over the previous year for the Programme for the prevention of risks to the lives and Family Welfare Institute (ICBF, its Spanish acronym). blic resources were provided to eight Wayuu communities Media Luna area. The Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Inhabitants of Barrancas and Hatonuevo participated in economic heritage of the communities neighbouring the in conjunction with the Cerrejón Foundation for InstitutioGuajira supported this project. forums and development activities. railway, with a two-way approach of shared responsibility. nal Strengthening in La Guajira. Two initiatives were undertaken to increase environmenTabaco Coal rute Construction of homes tal availability and to improve food security. Leadership training Physical reconstruction project Water solutions Post-resettlement entrepreneurship Programmes directed at the communities of Los Remedios, Oreganal, and Tabaco, aimed at consolidating and strengthening the economic development and sustainability of families. In these three communities, the Seniors The beneficiaries were part of the Coal Route, where seProgramme promoted opportunities for integration, reMembers of community action groups and single mothers curity issues with authorities, leaders, teachers, and other creation, and healthy living. 107 seniors benefited directly in Barrancas (and the Papayal settlement); Albania (and members of the neighbouring communities along the Home designs were completed for the Malla Sur area and and 500 families benefited indirectly. The programme the Cuestecitas settlement); Hatonuevo, and Uribia attenrailway corridor have been improved. The new artwork These solutions enable safe access to water for commua programme was initiated for the improvement of onehas also contributed to the integration of families and the 189 hectares were delivered on the La Cruz property, now ded the leadership training workshops. created for the Cerrejón locomotive was unveiled. nities near the railway.. hundred additional buildings. strengthening of the community’s social fabric. called Tabaco 1. 52 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 53 Entrepreneur engagement programme Production projects Resettlements Cerrejón conceives of resettlement as an opportunity for dialogue with the communities to help improve As of 2017, the five (5) resettled communities will their quality of life and build social capital. With this goal in mind, we follow the guidelines of the World have managed to improve their quality of life and Vision income in a stable, sustainable way, making them Bank and the International Finance Corporation (IFC). The recipient communities of the projects implemodel eco-efficient collectives that favourably New production projects were launched in the agricultumented by the company are located in the municipality of Barrancas. impact regional socio-economic indicators. ral, ecotourism, and water sectors. Technical training in project planning and strengthening The production phase was supported by the donation of Basic statistics of the resettlement process the skills of programme participants. The Tabaco Network production machinery and important commercial partinvolves approval of loans for services, shops, and seminers gained through promotion in forums such as Expoguajira. ROCHE PATILLA CHANCLETA LAS CASITAS TAMAQUITO II TOTAL industrial business ventures. Total population 100 320 280 80 134 914 (people) Strengthening the Mi Dulce Remedio microbusiness, Job training programmes Family units maintaining its commercial relationship with Aramark for relocation 25 * 46 56 31 31 189 through the sales of artisanal sweets, and opening up Uninhabited 21 1,443 905 305 Comunity 2,674 marketing opportunities with new companies in the proproperties duction and marketing of candies and foodstuffs. They are Public lots/ buildings 5 3 2 2 0 12 also providing services to the Seniors Programme in Los Remedios and other community social programmes. Planned 2011-2012 2012 2013 2014 2013 NA relocation date Ethnic or Native rural population Wayuu population group indigenous people NA They are at work in Albania providing food services to the Waya Guajira Hotel; events and activities carried out Community area 14 32 13 22 10 91 (ha) with the community social programmes; and the Seniors Programme in the Tabaco community in association with Comfaguajira. Achievements 2012 and Challenges 2013 Progress Comunity Goals/Achievements 2012 Observations Challenges 2013 2012 This extends good farming practices and helps to satisfy the water needs of cattle in the area, particularly in periods Reach agreements with and relocate the Reached an agreement to buy a rural plot and Reach agreements with and relocate the remaining eight families. 0% acquired the land. remaining eight families. of prolonged drought. Awarded to students registered for technical diplomas at Roche All the families have a production project underway. Progress was made in Install self-perpetuating strategies in the Consolidate income-generation 80 % community to promote the strengthening of Tecnocerrejón and undergraduate degrees in different for the 17 relocated families. consolidating and stabilising them through ongoing support from expert advisers. production units implemented universities of Colombia. Relocate families to the new site. Reach moving agreements with families not 100 % Completed certified for the collective relocation. The project included an experimental farm that produces Proyecto Cuatro Vías fruits and vegetables using modern technology for drip Patilla irrigation, has extensive areas for growing yucca and corn, They took part in the Good Farming Practices programme, Start up the support services for Introduce production or investment projects to and courtyard areas for vegetable gardens. income-generation and coordinate In the process of identifying, organising, and an exchange of knowledge and experience with farmers 100 % create income for at least 80% of the resettled with the resettled communities. starting up the production projects. families. from Córdoba, La Guajira, and Magdalena. The goal is to The launching of the Los Remedios Ecotourism Centre become more productive and self-sustainable. identifies the community’s production sectors, strengJob opportunities thening their sustainable development, teamwork, and Thirty-six (36) families were relocated between Identify, agree on, and develop job creation. Relocate families to the new site. 65 % income-generation plans with relocated Los Remedios October and December of 2012. families. Chancleta Reach relocation agreements Reach relocation agreements with the 65 % Underway remaining families. Strengthening the COOMFER Cooperative with the families Finish work on housing and infrastructure in The works were completed and 65% of the Deliver the infrastructure to relocated families. 100 % families relocated. order to move the families. Cerrejón, en asocio con la Gobernación de La Guajira y la Alcaldía de Maicao, le hace seguimiento a la solicitud preMake progress of 80% in building housing and Finish 100% of the housing and infrastructure 100 % The works advanced according to schedule. for the relocation. sentada ante el Incoder para excluir del área de reserva de infrastructure. Tamaquito II operación de la Línea férrea, el predio requerido para el Agree on bases for a general agreement on Substantial progress towards an agreement. Sign agreement and relocate the community to proyecto, requisito que permitirá dar inicio a la etapa de 100 % Details are pending. the new site. the relocation. construcción de un escenario seguro y ordenado para la actividad comercial. Take part in the process of approving the municipal city plan (EOT, its Spanish acronym) The construction licence was approved and the Finish building the housing and infrastructure in order to get the licence for building the 100 % works were started. at the new site. Como parte del proceso de acompañamiento a los vendehousing and infrastructure. dores y su formación en oferta de productos y servicios de Las Casitas This project strengthens the role of young people in their community by: educating them as instructors in traditioLa Guajira Chamber of Commerce trained thirty people in calidad, se apoyó la participación de cuatro representantes The complaints were processed and the Resolve all complaints filed in relation to the Consult with and present compensation nal music and dance, providing a productive occupation, the specialties of administration, entrepreneurship, mardel sector en el IX Encuentro de Turismo Sostenible, celeresettlement. 100 % process of identifying the impacts of the move proposals for the move to the certified families. with the certified families was started. and promoting them in the region as actors and teachers. keting, and production. brado en Barranquilla. 54 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 55 Sustainability Strategy for Resettled Families Community of Patilla Definition of technical and technological professions as well as the types of trade for the Formulation, evaluation, and implementation of 1. Identification of business ideas profiles of the members characterised from the production projects of 46 families. 2. Prefeasibility analysis each community. SOCIAL 3. Preparation of business plan 4. Start up Participation of 125 companies from different 5. Operation Project 58 % COMMERCE/SERVICES PROJECTS sectors in the diagnosis of human resource needs and requirements. distribution Five-year prospectus of human resource requiby sectors 36 % LIVESTOCK PROJECTS rements on the part of La Guajira and Cesar Social progress, Strengthening: companies participating in the study. self-governing. It takes place in commercial, 6 % AGRICULTURAL PROJECTS financial, legal, social, Training for 42 people in Operation and MainStrengthening of skills and promotion of actions favouring social inclusion. SOC environmental, and technical tenance of Conventional Machinery such as: C IO MI contexts and occurs at all stages. winch and drill bit, and in SMAW and GMAW Promotion of social, cultural, sports, O Participatory involvement and exchange activities with other -E Community of Chancleta basic welding. ON in each area of operation. communities and regions. Promotion of NV environmentally Relocation began in October of 2012. From this SOCIO-EC Comprehensive development of skills responsible actions. Social aspect IRON Community of Roche according to potential, knowledge, Environmental education focused date until the year’s end, nine business plans were interests, and ability, balanced against on children and youth. market evaluation. Continuity was provided for strengthening and formulated. Education Identifying alternatives in M E N TA Social investments with a view eco-efficiency and rational use of backing the 17 production and investment protoward growth and strengthening natural resources. Objective: Contribute to improving educational of social capital. jects started in 2011. Affirmative action for gender. Involvement of institutions and quality and equality, helping to reduce poverty, authorities in actions that Local and regional institutions’ promote and share in favouring social inclusion, and promoting diver78 % involvement in socio-economic socio-economic development. L development projects. sity and interculturality. Cerrejón seeks to involve 64 % Projects the children and youth of these communities in in the planning AGRICULTURE a comprehensive training process. This will allow Distribution COMMERCE AND SERVICES stage them to plan their futures through the developof projects by sector ment and acquisition of the skills and expertise 18 % LIVESTOCK 22 % LIVESTOCK necessary to succeed in a globalised, changing $$$ 18 % AGRICULTURE world. The training has been planned considering the Employability following: Sustainable long-term projects Private transport with the goal of raising incomes 1. Objectives Strengthening by area above the poverty line. Housing rental Forming production chains • Develop skills for the type of employment and Bilingualism (English) Bilingualism (English) Advocate compliance with as a base strategy. environmental regulations. Agricultural project the endeavour. Digital world ICT (Information and CommuLong-term planning, with regular monitoring Manage risks and and follow-up, and emphasis on risk Livestock project • Determine the employability potential in the nications Technologies) environmental impacts. management. region. Arte y cultura (danza, teatro, música y artes Sustainability in capital investments, Encourage projects Motorcycle storage leveraging development, cooperative, with potential for L plásticas). Work for environmentaleco-efficiency. In this course of action, information is gathered to E CO and financing resources. economic viability of projects with a view toward the market. N TA Restaurant characterise and to prepare a customised diagLife skills (career path, young entrepreneursNO ME Encourage efficiency and nosis of each individual who participates in the hip, leadership, communications, and prevenMIC sensible regulations. Encourage economically profitable ENVIRON programme. Their profile identifies abilities, aption) projects with sensible, efficient handling of environmental resources that would result in extra income. Jobs 7 permanent positions generated titudes, knowledge, experience, and skills to determine an individual’s potential to be of service in 10 created temporary EN IC generated according the organisations and/or institutions of La Guajira, IR to crops. Cesar, and Magdalena. NO 53 % V M ON MEN O TA LE C The strategy is to coordinate all the players for a Population win-win situation in which: the company indicates addressed PATILLA 143 Gross earnings generated The estimated gross the need, the individual is available, the individual by Roche from the start of the income generation utility generated by production projects obtains the training required, and is ultimately hi28 % CHANCLETA BENEFICIARES programme in 2011 for Roche in 2012 red for the position. The above facilitates identifi19 % ROCHE cation of opportunities beyond mining and seeks Economic aspect $480 MILLION $170 MILLION to fulfil the latent needs of companies from other Approach sectors of the economy. Cerrejón is actively involved with the local communities to assure that they are fully Entrepreneurship Seed capital informed of the process, that fair compensation is given, and that the possibility of land acquisition-derived impact is reduced to a minimum, bearing in mind economic, Objective: Contribute to the development of the Approximate gross investment made In the period between October and December of sales of community by community social, and environmental aspects. resettled families, linking them to supply chain in 2012 in establishing 2. Achievements 2012, 143 students were diagnosed. The indigeprocesses aimed at seeking community sustainatheir projects nous community of Tamaquito participated only bility. The stages have been structured so that the Characterisation of 89 individuals from the five in the diagnostic activities since they are in the family may start up a business. They include: $302 MILLION $412 MILLION communities. process of relocation. 56 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 57 Achievements Multi-dimensional poverty index (MPI) Construction of a baseline with the educational information of the students and their families. The Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) was developed by the Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative (OPHI), and was adapted by the National Department of Planning for Colombia. This index is an Diagnosis of individual and group performance of students by means of academic tests with Saber-type questions. indicator reflecting the degree of privations of people in a set of dimensions to determine whether or not a family is in extreme poverty. This measure determines the nature of the privation in accordance with the Assessment of main areas for four communities dimensions selected and their intensity. According to this measure, a person is considered to be poor if he/ 70 she has at least five privations in the variables selected. 60 5 PERFORMANCE LEVELS 50 DIMENSIONS 40 Childhood Work Health Residence and Education and Youth Public Services 30 Educational School assistance Long-term Insurance Access to improved achievement unemployment water supply 20 Illiteracy Formal Access to healthcare Backwardness services when needed Removal of waste 10 employment rate 0 Child labour Floors AREAS SCIENCE MATH SPANISH SOCIALS ENGLISH AVERAGE PERFORMANCE LEVELS: Low [0 25], Basic (25 45], High (45 65], Outstanding (65 100] ROCHE PATILLA CHANCLETA TAMAQUITO II PROMEDIO Access to early childhood Walls care services Roche registers above average results Critical overcrowding obtained in the areas of: Mathematics: Shows a high level of performance, tending towards outstanding. 15 Language and English: Registers a basic level, P R I VAT I O N S tending towards high. 0-4 Privations of comfortable households 5 Privations of households at risk of poverty 6-15 Privations of households with multidimensional poverty Results In general, the four communities show averaResults from the MPI privations measure ge results in each one of the areas. The Roche scores are higher than those obMultidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) Roche Community Patilla Community Chancleta Community tained by the rest of the communities, since Before relocation, the communities of Roche, Pathis community has been in the programme 1 45 46 1 2 3 41 42 43 1 2 3 tilla, and Chancleta had an average of five to seven for more than twelve months, thus demons17 2 44 4 40 4 5 privations. That is, there were households at risk 7 43 10 5 12 16 6 42 6 39 6 trating its effectiveness. 3 41 8 7 10 5 38 7 15 4 3 4 39 40 6 8 9 37 8 6 8 of poverty and extreme poverty. In the new sett9 At the end of 2012, 21 students were benefi2 1 38 37 4 10 11 36 35 4 10 lements, the average has been reduced to two to 2 ting, with support for technical, technological, 2 14 0 5 36 0.00 12 13 34 33 0.00 11 12 three privations, now being classified as comfor35 and university studies. We hope to double this 34 14 32 13 table households. With this methodology we can 13 6 14 number in 2013. In keeping with the above, Cerrejón promoted ad33 32 16 15 31 30 15 infer that, in total, 99 of 106 families have overco31 17 16 27 % 29 me the conditions of multi-dimensional poverty. 7 PATILLA 12 ministration of the Aqueduct and Sewage Servi46 RESIDENCES 30 29 20 19 18 28 27 18 17 11 8 28 26 19 27 21 25 24 23 22 21 20 ces User’s Association for the communities of Ro10 9 26 25 24 23 22 Distribution of studies carried out che, Patilla, and Chancleta (ASOAWINKA RPC in 23 % CHANCLETA OCTOBER 2012 by resettled communities 40 RESIDENCES BASELINE DECEMBER 2012 BASELINE DECEMBER 2012 BASELINE Spanish) for the supply of aqueduct and sewage Residences built services, in optimal conditions. This association 18 % LAS CASITAS 31 RESIDENCES Roche 59 % also manages appropriate, integral handling of 18 % TAMAQUITO II Baseline Control line 2012 1% 17 31 RESIDENCES (29 people) PROFESSIONALS waters for production use and supports complefamilies 39 % ROCHE TECHNICIANS mentary activities. 14 % 25 RESIDENCES relocated 30 % (19 people) TECHNOLOGY 2% (1 person) 16 % Patilla 27 % 2. Infrastructure: beneficiary town 3. Servicios públicos: población beneficiada 10 % 46 families 50 % 50 % 55 % 60 % relocated Environmental aspect Infrastructure and public services 1. Objective: Residences inhabited PATILLA 46 RESIDENCES 32 % CHANCLETA 92 beneficiaries PATILLA 46 BENEFICIARIES 32 % CHANCLETA Chancleta 36 29 RESIDENCES 29 BENEFICIARIES families Encourage care and appropriation of the new infrastructure in the resettled populations. 18 % ROCHE 17 RESIDENCES 18 % ROCHE 17 BENEFICIARIES Not poor At risk Poor Extremely poor relocated 58 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 59 Cerrejón Foundations System Permanent members of all boards of directors Roberto Junguito, president of Cerrejón. Claudia Bejarano, vice president of Finance of Cerrejón. Juan Carlos Restrepo, vice president of Public Affairs and Communications at Cerrejón. Jorge Álvarez, manager of Cerrejón's Legal Department. Jaime Brito, secretary of the board of directors. Cerrejón Foundation Cerrejón Foundation Cerrejón Foundation Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira for Institutional Strengthening Indigenous Guajira for Progress in La Guajira of La Guajira MISSION MISSION MISSION MISSION We work in partnership with the communities and competent institutions for Our goal is to achieve: transparent, efficient, and effective management of the Our goal is to support and promote innovative, sustainable initiatives that strengthen the Generate economic growth in the department through the promotion of national permanent access to sufficient, quality water. We have a global management public institutions in the department of La Guajira, and the empowerment of its social fabric of the indigenous communities in the department of La Guajira in order to and international investment for the creation and development of sustainable approach to water resources in order to contribute to the sustainable development civil society in order to reach sustainable development and peaceful coexistence in improve their quality of life and reinforce their cultural heritage in a framework of businesses that will last beyond current mining activity in the region. of La Guajira. the region. sustainable development, which is understood as the improvement of human well-being, cultural diversity, and ecosystem vitality for present and future generations. LINES OF WORK LINES OF WORK LINES OF WORK LINES OF WORK Water supply and treatment solutions Strengthening department administration Revenue generation Tourism sector Integrated basin management Strengthening municipal administration Integration of communities in the regional and national service structure Agricultural sector Sanitation and hygiene solutions Strengthening the organisation of civil society Strengthening of indigenous organisations Operations support Manufacturing sector BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive director: Paula Peña Amaya Executive director: Raúl Roys Garzón (1) Executive director: Otto Vergara González Executive director: Eduardo Robayo Salom Outside directors Outside directors Outside directors Miembros externos (2) Emilia Ruiz. President of the Teletón Foundation, former vice president of the Bogotá Lola de la Cruz Mattos. Former District Attorney for the Preventive Oversight of Public Francisco Daza. Former governor of the department of La Guajira. Rudolf Hommes, Former minister of Finance. Chamber of Commerce, former director of the Corona Foundation, former director of Service and former governor of the department of La Guajira.. Ricardo Márquez. Former manager of Cerrejón Central Zone in Carbones de Colombia Luis Ernesto Mejía, Former minister of Mines and Energy. the Colombian Agency for International Cooperation, consultant for the Claudia Jiménez. Executive director of the Large-Scale Mining Sector and former (Carbocol). Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the United Nations Development director of the Presidential Programme for Renewal in the Public Administration. Programme (UNDP). Alejandro Gaviria. Dean of the Faculty of Economics at the University of the Andes and Carmen Arévalo. Manager of the Adaptation Fund for Climate Change, former Deputy former deputy director of the National Department of Planning (until September of Minister for the Environment and former Representative for the World Bank Water 2012, when he was designated as Minister of Health). and Sanitation Programme in various South American countries. Enrique Daníes: Former minister for Communications, former governor of La Guajira, and former president of Carbocol. ( 1) He took this position in June of 2013. In 2012, Alfredo Fuentes Hernández was executive director. (2) Occupied these positions until the first quarter of 2013. 60 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 61 Goals and achievements Goals and challenges Water supply and treatment solutions of family rainwater capture systems, which • Support institutional strengthening in the allowed 29 families to increase their water water and basic sanitation sector in the muGoal Goal storage capacity to 998,797 litres, an amount nicipalities of Riohacha and Hatonuevo that Strengthen skills of local administrations in Achievements To implement one-hundred water supply soluthat can supply the beneficiary families for 71 contributes to Water Governance (1) in urban cas and Hatonuevo, 165 teachers and 4,256 project planning, execution, comprehensive • 37 training days for 465 members (leaders, tions with the help of the community. days. That is an average of 485 litres per day areas of the department of La Guajira. students benefited from the reinforcement management, monitoring and assessment of traditional authorities, artisans, teachers, and per family. 2) Sustainable production-impleof the Institutional Educational Project (PEI, Achievements • Begin implementation of the integrated basin management, and accountability in Barrancas, mentation systems of adequate water usage young people) of the communities of Cerrejón training in Constructive Teaching Principles, management model in the Bruno and PupuHatonuevo, Maicao, Uribia, and Fonseca in order • Implementation of 137 water supply solutions, techniques that allowed food production to 1, the AIWA indigenous association of Albania, Cooperative Learning, Assessment, and in the rema Stream microbasins, and in the basin to begin management of their respective Develoof nine different types, improving access to be increased from 3.3 to 24.4 tonnes, 53.4% Nortechon, Cadenachon, Merra Jisentirra, development of understanding, interpreting, of the Ranchería River in the area of the San pment Plans for 2012–2015. this resource for 14,441 people in 101 commuof which was for personal consumption and Iperrain, and Satsapa, among other commuand text production skills). Francisco reservation. nities. 46.6% was sold. 3) Participatory environAchievements nities of the municipality of Uribia. • Implement the dry sanitation project (ma• Leadership strengthening for management mental management actions—formation of • Installation of first hybrid system of renewable • Four agreements signed supporting the Goal teams and teachers in the Educational Instifive local water coordination committees, innagement of human waste without water) energy (wind-solar) for the withdrawal of participative planning and approval of the tutions Paulo VI and Nuestra Señora del Carcluding the Paladines Microbasin Committee. in indigenous communities and analyse the groundwater in La Guajira. 2012–2015 Development Plans for Barrancas, Recruit 380 students for TecnoCerrejón’s “Temen, a strengthened Institutional Education results and the appropriation levels of this soSanitation and hygiene lution in the community. Hatonuevo, Maicao, and Uribia. Support in the chnician in mining equipment operation” and Project was put into place with an institutioGoal formulation of budgetary instruments, indi“Technician in mining equipment maintenance” nal goal in terms of meaning (the exercising To progress in the design and implementaGoal cative plans, plans of action, and preliminary programmes. of strategic planning and the setting of new tion of sustainability plans for water supply and Training in best practices in water, sanitation, and Investment in 2012 management and accountability reports. Achievement goals and plans of action), established imtreatment solutions. hygiene for 1,000 people. Figures in millions of pesos • Collaboration agreements were created to provement plans, and an established plan to Cerrejón Partner • Enrolment of 354 students in TecnoCerrejón, Achievements Achievement Lines of Work resources resources support the indicative plan, the budget, 2013 perform the 2012 institutional assessment. plan of action, and the management and ac60% in the programme for Operation of Mi• Progress in the design and implementation of LINE 1 • Environmental training of 967 people from 37 256 14 1 Goal Integrated basin management countability reports of the municipalities of ning Equipment and 40% in the programme a sustainability plan based on local knowledcommunities in: good practices in sanitation LINE 2 Manaure and Dibulla. for Maintenance of Mining Equipment. 92% Inaugurate the Houses of Justice in Barrancas, ge, use, and management of water. The scheand hygiene, SODIS method of solar water diWater supply and 1 , 1 68 504 treatment solutions of students are from different municipalities Riohacha, and Uribia and monitor their manageme considered the interdependence of three sinfection, appropriate sanitation infrastruc• The municipality of Fonseca placed first in the of La Guajira, 7% of students come from the ment process in a context of ethnic diversity. elements that allow system sustainability: ture, and the promotion of food security with LINE 3 92 department of La Guajira and above the naSanitation and hygiene operation of the infrastructure, strengthening a focus on sanitation and hygiene. tional average in the national ranking for comCaribbean Coast, and the remaining 1% come Achievements 1 ,516 645 local skills, and consolidation of active organiTotal investment 2012 prehensive performance that was carried out from other regions of the country. Goal 2 ,1 6 1 • Inauguration of Barrancas and Uribia Houses sation to ensure the optimal operation of the by the National Planning Department. Goal of Justice. system. Obtaining resources for financing the first phase Partners Goal of the “Expansion and refurbishing of the teaOrganise the Educational Quality Observer group • Completion of works and equipping of the • Operation of 68 windmills in 68 communities. ching environments of the headquarters of the World Bank. To support project planning in the department and in La Guajira 2012–2015. Riohacha House of Justice. Of these, 15 communities were chosen for Kamüsüchiwo’u Ethno-Educational Institution”. Ministry of Housing and Urban Development. municipalities of La Guajira to manage resources strengthening in the areas of system operaAchievements • Support in the coordination of the three HouGovernment of La Guajira. from the new General Royalties System. tion and maintenance, sanitation and hygiene, Achievements ses of Justice in the structuring and planning Corpoguajira. project management, and community organiAchievements • Consolidation of the Observatorio’s initiative of annual budget projects to submit to the • The project was chosen to receive a donation Hatonuevo Mayor's Office. through an agreement between the Founsation. town councils. of COP 300 million from the Ramírez Moreno Barrancas Mayor's Office. • Support for a massive day for assessing the dation, the Family Compensation Fund of La Integrated basin management Foundations—a second-level non-profit orWorld Food Programme (United Nations). feasibility, prioritisation, and approval of Goal Guajira (Comfaguajira), the Promigas Foundaganisation). Fulbright. projects, termed OCADTON of La Guajira, in Goal tion, and Cerrejón. Link the equity conciliators trained by the FounRamírez Moreno Foundations. partnership with National Planning and the • It is also co-financed by Cerrejón in the dation, the Ministry of Justice, and the La Guajira Design and implement a model to recover and regional government. On October 5 of 2012, • Progress was made in identifying, collecting, amount of COP 90 million and has received Durespo. Chamber of Commerce to the Houses of Justice, preserve the water supply through integrated ba78 municipal and department projects were and tabulating the information available in the contributions from the Foundation of COP Cinara Institute (University del Valle). and carry out suitable monitoring of case care and sin management activities. approved from the General Royalty System in different regional entities and local institutions 139.7 million. University of La Guajira. management on the part of these participants in the amount of COP 228 billion. Achievements Aguayuda Foundation. in the education sector. the three municipalities. Challenges in 2013 Association of Business Foundations (AFE). • Direct technical assistance in preparing 19 • Increased coverage of the “Recovery and Goal Achievements National Agency for Overcoming Poverty (ANSPE in Spanish). projects from the department and municipacomprehensive management of the Paladi• Reinforce the monitoring of water quality lities to apply for resources worth COP 89.976 Strengthening of the Institutional Educational nes Stream micro-basin” (281 people in 2011 University of Kassel in Germany. Management and approval of municipal agreein the supply solutions implemented by the billion from the General Royalty System. Project of the Educational Institutions Paulo VI of 460 people in 2012). This increase indicates University of Antioquia. ments with the local administrative bodies and Foundation. Barrancas, and Nuestra Señora del Carmen and the expansion of the work area, which went Colciencias [Administrative Dept. of Science, Goal town councils, through which the Municipal Technology, and Innovation]. Carlos Alberto Camargo of Hatonuevo. from 435 to 1,544 hectares. • Study and apply water treatment technology Fairness Mediation Programme in Uribia and in rural communities of La Guajira. Association of Windmill Technicians (Asotecmo). Carry out technical assistance and training proAchievements Barrancas has been created; and linking of the • Consolidation of the components of: 1) InteBraewin. jects for eight indigenous communities on issues • Strengthen the design and implementation of government secretaries of Uribia, Barrancas, and grated management of water-construction of the State, citizen participation, social oversight, • Three Educational Institutions (IE) of Barransustainability schemes in the Foundation proRiohacha to support the activities of the fairness (1) Refers to the interaction of the political, social, economic, and administrative sysand investment project planning. jects. tems used to develop and manage water resources and provide water services to different levels of society. mediators in their respective municipalities. 62 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 63 Challenges in 2013 Goal ning, and modernisation of social networks Challenges in 2013 cal coverage to six municipalities in the dePartners for family interaction to exchange agricultural • To strengthen the Administrative Planning Set up 32,000 m 2 of areas for confining goats along • Strengthen the indigenous production system partment, benefiting around 280 students Line 1. Strengthening department administration and other types of products. Department of La Guajira through technical the entire railway line. and native crops, increasing production and support activities related to planning and soand 21 teachers at 20 public and private Ford Foundation. Goal consumption in local markets during 2013. institutions. Publication of teaching support Achievements cial investment processes and the organisaNational Planning Department (DNP). Set up 15 apiaries in new communities within the • Consolidate the Safe Land areas as a mechamaterial for citizen participation and social • Assembly of 40,000 m 2 of zones for fencing nism for defending and maintaining the land. tion of the Investment Projects Bank to suparea of influence. oversight of public resources. Colombia Líder. in goats with electric fences for silvopasture. port the work team with strong skills in the • Promote the culture of sustainability for arGovernment of La Guajira. Achievements technical planning of projects for the distri• Complete the training programmes in the eight Goal tisanal companies with the previously set up indigenous communities of the railway line in Administrative Planning Department of La Guajira. • Assembly of 15 apiaries in new communities, workshops and establish five new ones with bution of resources from the General Royalty the subjects of preparing project outlines, the Plant 10,000 m 2 of new grazing areas. producing a harvest of 500 kilos of honey per resources from third parties. System (SGR). Support the organisation of University of La Guajira. structure of the Colombian State, and meAchievements apiary • Contribute to the empowerment of cultural the Professional Administrative and DecisionLine 2. Strengthening municipal administration chanisms for citizen participation. Finalise the projects and sustainable production projects Making Bodies of the department and muni• 2 Planting 12,500 m of new grazing areas with Goal coordinated with the programmes of the project outline preparation carried out by the Programme of the United States Agency for International cipalities for the approval of social investment plants for fattening animals (leucaena and Build a bottling plant in the farm facilities for the Wiwa/Kogi/Arhuaco organisations, thereby communities. Development (USAID) in Colombia for people of African projects. descent and indigenous people, operated by ACDI/VOCA. Mombasa guinea grass). improving their social and cultural conditions. honey harvested both in the communities and at • Obtain quality certification for Tecnocerrejón Management Sciences for Development Inc. (MSD), Goal the Cerrejón Indigenous Foundation farm. • Reinforce public land management through under standards NTC 5555 and ISO 9000 of operated by USAID. technical support in implementing the muni2008, and for the Mining Equipment OperaProduce 1,680 kilos of vegetables and fruits Achievements Investment in 2012 tion and Maintenance Programmes under National Planning Department (DNP). (watermelon, melon, auyama squash, etc.) cipal development plans approved in Barran• Construction of the honey bottling plant and standard NTC 5581. Figures in millions of pesos cas, Dibulla, Hatonuevo, Maicao, Manaure, and Colombia Líder. Achievements procurement of the hygiene certificate for the Total social ThirdUribia. Directorate of Alternative Methods to Conflict Resolution plant premises from the Colombian state food Foundation party investment in projects of the Ministry of Justice • Production of 18,000 kilos of fruit and vegesafety institute (INVIMA, its Spanish acronym ). Proyect resources partner managed by investment the Foundation • Provide ongoing technical assistance and tables (watermelon, melon, auyama squash, consultancy for the employees of the three Investment in 2012 Public Administration Higher School (ESAP). etc.) through the system of plant beds and Safe Land Revenue generation 1,535 1,535 Houses of Justice in Barrancas, Riohacha, and Mayoral offices of Barrancas, Dibulla, Fonseca, Hatonuevo, modern fertigation. Programa Granja Maicao, Manaure, Riohacha, and Uribia. Goal Integration of Uribia with respect to case management in a communities in The Foundation executed social investment proHouses of justice in Riohacha, Barrancas, and Uribia. Asawa Programme Decrease the accident rate on the railway line. the regional and 57 1 57 1 context of ethnic and cultural diversity. national service jects in the amount of COP 3.705 billion. In addiFairness mediators of the municipalities of Riohacha, Goal Achievements structure • Execute the “Young People for the Future of tion, it managed to leverage third-party invesBarrancas, and Uribia. Royalties” project, increasing its geographiIdentify 70 communities with forest areas in the • The death rate for animals on the railway deStrengthening tment for COP 180 million. Line 3. Strengthening civil society of indigenous 337 337 zone between km 45–73 of the railway. creased by 75% and the Safe Land programorganisations USAID programme in Colombia for people of African me has reached 54% of communities along descent and indigenous people operated by ACDI/VOCA. Achievements Operations 449 449 the railway line. support Figures in millions of pesos Cerrejón • Seventy-two (72) communities with forest areas and higher sheep-goat productivity in Training for Communities and Strengthening Leveraged resources 597 597 Third-party Third-party Total social Land Use Planning Consultants of Barrancas, Dibulla, Foundation resources resources investment in the sector were identified. Artisans Strategic lines Hatonuevo, Maicao, Manaure, and Uribia. resources invested by invested by projects managed Total investment 2,892 597 3,489 the Foundation third parties by the Foundation Treasury Inspector's Office of the Republic, La Guajira office. Goal Goal 2012 Line for strengthening department 300 Visible auditors and oversight groups from the Build 20 plots or yujas (1) Train young people of the neighbouring munici222 48 30 administration municipalities of Albania, Barrancas, and Hatonuevo. Partners Achievements palities in principles of entrepreneurship so they can develop small businesses that contribute to Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Line for strengthening municipal Leaders and traditional authorities of the indigenous 356 171 120 647 communities of Cerrejón, members of the board of • Construction and aid to 20 communities of generating income. Ministry for the Environment and Sustainable Development. administration directors of the AIWA Indigenous Association, Jisentirra, plots of land to add to the 136 yujas built with Meera, Nortechon, Cadenachon, Iperrain, and Satsapa. Von Humboldt Institute. an area of 127.8 hectares and a production of Achievements Line for strengthening civil society 9 Colombian Institute of Family Welfare (ICBF, its Spanish 1 46 1 55 acronym). Line 4. Special projects 114.2 tonnes of agricultural foodstuffs. • In developing this programme in collaboration National Training Service (SENA), La Guajira branch Colombian Cerrejón Goal with SENA for La Guajira region, 490 young Corporation for Agricultural and Livestock Research (Corpoica). Special projects 1,404 1,404 people were trained and eight business plans Colombian Institute for Rural Development (Incoder). Family Compensation Fund of La Guajira (Comfaguajira). Train 500 indigenous farmers in production and were developed. Seventy per cent of them are International Center for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT). Tecnocerrejón 1,222 1,222 organisational strengthening. already in operation and the remaining 30% Cornell University. Promigas Foundation Achievements are being finalised. In addition, 25 Wayuu arUniversity of Córdoba. Paulo VI Educational Institute in Barrancas Forums and publications 1 27 30 157 tisans were certified in artisanal techniques Colombian Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology, • Training of 544 indigenous people in agriculand Environmental Studies (IDEAM). Educational Institute of Nuestra Señora del Carmen tural production, organisational strengtheand business administration.. Indigenous organisations and communities. in Hatonuevo Total investment 2012 3,447 228 180 3,885 Municipal mayoral offices. Educational Alliance Association (1) Agricultural production unit where the Wayuu plant native species for their own consumption. Corpoguajira. 64 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 65 Goals and achievements Challenges in 2013 Goal • Deliver all of the Hotel Waya Guajira in operation: the services building, swimming pool, Delivery of 40% of hotel’s rooms (140 total). spa, huts (rancherías), and the remaining 95 rooms. Achievement • Start construction of the first stage of the mu• The consortium finished construction and seum and continue raising funds for the next furnishing on the first 65 rooms. construction stages. Goal • Search for areas in La Guajira offering optimal Begin construction of the DesQbre Guajira Muconditions for developing agricultural and livestock projects. seum. • Begin construction and assembly of the plant Achievements for recycling tyre. • The initial resources arrived from the public and private sectors – COP 2.6 billion for consInvestment in 2012 truction and COP 1.828 billion for design, architecture, and museum descriptions. Figures in millions of pesos • The technical, architectural, and urban designs Project Foundation Third-party partner for the museum construction have been finisresources investment hed. Fideicomiso Waya Guajira Centro COP Goal 1,905 12,285 billion for a Hotel project total investment of COP 16,018 billion Finish the design of the museum’s 52 modules and from 2011 to 2012. begin production of the first fifteen. Corpoguajira $300 Museum project 525 Ecopetrol $100 Achievement Agricultural 301 chain (potato) • The 52 modules have been designed. Eight Recycling plant Nimby-Indutrade Recycling finished modules have been delivered, and a project 44 invested $ 15.000 billion. further seven modules are in the end stages Other delegated of production. projects 259 (administered Goal by the Foundation) Total investment 2012 3,034 Develop agricultural projects to diversify product offerings in La Guajira. Achievement Partners Hotel Waya Guajira • Two potato crops were harvested in BarranConsortium comprising Egsa, Contempo, Abacus, cas and in Uribia with a yield of eight tonnes Inversor, and Oxo. per hectare. Potato farming pilot project Goal Center for Potato Research (CPR) of Israel. Crecentia. Finish the designs for the recycling plant. This La Guajira Interactive Museum project aims to take used tyres (non-standard CeMuseum Interactive Centre Corporation for Innovation, rrejón equipment) and produce crumb rubber for Science, and Technology of La Guajira. paving roads in Colombia and abroad. Maloka Tourism Promotion Fund Achievements Corpoguajira. • The definitive architectural designs were finaEcopetrol. lized. Ministry of Culture. Ministry of Foreign Trade. • The contract between Cerrejón and the FounColciencias (Administrative Dept. of Science, Technology, and Innovation) dation for Progress was signed for receiving Ramírez Moreno Foundations. 2,500 used tyres for 20 years. Smithsonian Institute. • The tree harvesting license was issued by CorTyre recycling plant project poguajira Indutrade Nimby of Italy. 66 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 67 Environment 70 Focus, goals, and results 71 Environmental and consumption figures in the operation 72 Environmental investments 72 Management of water quality and usage 76 Air quality management 80 Materials used in the operation 81 Solid waste management 82 Biodiversity management 84 Environmental education 86 Land reclamation 88 Hydrocarbon management 89 Climate Change 68 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 69 Environment Environmental and consumption figures in the operation 2010 4,355 (1) 3 20 1 1 5,2 4 1 Low-quality water (thousands of m ) 2012 6,386 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR Amount of water consumed 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 2010 1 ,4 9 1 QUALITY 20 1 1 1,240 (2) High-quality water (thousands of m ) 3 CONTROL 2012 1 ,3 2 2 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ AND WATER 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 2010 34 1 MANAGEMENT Volume of household grey water Volume of water reused 20 1 1 330 Focus, goals, and results reused (thousands of m3) 2012 322 THE MINE 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 2010 854 Cerrejón is fully aware that respect for the enOperational Strategic Discharge of wastewater 201 1 1,346 Volume of wastewater discharged (thousands of m3) vironment is one of the most important aspects 2012 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 865 THE MINE in undertaking a responsible mining operation. E D U C A T I O N 2010 79 Accordingly, our management policy aims to con201 1 74 Tonnes of NOx/millions of BCM-eq Air Land reclamation duct our business in harmony with the environ2012 72 (4) THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ Water Biodiversity AIR QUALITY (3) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 ment and with society; contribute to the develop2010 9.88 NOx, SOx, and TSP by weight MANAGEMENT Tonnes of SOx/millions of BCM-eq ment, well being, and culture of the communities Waste Eco-eficiency 201 1 9.24 2012 8.99(5) THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ in our area of influence; and to implement the 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 2010 126 best practices in the mining industry to prevent 201 1 120 (6) Tonnes of TSP/ millions of BCM-eq our activities from causing harm. 1. The operational line of action relates directly 2012 121 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 Cerrejón’s priority in this regard is to guarantee to daily decisions in which there are standard, an environmentally responsible operation that legally controlled parameters. 2010 208 Tonnes of ammonium nitrate/ Ammonium nitrate 201 1 194 millions of BCM-eq goes beyond mere compliance with current le2. The strategic management line is comprised 2012 199 THE MINE 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 gislation. To that end, we adopt standards and use of components related to operational and reMATERIALS 2010 272 technologies that: contribute to the rational use of Emulsion USED 201 1 258 Tonnes of emulsion/ millions of BCM-eq gional sustainability. In this case, there are no 2012 26 1 THE MINE natural resources (water, power, and raw mateclearly defined control parameters, but rather 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 rials for the operation); ensure environmentally they depend on the regional context. Actions Heavy mining equipment tyres 2010 8.1 8 201 1 8.39 Units/ millions of BCM-eq safe disposal management; control atmospheric are based on scientific research and case stu2012 8.27 THE MINE 10 20 30 40 50 60 emissions (dust and gas); facilitate land reclama0 dies, and the decisions focus on middleto tion; protect wildlife; and ensure the proper malong-term effects. 2010 6,381 nagement and final disposal of both ordinary and OIL The third vital element of Cerrejón’s environmenOil 201 1 6,752 Gallons of oil/ millions of BCM-eq hazardous solid wastes. CONSUMPTION 2012 7,075 THE MINE tal management programme is education. We use 0 2,000 4,000 6,000 8,000 10,000 12,000 Cerrejón’s Environmental Management System it as a tool for disseminating information, raising operates on two clearly defined lines of action— awareness, and reinforcing good environmental one operational and the other strategic—based on practices in employees and in our neighbouring 2010 61 % Recovery of used oil 201 1 59 % Percentage of used oil recovered the following components: communities. WASTE 2012 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 58 % THE MINE 0 MANAGEMENT 2010 47 % Waste recovered 201 1 45 % Percentage of waste recovered Goals, targets, and challenges of the Environmental Management 2012 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 48 % THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ Number of specimens rescued Management objectives Goals Challenges in 2013 20 1 1 902 Individual specimens rescued 906 Number of individuals rehabilitated To safeguard air quality in the project’s Keep total suspended and inhalable particulate matter and rehabilitated BIODIVERSITY 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 Keep inhalable particulate matter concentrations below threshold values set by 354 THE MINE Number of specimens rescued area of influence. concentrations below 90 µg/m 3 for TSP (1 ) and below 45 Colombian legislation despite adverse climate conditions of extreme drought. STATISTICS 20 1 2 1,042 THE MINE Number of individuals rehabilitated µg/m 3 for PM10 (2)in our areas of direct influence. 0 200 400 600 800 1,000 1,200 2010 2,765 Areas undergoing reclamation 20 1 1 2,892 Cumulative To use natural resources rationally and Reuse 80% of household grey waters treated in the 2012 3,100 THE MINE efficiently. settling ponds. Develop a predictive water budget model to improve water resource management at 0 500 1,000 1,500 2,000 2,500 3,000 3,500 Cerrejón. Recover 57% of oil used. Consolidate comprehensive waste management in accordance with new environmental Separate 45% of the total volume of solid waste requirements. 2010 372,351 generated for recycling. Fuel consumption (7) 201 1 346,846 Gallons of diesel/ millions of BCM-eq 2012 347,1 24 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR Reclaim land disturbed by mining. Reclaim 180 ha of land released by the mining Prepare and stabilise 200 ha of land, 100 of which are on slopes of the Potrerito 0 100,000 200,000 300,000 400,000 operation. dumpsite. ENERGY AND 2010 291 Electricity usage CO2 EMISSIONS 201 1 293 Electricity usage (GWh) 2012 304 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ Implement projects within the (3) Reduce CO 2e emissions by 383 tonnes. 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 framework of sustainable development. Monitor power consumption at the Puerto Bolívar operation. 2010 4,843 Greenhouse gas emissions 201 1 4,447 Emissions (tCO2 eq)/millions of BCM-eq 2012 4,429 THE MINE, PUERTO BOLÍVAR, BOGOTÁ Procure the operation's required permits Ensure timely studies and paperwork for permits and Continue with the process of declaring two protected areas in the department of La 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 and licences in a timely manner. licences in accordance with operational requirements. Guajira (delta of the Ranchería River and a buffer zone for tropical dry forest in the municipalities of Albania, Riohacha, and Maicao). (1 ) At Cerrejón, water from coal seam dewatering, runoff, and coastal sources is considered to be low quality. (2) Water from the Ranchería River, its alluvial aquifer, and its tributaries; and drinking water for Cerrejón’s Bogota offices is considered to be high quality. (3) The units of measurement have changed with respect to the 2011 Sustainability Report to express results based on the annual production calculated in millions of Bank Cubic Metre equivalent (BCM-eq). This is the volume unit in mining, expressed in cubic metres, comparing the volume of coal to that of waste rock in a Arrange resource usage permits with the regional environmental authorities, and the single figure. (4) This figure includes gases from vehicle gasoline consumption at Cerrejón in Bogota. (5) This figure includes gases from vehicle gasoline consumption at Cerrejón in Bogota. (6) This figure includes the operations of drilling, blasting, soil removal, loading, hauling, and handling modification request for the Comprehensive Environmental Management Plan needed of coal, rock, and topsoil at the Mine, which represents 95% of emissions. The remaining 5% is generated by diesel combustion in the mining equipment. It does not include an emission factor for gasoline consumption since that impact is very low. (7) Only diesel consumption is reported and for the expansion project from 35 to 41 Mtpa with the national environmental authority. not other energy sources such as gasoline and natural gas since diesel represents 98.65% of energy used at Cerrejón in 2012. The change in the figure reported in 2011 (209) is due to an updated figure from the emulsion plant, which includes nitrate losses during the process. The change in the figures reported in the 2011 Sustainability Report (359 tonnes of emulsion/millions of BCM-eq for 2010 and 329 tonnes of emulsion/millions of BCM-eq for 2011) is accounted for by the fact that the figure in the Sustainability Report 2011 corresponds to the sum of the emulsion and the HEF (another chemical used in blasting). This sum is calculated in accordance with the Anglo American Coal methodology for estimating CO2 emissions from blasting. In 2012, we have only taken into account the emulsion, as required in the GRI methodology (1) TSP: Total Suspended Particles materials indicator. (2) PM10: Dust particles equal to or smaller than ten microns. (3) CO2e (CO2 equivalent): Universal unit to indicate the potential of global warming for each of the six greenhouse gases (CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, and SF6) of one unit of carbon dioxide (CO2). It is used to assess the emissions of different greenhouse gases on a common basis. The change in these figures reported in the 2011 Sustainability Report (375,541 gallons for the year 2010 and 349,727 gallons for the year 2011) is due to the fact that the value in the 2011 Sustainability Report includes the contractors' fuel consumption. After the implementation of the Greenhouse Gases Protocol, these emissions are no longer recorded. 70 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 71 Environmental investments In 2012, 17% of the volume authorised by Corpoguajira was captured from the surface water Investment in the year 2012 exceeded that of 2011 Aspect Environmental investment of the Ranchería River and its tributary streams (in billions of COP) (COP 79.547 billion) by 23%. The most significant Water 18.105 (this figure does not include groundwater of high investment is the purchase and operation of dustAir 52.343 quality). In 2011, 12.6% of the authorised volume control equipment (water tankers), the maintenance Slope stability 1.943 was captured. This increase is due to the fact that of soil-loading equipment for land reclamation, the Environmental management 18.094 part of the high-quality water consumption (Orepumping system that manages water at the Mine, Soil and landscape 7.517 ganal water intake) is allocated to road wetting for and studies for the expansion project. Total 98.002 the control of particulate matter emissions. Since there was less precipitation in 2012, more water had to be captured for this environmental-control activity. In addition, the increase in the North Zone Management of water quality and usage (Calaguala water intake) is due to the use of water in heavy-equipment washing, and the fleet was Cerrejón uses water from different sources—classified as high and low quality—for its domestic, industrial, and mining activities. The Water Savings and Efficient increased in 2012. Use Programme, formally established in 2010, aims to reduce the capture of high(1) -quality water and replace it with low-quality water wherever feasible in order Graph 1 On the other hand, the increase in consumption to conserve the region’s water resources. Cerrejón also checks the efficiency of the control measures to protect water resources by monitoring the quality of the Water consumption in washing plant (2012). Ranchería River and its tributaries, in addition to the groundwater of the surface aquifer, and the coastal waters of Puerto Bolívar, as well as other domestic and of low-quality water as compared to 2011 is due to industrial wastewater control systems, such as holding and stabilisation ponds. the weather factor, requiring the capture of more Water Consumption Indicator 2012 (l/total fed) water and increased haulage cycles. WATER INDICATOR Capture In the coal plant, water consumption was gene530 The water captured by Cerrejón has three formally established uses: rally greater with respect to 2011. However, in October 2012, measures were implemented to help 510 • Domestic: Used for human and domestic consumption in the residential and industrial areas (workshops and offices). reduce consumption (see Chart 1): 490 • Industrial: Used in the workshop facilities, equipment-washing sites, and emulsion plant. Only requires pre-treatment in the non-drinking water treatment l/total fed • Recovery of the wastewater from the thicke470 plant. ning tank through the standardisation of the 450 • Mining: Mining waters are considered to be those produced within the areas of mining operations, both surface (runoff) and groundwater (coal-seam dewatering), which are stored in ponds, sinks, and reservoirs and are used for dust control in the mine. sludge pool and the construction of a berm on 430 the first floor of the plant building to collect The total consumption of high-quality water captured from the Ranchería River in 2012 was 16% of the authorized total of 8.3 million m³/year. The total consumption of 410 irrigated water and subsequently recirculate low-quality water, without including coastal waters, corresponds to 31% of the total authorized by the concession, that is, 18.9 million m³/year (Table 1). 390 it in the process. Cerrejón’s goal is to decrease high-quality water consumption in order to reduce demand for water from the Ranchería River and preferably consume low-quality 370 water. The total amount of water captured is broken down according to quality in Table 1. • Daily monitoring of consumption: this has helped to optimise water use and establish an 350 internal consumption goal of 440 l/t supplied JAN FEB MAR APR M AY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV D EC Table 1 (Graph 1). Amount of water captured in 2012 according to source type Percentage WQI NSF Total Water quality Source Concession/ Capture/ Use Volume captured in 2012 (in m³) authorised captured of the total authorised Water quality Index used to measure the impact on the Ranchería River water quality (Table 2) and that of its tribuResolution(2) Supply (millions of m³/year) 2011 2012 tary streams, with regard to health-related parameters. This WQI is evaluated in the passage between Monitoring of the Ranchería River Calaguala water intake Industrial, domestic, and the Palomino station (RI0111), upstream of the mining operations, and the Cuestecitas station (RIO109) 1870/2009 808,761 Ranchería River (North Zone) . human consumption. Considering the importance of this water source downstream (map 1). surface water. CDC water intake Industrial and domestic 1,048,936 for the region, Cerrejón regularly monitors the High 1454/2011 use. 62,175 (South Zone). river to control the impact of the coal complex. Table 2 Irrigation of haulage roads 8.3 15 % 16 % Through monitoring, the results of multiple paraAverage NSF WQI. 1515/2011 Oreganal intake. 1 7 8,000 and overburden. 1,322,514 Station 2011 2012 meters of environmental interest reflected in the Groundwater from the Series of wells for the water quality indexes (WQI) are analysed: Average Water quality Average Water quality alluvial aquifer of the 2941/2008 drinking water treatment Human consumption. 271,833 (3) Ranchería River. plant. RIO1 1 1 69 Fair 73 Good • NSF WQI (focusing on the monitoring of paraHuman consumption and meters of sanitary interest) RIO109 63 Fair 69 Fair Bogota aqueduct Not applicable Drinking water service. 1,745 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable domestic use. • Mining WQI (focusing on the monitoring of paCoal seam dewatering Map 1 Groundwater. 3677/2007 Irrigation of haulage roads 3,172,781 rameters of mining interest) wells. and overburden. Low Upstream Monitoring Station Downstream Monitoring Station 18.9 28 % 31 % • Impact indicator PATILLA EWP Upstream New mining areas Perimeter drains in the Irrigation of haulage roads 6,386,544 Monitoring Dump Areas Runoff water. 3968/2007 2,746,227 mining areas. and overburden. The water quality indices allow Cerrejón to moStation RIO 111 Palomino Stream RIO 109 Cuestecita nitor any water contamination risk as a result of (RIO111) Intake structure with Industrial, domestic, and Coastal water. Not applicable 467,536 Not applicable Not applicable Not applicable Ranchería river pumping system . human consumption. mining activities, in addition to guaranteeing that Downstream Monitoring communities located close to the Ranchería River Station CENTRAL ZONE ( 1 ) At Cerrejón, water from the Ranchería River, its alluvial aquifer, tributaries, and drinking water (in the case of Cerrejón’s Bogota offices) is considered high-quality water. Water from coal seam dewatering, runoff water, and coastal water is considered to be low quality. and its tributaries have the use of suitable water. (RIO109) N NEW MINING AREAS (2) The Regional Autonomous Corporation (Corpoguajira) granted the concessions. In December of 2012, Corpoguajira regulated the use of the Ranchería River through Resolution 1725. This consolidates all the concessions for surface and groundwater of all users (including Cerrejón) into a single administrative act. (3) NSF: United States National Sanitation Foundation. 72 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 73 Generally, the NSF WQI is influenced by the typiGraph 2 Discharge of wastewater ponds, or when a pond must be drained due • Re-use of 322,000 m3 of domestic wascal rainy-season surface runoff. It washes down Rancheria river water quality 2012 NSF WQI trend At Cerrejón, there are three types of wastewater to advances on the mining front. tewater treated in the settling pond for the organic matter and suspended solids from neighdischarge: irrigation of sports grounds, gardens, and Palomino RIO111 and Cuestecitas RIO109 stations In comparison with the year 2011, the total volume of bouring properties and uncovered areas, which Cerrejón discharges diminished by 35.57% (Graph common areas such as fourteen houses in the lowers the river water quality (see Graph 2). • Domestic: These discharges are domestic 100 wastewater from residential, industrial, and 5) due to weather factors. Mushaisa Residential Unit. EXCELLENT Mining WQI mining areas (change facilities(4) and sanitary 90 • Re-use of industrial water in the lightweight The Mining WQI is used to more precisely estimafacilities), with prior biological treatment in 80 76 77 GOOD Graph 5 vehicle wash in the industrial area, which reate the degree to which mining operations affect 75 76 the settling ponds. 70 69 Total discharge in thousands of m 3 ched 74% of the total water used (Graph 6). the quality of the Ranchería River water based on 70 73 76 65 73 • Industrial: Wastewater from the workshop fa1,500 In comparison with the previous year (8,967 sulphate, chloride, conductivity, pH, total solids, 60 61 63 cilities is sent to grease and oil traps and finally 1,000 1,346 m³), in 2012 the consumption of reused water and turbidity parameters. The Mining WQI averaFAIR 865 50 to a holding and sedimentation pond (south 500 was almost four times greater (that is 32,110 ge was 0.81 for the RIO111 station (Palomino) and pond) before it is discharged into the Ranche0 201 1 201 2 0.67 for the RIO109 (Cuestecitas) station. This is a m³), equivalent to the volume of approxima40 BAD ría River. good water-quality score for the first station and tely 13 Olympic swimming pools (50 m long, a fair water-quality score for the second station 30 • Mining water: Refers to water from coal seam UPSTREAM STATION (RIO111) 25 m wide, and 2 m deep). DOWNSTREAM STATION (RIO109) Reused water (Graph 3). 20 dewatering and rainwater that gathers in the POOR bottom of mining pits or sinks due to runoff. The implementation of the Saving and Efficient • Environmental awareness campaigns for the 10 It is generated mainly during periods of heavy Use of Water Programme (PAUEDA) includes residential unit population by internal Cerre0 rainfall due to excess water in the holding projects and initiatives such as the following: jón media. JAN FEB MAR APR M AY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV D EC Graph 6 Graph 3 Percentage of recycled versus industrial water in the lightweight equipment wash (5) Rancheria river water quality 2012 NSF WQI mining trend 111 and Cuestecitas RIO109 stations 1 . 00 EXCELLENT 0.90 0.80 0.81 GOOD DEC 20 % 0.78 0.79 0.80 80 % 0.70 0.75 5% 95 % 0.60 0.65 0.67 0.63 0.63 0.60 FAIR 20 % 0.50 80 % 0.40 17 % 0.30 83 % UPSTREAM STATION (RIO111) BAD 0.20 DOWNSTREAM STATION (RIO109) 18 % AUG 82 % 0 .10 23 % 0.00 77 % JAN FEB MAR APR M AY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV D EC 80 % 20 % Graph 4 19 % Rancheria river water quality 2012 impact indicator trend 81 % 24 % APR 0.10 76 % 0.00 VERY LOW IMPACT 26 % 74 % -0.1 0 Impact indicator -0.08 -0.07 35 % -0.20 -0.15 65 % Recycled water The impact indicator is calculated using the di-0.20 -0.18 LOW IMPACT -0.17 fference between the value of the upstream and -0.30 -0.25 36 % Industrial water JAN downstream Mining WQI in the categories of very 64 % -0.40 MEDIUM IMPACT low, low, medium, and high. In Graph 4, it can be -0.50 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100% seen that the impact of mining operations on the IMPACT GRAPH Ranchería River water quality was between the -0.60 HIGH IMPACT categories of very low and low, with values between -0.07 and -0.25 for the year 2012. This in-0.70 Note 1: Graph 6 shows that there was a high consumption of industrial water only in the month of June. dicates that there was no significant deterioration JAN FEB MAR APR M AY JUN JUL AUG SEP OCT NOV D EC This was due to the repair works on the piping and pump, which prevented use of the water-recycling system. (4) Entry and exit points for operation personnel during shift changes. in the river water quality. (5) These are vehicles for supervisory personnel at the Mine (pickup trucks). 74 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 75 Acidic waters at the Mine (MM3) Actions to control air quality in Cerrejón The probability of acid water generation at the Mine is low since the pit rocks are alkaline. Rock 1. Mine planning geochemistry studies have been carried out using Use of mathematical dispersion models to predict 2. Operational mining plan impacts on air quality and adopt controls acid mine drainage (AMD) and acid rock drainage control measures to prevent or mitigate said impact. Before loading. (ARD) tests. They produce the same result—a low Sprinklers to wet probability of acid drainage. material in the upper levels of the mine. Water cannons to control particulate matter (dust created) during loading of Cerrejón monitors the water quality 65 % y 75 % weathered material. of total emissions are of sinks and reservoirs, allowing produced during haulage. for the timely detection of acid water generation. Organised squads to control self-combustion of coal seams (applying sealant, cooling, or Tanquers Tanquer truck removing material). Air quality management 30 20.000 4 10.000 gallon gallon One of the most important components of Cerrejón’s Environmental Management System is wet down the haulage roads air quality management. Because the mining ope3. Wetting down coal Levelling, wetting, and compacting loads in wagons to prevent emissions during the 150-km in the receiving hoppers rations generate suspended particulate matter Water for spraying is taken journey from the Mine to Puerto Bolívar. (dust), it must be adequately controlled so as not primarily from the mine holding ponds, which are fed by water to constitute a significant risk for the neighbouin the coal seams and by rainfall. ring communities and the environment. Particulate matter has diverse characteristics, depending on its size and nature. Its suspension 150 km Covered period (1) depends on its weight, shape, and size; Installation of dust suppression and conveyor collection systems in the belts the topography; wind speed and direction; and coal-unloading hoppers. in silos humidity, temperature, and other climatic factors. The particles the mining operation generates are, for the most part, coarse(2)and mainly originate 5. Direct-loading system 4. Unloading in Puerto Bolívar Prevents more coal Usage of water-spray headers from the transport routes for overburden and from being exposed at the stackers/reclaimers. coal. Therefore, the company has implemented a to the wind. Covered conveyor belts 8.8 km long. management system to: predict different mining System of scenarios and their attendant dust concentracovered conveyor tions; assess their current status; and plan and belts. implement prevention and mitigation measures, and monitor and verify their effectiveness. Emissions control In 1985, Cerrejón built the direct-loading system as part Cerrejón has a programme in place to control • All coal-handling areas have the systems, of the port infrastructure design, following the international Planning, prevention, and monitoring dust emissions in the mining and coal-handling standards of the day. 6. Monitoring devices, and techniques necessary to control areas—the Mine and Puerto Bolívar. It is adjusted Cerrejón has a network of 18 air-quality sampling stations (12 at the Mine, 2 along the railway, and With its Air Quality Management System, Cerrejón particulate emissions into the air. For example, Its goal is to control particulate matter emissions into the 4 at Puerto Bolívar) to check the effectiveness of measures adopted. air and possible coal spills into the sea, as well as protecting goes beyond existing environmental regulations regularly in accordance with mining progress and coal is wetted down while it is crushed during marine ecosystems and the health and well-being of the MONITORING STATIONS AT THE MINE TYPE OF STATION for the industry. simulation results based on defined numbers of workers and communities in the area of influence. the stacking-reclaiming operation in the coal equipment and specific control measures. TSP (Total Suspended Particles). Using a mathematical dispersion model, parstockpile yards in Puerto Bolívar. Papayal Provincial Mushaisa PM10 (Particulated Matter less Nuevo ticulate concentrations in the air are predicted Actions: Roche Barrancas Albania than 10 micras). TSP & PM10. for mining plans and projects. This is done at the • The coal unloading sites have dust-suppresPatilla TSP, PM10 y Automatic Station. Roche • A fleet of thirty water tankers with a Chancleta same time the required control measures are desion and collection systems. TSP, PM10, PM 2,5 (Particulated Matter 20,000-gallon capacity, and four tankers Las Casitas less than 2.5 micras) and Automatic Station termined. We use historical meteorological and Weather Station with a 10,000-gallon capacity water the mine • The conveyor belts and coal silos are covered. Los Remedios topographical data from the Cerrejón area, as well haulage roads constantly to mitigate dust geThere are water-spray headers at the transfer as calculations of emissions generated by each Cerrejón also has real-time monitoring stations to provide early warning of high concentrations to neration. Chemical additives are included to points. the operation, allowing us to adopt the corresponding control measures. operational activity. improve emission control. • Trains are loaded so that the upper layer of 7. Disclosure The control measures focus on maintaining emisAir-quality oversight committee sion levels below threshold values, with the aim • The pits have sprinklers that wet down active coal does not surpass the top edge of the Air Quality Information Subsystem, Sisaire (its Spanish acronym) of complying with environmental regulations. areas where loading with shovels takes place. Quarterly delivery of information to Corpoguajira, the environmenVerification visits by the environmental authorities. wagon by more than 10 cm. In addition, the tal regional authority. Cerrejón’s own internal operational goals are In addition, in 2012 tests were done with four Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology and Environmental Studies load is levelled, moistened, and compacted to Annual delivery of the environmental compliance report to the IDEAM (its Spanish acronym) audits of the air-quality more restrictive than those established by law. fog cannons to evaluate their effectiveness National Authority of Environmental Permits , ANLA (its Spanish monitoring program. with a view to subsequent implementation as prevent particulate emission during its transacronym). ( 1 ) Time particulate matter remains in the air. (2) Maximum diameter. a measure of dust emission mitigation. port from the Mine to Puerto Bolívar. 76 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 77 Assurance and report Cerrejón has a monitoring programme to assess the efficiency of inspection/control measures and compliance with standards. There are also additional points within the monitoring network that generate early warnings in the most vulnerable areas. Thus, anomalous situations in the daily operations can be corrected. Twice yearly measurements of nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and carbon monoxide (CO) are performed to determine gas concentrations in Cerrejón’s area of influence. The maximum values for air-quality sampling in Table 1 2012 appear in Table 1. Maximum NO2 and SO 2 concentrations recorded in Cerrejón’s area of direct influence. In 2012, a general increase in SOx and NOx concenResults of 2012 24-hour threshold Parameter monitoring value in µg/m 3 Monitoring location trations (Table 2) was recorded due to the increase in in µg/m 3 (Resolution 610 of 2010) fuel consumption. (See Climate Change). NO2 67.6 150 Provincial station TSP emissions (Table 2) include drilling, blasting, Zero (no concentration Stations of settlements removal, loading, hauling, and handling of coal, SO2 250 was detected) neighbouring Cerrejón rock, and soil from the mine. This accounts for 95% of emissions. The remaining 5% is generated In general, the annual TSP and PM10 concentrations in the air-quality network stations from the Mine and Puerto Bolívar remained below the threshold value esTable 2 by diesel combustion from mining equipment. tablished by Colombian standard Resolution-610 of 2010 by the then Ministry of the Environment, Housing, and Land Use (MAVDT)—now known as the Ministry Emissions generated during the last few years of the Environment and Sustainable Development (MADS). During the second half of the year, there was a rising trend as a result of the critical weather conditions Graphs 1 and 2 show the average annual conTonnes of Tonnes of Tonnes of recorded—less precipitation, more evaporation, higher temperatures, and solar radiation. Year Tonnes of NOx/millions Tonnes of Tonnes of centrations of TSP and PM10 of four air-quality NOx SOx SOx/millions TSP TSP/millions of BCM-eq of BCM-eq of BCM-eq TSP increased more than PM10, not surprisingly considering that mining operations generate more coarse material—larger than ten microns network stations greatly influenced by Cerrejón’s 2010 17,866 79 2,229 9.88 28,4 1 7 126 mining operations. These stations are Barrancas, Cerrejón developed the following initiatives as a means of mitigating the weather conditions in 2012: 2011 18,608 74 2,310 9.24 30,028 120 Casitas 3, Provincial, and Roche. The Sol y Sombra 2012 19,889 72 2,489 8.99 33,577 12 1 1. Suspension of the overburden(3) unloading of Graph 3 station, upwind of the Mine, is included as an airThe NOx and SOx emissions are calculated using emission factors from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) that only consider the volume of diesel and gasoline consumption. the Central Zone pits located in the direction Average annual TSP concentration at Puerto Bolívar (2012) quality reference because it is not impacted by the As of 2012, the NOx and SOx emissions are calculated to include gasoline consumption of vehicles from the Bogota offices. The emissions of total suspended particles (TSP) are estimated with emission factors developed by the EPA based on each activity in the handling and transport of coal, rock, and soil. of the prevailing wind toward the population mining operations. of Las Casitas. 110 Graph 1 Colombian Standard Threshold Value Res. 610-2010 100 Average annual TSP concentration at the Mine (2012). 2. In-field tracking with more inspections to de90 termine emission point sources with timely 110 80 Colombian Standard Threshold Value Res. 610-2010 feedback to the operation, and research of teConcentration 100 µg/m3 70 chnologies to control emissions of particulate 90 60 matter in the loading of material with motori80 50 sed shovels. The technology used was water Concentration 70 40 µg/m3 60 cannons, on which research continues to be 30 50 conducted to optimise its use and effective20 40 ness. Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 30 In Puerto Bolívar, the TSP and PM10 concen20 Malla Norte Escuela Huarurapay trations also stayed below the threshold values Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 required by Resolution-610 of 2010, despite an Roche Provincial Casitas 3 Barrancas Sol y Sombra Standard 610 TSP increase in the general trend of the TSP and PM10 Graph 4 particulate matter. This is due to three reasons: Average annual PM10 concentration at Puerto Bolívar (2012) low precipitation, strong winds, and the activities Graph 2 associated with the expansion works of the port 60 Average annual concentration of PM10 at the Mine (2012) Colombian Standard Threshold Value Res. 610-2010 infrastructure to handle volumes of coal up to 41 50 60 Mtpa. Graphs 3 and 4 indicate the TSP and PM10 Colombian Standard Threshold Value Res. 610-2010 Inhalable 40 50 concentrations at the Huarurapay and Escuela particles µg/m3 30 Concentration 40 µg/m3 stations, which measure the upwind and down20 30 wind air quality of port operations. Additionally, 10 20 the Malla Norte station is included, which moni0 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 tors the air quality of the indigenous community Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sep 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 Dec 12 of Kamüsüchiwo>u. Malla Norte 4 vías Escuela Huarurapay Casitas 3 Provincial Roche Barrancas Sol y Sombra Standard 610 TSP (3) The rocks, mud, and stones that are removed before extracting coal. 78 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 79 Materials used in the operation Materials left over from the operation (waste rock) Table 1 Open pit mining at Cerrejón does not generate an excessive amount of potentially dangerous material. Cerrejón monitors and records the consumption Consumption of materials. The overburden maintains its characteristics and does not contain chemical substances or have any other of relevant materials used in the operation. We Reference units Change compared properties that would make it dangerous. However, its treatment follows a procedure in line with applicarely on efficiency indicators, such as the service to 2011 taking into Material Year ble environmental regulations and complies with the Comprehensive Environmental Management Plan life of tyres, for heavy mining equipment in acTonne/millions account millions Tonnes of BCM-eq of BCM-eq instructions for managing dumpsites and waste rock. cordance with the mileage; and the efficacy of 46,916 208 the explosives (powder factor) used for blasting a Ammonium nitrate 48,518 194 2% Solid waste management bank cubic metre (BCM) of overburden (Table 1). 55,084 1 99 Cerrejón maximises use of its comprehensive waste management system by reinforcing each of the staAmmonium nitrate and emulsion 61,442 272 ges in the handling process. Our goal is to achieve safe and suitable environmental handling of the waste Emulsion 64,470 258 1% generated as the result of our operations and related activities, with emphasis on the following: Ammonium nitrate is the raw material used to 72,268 261 • Separate handling according to waste type prepare the emulsion, which is used as a blasting Units (heavy mining Units/millions equipment) of BCM-eq agent on the rock that must be fractured in order • Treatment and final disposal in accordance with current legislation to mine. The emulsion is the mixture of an oxidi1,847 8.18 Tyres 2,096 8.39 -1 % • Optimisation of waste separation in order to reuse it to environmental and social benefit zing solution and a combustible solution. In 2012, Cerrejón reduced the consumption of diesel used 2,289 8.27 The cycle of waste handling begins with its generation and ends with its final disposal. in emulsion by replacing it with 461,868 gallons of used oil, which corresponds to 49% of the required fuel. Despite the continued use of electronic detonaSeparation Selective Temporary Treatment/ Generation and storage collection storage Re-use Final disposal tors, which make the process more efficient for at source and transport precision blasting in the sequence of shots in the wells, an increase was recorded in 2012 in the consumption of ammonium nitrate and emulsion, since twelve million BCM more were blasted than The management of solid waste at Cerrejón is carried out in a self-contained manner. It includes personPart of the revenue from the sale of recycled in 2011. nel; installations (trenches for ordinary waste, cells for offcuts, landfarming (1), rubble pile, and a safety cell); scrap was invested in education and health proand specialised equipment (compactors, incinerator) for the procedures related to its handling: collection, grammes to benefit local communities through a transport, storage, treatment, recycling, and final disposal. These tasks are carried out in strict compliance Tyres non-profit social organisation. with the country’s current legal and environmental framework. The greater consumption of tyres in mining equiTable 1 shows the amount of solid waste according to type, and Table 2 gives the most appropriate methods The smaller amount of waste taken to landfarming is pment originates in the haulage fleets, composed of treatment and disposal, corresponding to the Mine, Puerto Bolívar, and the offices of Cerrejón Bogota. related to process improvements and the lower numof 190, 240, and 320-tonne haul trucks. These Table 2 Table 1 ber of spills in 2012 (see Table 2). Among the improvefleets used 84% of the tyres (1,984 units) out of a Service life of transport equipment tyres Solid waste generation ments, we note the construction of a trap for the filtetotal of 2,289 units in 2012. Year Tonnes ordinary waste Tonnes hazardous waste Tonnes recyclable waste Total waste generation ring and draining of used oils, both in the workshops as In spite of the increase in general tyre usage in well as at the landfarming site. 2010 4,463 578 4,550 9,591 2012 as compared to 2011 (2,289 vs. 2,096 units 201 1 2012 The increase in waste encapsulation in 2012 is due 201 1 4,528 63 1 4,2 1 0 9,370 respectively), we did optimise consumption when VALUE REACHED GOAL VALUE REACHED GOAL to the fact that the incinerator underwent repairs for 2012 5,668 656 5,786 12,1 1 0 we take into account the ratio of the BCM-eq 70.03 70.00 73.20 70.00 about two months, during which time the waste was produced every year while increasing the service Note : Recyclable waste (reusable) includes both ordinary and potentially hazardous waste. disposed of using safety cells. life of the tyres of the 320and 240-tonne truck 320 t Thousands of kilometres The increase in waste compared to 2011 is explained by the increase in scrap iron due to: mining equipA portion of hazardous waste is sent outside the mifleets (see Table 2). This is due to: ment replacement, rubble from the expansion of company infrastructure projects, and the increase in ning complex for treatment or final disposal by legally production and personnel. • Less rainfall with respect to the previous year, authorised national companies, with prior verification of 201 1 2012 In 2012, 48% of solid waste was recovered, surpassing the target goal of 45%. The amount of recyclable allowing for better roadway maintenance. their suitability for the task through visits and review of VALUE REACHED VALUE REACHED GOAL waste surpassed the figures for 2011 due mostly to the recovery of nearly 2,000 tonnes more of scrap • Ongoing awareness campaigns for the truckenvironmental licences. fleet operators, who report in real time on 75.20 78.60 75.56 78.60 metal than normal from the scrapping of equipment that had completed its service life. Table 2 In 2012, a total of 76 tonnes of hazardous waste was Thousands of kilometres poor conditions and obstacles encountered 240 t Treatment and final disposal of solid waste disposed of through third parties. This waste included on the mine roads in an effort to avoid damaTonnes hazardous waste Tonnes ordinary waste grease, crushed glass from fluorescent lamps, used ging tyres. Year In cells for Incinerated In landfarming In encapsulation In landfill In tailings pile offcuts car batteries and old batteries, as well as a total of 5,220 • Monitoring every tyre by assigning each one a 201 1 2012 gallons of waste from the maintenance of the fuel oil 2010 382 124 89 2,1 61 1,665 647 unique code to identify opportunities to extend VALUE REACHED GOAL VALUE REACHED GOAL storage tanks at Puerto Bolívar (slops). The waste elec201 1 440 130 92 2,357 1,382 789 trical and electronic equipment (WEEE) is sold to third its service life, taking into account variables of 100.10 100.00 99.60 100.00 2012 323 121 228 2,783 2,042 843 parties who recover usable materials and appropriately the mining equipment on which it is placed and the operator who drives the equipment. 190 t Thousands of kilometres Note 1: The sixteen tonnes of ash generated by incineration were encapsulated, so they are only added once in the total for hazardous waste in order to avoid duplication. dispose of the rest. (1) Term for bioremediation, a process in which microorganisms in the soil biodegrade oily sludge. 80 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 81 Threatened species of the region Table 1 Management of biodiversity impacts Colombian classification of species according to CITES and/or UICN categories (1) According to the inventory of wildlife of the Caribbean region, there are currently twenty-seven Gender Common name Colombian category Genus and species (CITES) UICN species subject to a significant degree of threat Since under Colombian or international classifications. Aves Ara militaris Military macaw VU VU 2007 These species can sometimes be found within the Egretta refescens Reddish egret NT Sea turtle Since conservation American area of the coal complex or in its area of influence. Mamíferos Aotus lemurinus Gray-bellied night monkey VU 2007 programme crocodile According to the Colombian categories, six of theLeopardus tigrinus Margay VU (Caretta caretta) conservation Panamá programme se species are critically endangered (CR), four are Bat VU Leptonycteris curaoae Venezuela (Crocodylus acutus) endangered (EN), four are vulnerable (VU), and VU Lontra longicaudis Neotropical otter seven are near threatened (NT). Colombia Bahía Portete Pathera onca Jaguar VU NT Puerto National Park Bolívar According to the classification of the International Rhogeessa minutilla Bat VU Union for the Conservation of Nature (UICN), two Marmosa xerophila Guajira mouse opossum NT VU Ecuador of these species are CR; four are EN; seven are VU; Bat NT Lonchophylla concava Brasil four are NT; and three are of least concern (LC). 20,000 Perú Cabassous centralis Northern naked-tailed armadillo NT 16,707 Species with a significant degree of threat are lisCebus albifrons White-fronted capuchin NT LC ted in Table 1. Leopardus pardalis Margay NT LC ha Leopardus wiedii Margay NT NT 5,000 ha ha Endangered Species Conservation Programmes Peces Puma concolor Prochilodus magdalenae Puma Bocachico NT CR LC Delta of the Ranchería River Ichthyoelephas longirostris Besote EN Since 2007, in the Alta Guajira, Cerrejón has caSalminus affinis Picuda VU Riohacha rried out a programme for the protection of sea Area of mining contracts Reptilia Trachemys callirostris Colombian slider turtle NT Dry forest transition zone turtle nests of the hawksbill turtle, leatherback, Protected area Demochelys coriacea Leatherback turtle CR CR green sea turtle, loggerhead, and the olive ridley Chelonia mydas Green sea turtle EN EN sea turtle (Eretmochelys imbricata, Demochelys 8,484 Montes de Oca Area in the process Hicotea Protectoral of being declared coriacea, Chelonia mydas, Caretta caretta, CheloCaretta caretta Loggerhead sea turtle CR EN Since conservation Forest Reserve protected Eretmochelys imbricata Hawksbill sea turtle 2009 programme ha nia agassizii, and Lepidochelys olivacea). In 2012, CR CR (Trachemys callirostris) two new species found in the project area were Chelonia agassizii Galápagos green turtle EN EN 0km 25km 50km Scale: 1:400.000 included—the loggerhead and the olive ridley sea Lepidochelys olivácea Olive ridley sea turtle EN EN turtles. Crocodylus acutus American crocodile CR VU Rancheria river Chelonoidis carbonaria Red-footed tortoise CR In December of 2010, an agreement was signed ( 1 ) Acronym for the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora. Wildlife Recovery Centre with the NGO, Conservation International; the Colombian category. Endangered (EN), Vulnerable (VU), Near threatened (NT), Critical (CR). UICN. Critical (CR), Endangered (EN), Vulnerable (VU), Near threatened (NT), Least concern (LC). Fund for Environmental Action; Corpoguajira; Cañaverales 30,395 and the communities of Bahía Hondita and Punta Gallinas. Its aim is to strengthen the conservation The Conservation Programme for the Colombian this species, its main predators, and threats facing Slider Turtle (Trachemys callirostris callirostris) it, as well as its ecology and embryonic evolution. 4,523 project by limiting the hunting, trade, and indiswas carried out with the assistance of both unThis research has improved the conservation 1,000 ha criminate use of sea turtles. In return, the agreedergraduate and graduate students. Their project plans for this endangered species, which is valued ox.) (approx 0% 5,000 10,000 15,000 20,000 25,000 30,000 ment provides benefits for the community that theses researched the population conditions of for its meat in La Guajira. Animals rescued from 2012. help to improve their quality of life. Animals treated and released back into their natural habitat On December 14 of 2012, the communities of Bahía Honda and Punta Gallinas extended the Conservation Agreement on Sea Turtles for another year. To date, forty local indigenous volunteers have been trained to patrol nine kilometres of As part of Cerrejón’s commitment to the practice the mining complex are monitored in both dry from mining areas, including mammals, birds, beaches in order to safeguard sea turtle nests. As of responsible mining, we have established a Wiland rainy seasons with a view to mitigating reptiles, and amphibians. In 2012, 354 animals a result, more than five thousand newly hatched dlife Management Plan that provides the necesand preventing the impacts that the operation were rescued and relocated. turtles have been protected for their race to the sary guidelines to prevent, mitigate, and compenmay cause to wildlife. Thanks to this monitosea. • Programme for wildlife clinical and biological sate for impacts that the mining operations have ring, the existence of 258 species of birds, 55 rehabilitation. Injured animals rescued from Since 2007, the neonatal section of the CRFS has on biodiversity. species of reptiles, 23 species of amphibians, received specimens of the American crocodile the mining areas are treated at the Cerrejón and 103 species of mammals has been confir(Crocodylus acutus) brought from nests in the Biodiversity management is undertaken in conWildlife Recovery Centre (CRFS, its Spanish med since 2003. Alta Guajira. At the centre, they are reared and junction with the regional and national environacronym). In 2012, 1,042 individual animals protected until they have achieved sufficient size mental authorities. Accordingly, Cerrejón does • Wildlife rescue and relocation programme were rehabilitated. and weight to be released. not carry out any mining activities in protected in areas slated for mining. Before any mining • Conservation programmes for endangered areas. Biodiversity management in the company commences, any slow-moving animals, or Through the Conservation Programme for Enspecies. Cerrejón has three voluntary prodangered Species, more than 3,500 specimens Graph 1 provides for the protection of species found within those that are in some way prevented from 3,027 572 grammes for the conservation of threatened have been raised and released into the wild since project areas by means of four programmes: vacating the area, are relocated to areas not species: sea turtles and American crocodiles 2010. Graph 1 shows the numbers of sea turtles Sea turtles 2010 20 1 1 2012 American 2010 20 1 1 2012 slated for mining. More than 30,395 indivicrocodile • Programme of wildlife monitoring and followin the Alta Guajira, and Colombian slider turtand crocodiles released in each of the past three released 1,161 1,066 800 released 170 312 90 up. The terrestrial and aquatic fauna within dual animals have been rescued since 2005 les at the Mine. years. 82 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 83 Protected and restored habitats Methods of spreading environmental management messages to outside stakeholders The company is seeking to contribute to the creation of protected areas in La Guajira, in conjunction with globally known non-governmental organisations such as Environmental visits Conservation International (CI), The Nature Conservancy (TNC), and the Fund for Environmental Action, and Corpoguajira, the regional environmental authority. As a part of the Environmental Management Plan (EMP), we continually receive visitors for environmental management tours highlighting the company's work Corpoguajira declared the area of the Montes de Oca to be a National Protected Forest Reserve as of December 27 of 2007. This reserve covers approximately in that regard. They are attended by members of communities from the area of influence as well as municipal authorities. 8,500 ha, and is found in the Serranía del Perijá. It is home to more than 177 species of birds, hundreds of species of reptiles, and others that are in danger of These visits include a questions and answers session at the end to clarify any doubts and questions that visitors may have with respect to Cerrejón's environmental becoming extinct. It is also critical to the water supply of the Carraipía River for the municipalities of Albania and Maicao. management. In addition, polls are taken to learn visitors' opinions about their visit to Cerrejón and the topics covered during the visit. As part of the Plan that Cerrejón signed with TNC and the Fund for Environmental Action in 2012, invitations were called for tenders to draw up the Environmental The main concerns of visiting communities centre on topics of air quality, the effects of blasting and its control measures, how the Mine will appear after the coal Management Plans for two areas in the process of being designated as protected forest reserves. These bids, evaluated by the Fund for Environmental Action, has been exhausted, employment possibilities, and so on. were awarded to the Herencia Ambiental Foundation and the Biota Foundation. The former drew up the management plan for the delta of the Ranchería River, covering 5,000 ha, and the latter drew up the management plan for the lower basin of the Ranchería River, which covers an area of 20,000 ha. In 2012, 1,168 people (in 42 visits by local communities and educational establishments) took part in the Environmental Visits Program. Cerrejón’s two large compensation areas are also noteworthy: Mushaisa: Extending over 313 ha, with predominantly high grasses and native trees, which are of great importance to the region. Mass media publicity Aguas Blancas-Santa Helena covers 1,652 ha, with the noteworthy presence of three endangered species historically exploited for their commercial value in the Street billboards, television commercials, radio ads, the magazine Cerrejón World (Mundo Cerrejón), and press releases were used to publicize company measures. Caribbean region: verawood, the ebony, and yellow pui. Air Quality Oversight Committee Environmental education Started operation on October 17 of 2008. It is made up of representatives from the communities where the Cerrejón air quality monitoring stations are located. • Efforts are being made to improve the enviboth with employees and with the inhabitants in environmental management were carried Objective. To allow the communities where the stations are located to know what sort of information is collected, the data processing, the environmental laws relating to air quality, and the management measures and environmental control applied by Cerrejón. ronmental knowledge and awareness of emof the Mushaisa Residential Unit. Among the out at Cerrejón, with more than 10,958 employees, contractors, and communities with measures employed are billboards in the Mine ployees and contractors participating. Committee Activities in 2012: regard to their individual responsibility to care area, corporate notice boards, emails, and In addition, the Super R campaign was launched. for the environment while carrying out their magazines such as Cerrejón Today, NotiMusIt is a corporate cartoon figure that represents • Introduction of the Air Quality bulletin to the Campo Alegre community. normal activities; to promote the rational and haisa, and Notiambiental containing articles the four R’s in the Cerrejón environment: Reduefficient use of natural resources; and to em• Presentation of the results for the gas monitoring in the Los Remedios community. about the environment. ce, Recycle, Re-use, and Reclaim. All the areas power them to act in an ethical and environreceived visits from Super R, who spread envi• In addition, Radio Cerrejón broadcasts radio • Training of Committee Members on Air Quality Protocol in workshops. mentally aware manner in their daily lives. ronmental messages and information relating to talks—covering all four shifts—on topics rethe campaign. At the same time, employees and • Presentation of blasting. Workshop on the laboratory analysis process and witnessing a blasting operation at the Mine. • In order to increase environmental awareness, lated to important environmental dates every contractors participated in an environmental inivarious means of communication are used month. In 2012, more than 444 training events tiative competition implemented by the company. 84 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 85 Land reclamation Graph 1 Graph 2 Keeping terrestrial ecosystems productive is a huge task that is an inseparable part of Cerrejón’s mining operations. Land reclamation consists of recovering areas disturbed to attain ecosystem conditions similar to or better than those originally found. 2010 2,765 A total of 12,708 ha have been disturbed by mining activities since 1983, of which 599 ha were disturbed in 2012. Up to this year, fully 3,148 ha have been released for the reclamation process (land that will no longer be used for mining), and a total of 3,100 ha have been rehabilitated (see Graph 1). Cumulative Preparation of land Stabilisation of land Revegetation of land reclaimed 20 1 1 2,892 The 2012 results of the land reclamation programme are presented in Graph 2. Cerrejón’s land reclamation programme comprises primarily the following stages: hectares 2012 2012 2012 REACHED VALUE GOAL REACHED VALUE GOAL REACHED VALUE GOAL 2012 3,100 223 ha 180 ha 2 1 1 ha 180 ha 213 ha 180 ha Topsoil recovery The topsoil profile and quality are evaluated, then it is removed and Cerrejón’s Land Reclamation Programme has become a benchmark by preserving nearly forty million cubic bank metres of topsoil. This gives us sufficient resertransported by scrapers to soil banks for conservation. The soil banks are located at several sites in the three main mining areas: Central Zone, Patilla, ves in our soil bank to effectively reclaim and return to the region a sustainable ecosystem in all of the areas currently used in our mining operations. and New Mining Areas. The topsoil is later retrieved from these banks to begin preparing the land. Preparation of land stage Preparation of land The site disturbed by mining is prepared to ensure an appropriate medium for the sustainable growth of plants and associated organisms. This stage consists in creating suitable slopes to enable the growth of vegetation. The work is performed with mining equipment such as crawler tractors and motor graders. The topsoil is then transported and spread with the equipment. 7 1 Complementary works Reshaping the earth Soil stabilisation The scattered topsoil layer becomes a suitable medium for plant growth. Pioneering coverage is started with seeds and rapid-growth plants adapted to this climate and regional soils. These plants will serve to protect against water erosion and to improve the soil. 6 In flat areas, this stage is carried out with agricultural tractors with a chisel plough, and Levelling on the slopes oxen pull the chisel plough. 2 Initial tilling Revegetation 5 Spreading This stage involves a set of activities that aim to build a diverse topsoil • and productive plant community on the stabilised topsoil. Planting forestry species (small trees) grown 3 Unloading 4 in the Cerrejón plant nursery, using hand tools. Seed collection of selected native species to adapt topsoil and grow them during planting periods. Complementary tilling Monitoring and follow-up The areas undergoing reclamation are monitored to assess the physical, chemical, and biological conditions of the topsoil as well as the dynamics of the vegetation cover. The results of this monitoring and analysis are reported annually to the regional and national environmental authorities. 86 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 87 Hydrocarbon management In addition, oleophilic sheets are being used to absorb any hydrocarbon drips or spills. These sheets are Climate Change more efficient at absorbing spills than sawdust, and have decreased the production of hydrocarbonCerrejón’s Hydrocarbon Management Programcontaminated sawdust. Cerrejón has made a commitment to the sustainability and quality of life of the communities native to the region in which it operates. We strive to understand, me, part of our Comprehensive Environmental prevent, and mitigate the impacts of climate change on local ecosystems. Management Plan, aims to control the environOil consumption and used oil recovery In 2012, the following actions were taken to contribute to the mitigation of, and adaptation to, climate change: mental hazards associated with the storage and Hydraulic shovels and haulage trucks are responsible for most oil consumption. The increased usage since transportation of fuels and lubricants used in the 2011 is related to: • Implementation of social, participatory, and sustainable projects through the Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira, whose goal is to promote the safety of the water supply and adaptation of communities to climate change by: improving the drinking water supply, basic sanitation, and the preservation of water operations at our mining complex. • More consumption in the PC4000 hydraulic shovels, PC8000 front loaders, O&K RH340 hydraulic sources. For further information on accomplishments in this area, see the Cerrejón Foundations section. In 2012, we continued to standardise the portable shovels, and the Combi loaders. • Implementation of initiatives whose goals are efficient water and energy use in the mining operation and the residential unit. fuel islands and took other measures related to • Increase in the 240and 320-tonne haulage truck fleet. hydrocarbon management. Noteworthy actions • Estimates of the Greenhouse Gas emissions (GHG), according to the GHG protocol developed by the World Resources Institute and the World Business Council • A 10% increase in number of operating hours for the 320 trucks compared to 2011. for Sustainable Development. include: • Contamination of hydraulic oil in brake system of 320-tonne trucks caused by wear in the packing. Energy Consumption • Replacement of cement berms and compacted earth with metal cutoff walls in the As the volume of oil used in 2012 increased (see Table 1), the volume of recovered used oil also rose. We In the period covered by the report, the company recorded an energy consumption of over 14 million gigajoules (GJ) for the mining operations and related actiportable fuel islands to contain spills. In 2012, recovered the most used oil recorded at Cerrejón with a total of 1,130,575 gallons, exceeding the 2011 vities. Table 1 shows a reduction in energy consumption per each million cubic metres (BCM-eq) produced compared to 2011. The projects and measurements seven berms were replaced with these metal figure for recovered oil by 138,244 gallons. Similarly, we surpassed our target of 57% recovery, reaching contributing to the reduction in energy consumption are described in the Total Energy Savings section. cut-off walls. 58% thanks to the efforts of operations personnel. The used oil from workshops and equipment maintenance facilities is collected and stored in tanks in the Table 1 • Updating the labelling and identification of respective areas. Oil cannot be discharged under any circumstances. The recovered oil is reused to make Energy consumption(1) the fluid conduction lines. In accordance with emulsion or is sold to third parties with the appropriate environmental permits for processing used oil. In Type Source 2010 201 1 2012 the colour codes established in Resolution 2012, we sold 403,225 gallons to these processors. 2400/79, Industrial Safety Statute. Diesel Thousands of GJ 1 1 ,57 1 1 1 , 937 13,234 Direct energy Gasoline(2) Thousands of GJ 1 04 106 97 • Equipping with kits to manage hydrocarbon Natural gas Thousands of GJ Table 1 34 84 84 spills. Kits are now supplied for handling hyIndirect energy Thousands of GJ Oil consumption and used oil recovery Electric 1,049 1,053 1,094 drocarbon spills on all Cerrejón fuel islands, Total Thousands of GJ 12,759 13,179 14,509 resulting in an appropriate response to minor Reference units Change compared Total per BCM-eq Thousands of GJ / Millions of BCM-eq 56.54 52.73 52.4 1 spills. In addition, island operators were traiMaterial Year Gal/millions to 2011, taking into Gallons of BCM-eq account millions of BCM-eq ( 1 ) Diesel factor: 0.138 GJ/gallon from Anglo American. Natural gas factor: 35.31 MGJ/Nm3 in accordance with the FECOC (UPME) tables. Electricity Factor: 3,600 GW-h/GJ from Anglo American. ned in emergency actions and environmental (2) Values with calorific power of IPCC for gasoline. Starting with the 2011 Sustainability Report, the IPCC factor for gasoline of 0.124 GJ/gal was used, which has a calorific power of 44.3 MJ/kg, and not the 42.44 MJ/kg figure of FECOC (UPME). awareness activities. 2010 1,439,979 6,38 1 Oil consumption 201 1 1,687,354 6,752 5% • Committee for Hydrocarbon Spills in the PorThe energy figures do not include either the diesel or gasoline consumption of our contractors or the fuel for the aerial service provided to the Mine, in agreement 1,958,787 7,075 table Islands. A reporting tool was designed 2012 with the parameters established in the GHG Protocol Cerrejón has followed since 2011. The energy figure for gasoline in 2012 does include the consumption for within the corporate system to monitor hy2010 877,452 3,888 Cerrejón’s operations in Bogota. drocarbon spills in the fuel islands. It includes Oil recovered 201 1 992,331 3,97 1 3% consolidated logging of incidents by the in2012 1 , 1 3 0,575 4,084 terdisciplinary work group of Environmental Fuel consumption and savings measures implemented Management, Maintenance, and Production. Its results will be analysed in 2013. The increase in diesel consumption is due to an inin turn would be equivalent to stopping the supply of for 24 hours a day. The energy savings is equivalent Total number and volume of accidental spills crease in the fleets of the 240 tonne and 320 tonelectricity to approximately 111,000 apartments for to 1,514,763 GJ, which in turn would be equivalent • Emergency Response Group Drills for hydrocarbon spills. Drills were planned to evaluate ne transport trucks by 11 and 16 units, respectively. three people over an entire year. It is important to to stopping the supply of electricity to approximathe capacity of Cerrejón’s internal emergency There is a response crew that responds to and controls hydrocarbon spills at the Mine, and another at This increase is reflected in the total consumption, note that this initiative required no investment but tely 136,000 apartments for three people over an response groups to respond to specific situaPuerto Bolívar. These crews have the appropriate tools and staff to meet any hydrocarbon spill situation. expressed in gallons (Graph1). only the development and use of a database at the entire year. tions, such as a fuel spill in the Ranchería Rimining headquarters. In 2012, there were three significant spills totalling 1,886 gallons of hydrocarbons. These spills were approThe stable results shown in the diesel consumption ver. priately controlled and therefore, did not affect biodiversity (Graph 1). Hydraulic shovel consumption was 87.2 gallons/ per unit figure, reflected in a marginal increase of The 190and 240-tonne fleets also carried out a pikBCM-eq of diesel, 2% less than the 2011 figure • Evacuation of oily waters. Complied with the 0.08% over 2011, is the product of implementing lot test using diesel pump dispensers that resulted in initiatives such as reducing the waiting lines at the a savings of 11,000 gallons. The savings from this ini(89.1 gal/kBCM-eq) thanks to improvements in the programme for evacuating oily waters from Graph 1 fuel islands for 320-tonne trucks—the fleet with tiative was equivalent to stopping the supply of fuel indicators for the Hitachi EX 3600 fleet and O&K gratings and drainage tanks. The waters were Hydrocarbon spills the highest diesel consumption. That initiative saved to a water tanker provided with fuel from the porshovels. The Hitachi EX5500 fleet had the lowest discharged into the appropriate pond. 9,000 gallons of diesel in 2012. The project consistable islands for approximately eight months, since indicator among the five fleets with this type of shoAll of these improvements mean that the fuel La Puente work site, on access road to 270 Clarita dump, new mining areas 66 Gallons of motor oil ted of the Dispatch Centre at headquarters directing records indicate they go through approximately 44 vel due to greater productivity in the volume loaded L A N D islands do not produce the same quantity of oily trucks to head to the fuel island with the shortest gallons of diesel a day when operating continuously per hour. sludge as six years ago. In addition, since the oily waiting line to fill up, according to their location and water is regularly withdrawn, the gratings do not Work site 100, Central Zone 20 Gallons of oil amount of fuel in their tank. Graph 1 overflow, which could have created oily . W A T E R The savings from this initiative was equivalent to Environmental education sessions for workers stopping the fuel supply to a water tanker provided Total (gallons) Per unit (gallons /BCM-eq) in the maintenance workshops have given opeOreganal work site, Central Zone 1,800 Gallons of diesel fuel with fuel from the portable islands for approximaDiesel 20 1 1 86,684,216 346,846 rators there improved awareness of spills. TheL A N D tely seven months, since records indicate they conconsumption refore, They use containers more frequently as sume approximately 44 gallons of diesel a day when 2012 96,100,709 347,124 a preventive measure to capture hydrocarbons 1,886 operating continuously for 24 hours per day. The during equipment maintenance. Total energy savings is equivalent to 1,239,351 GJ, which 11 % 0.08 % 88 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 89 Electricity consumption and savings measures implemented Although overall electricity consumption increased in 2012 compared to 2011 (Graph 2), there was a 6% improvement in energy efficiency with respect to production. This extra efficiency is due to optimising material loading by the shovels and energy efficiency in the coal plant. Graph 2 Total (GWh) Unit (GWh /millones de BCM-eq ) Energy consumption in thousands of GJ Electricity 20 1 1 292 1.17 1,053 consumption 2012 304 1.10 1,094 4% 6% Note. The increase in consumption is due to increases in the P&H_XPC shovel fleet, which went from five shovels in 2011 to eight in 2012. Initiatives for reducing electricity consumption The electric shovels consumed 988 KWh/kBCM-eq, 5% below the figure for 2011 (1,038 kWh/KBCM-eq), due to: • The introduction of new P&H_XPC shovels, more energy efficient than the PC-8000 shovels. • A decrease in hours of rainfall in 2012 compared to 2011. Total power savings Likewise, there were significant decreases in energy use at the crushing plants (see Graph 3). This is due to daily monitoring of energy consumption per shift, which Thanks to the initiatives implemented in various operational processes, Cerrejón attained an approximate As of 2011, these emissions are calculated using entailed greater coordination with Production in supplying the coal plants. That coordination made it possible to detect opportunities to turn off equipment when total savings of 10,422 MJ/kBCM-eq, which can be viewed in Table 1 on energy consumption. The areas the GHG Protocol as a reference, which allows for and projects that contributed to achieving this total savings are detailed in Table 2. greater transparency in the data reported, avoids the plants were not being supplied. This measure saved 1,622,991 kWh, the equivalent of 21 MJ/kBCM-eq. That would represent the energy that approximately Table 2 940 air conditioners (¾ horsepower units) would consume if they were turned on for eight hours every day for an entire year. The monitoring did not require addidouble accounting of emissions, and helps provide tional financial resources, as the savings is the result of a change in the way a process was executed. Power savings achieved a better understanding of GHG emissions as comArea/Project Type of savings in MJ/thousands of BCM-eq with respect to 2011 pared with the industry sector. Power was saved thanks to the use of solar water heaters in twelve Mushaisa Residential Unit houses, which, although constructed in 2011, were only delivered in Electric shovels Electric 191 January of 2012. The nominal savings from this initiative is 52 MWh/year, equivalent to providing 17 three-person apartments with electricity for a year. The direct emissions in Table 3 correspond to Hydraulic shovels Fuel (diesel) 262 4,477 Scope 1 of the protocol, which are those under the Fuel island wait line reduction Fuel (diesel) Diesel dispensers project in 190and 240-tonne trucks Fuel (diesel) 5,471 organisation’s complete control. Indirect emisGraph 3 Coal plants Electric 21 sions come under Scope 2, which are those assoTotal 10,422 ciated with purchased power usage. Decrease in electricity consumption — Coal and Wash Plants (kWh) Table 4 shows that, despite the fact that total GHG Total, direct, and indirect emissions of Greenhouse Gases (GHG) kWh reduced Plant 1 Plant 2 Wash Plant Overall Savings emissions increased in 2012, there was a contiAt Cerrejón, Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions are primarily related to diesel engine consumption, which reprenuing downward trend in tonnes of CO2 equiva2,000,000 sents 80% of our total emissions. Of this percentage, overburden and coal haulage accounts for 70%. lent per million BCM equivalent Table 3 Emissions of GHG(3)in tCO2e by type of emission (4) Table 4 1,500,000 1,622,991 Emission type Emission source 2010 201 1 2012 Total GHG emissions in tCO 2e Diesel consumption 861,880 889,247 985,846 Year tCO2e tCO2e /million 1,000,000 1,380,375 Gasoline consumption 7,223 7,305 6,736 BCM eq Direct emissions Natural gas consumption 1,892 4,652 4,645 Blasting 15,1 71 2010 1,092,942 4,843 13,136 14,086 500,000 Fugitive methane leaks 155,358 166,051 175,872 (methane released from coal seams) 493,682 Indirect emissions Electricity consumption 53,452 30,062 37,799 201 1 1 , 1 1 1 , 404 4,447 0 Total 1,092,941 1,11 1,404 1,226,069 -251,066 (3) These emissions correspond to the consumption of fuel, electricity, and coal, broken down as diesel, gasoline, and natural gas consumed in the Mine, Railroad, and in Puerto Bolívar. Additionally, it includes fugitive methane leaks (CH4) generated in the coal extraction process and the emissions related to blasting supplies (ANFO and emulsion). Additionally, the 2012 emissions include the tonnes of CO2 for electricity consumption in Cerrejón’s Bogota offices and gasoline consumption for the pickup trucks used by these offices. 2012 1,226,069 4,429 (4) The CO2e emissions factors for the diesel engine, gasoline, natural gas, and the fugitive methane leaks are provided by the consulting company Itasca Africa [PTY] Ltd. after a review of the -500,000 factors suggested by Anglo American in 2010. The CO2e emissions factor for electrical consumption is calculated monthly using the methodology of the XM S.A. E.S.P. firm, which is available at www.xm.com.co. It takes as its basis the contribution of each energy source in the National Interconnected System (SIN, its Spanish acronym). XM is a subsidiary of ISA that operates the SIN and administers the Colombian energy market. 90 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 91 Table 5 Initiatives to reduce GHG emissions CO 2e reduction initiatives and projects Four projects reported CO reductions in 2012. The emission reduction goals for tonnes of CO are Target reduction Target reduction Reduction Initiative/ Reduction Reduction Emission of tCO 2e in tCO2e for 2012 in 2012 in % with achieved in 2012 established taking 2010 emissions as a base. The type Project of tCO 2e by project with respect respect to 2010 in % with respect to 2010 emissions emissions to 2010 emissions results of these projects are summarised in Table 5. Natural gas use • Natural gas use in lightweight vehicles. The in lightweight 120 32.79 0.003 % 0.0 1 1 % vehicles. objective is to increase the consumption perReduction of waiting centage for compressed natural gas (CNG), Direct time for filling for 327 emissions 320-tonne trucks. which produces less CO2 emissions than ga93 76.51 0.007 % 0.009 % soline. In 2010, the lightweight vehicle fleet Diesel dosage in 190and 240114 273.24 0.025 % 0.0 1 0 % consumed 48% natural gas. Thanks to contonne trucks. sumption oversight by supervision and manaOversight of power gement, this figure increased to 53.4%, which Indirect consumption in 465 0 0% 0.043 % emissions 465 coal plants (5) . resulted in a GHG emissions reduction of 120 tonnes of CO . Total 792 792 383 0.04 % 0.07 % • Fuelling delay time reduction project at the (5) The benefits of this project were not considered at the beginning of 2012, and therefore a goal for this project was not set in 2012. fuel islands for the 320-tonne fleet. Thanks to ongoing efforts in this project, a decrease of 93 tonnes of CO was achieved. • Diesel fuel injection in motorized trucks. In the 190and 240-tonne truck fleets, a pilot project is underway to install a software device that controls the optimal diesel dosage to the truck motor, according to the required power. This initiative reduced emissions by 114 tCO . • Oversight of power consumption in coal plants. The constant oversight of power usage by crushed tonne and washed tonne in the coal plants (kWh/t-crushed and kWh/twashed) allowed for power savings (see Electricity consumption and savings measures implemented) that represented a decrease of 465 tCO . The reduction of 792 tonnes of CO is equivalent to that emitted by approximately 510-1,400cc motor vehicles covering a distance of 20 km daily for a year. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Cerrejón continues its Annual Air Conditioner Unit Significant environmental impacts due Update Programme with the goal of diminishing The R22 coolant is a less polluting gas than R12 because it depletes the ozone layer by 94% less. to product transport consumption of old refrigerants that have a high Historically, R22 has been consumed in greater proportions than R12 at Cerrejón. Our coal is transported by railroad from the Mine Ozone Depleting Potential (ODP) and replacing to Puerto Bolívar. This system is more efficient them with new-generation refrigerants, with micompared to other transport means, which genimal levels of ODPs .(6) Initiatives to mitigate the environmental nerate more carbon dioxide emissions (CO 2 ) per The refrigerants used by the old equipment that impacts of products and services product unit.(9) has not yet been updated are R12 and R22. For Cerrejón participates in the Asomineros ChamClients apply their own measures for handling the the reporting period, the consumption of these ber and the National Environmental Committee, potential environmental impacts and health and coolants was 0.76 kg of R12 and 2,026 kg of R22. which are agencies of the National Association safety risks during the transport and use of the (7) of Businessmen of Colombia (ANDI, its Spanish coal. Regardless, Cerrejón provides all clients with This means that chlorofluorocarbon (CFCs) emisacronym). These associations contribute to the sions were 0.76 and CFC11-eq emissions were 101 both technical and safety sheets that help to idenanalysis of proposed environmental laws and shatify, prevent, and mitigate the product’s potential kg, respectively, for total emissions of 101.76 kg of re experiences of efficient environmental mana(8) impacts and risks. CFC11. gement in the mining sector. (6) Unit that refers to the amount of stratospheric ozone destruction caused by a substance. Its abbreviation is ODP (Ozone-Depleting Potential). (7) Group of compounds containing chlorine, fluorine, and carbon, used as cooling agents and gas propellants in aerosols. CFCs last for a long time in the atmosphere, and upon reaching the stratosphere they trigger ozone layer destruction. (8) Measurement unit for chlorofluorocarbon emissions. (9) Coal Environmental Transport Guide, p. 51, Ministry of Mines and Energy, Ministry of Transport, MAVDT, Medellín 2004. 92 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 93 GRI indicators table GRI Indicator -Description Chapter section and page Chapter Global Compact correlation Global Compact GRI Indicator Description Page Chapter Correlation Correlation ISO26000 1 .1 Letter from the president Letter from the president Pages 4–5 Cerrejón and La Guajira Declaration of permanent commitment to the Global Compact EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Economic value generated Pages 16–17 Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 1.2 Description of main impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk map and management Page 21 Sustainability EC2 Environment Principle 7 6.5.5 Declaration of permanent commitment Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Climate change Page 89 Infographics of the mining process to the Global Compact due to climate change Letter from the president Pages 4–5 Cerrejón and La Guajira About this report Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified EC3 Social benefits programmes for employees Pension Preparation Programme Page 34 People Principle 1 6.8.7 2.1 Operation's name History Page 10 Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified EC4 Significant financial aid received from governments Zero (0). None received this year -----Unspecified Unspecified 2.2 Main brands, products and/or services Infographics of the mining process Unspecified EC5 Characteristics Page 26 People Principle 1 6.3.7, 6.4.4, 6.8 2.3 Operational structure Organizational structure Page 29 People Unspecified Range between standard wage and local minimum wage 2.4 Location of main headquarters About this report Unspecified EC6 Policies, practices, and proportion of spending on Management of suppliers and contractors Pages 22–23 Sustainability Unspecified 6.6.6, 6.8.5 , 6.8.7 2.5 Number of countries company operates in nfographics of the mining process Unspecified locally-based suppliers Economic value generated Page 16 Cerrejón and La Guajira 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Nature of ownership and legal form Page 10 Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified EC7 Procedures for local hiring Characteristics Page 26 Attraction and Selection Pages 33–34 People Principle 6 6.8.5 y 6.8.7 2.7 Markets served Infographics of the mining process Unspecified EC8 Investment development and impact on infrastructure Social Responsibility Page 54 Society Unspecified 6.3.9, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5, 2.8 Scale Infographics of the mining process Unspecified Resettlements Pages 58–59 6.8.6, 6.8.7 , 6.8.9 2.9 Significant changes during the period covered by the report as to size, Nature of ownership and legal form Page 10 Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified structure, and ownership. Cerrejón Foundations System Page 60 2.1 0 Awards and distinctions received History Page. 1 1 Cerrejón and La Guajira Unspecified EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts and scope Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening of La Guajira Page Society Principle 2 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 6.8.5, 3 .1 Period covered by the information contained in the report About this report Unspecified 63 Cerrejón Foundation for Progress in La Guajira Page 66 6.8.6, 6.8.7 , 6.8.9 3.2 Date of most recent previous report About this report Unspecified EN1 Materials used, by weight or volume Materials used in the operation Page 80 Environment Principle 8 6.5.4 3.3 Cycle of report presentation About this report Unspecified Handling of hydrocarbons Page 88 3.4 Contact point for questions concerning the report or its contents Page. 103 Unspecified Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Materials used in the operation Page 80 3.5 Defining report content EN2 Solid waste management Page 81 Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 About this report Unspecified Handling of hydrocarbons Page 88 MaterialityPág. 14 Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1-10 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary sources Climate change Pages 89–90 Environment Principle 8 6.5.4 3.6 Boundary of the report About this report Unspecified 3.7 Indicate the existence of limitations in the scope or boundary of the report About this report Unspecified EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary sources Climate change Pages 89–90 Environment Principle 8 6.5.4 3.8 The basis for including information that may significantly affect Complaints Office (Page 47) People Unspecified comparisons between periods and/or between organizations EN5 Climate change Pages 90–91 Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 Environmental and consumption figures in the operation Page 71 People Unspecified Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements 3.9 Techniques for data measurement and bases for calculations Measurement techniques Page 98 Unspecified EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Climate change Pages 90–91 Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information Complaints Office (Page 47) People Unspecified provided in earlier reports energy-based products and results Environmental and consumption figures in the operation Page 71 Environment Unspecified EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions Climate change Pages 90–91 Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 3.1 1 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, Complaints Office (Page 47) People Unspecified achieved boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report Environmental and consumption figures in the operation Page 71 Environment EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Water quality and management Page 72 Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 Unspecified EN9 Water sources affected by withdrawal of water Water quality and management Pages 73–75 Environment Principle 8 6.5.4 3.1 2 Table indicating the location of the basic report contents General index Unspecified EN10 Reused water Page 75. The variation was not significant at a Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.4 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external About this report Unspecified Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 3.1 3 assurance for the report decrease of only 2.45 % 4. 1 Governance structure, committees of the highest governance Organizational structure Page 29 Principles 1 10 Zero (0). Cerrejón carries out no mining activities in protected areas. body responsible for tasks such as defining strategy or supervising People EN1 1 Description of land adjacent to or located in protected nature Environment Principle 8,9 6.5.6 Structuring of the highest governance body Page 30 operations areas or in unprotected areas of high biodiversity Biodiversity management Pages 82–84 4.2 President of the highest governance body Organizational structure Page 29 People Unspecified EN12 Description of most significant impacts on biodiversity in protected Zero (0). Cerrejón carries out no mining activities in protected areas. Environment Principle 7,8 6.5.6 4.3 For organizations with a unitary board structure, indicate number of independent or non-executive members of the highest Structuring of highest governance body Page 30 People Unspecified nature areas or in unprotected high-biodiversity areas Biodiversity management Pages 82–84 governance body. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Structuring of highest governance body Page 30 People Principles 1 10 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity management Pages 83–84 Environment Principle 8 6.5.6 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Attraction and selection Page 33 People Principles 1 10 body, senior managers and executives, and the organization's performance EN14 Strategies and actions for managing impacts on biodiversity Focus, goals, and results Page 70. Biodiversity management Pages 82–84 Environment Principle 8 6.5.6 4.6 Procedures in place for the highest governance body to Organizational structure Page 29 People Principles 1 10 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided EN15 Number of species listed according to their danger of extinction Biodiversity management Page 83 Environment Principle 8 6.5.6 Internal Control Pages 31-32 People Principles 1 10 4.7 Procedure for determining the training and expertise required of Principles 1 10 found in areas impacted by the operation Attraction and selection Page 33 People members of the highest governance body to guide operational EN16 Environment Principle 7,8,9 6.5.5 strategy on social, environmental, and economic topics Total, direct, and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Climate change Page 91 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission and values, codes of Values and strategic partners Page 12 Cerrejón and La Guajira conduct, and relevant principles for economic, environmental, and Principles 1, 4 , 6 social performance, and the status of its implementation Engagement with stakeholders Page 12 Cerrejón and La Guajira EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight This indicator corresponds to Scope 3 of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. ---Principle 8 6.5.5 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Responsible Mining Page 20 Sustainability Principles 1 10 Cerrejón does not have this information available. organization's identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Climate change Page 92 Environment Principle 7,8,9 6.5.5 4.10 Procedures for evaluating the highest governance body's own Attraction and selection Pages 30-34 People Principles 1 10 reductions achieved performance with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance EN19 Emission of ozone-depleting substances by weight Climate change Page 92 Environment Principle 8 6.5.3 4. 1 1 Description of how the precautionary approach or principle Risk map and management Page 21 Sustainability Principles 7 has been adopted EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight Air quality management Pages 76–79 Environment Principle 7, 8, 9 6.5.3 4.1 2 Externally developed social, environmental, and economic principles Social responsibility Pages 50–54 Society Principles 1 10 or programs, or any other initiatives to which the organization Cerrejón Foundations System Pages 60–66 EN21 Total wastewater discharge by type and destination Water quality and management Page 75 Environment Principle 8 6.5.3 subscribes or endorses 4.1 3 Main associations the organization belongs to Strategic partners Page 12 Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1 10 EN22 Total weight of managed waste by type and treatment method Solid waste management Page 81 Environment Principle 8 6.5.3 Reference framework Page 21 Sustainability 4.1 4 Stakeholders Engagement with stakeholders Page 12 Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1, 2, 3, 6 EN23 Number and volume of most significant accidental spills Handling of hydrocarbons Page 88 Environment Principle 8, 9 6.5.3 4.1 5 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders Engagement with stakeholders Page 12-13 Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1, 2, 6 4.1 6 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1, 2, 6 EN24 Environment Principle 8 6.5.3 Engagement with stakeholders Pag 12-13 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste In accordance with the Basel Convention, Cerrejón neither imports participation by type and by stakeholder group deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention nor exports hazardous waste (see Solid waste management Page 81) 4.1 7 Main concerns and topics of interest raised through stakeholder Materiality Page 14 Cerrejón and La Guajira Principles 1 10 Annexes I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste engagement, and how the organization has responded to these through its reporting shipped internationally 94 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 95 Global Compact Correlation ISO26000 Global Compact Correlation ISO26000 GRI Indicator Description Page Chapter Correlation GRI Indicator Description Page Chapter Correlation Principle 8 LA15 Levels of reincorporation to work and of retention after Characteristics Page 27 People Principle 2 6.4.4 EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water Zero (0). In 2012, there were no spills affecting Environment 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6, 6.7.5 maternity or paternity resources and related habitats significantly affected by biodiversity. Biodiversity management Pages 83–84 discharges of water and runoff MM1 Amount of land affected or reclaimed Land reclamation Pages 86–87 Environment Unspecified 6.6.7.2 EN26 Environment Principles 7, 8, 9 6.5.4. 6.6.6. 6.7.5 MM2 Number and percentage of sites identified that require Zero (0). Cerrejón carries out no mining activities in protected --------Unspecified 6.5.6.2 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts and reduction Climate change Page 92 of said impacts a biodiversity management plan areas. Therefore, there are no sites requiring a biodiversity management plan EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Not applicable. The product is not packaged nor does it have ---Unspecified 6.5.3, 6.5.4 , 6.7.5 that are reclaimed at the end of their service life by product category associated materials subject to recovery at the end of its service life MM3 Total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludge Water quality and management Page 76 Environment Unspecified Unspecified with potential risks. EN28 Cost of significant fines and number of non-monetary sanctions In 2012, Cerrejón had no environmental fines or sanctions Environment Unspecified 6.5 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations MM4 Number of strikes and lock-outs exceeding one week's Zero (0). There were no strikes --------Unspecified 6.3.8.2 EN29 Environment Principle 8 6.5.4. , 6.6.6 duration, by country. Significant environmental impacts due to transportation of Climate change Page 92 product and personnel MM5 Total number of operations taking place in or near indigenous About La Guajira Page 15 Cerrejon and Unspecified Unspecified communities La Guajira EN30 Environmental and consumption figures in the operation Environment Principles 8 7,8 6.5 Total environmental expenditures and investments by type. Pages 71–72 MM6 Number and description of significant disputes regarding Zero (0). There were no disputes in 2012 --------Principle 1 6.6.7.2 , 6.8.3.2 land use or local community and indigenous settlements rights HR 1 Contracts and investment agreements with clauses incorporating Worker rights Page 43 People Principles 2, 3, 4, 5 6.3.3 , 6.3.5 , 6.6.6 concerns for human rights. MM7 Use of complaints mechanisms to resolve controversies Complaints Office Page 47 People Principles 1,2 6.3.1 HR2 Suppliers, contractors, and other business partners subject to Worker rights Pages 43–44 People Principles 2, 3, 4, 5 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 analysis in human rights and measures adopted MM8 Number (and percentage) of sites with artisanal and Zero (0) --------Unspecified Unspecified small-scale mining companies HR3 Employee training hours on human rights policies and procedures Human Rights Page 45 People Principle 1, 2 6.3.5 MM9 List of resettlement sites Resettlements Page 55 Environment Principle 1,2 6.3.3 MM10 Number and percentage of operations with mine closure plans Mine closure Page 23 Sustainibility Principle 7 6.3.3 HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and Zero (0). There were no incidents ---Principles 1,2, 6 6.3.6, 6.3.7 , 6.3.10 , 6.4.3 MM1 1 Programmes and progress relating to responsible materials Life cycle of the product Pages 21–22 Sustainibility Principle 1, 8 6.5.4.2 corrective measures taken. PR1 Phases of product life cycle Life cycle of the product Pages 21–22 Sustainibility Principle 8 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 HR5 People Principle 3 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8, PR2 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Zero (0). No incidents occurred --------Principle 1 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7.4, 6.7.6 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom Worker rights Page 43 Sustainability Dashboard Page 6 or voluntary codes concerning product impacts on health of association may be violated 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.5 and safety HR6 Operations and suppliers identified that have a risk There was no incident at Cerrejón in 2012. Worker People Principle 5 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.7, PR3 Types of information on products and regulations Life cycle of the product Pages 21–22 Sustainibility Principle 1, 8 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 of incidents of child exploitation rights Page 43 6.3.10, 6.6.6 PR4 Non-compliance of regulations concerning product labelling Zero (0). There were no incidences for non-compliance in this Sustainibility Unspecified 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.10 HR7 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant There were no incidents at Cerrejón in 2012. Worker People Principle 4 6.3.10 regard, more information Product's life cycle Pages 21–22 risk of being a source for forced labour episodes. rights Page 43 PR5 Practices concerning client satisfaction Life cycle of the product Pages 21–22 Sustainibility Unspecified 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, 6.7.8, 6.7.9 HR8 Human Rights Pages 45–46 People Principles 1 6 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures PR6 Programmes for compliance with laws or adherence Not applicable --------Unspecified 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 to standards and voluntary codes mentioned in marketing HR9 Total number of incidents concerning violations Complaints Office Page 47 People Principles 1, 2, 6 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 of rights of indigenous people PR7 Incidents arising from non-compliance of regulations Zero (0). There was no incident. --------Unspecified 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.10 concerning marketing communications HR10 Total number of operations subject to human rights Risk map and management Page 21 Sustainability/ Principles 1, 2 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5 Human Rights Pages 45–47 PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Life cycle of the product Pages 21–22 Sustainibility Unspecified 6.7.7 impact assessments People respect for client privacy and losses of client data HR1 1 Number of complaints related to human rights resolved Complaints Office Page 47 People Principles 1,2 6.3, 6.3.6 PR9 Cost of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Zero (0). No fines or sanctions. --------Unspecified 6.7.6 via formal conciliation mechanisms and regulations concerning the provision and use of products LA1 Breakdown of workforce by employment type, contract, Characteristics Pages 26–27 People Principle 6 6.4.3 region, and gender SO1 Operations with development programmes, impact Social responsibility Pages 50–54 Environment Principle 1 6.3.9, 6.8.3, 6.8.9 assessments, and participation of the local community Resettlements Pages 55–59 LA2 Total number of employees, rate of new hiring, Characteristics Pages 26–27 People Principle 6 6.4.3 Cerrejón Foundations System Pages 60–67 and average employee turnover SO2 Business units analysed with respect to risk of corruption Internal Control Page 32 People Principle 10 6.6.3 LA3 Social benefits for full-time employees Fringe benefits Page 38 People Principles 3 6.4.3, 6.4.4 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective Worker rights Page 44 People Principles 3 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, 6.3.10 bargaining agreement SO3 Employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures Internal Control Page 33 People Principle 10 6.6.3 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding organisational changes, Cerrejón, in accordance with the law, allows a minimum period of ---Principio 3 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 including whether these notifications are specified in collective one month for notices, varying according to the change to be made bargaining agreements SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents Internal Control Page 33 People Principle 10 6.6.3 LA6 Percentage of total workers represented on health and Operational safety Page 43 People Principles 1,3 6.4.6 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in their Zero (0). Cerrejón does not participate in lobbying --------Principle 10 6.6.4, 6.8.3 safety committees. development and lobbying and does not intervene in public policies LA7 Rates of absenteeism, occupational diseases, lost days, Occupational Safety and Health Management System Pages 39–40 Personas Principles 1,4 6.4.6 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to Zero (0). There were none in 2012 --------Principle 10 6.6.4, 6.8.4 and number of work-related fatalities Operational safety Pages 41–42 political parties or to related institutions, by country Based on the protocol, the rate of days lost to date is 13.88. SO7 Total number of legal actions for monopoly and Zero (0). There is not nor has there been any legal action --------Principle 10 6.6.5 , 6.6.7 LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control Attraction and selection Page 34. People Principle 1 6.4.6. 6.8.4. 6.8.8 anti-competitive practices, and the outcomes against Cerrejón for causes related to monopolistic practices programmes regarding serious diseases. Occupational Safety and Health Management System Page 40. or against free competition. SO8 Monetary value of significant sanctions and fines and total Cerrejón was not sanctioned for non-compliance with --------Unspecified 6.6.3, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Worker rights Page 44 People Principle 3 6.4.6 number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance the law during the reporting period. with trade unions with laws and regulations LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee Training Page 37 People Principle 1 6.4.7 SO9 Operations with possible or real significant negative The impacts identified are primarily related to impacts from Environment Principles 1,2 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.5.6, 6.8 LA1 1 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Attraction and selection Page 34 People Principle 1 6.4.7. 6.8.5 noise, dust, vibrations, and possible restrictions to movement impacts on local communities that support employability in the community due to train schedules. Cerrejón is committed LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance reviews Attraction and selection Page 34–35 People Principle 1 6.4.7 to the prevention, mitigation, and control of these impacts. To do so, the company has a social engagement model in which we start with the effective management of the impacts caused LA13 Composition of corporate governance body Organisational structure Page 29. People Principle 6 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3 by its activities and the management of potential risks. Structuring of senior corporate governance body Page 30 LA14 Ratio of basic salary and compensation of men ---Principle 6 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 Cerrejón does not report this indicator due to confidentiality issues. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented with Social responsibility Page 52 Environment Principles 1,2 6.3.9, 6.5.3, 6.5.6, 6.9 to women by category possible or real significant negative impacts on local communities 96 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 97 Measurement techniques Glossary Terms Definition Terms Definition Sustainability Indicators Financial and Economic ACDI / VOCA Agricultural Cooperative for International Development/Volunteers in Foreign Cooperative Assistance HOI Human Opportunity Index AFE Association of Corporate Foundations CPI Consumer Price Index Financial reasons and data Data prepared in accordance with financial status for 2012. ANDI National Association of Businessmen of Colombia IPCC Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Anspe National Agency for Overcoming Extreme Poverty MPI Multi-dimensional Poverty Index Production and export Tonnes of coal produced and exported in 2012. Occupational Risk Management Company ISO International Organization for Standardization ARL ASOAWINKA RPC Association of Aqueduct and Sewage System Users from the communities of Roche, Patilla, and Chancleta ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Standard published by the ISO Sustainability Indicators Social Asotecmo Association of Windmill Technicians IUCN International Union for Conservation of Nature ASTM American Society for Testing and Materials Km Kilometre Employees who left the company in the period over the number of active employees (average of 12 months). BCM Bank Cubic Meter kWh Kilowatt hour Average turnover IBD Inter-American Development Bank LC Least Concern Both the average for employees and for former employees is taken solely from workers with an open contract. CCS Carbon Capture and Sequestration LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Carbocol Carbones de Colombia S.A. RR Railroad CC Critical controls LMN La Mina Average hours of training by gender Total hours by gender over the total number of persons of that gender. CBA Collective Bargaining Agreement m3 Cubic Metres CEMT Mining and Transfer Contract Ministry for the Environment and Sustainable Development Management positions held by women Total women in management positions over the total workers in management positions as of December 31, 2012. CERAC Resource Centre for Conflict Analysis MADS Ministry for the Environment, Housing, and Regional Development CFC Chlorofluorocarbons MDC Management Development Committe International Finance Corporation CLM Cerrejón Leadership Model based on Skills Representativeness of workers in safety Number of employees represented in committees over total operation employees. CF1 Conservation International MPT Professional staff CIAT International Center for Tropical Agriculture MSD Management Sciences for Development, Inc Absenteeism Hours absent divided by scheduled hours and then multiplied by 100. Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora MSDS Material Safety Data Sheet CITES CMC Coal Marketing Company, sole marketing agency of Cerrejón coal NOx Nitrogen oxides Fatalities The operation's number of fatalities. CO Carbon monoxide NSF National Sanitation Foundation CO2 Carbon dioxide NT Near Threatened Cases reported as occupational diseases Occupational disease rate, calculated based on the number of occupational disease cases in a period/total hours worked per 200,000. Comfaguajira Family Compensation Fund of La Guajira NTC Norma Técnica Colombiana Coomfer Multi-Activity Cooperative Raising Hope in Los Remedios OCAD Collegiate Body for Administration and Decision-Making Coopmao Oreganal Multi-Activity Farming Cooperative ODP Ozone Depleting Potential Proportion of unionised workers Number of workers in a collective bargaining agreement over total employees. COPASO Joint Committee on Occupational Health OHSAS 18OO1 Occupational Health and Safety Management Systems Specification Corpoguajira Regional Autonomous Corporation of La Guajira ILO International Labour Organization Corpoica Colombian Corporation for Agricultural and Livestock Research NGO Non-Governmental Organization Total training sessions given and number of hours invested, calculation of percentage of coverage and Human rights training CPR Center for Potato Research OPHI Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative sum of total participants. CR Critically Endangered P40 Cerrejón Expansion Project CRFSC Cerrejón Wildlife Rehabilitation Centre PAAV Home Purchase Assistance Plan CZN Cerrejón North Zone S.A. PAE Educational Assistance Programme The Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) was developed by the Oxford Poverty & Human Development Initiative (OPHI) AMD Acid Mine Drainage PAUEDA Water Conservation and Efficient Usage Programme and adapted by the National Department of Planning for Colombia. This index reflects the degree of privations of people in DANE National Administrative Department of Statistics PBV Puerto Bolívar a set of dimensions to determine whether or not a family is in extreme poverty. ARD Acid Rock Drainage FRCP Fatal Risk Control Protocols Multi-dimensional poverty index This measure determines the nature of the privation in accordance with the dimensions selected and their intensity. HR Human Rights IDP Individual Development Plan According to this measure, a person is considered to be poor if he or she has at least five privations in the variables selected. MSD Musculoskeletal Disorders PEI Institutional Education Project DPN National Planning Department GDP Gross Domestic Product e Equivalent PM10 Particulate Matter under 10 microns OD Occupational Diseases PM2,5 Particulate Matter under 2.5 microns EN Endangered EMP Environmental Management Plan Sustainability Indicators Environment EOT Land Use Plan UNDP United Nations Development Programme EPA Environmental Protection Agency BBAPP Behavioural-Based Accident Prevention Process Environmental investment Sum of all Cerrejón’s expenditures in 2012 for environmental control, monitoring, and management. eq Equivalent PTC Qualified Technical Staff ESAP Advanced School of Public Administration RAA Risk Assesment and Assurance Group FCAG Cerrejón Foundation for Water in La Guajira WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Areas disturbed and available Established through monthly topographical measurement of the areas disturbed by the operation and the areas FCFI Cerrejón Foundation for Institutional Strengthening of La Guajira OHR Operational Human Resources rehabilitated by our Land Reclamation Programme. FCPA Foreign Corrupt Practices Act CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Fecoc Emission Factors of Colombian Fuels SENA National Training Service Finagro Fund for Financing in the Agricultural and Livestock Sectors OSH-MS Occupational Safety and Health Management System Consumption of resources, energy, and water Data logged in our internal records as part of the registry and control of consumption. FRCP Fatal Risk Control Protocol SGR General Royalty System Gal Gallons SIN National Interconnected System Total direct and indirect GHG emissions GATISO Evidence-Based Guidelines for Occupational Healthcare Service SIS Comprehensive Healthcare System Cerrejón continues to measure greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) based on the method proposed by the consulting GHG Greenhouse Gases Sisaire Information System on Air Quality — CO2 emissions firm of Itasca Africa PTY-Ltd. GERM Geological Review Meeting CLMMW Current Legal Monthly Minimum Wage SEG Similar Exposure Group SOx Sulfur Oxides GJ Gigajoule SST Workplace Health and Safety Emissions CNG Compressed Natural Gas ESS Epidemiological Surveillance System The methodology to calculate the emissions is based on EPA factors in reference AP42 for heavy machinery, which are used GRI Global Reporting Initiative tCO2e Tonnes of CO2 equivalent GWh Gigawatt Hour ICT Information and Communications Technology to convert fuel units to MP, SOx, and NOx emissions. ha Hectare TLV Threshold Limit Values As of 2012, NOx and SOx emissions are calculated to include gasoline consumption of the vehicles from the Bogota offices. Air quality HCM Hospitalisation plan TNC The Nature Conservancy HSEC Health, Safety, Environment and Communities TOEIC Test of English for International Communication E.I Educational Institution Ton/ t Metric tonne WQI Water Quality Index TORC Technical and Operational Review Committee .As of 2012, NOx and SOx emissions are calculated to include gasoline consumption of the vehicles from the Bogota offices. ICBF Colombian Institute of Family Welfare TPR Third Party Review ICMM International Council on Mining and Metals TSP Total Suspended Particles ICR Rural Credit Incentive UICN International Union for Conservation of Nature Ideam Institute of Hydrology, Meteorology, and Environmental Studies MHU Mobile Healthcare Unit Aggregate amount of hazardous and non-hazardous waste generated for the year, based on legal specifications. CIFR Classified Injury Frequency Rate UPME Unit of Mining and Energy Planning Waste generation RIFR Recordable Injury Frequency Rate USAID United States Agency for International Development INCODER Colombian Institute for Rural Development VU Vulnerable Environmental sanctions Total fines for legal environmental breaches. INFOTEP Institute for Technical and Professional Training ZOLIP Extreme Poverty Free Zone INTERCOR International Colombian Resources Corporation µg Microgram 98 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 99 Verificación independiente SGS COLOMBIA S.A. — REPORT ON SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES OPPORTUNITIES FOR IMPROVEMENT OF CERREJÓN COAL LIMITED FOR 2012 • Since the persons involved in organizing and compiling information for the sustainability reports can change, it is necessary to apply a standard methodology of knowledge of the GRI guidelines. This will allow each indicator to NATURE AND SCOPE OF ASSURANCE show the interactions in the body of the report so that each individual also has an overall view of the contents of the SGS Colombia S.A. was requested by Cerrejón Coal Limited and CZN S.A. (hereinafter Cerrejón) to carry out a IS2013 and its mandatory coordination with the various tools established with different management systems. third-party assurance of the Sustainability Report 2012. • Establish long-term goals and outlooks. The scope of the assurance, based on the SGS methodology of sustainability report assurance, included the text, • Given the version change from GRI:G3 to GRI:G4 (May 2013), the appropriate measures will need to be taken to all the GRI.G3.1 indicators, the sector indicators for Mining and Metals, the data tables in this report, and correlation adjust the established methodologies to the new suggested guidelines. Moreover, sections 7.5 subsection 15 and with ISO26000. section 7.6.2 of the Guidelines for Social Responsibility ISO26000 will need to be taken into account to align them with the new requirements. The information in the Cerrejón SR2012 and its presentation are the responsibility of the directors and management • Determine whether the issue of forced labour is truly related to the topic of work hours found in the Internal Work of Cerrejón. SGS Colombia S.A. did not participate in preparing any of the materials included in the SR2012. Regulations. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the text, data, graphs, and statements in the scope of the assurance, • Continue the work with the supply chains and their compliance with methodologies of this type (Human Rights, as explained below, with the aim of providing information to all of Cerrejón's stakeholders. GRI, SA8000, ISO26000, and similar) in order to formally measure their performance. • Regularity in issuing the Sustainability Report is a good practice that should be continued year after year. This report is assured with a high level of scrutiny, using our protocols for: • Process direct GRI acknowledgement for the current report. • Evaluation of content truthfulness • Evaluation of the SR2012 in light of the Mining and Metals Sector Supplement • Comparison of the results with the Sustainability Report from the previous year, IS2011. Signed by: For and in the name of SGS Colombia S.A. The evaluation was carried out in August of 2013 and covered a combination of pre-assurance investigation, review of documents and records, and interviews with Cerrejón employees at various levels of responsibility at the Mine, Puerto Bolívar, and the offices in Bogota. The assurance team was chosen based on their knowledge, experience, and qualifications for this task. DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE AND COMPETENCE The Assurance Group is satisfied with the information contained in the Sustainability Report 2012 covering the period of January 1 to December 31 of 2012 since, as a strategic tool, it solidly and transparently contributes to a CATALINA DONCEL GONZÁLEZ clear vision of Cerrejón's performance. The conduct and actions in social responsibility are in accordance with the SYSTEMS & SERVICES CERTIFICATION reasonable expectations of the stakeholders, and they are compatible with other global standards. We believe that PRODUCT MANAGER the organization has chosen an appropriate level of assurance for this phase in their reports. September 2 of 2013 GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE REPORTING GUIDELINES (2006) CONCLUSIONS, RESULTS, AND RECOMMENDATIONS www.sgs.com Cerrejón's Sustainability Report 2012, a voluntary document by means of which the organization publicizes its perSGS COLOMBIA S.A. formance in the financial, environmental, and social areas, provides early warnings to prevent impacts in these three Cra. 16ª #78-11 piso 3 sectors. In addition, it meets the internal purpose of demonstrating organizational consistency by gathering figures, BOGOTA D.C. COLOMBIA organizing them methodically, and basically showing that the social responsibility policies and criteria are in fact consistent and aligned with the most profound corporate goals. With the publication of the Sustainability Report 2012 and its assurance by a third party, Cerrejón now has five reporting documents that demonstrate its achievement of internal dynamics to manage data and figures, take advantage of lessons learned, motivate workers to appropriate organizational achievements, and shoulder the commitment to act to meet the business goals. The document's dynamic structure makes it easier to read, use, and understand by its stakeholders. 100 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 101 Comunicación de Progreso Avanzado COP Communication on Progress (COP) Global Compact Network Colombia Bogota D.C., October 15 of 2013 Doctor ROBERTO JUNGUITO POMBO Presidente Cerrejón Dear Doctor Junguito, The Global Compact is a United Nations initiative that promotes the ten principles in line with respect and support for human rights, labour aspects, environmental Se S nd us your comm mentts, con oncernns protection, and the fight against corruption. or ug ugge ugg o sug gest stions to It currently comprises the largest corporate citizenship network in the world, present subscribe@cerrejon.com in over 130 countries and with over 10,000 organizations as signatories. One of the comunica@cerrejon.com commitments shouldered by organizations adhering to the Global Compact is to Head office annually put together and communicate their progress in management of the ten Bogotá Offices Calle 100 No N . 19-554 Piso 12 principles. Bogo gotáá (57)) (1) 595-5555 go The Global Compact Colombia Local Network, on CERREJÓN'S request, reviewed L Guajiraa (57 La 57)) (5) 350-5555 57 their Sustainability Report 2012 using the criteria of the Communication on Prowww.cerrejon.com gress (CoP) (advanced, in this case), which involved following 24 additional indicaCerrejón Foundation System tors. Bogotá (57) (1) 595-2441 We are very pleased to supply these comments and contributions to your report, in La Guajira (57) (5) 350-2441 addition to proposing your recognition as a Communication on Progress Advanced www.fundacionescerrejon.com level based on evidence contained in it. Documentation, Analysis and Production Management Yours sincerely, Research and Investigation Centre Cerrejón Communica cations caa s Di D vision i Consulting C CREO, CRR Cons nstructores de Reespoons nsabilidad y Ética Organizacional MAURICIO LÓPEZ GONZÁLEZ Style Editing Executive Director Shelly Windodoover Independent Verification SGS Colombia S.A. Design Pradilla Compañía Creativa 102 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 103 Responsible mining 104 2012 Sustainability Report
