To Whom It May Concern: In this our first annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to confirm that Dowlis Corporate Solutions Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We are committed to sharing this information throughout the business and with both our customers and suppliers using our primary channels of communication. Dowlis’ goal is to influence our employees and all of our business partners to respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights and environmental protection. Our corporate social responsibility code is based upon the Ethical Trading Initiative Base Code and on the SEDEX requirements for ethical trading. It is published on our website and all of our business partners have signed the code to agree with our guiding principles. Our company handbook covers policies concerning our employee rights and responsibilities. We assess labour related risks and conduct third party audits on those factories we work with to drive transparency through our supply chains and ensure our labour principles are being followed. Dowlis takes our environmental responsibilities very seriously. We have a dedicated resource that monitors environmental and safety risks so that we maintain our certified ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 quality standards. We have a zero-tolerance policy for corruption or bribery. This is outlined in our CSR code and communicated to all employees. Our books and accounts are subject to an annual external audit by an independent company. There have been no suspicious incidents reported. Dowlis are proud to support the Global Compact and will do all that we can to be guided by it’s principles as we move into the forthcoming year ahead. Yours sincerely, David Lynn Managing Director t 0844 225 7070 f 0844 225 7060 Company registration No: 1179852 Sedex membership Number: S189219019803 Registered address: Dowlis Corporate Solutions (UK) Ltd Cobb House, 2-4 Oyster Lane, Byfleet, Surrey, KT14 7HQ, UK VAT No. GB860 6017 41
