We’re dedicated to … Collaboration, Talent, Development, People, Ambition, Progress, Giving, Human Rights, Community, Justice, Education, Outcomes, Clients, Sustainability, Mobility, Environment, Inclusion, Efficiency, Partnering, Excellence. Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 CLIFFORD CHANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2014 Clifford Chance is one of the world’s pre-eminent law firms, with significant depth and range of resources across five continents. We always strive to exceed the expectations of our clients, whether from business, government or the not-for-profit sector, We pride ourselves on our approachable, collegial and team-based culture and the commitments we make to our people and 1. 2. 3. providing the highest-quality service and to the wider world. People Community Environment legal insight. We are equipping our people to help We work with our people and with We help manage environmental clients compete in an ever more NGO partners to make a greater concerns at a societal, business complex world. impact on our communities. and individual level. p14 p20 p26 Contents Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this 2 At a glance 14 People: Empowering our people 30 Targets and progress document may constitute attorney advertising. 4 Highlights of the year to deliver their best for our clients 31 Global matrix Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. 6 Senior and managing 20 Community: Having a greater 32 A thank you to our partners’ introduction impact on our communities dedicated people 10 Fair Trials International 26 Environment: Managing the impact we have on the environment This Corporate Responsibility Report is also 12 Global trends available online at www.cliffordchance.com Clifford Chance LLP 1 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 AT A GLANCE We’re dedicated to … … Empowering our people to deliver their best for … Having a greater impact on our … Managing the impact we have on the our clients communities environment … implementing an outstanding corporate responsibility programme that has a significant and positive impact on our firm and the communities in which we operate, in support of our ambition to lead the elite group of international law firms. Our strategic CR priorities 2013–18 To build an inclusive and supportive culture To have an outstanding pro bono and community To take a responsible and effective approach to that embraces our diversity and leverages its outreach platform that enables everyone in the measuring and managing our own environmental advantages, and which provides opportunities for firm to engage enthusiastically, and which delivers impact, and to be a leading player in finding the best and brightest individuals from the widest effective assistance to our charitable and legal solutions for our clients to facilitate the range of backgrounds to develop their skills and not-for-profit partners. implementation of sustainable energy broaden their experience. technologies and projects. p14 p20 p26 Progress and achievements 167 110 11,744 158 10,394 143 94 9,436 10,118 9,552 78 82 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 See our 2013/14 objectives on p30 E-learning courses available Partners sitting on boards of not-for-profit organisations Total energy used per FTE (kWh) Objectives for 2014/15 • Work towards a more gender-balanced partnership comprising at least 30% female partners • Increase pro bono hours to match 2012/13 levels • Reduce our CO2 emissions by at least 5% from 2012/13 baseline by end of 2017/18 • 60% of lawyers to undertake pro bono work • Invest in a new learning management system and • Strategic global pro bono and community outreach • Reduce paper consumption by 10% per employee virtual classroom tools to improve the accessibility, clients to account for 10% of pro bono hours from 2012/13 consumption by by end of 2017/18 relevance and timeliness of the full range of learning • Develop memoranda of understanding (MoUs) for all of the firm’s • Every office (where possible) to recycle at least 30% of all options for all our people. strategic global pro bono and community outreach clients general waste by by end of 2017/18 • Review and refresh the community outreach opportunities • Every office (where possible) to recycle at least 50% of office provided by the firm for our Business Services teams. paper waste by by end of 2017/18 • Every office to ensure at least 15% of paper has at least 30% post-consumer recycled content, or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised, certified sources showing a low carbon footprint, by end of 2017/18. 2 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 3 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE YEAR 3 5 7 PEN INTERNATIONAL NAS/MIND SUPREME ENVIRONMENTAL Global offices Initiative location Locations: China, Honduras, Korea, Madrid, Paris and Tokyo COURT JUDGMENT CLEAN-UP DAYS Location: London Locations: Amsterdam, Dubai, Hong Kong, Rome 1 Our global strategic pro bono client, PEN When two teenage sisters were taken into International, works to defend writers’ SECTOR freedom of expression. Our £150,000 care and contact with their mother was restricted by court, they had no choice in Environmental clean-up days allow us to engage with our clients and communities and WORKSHOPS three-year donation will allow the charity to develop PEN clubs in schools in 20 countries the matter. We assisted charities the National benefit the areas in which we live and work. Locations: Amsterdam, Düsseldorf, Autistic Society (NAS) and Mind in their From clean-up days in Dubai and preserving that will promote literacy, creative learning and London, Madrid, Paris joint intervention in a Supreme Court case. wildlife areas in Amsterdam to planting trees an understanding of human rights to up to It resulted in a landmark judgment clarifying in Hong Kong and cleaning graffiti in Rome, 180,000 children. We have also reviewed how to determine whether care arrangements many offices around our network take part their website and HR policies, translated for a person who lacks capacity to decide in action to help their environment. Our clients need advisers who can documents and reviewed one of their reports. where to live amount to a ‘deprivation of concentrate on the legal issues while also liberty’. If they do, statutory safeguards are understanding the business environment triggered to ensure the person is deprived 17 8 in which they operate. The Clifford Chance 1 5 1 of their liberty in a safe and correct way, and Academy’s sector workshops bring together 1 3 only when it is in their best interests and there lawyers from across the firm to ensure they 8 is no other way to look after them. have a deep knowledge and understanding 4 8 7 of the industries in which our clients work. 1 3 In 2013/14 230 lawyers attended workshops 4 3 2,3 covering five sectors. 3 8 2 7 8 274 CHAMPIONING COLLABORATING REFUGEES’ RIGHTS 2 WITH CLIENTS 3 Locations: Abu Dhabi, Amsterdam, Locations: Bangkok, Hong Kong, Milan, New York Sydney, Tokyo 4 MERCY SHIPS 6 6 We work with clients to celebrate and draw Across Asia Pacific, our lawyers work with Locations: Hong Kong, New York, strength from the diversity within our refugee and asylum charities. Asylum Access is one of our global pro bono clients; in 2012 Washington, DC NASIO businesses. Hosted or co-hosted events in Abu Dhabi and New York have explored how the Hong Kong Refugee Advice Centre (since Location: Kenya to attract women to corporate boards and renamed ‘Justice Centre’) won our Access to how top women in finance manage their Justice Award (see 2013 report); in Sydney, At the age of two, twins Assan and Allusan careers. In Amsterdam, clients heard from we worked with Justice Connect to help had their first game of tag after Mercy Ships More than 300 Kenyan children sat down to Human Rights Watch about lesbian, gay, asylum seekers apply for protection visas; treated the cataracts that had left them blind. a full meal every single day in 2013 thanks to bisexual and transgender (LGBT) issues. in Tokyo we have provided pro bono support For the past two years, a US-based team 2 the Nasio Trust, which we have supported And in Italy, we hosted 60 guests, including to asylum seekers through the Japan has been providing pro bono advice for the financially for five years. The extra nutrition clients, for a discussion on how unconscious Association for Refugees; and our Bangkok construction of the charity’s first ever purposeprovided by the home-grown food led to bias can affect working relationships. office has donated funds and provided built hospital ship. When complete, it will be support in-kind to the Bangkok Refugee the world’s largest civilian hospital ship. record academic achievement and a sharp S  ee page 11 of our Building a better Centre since 2009. drop in malnutrition-related illness. place to work for everyone report 4 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 5 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 SENIOR AND MANAGING I meet clients, this is right at the top of their So how does this fit with the Malcolm: There’s also an important point here agenda – and it’s not just lip-service. They wider business objectives? about individual development. Our people who PARTNERS’ INTRODUCTION really do want us to be working hand in hand are involved in this type of activity – whether it’s with them on these types of projects. Malcolm: Personally I don’t see this as pro bono advice, mentoring local students, or a separate agenda; being a responsible working alongside clients on an environmental Malcolm: There is also a clear business business should be integral to everything initiative – all have a much broader, more rationale. When I look at the approach we we do. We need to take the interests of all considered view of business life, and develop have taken over the past 30-odd years in of our stakeholders into account with every a wider range of really valuable life skills and Africa, there has been a lot of emphasis on decision we make. business skills. For our lawyers, it’s a great way making a broad contribution to the countries Matthew: Take the example of how we’ve for them to understand the context beyond the where we operate through legal education, entered new markets over recent years, where immediate confines of the transaction or case developing legal frameworks and through we put a lot of focus on understanding the that they’re working on at any given moment. projects on the ground, for example investing in schools so more children have access to wider impacts of our practice and the benefits Matthew: Feeling that you can have a positive We’re dedicated to … better learning. That strategy has brought that we can bring to those economies. So, impact on some of the more pressing issues positive benefits to everyone concerned, while our recruitment intake in Saudi includes facing society is also hugely motivating, and including us. We gain a better understanding female lawyers who are chosen for their talent that’s an important aspect of ensuring that Building a sustainable, of the local market and of key influencers and ability to provide high-quality advice and everyone here feels that Clifford Chance is – and, in turn, they trust us: they see that we support to our clients, we know that hiring a really great place to work. are not just looking to benefit, but making a them sends an important signal to other comprehensive approach to substantive commitment. It’s a virtuous circle. female lawyers in Saudi about the potential career opportunities available to them. our corporate responsibilities. At Clifford Chance, we have a shared expectation that we act responsibly and are What are the drivers for the commitment to corporate responsibility (CR). seen to be acting responsibly. I would say that CR strategy? And our senior leadership ensures that this this expectation is common to all large global commitment is integrated across the firm and businesses like ours that are leaders in their Matthew: This is not something that into our strategy. Our new managing partner, field. I think there is a wide acceptance that management has had to dictate; this comes Senior partner Matthew Layton, and senior partner Malcolm organisations must take a holistic approach, straight from our people and always has. Malcolm Sweeting The level of engagement and participation in all (left) and managing Sweeting talk about how they understand CR thinking about all of their stakeholders. So, partner Matthew and what it means to them. in our case, not just doing our best for our aspects of our CR programme is phenomenal. Layton (right). clients but also working in a way that brings Our people want to be involved and, effectively, Clifford Chance has had its benefits to the broader business environment look to the firm for a sort of institutional CR strategy in place for six and, indeed, to civil society. organisational commitment. years now. Why is CR so The push is also coming from clients. They important to the firm? Matthew: We’re living in a world that’s undergoing a huge amount of change as know what they must do to secure the trust Matthew: For me, corporate responsibility is we grapple with globalisation, urbanisation and confidence of their stakeholders and, all about creating a relationship of trust with, and the impacts of the financial crisis. We in turn, they expect exactly the same of us. and commitment to, the broader communities realise that – in comparison with many – They also see us as an organisation they in which we operate; it’s what gives any we are in a very privileged position. We have can partner with: just as we combine our organisation its reputational licence to over 6,000 people here, hugely talented and skills and resources on specific pieces of operate, so is absolutely critical. with a fantastic range of valuable skills and client work to get better outcomes and experience. Together, we really can make an have a greater impact, they see that the same Malcolm: That’s right: what we hear from logic applies to initiatives around diversity impact. We can’t solve the world’s problems our staff, clients, recruits, suppliers – from and inclusion or the community. Whenever but it’s crucial that we do our bit. all our stakeholders – is that they have an 36 offices in 26 countries £1,359m in revenues 6 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 SENIOR AND MANAGING OUR CR STRATEGY PARTNERS’ INTRODUCTION CONTINUED Benefit to client That sense of personal The UN Global Compact is So what next for CR at Str development and motivation, also rooted in this idea of Clifford Chance? en gt h is that something that you’ve strengthening the bonds ic e Benefit to firm en experienced through your own between business and civil Malcolm: Well, we’re on a journey. We are dv sr definitely moving forward and our progress is e ra el at involvement in CR? society. What part does accelerating. There is no sense here that this tt i be Matthew: Absolutely. I am lucky enough to membership of the Compact is an exercise in ticking boxes. Rather the g, opl e on sh e Br play in Clifford Chance’s opposite – if something is only about ticking in yp oa lit sit on the advisory board for Concordis, an de ip nd a st organisation that seeks to promote peace and CR strategy? the boxes rather than moving towards our qu ns hta e hr long-term resolution of disputes in areas of goals, then we’re unlikely to do it. er s nd ou ea g Matthew: For a business like ours, the hi We xp conflict around the world. It’s deeply rewarding und s p lac ence w er gh Compact is very relevant. We fully appreciate Matthew: That’s not to say there’s not lop k ri fin id ien to think that you might be able to contribute to o r xpe an that we play an important role in enabling more to be done. There is tremendous ev e e c en ce pro eate an in We cr an organisation that is doing such important t ter Co globalisation; with that comes great engagement and support for CR across stice, , de e dd le jec t cl u to ju work, helping it to scale up in an environment Ensures be responsibility. Globalisation brings sweeping the firm but I would like to see everyone ss cation ve l o t s , r et ai ns a en s nity p broad our skil ive At t r a c ce where there is – unfortunately – ever more mu collaborat ion changes, and it’s critical to our future as an involved in some capacity, and that means Pe o u ac d ed ps skills need for its expertise. But I’m also learning a organisation, and as individuals, that those creating the right opportunities for people to ls an w m n Our CR an lot; I find it fascinating to watch the team use changes benefit everyone – not just a lucky contribute. For example, lots of our partners dialogue and negotiation to bring about few. Participating in the Compact helps us already sit on the boards of NGOs, where strategy compromise and resolution, and it’s also keep those wider impacts front and centre their experience and skills can really make a d very relevant for some of our client work. in our thinking. difference; I want to get more of them taking Malcolm: When I talk to our NGO on those roles. Malcolm: The commitment to acting partners, I am reminded very forcefully of the responsibly really must start with the firm. Also, picking up on what Malcolm said En vironme nt connections between business and society. W r t earlier about taking a holistic approach, su rin From my point of view, the Compact provides ta e a fo p ns oot s in Creating the right platforms for businesses a valuable framework, but it really is up to I wholly agree. Being a responsible business a b d v is e u t i o f le e on legal sol r to come together, or to join forces effectively ne r g ou businesses to grasp the nettle, to understand is not just about pro bono legal advice, y and manage t with NGOs, can be a very powerful way that they can make a difference and to work or mentoring underprivileged students, or De en to address societal issues. The potential for mo nm diversity programmes, or reducing our carbon ns ro together using our collective influence and tra tes c e nv i these collective efforts to transform lives, joint resources to secure better outcomes footprint – however important those activities ommit ment t o t he to transform economies, is immense, and an for society. all are. Being a responsible business is about area where we can make a real contribution. who we are and how we operate. That’s where I want us to get to. That’s quite challenging for s Su je ct us in some ways, but also very exciting. pp or t pro s im ful Matthew Layton plem ess entat ion of succ Managing Partner Malcolm Sweeting Senior Partner Our CR governance UN Global Compact and human rights >55,375 56,499 34 The firm’s managing partner and senior partner have overall leadership We are proud to be participants in the UN Global Compact. As part of our CR strategy, ensuring that it is aligned with the firm’s broader of that commitment, and reflecting our ongoing contribution to the goals and culture. A CR Committee, chaired by our global pro bono promotion of business and human rights, we were one of the first partner, and with partner representation from every country in Clifford international law firms to adopt a formal human rights policy. Our Chance’s global network, develops the strategy and oversees local specialist legal advisers in human rights have been working with our hours of training investment hours invested in pro bono and offices recycled at least 50% delivery. Specialist input into and effective execution of our People and CR Committee, as well as our risk and client acceptance functions, volunteering work of paper waste Environment strategies is led by our global head of HR and Talent, and HR teams and global procurement to begin the process of integrating our chief operating officer respectively. Progress against our CR the policy sustainably across our business globally. strategy is reported to our top-level executive committee at multiple points during the year. Read more on p31 Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com 8 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 9 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 We’re dedicated to … 13 WIDENING global strategic pro bono and community outreach clients ACCESS TO JUSTICE, 93 FINANCE AND partners leading pro bono relationships EDUCATION. 17.8 average pro bono hours per FTE Engaging our stakeholders: global NGOs MAKING AN IMPACT WITH Fair Trials International (FTI) is one of 13 OUR GLOBAL STRATEGIC organisations (see over) that Clifford Chance has identified as strategic partners for pro bono PRO BONO AND COMMUNITY and community outreach work. “We wanted OUTREACH CLIENTS to offer a similar level of engagement on a pro bono basis to selected NGO clients as we Foundation funds and support from do to our strategic fee paying clients,” says our lawyers and Business Services Roger Leese, pro bono partner and chair of staff have helped: the firm’s global CR Committee, which oversees Fair Trials International p10 implementation of the global pro bono and community outreach strategy. Human Rights Watch p25 The pro bono clients are aligned with PEN International p4 our themes of widening access to justice, African Prisons Project 2012 report finance and education, and require our particular expertise to increase their capacity and broaden Asylum Access 2013 report their reach. Grameen Foundation 2013 report Each of the 13 NGOs has one or more Habitat for Humanity 2013 report relationship partners, who act as a point of contact to set up projects, then galvanise The Institute for Human Rights lawyers across the firm to join the projects. and Business 2013 report “I’m an enthusiastic fan of the global Room to Read 2013 report strategic pro bono client programme,” says Save the Children 2012 report Bartosz Kruzewski, relationship partner to FTI. “The work we do for these clients is aligned A4ID with our skills and it’s well regarded. People see Orbis that they are recognised for their involvement, War Child so it’s easier to get support – and that means we can make a real difference for these clients.” Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com FAIR TRIALS INTERNATIONAL Clifford Chance lawyer Robert Sandes at FTI’s London clinic. Campaigning for legal reforms FTI was one of the first organisations to join Clifford Chance’s global strategic pro bono and community outreach client programme in to protect everyone’s right to 2011 (see insert). Since then, we have helped FTI with research into the use of the European Arrest Warrant and into pre-trial detention. a fair trial. We’re now exploring opportunities to use our experience with the EU Court to help FTI use the court to make the right to a fair trial a reality in Europe. Warsaw partner Bartosz Kruzewski is Clifford Chance’s relationship partner for FTI, helping to set up and coordinate Fair Trials International, one of our areas that are in desperate need of reform. projects, identifying and motivating lawyers global strategic pro bono and Our aim is for the right to a fair trial to be across the firm to do the work and acting community outreach clients, respected across the globe – and the as the point of contact. helps hundreds of people arrested European Union should act as a beacon “It’s similar to the work we do for our across the world each year. of respect for this basic human right.” strategic clients,” Bartosz says. “People are To help shine a light on the problem, excited and eager to work on the projects – Coming out of a café in Spain one morning it’s intellectually demanding, challenging and FTI has produced a web-based, interactive with his wife and daughter, ‘Peter’ was fulfilling work. FTI helps individuals who are map of the EU that shows the track record arrested at gunpoint and put in prison subjected to unfair trials, so we’re ultimately of various European countries on the right to await trial. He waited four years; charges helping those individuals.” to a fair trial. This has been an invaluable were never brought. “I lost my wife, my The programme is important for a tool in highlighting the issue to the European daughter, my house, car, business – I lost small organisation with big ambitions to make Commission and the European Parliament. everything,” Peter says. the basic human right to a fair trial a reality for And Clifford Chance lawyers across Europe Hundreds of people in this kind of everyone. “Ours is not a cause that attracts conducted the research necessary to do this. Jago Russell, chief executive of terrifying situation receive help each year from mass funding,” Jago says. “But it matters more “This really was a stand-out piece of Fair Trials International, speaks Fair Trials International (FTI), which defends work,” Jago says. “We’re a small, specialised than people think. A fair criminal justice system at an event at our London office. the rights of people facing criminal charges organisation – we can’t do the work on the prevents miscarriages of justice and makes the in countries across the globe and campaigns whole of society fairer and safer. Fair trials are ground without local knowledge. With its to overcome persistent causes of injustice essential in upholding the rule of law.” global network of engaged and enthusiastic such as excessive detention without trial. lawyers – and the use of its offices and “The perception of European facilities – Clifford Chance has helped us institutions, society, politicians – and even get tangible results, like a new EU-wide law the legal community – is that criminal justice guaranteeing the right to a lawyer.” in Europe is very good,” says Jago Russell, chief executive of FTI. “But there are certain 132,800 Approximate number of pre-trial detainees in the EU * €4.8bn Approximate annual cost of pre-trial detention in the EU * Bartosz Kruzewski, Clifford Chance relationship partner for FTI. * Figures taken from FTI report Detained without trial: Fair Trials International’s response to the European Commission’s Green Paper on detention, October 2011 Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com 10 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 11 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 GLOBAL TRENDS Our corporate responsibility strategy estate. Businesses will need to equip their 2. The shrinking state 3. Business and human rights is not created in isolation. We must employees to be future-focused and agile As governments cut spending after Global businesses increasingly operate understand the wider trends in the world if they want to take advantage of the the financial crisis, charities and in a world where establishing and and the business environment to ensure opportunities this change will bring. corporations have stepped in to fill maintaining their licence to operate our CR strategy is focused on the areas gaps left by the shrinking state. is a core underpinning of their strategy Evolving technology that matter – and that we, in turn, and operations. From mobile voice to mobile data to mobile Justice for all? can impact. meetings – our systems, software and In Britain, legal aid budgets have been Stakeholder-driven tools allow us to collaborate with anyone, slashed, leaving people to fight family, There is a need to respond to greater 1. The future of work anywhere. And we’re ‘always on’. Jobs will employment, benefit and housing cases expectations from external stakeholders, In a rapidly evolving business landscape, be more fluid and interconnected, requiring without professional counsel. In Spain, especially since the financial crisis. But the we must change the way we work. a flexible, virtual workforce. Meanwhile, thousands of families have ended up in pressure is also from within organisations The skills that have brought success technology will allow automation of routine court facing eviction from their properties. themselves: staff and shareholders all hold in the past will not guarantee a career tasks and people will need to develop Other EU countries have been criticised businesses to account against a wide range in the future. high-value, knowledge-based skills to for failing to keep up with directives on of metrics where trust, and acting responsibly, Demographic change compete for work. providing all citizens with access to justice. are even more important than immediate Economic growth in emerging markets is Effects of globalisation financial performance. New roles for charity and enterprise bringing rapid urbanisation, a burgeoning Global networks of interconnected individuals Food banks are now a part of everyday life An international approach middle class and increased demand for are knocking aside traditional geographic in the world’s richest nations. Charities such as Human rights are an important part of the power, goods and services. Meanwhile, boundaries. There are fewer barriers to taking Save the Children and the Red Cross – usually picture, and moving up the boardroom in many mature markets, populations are a business ‘global’. Professionals will need to associated with lower-income countries – have agenda. In 2011 the UN adopted its Guiding ageing. These shifts will bring disruptive be adaptable – able to live and do business stepped in to help the poorest across Europe. Principles, which outline the responsibility change to sectors such as healthcare, across borders – and to compete on a global NGOs are adapting to changing societal of businesses to protect and respect human energy, infrastructure, banking and real stage for the best jobs. needs, and they will need help from all sectors rights. While they were widely welcomed by of the corporate world to provide services the corporate community, every organisation previously in the sphere of the state. in every sector should now develop an action plan for how the Guiding Principles are embedded across its organisation. In most 4. Perpetual energy inaccessible or uneconomic sources of With a world population projected to energy – such as shale gas and oil sands – businesses, these issues are complex and hit 9.6 billion by 2050, 70% of whom are fossil fuels may still dominate the electricity nuanced; the answers are rarely black and expected to live in cities, the demand supply. But renewable energy is likely to white, and never static. for power will continue to spiral. make up an increasing share. Technological advances will make its We have seen a large increase in energy production more efficient. And increasingly consumption in places such as China, frequent severe weather, caused by global where urbanisation is sparking rapid growth warming brought about by elevated carbon of an aspirational middle class, and driving dioxide levels, may sway public opinion and demand. Given the relatively recent put increasing pressure on governments to exploitation of vast reserves of previously legislate in favour of renewable power sources. Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com 12 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 13 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 People Victoria Bortkevicha, partner, Russia with Sergei Kabanov, senior associate, Russia. We’re dedicated to … 4,821 EMPOWERING Clifford Chance Academy participants OUR PEOPLE TO DELIVER 1,715 legal and business skills courses available THEIR BEST FOR OUR CLIENTS. 4.7 out of 5, average feedback rating How do we know when we have delivered our best to our clients? • We advised eight of the top 10 companies in the Fortune 500 Engaging our stakeholders: clients • Our largest 25 clients each worked with What drives a client’s choice of legal provider us across all six of our practice areas, and how can we stand out? and across more than 20 of our offices It’s a question we constantly ask ourselves • Among a host of awards, Clifford Chance was – and our clients. Our people speak to clients named the number one law firm in Chambers every day: during the course of a matter, to Global Top 30, with more Band 1 rankings respond to queries or to update them on than any other firm. interesting developments. We engage them in discussions about their wider business issues and the environment they operate in, and we share industry knowledge through sector teams that cut “This year Clifford Chance has claimed the across our business units. It enables us to offer top spot, merited by its geographic reach, our clients legal expertise and advice based on depth of expertise, and client service. a wider business perspective. We also seek opportunities to share our As one client commented: ‘They are the knowledge and thought leadership in wider best in the business. We have used a lot forums, regularly addressing industry gatherings of firms, and they just stand out. They and organising events of our own. can bring in partners wherever they are Seeking feedback from clients at an needed, and they are always fantastic.’” individual level is equally important – and often — Chambers Global yields essential insights. We regularly conduct relationship, matter and pitch reviews with clients to understand how we can improve our services and to recognise where we’ve done well. 167 158 143 70 82 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com E-learning courses available PEOPLE CLIFFORD CHANCE AFRICA ACADEMY Edmund Boyo Partner, Germany RAISING THE BAR At our inaugural African Counsel Retreat in London in July 2013, 80 counsel from 30 African countries came together with Almudena Rodríguez Clifford Chance to strengthen ties, enhance knowledge-sharing Business development and communications manager, Spain and exchange insights. We’re dedicated to … “Our African colleagues told us that their associates lack ready access Almudena Rodríguez leads the Business Development to legal training for international transactions in their home country,” and Communications function for Clifford Chance’s says Edmund Boyo, Frankfurt Finance partner and co-head of our Spanish offices. Empowering our people to Africa practice. For Almudena Rodríguez, working at Clifford Chance offered an So, partners from our Africa practice decided to devise a series of opportunity to build up the Spanish offices’ business development training courses to deliver training to lawyers in Africa, based on the deliver their best for our clients. (BD) capability – and raise the bar for herself professionally. world-class training programmes delivered to our lawyers through Almudena joined Clifford Chance eight years ago – when the Spanish the Clifford Chance Academy. By September, Nigeria had hosted offices, after over 20 years’ success in the market, decided to bring the first Clifford Chance Africa Academy training session. in specialist help to support their ambitions for growth. “Our African relationship firms are equal partners,” says Edmund. “Clifford Chance believed that a dedicated team of BD and “Their associates and partners are dealing with the same clients and communications professionals could play an important role in helping the same issues as we are. They need access to the same quality the firm to reach its long-term goals,” Almudena says. “Working here of training as we have so that, together, we can deliver an excellent Our clients are competing in a world and inclusive working environment that gives has given me an excellent chance to help deliver this strategic service to our clients.” undergoing kaleidoscopic change, them the freedom to develop themselves driven by globalisation, shifting and exceed our clients’ expectations. approach and really make an impact.” As well as Nigeria, courses have taken place in Côte d’Ivoire, South demographics, evolving technology and Almudena leads a team that works alongside partners and associates Africa, Kenya and Ghana. The participants are enthusiastic: “The a host of other forces. Our relationship Supportive learning organisers thought of everything and covered all the salient points.” to plan and deliver initiatives that enhance the firm’s reputation, attract People can call on formal and informal with those clients is also starting to new business and support a client-focused approach to managing They also appreciate the interactive format: “The group exercises networks to discuss their careers and work expand – from offering pure legal relationships. were very practical and realistic.” issues. Career development partners are counsel to advising on strategic issues available to help lawyers map their career “You really need to be a strong influencer,” Almudena says. “Your The benefits flow both ways, Edmund says. Clifford Chance partners – and so our lawyers and Business paths, and line managers take on this role insights, engagement and determination must inspire the people and associates conduct the training courses, learning valuable Services people are adapting, too. for Business Services professionals. And you work with to think and behave in a way that wins us a competitive lessons about communicating, motivating and building relationships, Today’s lawyers recognise that they must our global appraisal framework ensures advantage. It’s a demanding environment – it pushes you to give and the African firms can access training that helps them to attain the develop skills beyond legal expertise to every partner and employee discusses your best.” highest international standards in legal practice. succeed in their careers and for their clients. their career aspirations and learning and And Almudena has taken every opportunity to do that. She recently “If sustained,” says Femi Olubanwo, partner at Banwo & Ighodalo, They need to be flexible and collaborative, development requirements at least annually. completed the Academy’s executive management programme, “the benefit to African law firms and their clients will be immeasurable with an international mindset and a deep Lawyers often find secondments designed as a mini-MBA programme for high-performing leaders in the years to come.” understanding of clients from different an effective way to build commercial acumen markets and sectors. and delivered by the Saïd Business School in Oxford and London. and an international mindset. Most trainees As an organisation, we must provide complete at least one placement in an “It was one of the best – and most refreshing – learning experiences the tools that allow people to learn – under overseas office, and lawyers with partnership I have had!” Almudena says. “I gained confidence in translating the their own initiative and from others – and to ambitions often seek client or overseas strategic direction of the business into the specific projects and share the knowledge and experience they secondment opportunities. initiatives I’m working on. have gained. We must also create a supportive “And the experience I have gained by working with senior people and colleagues around the network has been invaluable.” Our people achievements 719 Almudena Inaugural Africa Rodríguez. Academy training session in Nigeria. business skills training courses Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com 16 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 17 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 PEOPLE Secondments are also supported in our The course complements the Continuous And we have recently introduced a ‘CV-blind’ Gender balance – firm-wide data Business Services teams, when business Improvement Green and Yellow Belt policy, where interviewers for final-stage (% Female) 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 CONTINUED needs and employee aspirations intersect. Academy courses for Business Services candidates are only given the candidate’s Partners 16.0% 16.3% 15.3% 14.5% 14.8% Lawyers and Business Services employees. Over 800 of our people name. These initiatives, among others, have Other fee earners 48.5% 49.1% 49.1% 49.0% 48.6% professionals participate in a comprehensive have now been trained in Continuous won our London office widespread recognition programme of legal and business training, Improvement, including more than for excellence in diversity and inclusion, and Business Services 68.9% 70.2% 70.5% 68.4% 69.4% delivered through the Clifford Chance 500 lawyers from across 12 offices. build on our existing efforts to encourage and For additional data by year or by region, see www.cliffordchance.com Academy, which provides world-class support access to higher education for young learning and development to all our people. An inclusive environment people from disadvantaged backgrounds. Ethnic minorities 2014 The make-up of our organisation should Participants join overseas colleagues in Read more about what we’re doing to Partners* reflect that of our clients and our wider – New York/Washington, DC 5.5% classroom courses – some with webinarcreate a workplace that values and welcomes communities. As our reputation and stature – London 6.3% based follow-up sessions – and take everyone’s contribution in our Building a have grown, we have attracted talent from self-directed e-learning modules. The better place to work for everyone report, Other fee earners* the best educational institutions globally. Academy has supported our industry available online. – New York/Washington, DC 29.9% In some locations, this has resulted in a sector teams in running a further five highly To succeed today, we must be – London 22.8% narrowing of the social background of successful sector workshops (see page 4). geared towards helping our clients achieve Business Services* the people we recruit. their ambitions while protecting their interests – New York/Washington, DC 52.2% Ahead of the curve We’re working to address this in an ever-shifting landscape. And we must The Academy continues to innovate, offering dynamic. Our inclusive policies aim to ensure – London 16.1% continue to enable people to build a fulfilling courses that help our people meet clients’ we identify the best person for each role, *Self-reporting as ethnic minority career in an inclusive, supportive environment evolving requirements. regardless of background. This brings a so they can deliver their best for our clients. Our Continuous Improvement team diverse set of opinions and approaches into worked alongside lawyers and the Academy the workplace, which is richer as a result. to develop a ‘Continuous Improvement for For example, in the UK we are Lawyers’ course, enabling lawyers to analyse co-founding members of the PRIME initiative, the way they work to find ways of doing which aims to raise the aspirations of things better. It was recognised as Best students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Training Programme for Lawyers at the Legal Education and Training Group Awards 2013. A SUPPORTIVE ENVIRONMENT Victoria Bortkevicha, partner, Russia Sergei Kabanov, senior associate, Russia On leaving the Moscow State Law Academy in 2007, That’s where advice and support from a senior colleague can Sergei Kabanov had already qualified with Clifford Chance. be invaluable. “There must be a balance between formal and informal support,” says Victoria Bortkevicha, a partner in the practice. “I finished my studies while on a full-time training contract with the Moscow office, which allowed me to qualify immediately Every associate in Clifford Chance can discuss his or her career after graduating,” he says. “Few firms in Moscow could offer that with a partner. Victoria offers formal career development advice to at the time.” five associates, including Sergei – and informal advice to anyone who asks for it! Sergei, a senior associate in Moscow’s Finance practice, specialises in public-private partnerships and infrastructure. “I keep up with “Formal support helps people work out the steps they need to take developments through our global sector team,” he says. “And if I have to get from point A to point B,” Victoria says. “But, equally, you might questions about points of law, I speak to partners here and in London. just want to grab a coffee and discuss how to develop a stronger I’m always impressed at how available they are.” relationship with client C.” But Sergei recognises that a career here is built on more than being For Victoria, helping people develop their abilities is one of the an expert on the law. “To progress – especially in a smaller office, most satisfying parts of her work. “Yesterday they were students – where the client base is smaller and there’s not as much exposure to today they’re managing their own negotiations,” she says. “I feel like global clients – you need a structure and you need to find your niche part of that success. And, with 20 years working on points of law, of expertise,” he says. that helps keep the job fresh!” >800 Sergei Kabanov and Victoria Bortkevicha. people trained in Continuous Improvement to date Read more on our website: www.cliffordchance.com 18 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 19 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Community CR Awards winner Helen Sepulveda and highly commended Doug Wisner with Debra Wasserman. We’re dedicated to … £18.1m HAVING A time cost value of lawyers’ pro bono work GREATER IMPACT 27 client collaborations on community projects ON OUR COMMUNITIES. 4,153 Business Services volunteering hours OUR 2013 AWARD WINNERS: Engaging our stakeholders: our people As lawyers and business professionals, we have Contribution to the Community: talents and skills we can use for the benefit of the Fundraising and Volunteering communities where we live and do business. Our Khawar Malik (London) Community strategy focuses on three areas where Alongside an incredibly busy life in the we feel we can add the most value: widening Corporate practice (in Dubai and London), access to justice, finance and education. Khawar found time to set up, run and launch We’re recognised in the market for being his own charity, The YouthLink Network. a responsible business – for example, we know Contribution to the Community: Pro Bono it’s a major consideration for graduates who elect Patricia Barratt and team (London) to join us as trainees. We owe this recognition in Patricia and her team worked with the Missing part to the work each of us puts into helping our People charity for five years to secure passing communities. of the Presumption of Death Act 2013. Our annual CR Awards give us a chance to recognise each other. Each year we encourage CR Office Champion people to nominate inspiring colleagues who Helen Sepulveda (New York) deserve to be celebrated for outstanding CR Helen started an office-wide effort to collect work. Previous winners shortlist the nominations, spare pages from printers for Public School and everyone gets to vote. Each winner receives (P.S.) 159, which lacked money for supplies. £5,000 – or the local equivalent – to donate to the As a result, students were able to print charity of his or her choice. 2013 marked our fifth lessons and homework assignments, and annual CR Awards. performance has improved dramatically. Acting as One Firm: Contributing to 110 our Helping 100,000 People campaign 94 Global Human Rights Watch team 78 The team is undertaking an extensive analysis of universal jurisdiction – which allows national courts to investigate and prosecute grave international crimes even though they were committed abroad by a foreigner and against a foreigner. 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Partners sitting on boards of Read more on our website: not-for-profit organisations www.cliffordchance.com COMMUNITY HOPE AND HOMES FOR CHILDREN Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award winner 2013 Many young Ukrainians spend their childhoods in the sterile, soulbest practice guides to improve family-based care, and training draining world of state institutional care. When Kalyna’s father 30 professionals who will in turn train 370 more people. abandoned the family after she was born, leaving them with no income And at its Ray of Hope Centre, the organisation offers services to or home, her mother Aneta had no choice but to seek help from child keep vulnerable families together, including temporary accommodation protection authorities. She was scared Kalyna would enter an institution, for at-risk mothers and their babies, and advice on child care and but international charity Hope and Homes for Children put mother and accessing the benefits system. The centre also provides emergency daughter on their way to a brighter future, together. We’re dedicated to … shelter for children who have been removed from their families or The charity, which won our 2013 Access to Justice Award, supports abandoned, legal advice to families at risk, and longer-term care governments around the world to replace institutional child care with for children with special needs or who cannot be cared for by their family-based systems. Worldwide, 8 million children live in institutions, families or fosterers. Having a greater impact denied a family’s love and constantly at risk of abuse, neglect and a host of other problems – from serious developmental delays caused by lack of stimulation to difficulties communicating and forming normal Since the centre opened in 2011, no local children have been placed in an institution. The charity hopes to see that story repeated everywhere. on our communities. “All children deserve to grow up with the love and support of a family,” relationships. The damage can haunt children into adulthood. says chief executive Mark Waddington. “By giving us access to legal With the support of £50,000 from the Clifford Chance Foundation and advice and support that we never could have afforded otherwise, 500 hours of pro bono work, the charity is now conducting an audit Clifford Chance is helping us make great strides towards the day of the Ukrainian child care system, working on legislation, policy and when children everywhere will have that chance.” From helping build a school to helping When we surpassed that target in the first year, of the excellent work that has been done. influence prison reform, our community we pledged to help 100,000 people every year. There was a notable decrease in hours outreach and pro bono work has one And, at the end of this year, we beat this target recorded in some offices, resulting in a thing in common: it’s focused on again, helping more than 150,000 people. decrease over last year in total hours helping people. Our Helping 100,000 People initiative recorded. We think this was due to high helps us measure the impact of the work work levels, and a significant pro bono Many of us recognise that we live privileged we’re doing and focus our efforts in the right engagement coming to an end with no lives. It has taken hard work to get where we way. It’s also the umbrella under which all immediate alternative, among other factors. are – but also a degree of good fortune. So, our community outreach and pro bono Although this is disappointing, we we feel we have a duty to help other people work takes place. The strategy centres on are heartened by the increased number of who haven’t had the same advantages, or developing global relationships with selected people helped, suggesting that our strategic who have suffered injustice. pro bono and community partners similar to approach is having a positive impact. Those of us who do pro bono the relationships we have with our paying For example, the number of partners and community work get personal and clients (see pages 10-11). sitting on boards of charities has increased professional satisfaction from it. And, by The Clifford Chance Foundation (up 17%, to 110), as have partners leading pro encouraging more people to get involved, underpins the strategy, with half of its annual bono relationships (up 31%, to 93); clients with the benefits will be multiplied within the firm £1m fund driving development of our global which we collaborate (up 12%, to 27); and the and our communities. pro bono and community partnerships. number of global pro bono relationships (to 13). We have put in place a strategy to £100,000 is allocated to disaster relief and We were also delighted to see increase the impact our work has. Our global funding our Access to Justice Award (page 23) strong increases in pro bono and community CR Committee helps drive the strategy, and the remainder is distributed by our offices outreach hours in Bangkok, China, Italy, Kyiv, with partner representation from across to locally important projects. Bucharest and Warsaw. We will continue to the network. One part of this strategy was to This year, our lawyers and Business work with our offices and with our pro bono bring the firm together in pursuit of a common Services professionals have spent nearly and community outreach partners this year goal – we set ourselves a collective challenge 56,500 hours doing pro bono and community to inspire participation and, we hope, to help in 2012 to help 100,000 people by 2015. outreach work. We are tremendously proud more people. Our community £1m 52,346 achievements throughout the year Foundation funding in 2013/14 pro bono hours worked by lawyers 22 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 23 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 COMMUNITY Access to education We’ve been working with Caritas Anchor Access to finance pro bono advice since 2011, helping on the rights of nonand third-gendered Access to education presents House to help speakers of other languages By widening access to finance, we SCOPEinsight set up business, handling people living in the UK. Over the past five CONTINUED opportunities for all members of the ensure they have a basic level of reading use our resources and financial legal contracts and drafting documents. years, the network has helped raise more than firm, including those without legal and writing skills in English. Since 2012, advisory skills, particularly in the field £250,000 for the Albert Kennedy Trust. US training, to help others. 30 lawyers and Business Services staff from of microfinance. New York charity The Door turned to us Australia our London office have attended sessions. Hong Kong UK for help when property developers bid just For many, falling ill with cancer not only brings Heep Hong Society supports children with Germany After being abandoned at a children’s home $100 per square foot for some of its prime health worries but financial ones, too. special needs, enabling them to reach their For Mehrgenerationenhaus, the key to at the age of seven, Ion ran away five years Manhattan real estate development rights. Lawyers in our Sydney office have supported potential and lead fulfilling lives by providing developing life skills and gaining experience is later following physical abuse. Finding himself Our lawyers worked pro bono to reach a the Cancer Council of New South Wales’ training and education to the children and to bring together both young and old people on the streets of London, Ion turned to West $30 million deal – over three times the original Legal Referral Service for three years, their families. Each week, employees from our from migrant backgrounds who live in difficult London Churches Homeless Concern offer. The income will allow The Door to providing pro bono advice to cancer patients Hong Kong office visit the centre to read with social situations. Our Frankfurt office has (WLCHC) who helped him access healthcare, continue offering empowerment services in areas such as employment law, insurance the children before work. Donations from the worked with the charity for almost 10 years, a place to stay and English classes. Last to New York’s most disconnected youth. – including early access to superannuation – office have also paid for equipment such as providing funding and support for its summer winter, a donation from the Clifford Chance and consumer credit matters. camps, competitions for the children and Access to justice iPads and interactive whiteboards to help Foundation enabled 236 of WLCHC’s clients Global Providing access to justice, from the improve the children’s communication and legal advice to those who attend its centres. to be seen by a legal adviser, resulting in Americas to Europe and the Middle In some circumstances, victims of grave social skills. US 45 securing accommodation, 49 receiving international crimes are unable to seek East, in Asia Pacific and in Africa, means When city funding for schools in New York benefits and 21 finding employment. justice from their sovereign nation. A team UK using our advocacy talents to see the Caritas Anchor House is a residential and City was reduced, P.S. 159 asked all parents Netherlands rule of law upheld as well as giving of lawyers from across the network has life skills centre that helps homeless and to donate a ream of paper. Going a step In just four years, Netherlands-based credit citizens essential legal advice. conducted extensive analysis to update vulnerable adults turn their lives around. further, parent and legal secretary Helen rating agency SCOPEinsight has helped Human Rights Watch’s (HRW’s) 2006 Global Sepulveda, along with other secretaries, almost 1.5 million farmers access sustainable report on Universal Jurisdiction in Europe (see Our network for LGBT individuals, Arcus, started collecting scrap paper from printers credit. The social enterprise works with small insert, page 21). The research will help inform volunteered more than 200 hours to LGBT and delivered it to the school. With support and medium-sized agricultural businesses HRW’s work and the results will be published issues around the world last year. The team from the Pro Bono Committee, collection bins in low-income countries, whose growth is to assist organisations and stakeholders who A SPECIAL RELATIONSHIP were installed on each floor of the office. So essential for continued global food security. has helped the Human Dignity Trust to challenge Cameroon’s anti-homosexuality work to prosecute the alleged perpetrators far, over 250,000 sheets have been collected, Our lawyers in Amsterdam have provided of grave international crimes. Access to education: The Special Needs Future legislation and worked with Non-Gendered allowing the children to take home sheets Development Centre (SNF) printed with lessons and assignments, and Location: Dubai improving performance. SNF supports families of young people with special needs, helping them achieve their full potential and integrate into the community. Over the past five years, more than 60 volunteers from our Dubai A POULTRY CONTRIBUTION FILLING A LEGAL ADVICE GAP office have helped deliver a range of educational and therapeutic Access to finance: Shivia Microfinance Access to justice: Free legal advice activities, including dance, numeracy, literacy, arts and crafts. In 2013, Location: West Bengal Locations: Poland, Spain, UK, US we raised AED100,000 (£17,500) for SNF with initiatives such as running a marathon, climbing Mount Kilimanjaro, hosting brunches In West Bengal, a £12 toolkit could get a family out of poverty. Since Recent cuts to legal aid have dramatically affected the lives of and renting out the managing partner’s car at the Christmas auction! 2011, Shivia has sold (at a subsidised rate) and distributed more than Britain’s least well off as demand rises for welfare, housing and We presented the cheque at the annual Christmas Wishes celebration, 6,000 Poultry Development Services (PDS) toolkits, consisting of 10 employment advice. Last year, 171 of our lawyers offered free weekly where students write to Santa with their Christmas wish and chicks or ducks, vaccinations and feed. Once trained, families can legal advice at five centres around London, while two full-time equivalent employees buy gifts for Santa (and elves) to deliver. establish a steady income selling eggs and poultry. The money could secondees contributed 3,000 hours’ work at the Mary Ward Legal educate a child, build a toilet or gain access to clean water. Since the Centre. Over the course of 2013 we donated £169,235 to these scheme began, Shivia has improved more than 50,000 lives. outstanding organisations. Painting workshop, SNF, Dubai. With our financial and pro bono support, Shivia this year opened its Meanwhile, our New York office continues to help My Sisters’ Place, third PDS office and launched a new agricultural programme to train a charity working to eradicate domestic violence and providing shelter, 1,000 families over two years. We also printed its Annual Report, and counselling, education and advocacy to victims. And the Clifford in November welcomed CEO Olly Donnelly into our London offices to Chance Foundation has funded several grants for clients of Warsawspeak to employees about Shivia’s work and raise awareness of our based Prawo do Pomocy, which offers advice to people from the social involvement within the firm. legal community who are in personal or financial difficulty. In Spain, where one in four people is out of work, we provide pro bono support to Tengo Hogar, a charity which provides temporary housing for crisis-hit families, allowing them to concentrate on job hunting and regaining their financial independence. Clifford Chance lawyer at a legal advice clinic in London. 24 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 25 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Environment Restaurant Associates collects food waste from food preparation for composting. We’re dedicated to … 3.5% MANAGING reduction in paper usage per FTE THE IMPACT WE HAVE ON THE 5.6% reduction in energy consumption per FTE ENVIRONMENT. (fuel and electricity) 95% of offices separate waste for recycling Our environmental certifications: Engaging our stakeholders: suppliers ISO 14001 Environmental Although we are an office-based business with a Management System relatively small environmental footprint, we have a – London, Amsterdam responsibility to manage our impact. Collaboration with our suppliers is an important part of that Building and Construction approach. Authority Green Mark We operate from financial centres around – Singapore the globe and our supplier base is complex: from small, local, social enterprises to massive LEED (Leadership in Energy corporations. We encourage all these and Environmental Design) organisations to share information with us about Green Buildings their environmental policies, CO2 emissions and Gold standard recycling efforts, particularly where we have – Washington, DC significant partnerships that often cross borders. Silver standard In London, for example, we worked with – New York our catering supplier, Restaurant Associates, to roll out biodegradable food packaging in the Mayor of London’s Green office, and we run joint communication campaigns Procurement Code on issues such as recycling food waste. – London It doesn’t stop there. As suppliers to our clients, we regularly engage in dialogue with them BREEAM on these issues – we’re working to be one link in a sustainable building certificate sustainable supply chain. – London, Luxembourg 11,744 EPC Energy Performance Certificate 10,394 10,118 – London – rating: C 11,744 9,436 9,552 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 Read more on our website: Total energy used per FTE (kWh) www.cliffordchance.com ENVIRONMENT We’re dedicated to … SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT A TRANSPARENT FOOTPRINT Managing the impact we Locations: Spain, US Location: Global have on the environment. With past investments including an eco-friendly car-sharing service With over 6,000 people working in 36 offices, it’s difficult to keep track and an online club whose members win prizes for doing good deeds, of how we’re affecting the environment. As we adapt to a world where Creas is at the forefront of social venture capital funding in Spain. environmental sustainability is increasingly important, we need to know where we are doing well and where we can improve. That’s why Creas only supports projects with clear environmental and social we rolled out the Greenstone carbon management system globally benefits, and this year it spread beyond its Iberian borders, providing this year. $250,000 to American social enterprise Emzingo. Since 2010, Emzingo has managed over 70 development programmes in growth economies The system tracks how much electricity, gas, water, fuel oil, paper, How can we fuel consistent economic In Italy, a programme to replace colour we don’t build arrays of solar panels or providing consulting work for environmental and social projects. And at waste and even refrigerant gas we are getting through, and calculates growth with finite natural resources? printers with more energy-efficient models construct the turbines for wind farms – but the same time, the project participants learn the skills they’ll need to the carbon emissions of transport. At the click of a button, we can This question concerns us as a business, helped to reduce consumption – and cost. our legal advice does enable our clients to do tackle the problems of the future. access data about our usage anywhere and at any time. as a society and as individuals. In Amsterdam a new electricity-saving device, so. And we like to think we’re breaking ground OptiVolt, has been installed and is saving in a different way – by providing leading-edge Creas asked our Barcelona team to draft an agreement. But since Greenstone cuts out hours of work for our sustainability teams – A responsible business over 10% of electricity annually. And in advice that allows our clients to innovate. Emzingo is subject to US law, we enlisted colleagues in New York hours they used to spend trawling through data. Now they use We have a responsibility as a business to help. Working across borders, we produced a document based on that time to plan how we can manage our environmental impact. Luxembourg we moved to more energyOur pioneering work and creativity to ensure we are consuming resources Creas’s models but consistent with US law. Thanks to the investment, efficient premises. won us the accolade of Legal Adviser of the Like all large firms, we have a duty to protect the environment for efficiently. To do this, we must measure Emzingo is now planning to extend its programmes beyond project Year for Renewables at the Infrastructure future generations. And it’s also our duty to be transparent about what we consume, and then set targets to Individual action Journal Awards in 2013 for advising on the participants to directors and managers. reduce it. Our environmental benchmarking We must ensure our people are able to how we’re doing this. Now that our reporting system has gone financing of the Mareña Renovables wind global, we are on a path to fulfilling both of these duties. group collects a wide range of metrics from recycle – or dispose safely of – the waste they farm in Mexico and on offshore wind farms all our offices, which we can review at a produce during their working day, and that we in the UK. global level (see page 29). This helps us help them to use resources more sparingly. And we have acted on less tangible keep track of where we need to improve. We regularly run internal communication – though no less important and complex – Global IT projects, such as reducing campaigns encouraging people to reduce matters that combine our expertise in the number of data storage units from 36 electricity and paper consumption. We ask financing, funds and energy. We advised on to six, have a major impact on our energy our colleagues to consider their impact a climate solutions fund to invest in European consumption, but many of the improvements outside the workplace, too, through our and North American climate solutions to our environmental performance take place annual support of global campaigns such businesses – an important part of a transition at an individual office level. as Earth Hour and World Environment Day. to a sustainable low-carbon economy – and For example, our ISO 14001-certified London office has started a project to replace A wider impact on a National Energy Saving Fund for the We must also recognise that through doing Dutch government and two banks. This fund cathode and halogen lamps with LEDs in business we have a far-reaching impact on will allow Dutch homeowners wanting a more high-use areas such as lobbies and stairwells, the enivronment. Perhaps not directly – energy-efficient home to apply for a special which last longer and use less energy. loan, provided by the fund. Our environmental achievements throughout the year 34 offices recycled at least 50% of paper waste World Environment Day volunteers plant trees in Hong Kong. 28 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 TARGETS AND PROGRESS GLOBAL MATRIX Not achieved Progressing Achieved 2013/14 objectives 2013/14 performance Achievement level Commentary UN Global Compact At least 30% female partners 16.0% Our ambition is to achieve a more gender-balanced partnership comprising at least 30% female partners. Women accounted for 33% Our participation in the UN Global Compact commits us to align our strategies, operations and organisational culture with the 10 Principles, covering all of our partner promotions on 1 May 2014, resulting in women making aspects of how we operate as a business, including our provision of legal up 16.9% of our partnership (vs 16.0% at 30 April 2014). services to both private and public sector clients. This report provides a number of examples of our work in relation to human Provide up to 10 apprenticeships in the UK 3 We are currently running a pilot scheme in London and will be reviewing its success in 2015. We continue to support a number rights, labour, environmental protection, sustainability and anti-corruption. Our website and our client briefings provide a fuller picture. As a leading international law firm, we also consider that we have a responsibility to help of other apprenticeships around our network, including in the shape the development of effective laws and regulations in these areas, to Middle East, Europe and the US. support robust debate around their effective implementation and to promote best practice in our own industry, as well as other sectors. Provide up to 50 work experience places in accordance with the PRIME initiative 59 The London positions were filled through a variety of mechanisms, including direct applications from colleges and schools where we have To support our reporting, we have prepared a Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index, published on our website. This focuses on those indicators existing relationships. We also provide work experience opportunities which we believe are most relevant to our business and of greatest interest for people from disadvantaged backgrounds in a number of other to our stakeholders. offices including in Europe, the Middle East and the US. HUMAN RIGHTS: UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection Increase the proportion of lawyers doing pro bono work to 60% 54% We remain committed to reaching this target and have renewed it for 2015. of internationally proclaimed human rights. Relevant GRI indicators: LA13, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, PR8 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Increase Business Services volunteering hours by 10% -7% Business Services recorded 4,153 hours during the year. Our objective for 2015 is to explore the reasons for the decrease – for in human rights abuses. Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 example, whether this relates to problems recording time or if we need to identify different opportunities for our people to get involved. LABOUR: UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association 10% of pro bono hours to be for our 13 global NGO partners by end 2014/15 Ongoing We are continuing to deepen our relationships with these organisations. During the course of this year we will be establishing and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 MoUs. We will report on this target in next year’s report. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3 Reduce CO2 emissions by at least 5% from the 2012/13 baseline by the end of 2017/18 +0.1% We have changed the emission factors in calculating emissions this year (DEFRA14 in London and GHG Protocol elsewhere). We have Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. more complete data, and new offices in Riyadh and Jakarta Relevant GRI indicators: HR1, HR2, HR3 contributed to the increase. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Relevant GRI indicators: EC7, LA13, HR1 Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE from the 2012/13 baseline by the end -3.5% of 2017/18 ENVIRONMENT: UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 30% of general waste by the end 95% 34 out of 36 offices separate between one and 14 types of waste for recycling. Relevant GRI indicators: EC2, EN18, EN26 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater of 2017/18 environmental responsibility. Relevant GRI indicators: EN4, EN6, EN7, EN16, EN18, EN26, EN28, PR3, PR4 Every office, where possible, to recycle at least 50% of office paper waste by the end of 2017/18 95% 34 out of 36 offices are now meeting the requirement of recycling paper. Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Relevant GRI indicators: EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN18, EN26 Every office to ensure that at least 15% of paper has at least a 30% post-consumer 64% 23 out of 36 offices state they use either a paper type with a percentage of recycled content or showing a low carbon footprint. ANTI-CORRUPTION: UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES recycled content or comes from FSC or other Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, internationally recognised, certified sources including extortion and bribery. showing a low carbon footprint by the end Relevant GRI indicators: SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6 of 2017/18 30 Clifford Chance LLP Clifford Chance LLP 31 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 JUST SOME OF OUR DEDICATED PEOPLE … THANK YOU. 1 4 7 10 2 5 8 11 3 6 9 12 £58,427 1. Amsterdam football tournament for 4. Hong Kong pancake day race for 7. Washington, DC Lawyers Have Heart 10, 11 & 12. London Richard House the Youth Sports Foundation. Feeding Hong Kong. run for the American Heart Association. charity fitness challenge. 2. New York Light the Night walk for 5. Paris Women@CC run for the 8. Hong Kong Jardine House stair the Leukaemia & Lymphoma Society. Fondation pour la Recherche Médicale. climb for MINDSET. 3. Frankfurt clothing collection with Citi 6. Hong Kong annual charity 9. Middle East general manager match-funded by our offices – our dedicated people for the Federation for Child Protection. Christmas quiz for Operation Gavin Goodwin’s Coast to Coast cycle raised thousands more! Santa Claus. challenge for Sri Lankan students. 32 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 © Clifford Chance LLP, September 2014 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered office: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualifications. Printed on FSC® certified paper by an EMAS certified printer. Its Environmental Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. This document is printed on Vision Superior, a paper containing virgin fibre sourced from well-managed, responsible, FSC®-certified forests. Designed and produced by luminous. www.luminous.co.uk
