LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Vol. 05 M STORY A journey to the future, together M STORY A journey to the future, together LS Mtron presents its fifth sustainability report to share its endeavors undertaken and future plans to advance sustainable growth. Cover Story This continuous M shape symbolizes how we communicate and grow hand-in-hand with diverse stakeholders. This also embodies LS Mtron’s commitment to sustainability management that leads towards a Journey into the Future, Together. Overview of LS Mtron’s Sustainability Report 2013 Reporting Principle GRI G4 INDEX, CORE Reporting Boundary All domestic business sites and subsidiaries Reporting Scope Economy(On a K-IFRS basis), society and the environment in general Reporting Period Jan. 2013~Dec. 2013(On a fiscal year basis), 2011~2013 and Jan. 2014~May 2014 for a portion of the achievements made Assurance Third-party independent assurance Reporting Cycle Annual publication (Previous report issued in May 2013, the next report set for publication in May 2015) Content Organization Criteria LS Mtron’s Sustainability Management Steering Wheel Contact Information Business Management & Planning Team, Chief Strategy Officer (CSO) TEL. +82-31-689-8232 E-mail creatorpark@lsmtron.com Contents LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Overview of LS Mtron’s Sustainability Report 2013 02 Contents 03 CEO Messege 04 Growth and Development in 2013 06 Sustainable Growth Since Its Inception 08 Global Expansion 10 Introduction to Business Divisions 12 Corporate Governance 24 Ethics & Integrity 25 Sustainability Management(SM) Framework 26 Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test 28 2013 Sustainability Management Steering Wheel 30 Focus Areas 31 Innovation Initiatives 32 Quality and Customer Satisfaction 34 Shared Growth 37 Social contribution 40 Green Management 44 Technology Competitive Edge 48 Employee Value Enhancement 51 Introduction of the Sustainability Management(SM) 56 System to the Chinese Headquarters LS Machinery(Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (LSMQ) 57 LS Machinery(Wuxi) Ltd. (LSMW) 58 LS Electronic-Devices(Qindao) Co., Ltd. (LSEQ) 59 Facts & Figures 61 Memberships, Awards and UNGC COP Report 66 GRI G4 Index, Core 67 Independent Assurance Statement 70 Report Preparation & Previous Reports 72 4 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Q. Five years have passed since the inception of LS Mtron. Can you tell us about the endeavors and achievements made by LS Mtron over the past five years? Customer satisfaction and shared growth with stakeholders have been our top priorities and they served as the basis for our rapid growth. LS Mtron has continued to grow over the last five years, and in 2013, our sales reached KRW 2 trillion, which is up 2.5 times from when the company was first established. This would not have been possible without all our employees who were united behind our business policies to ‘Build a stronger a global competitive edge’, ‘Breakthrough limitations’ and ‘No. 1 Mtron People’. Another significant contributor to these achievements is our corporate culture that encourages employees to do whatever they can to deliver both customer satisfaction and satisfaction among the wider group of stakeholders. CEO Message LS Mtron pursues partnerships that grow hand-in-hand with its stakeholders through sustainability management. Q. What are the values and achievements that have been created through the sustainability management initiatives undertaken so far? Initiated along with the inception of the company, our sustainability management forms the foundation of LS Mtron and boosts our business fundamentals. It is through sustainability management that we build upon our steadfast business fitness that enables us to grow, even in the face of rapidly shifting business conditions. At LS Mtron, our sustainability management initiatives are integrated on a job and department level and contribute to improving work practices and facilitating a corporate culture. In return, this helps our employees recognize sustainability management as an essential part of their daily operations and practice sustainability management in close alignment with their responsibility. Specifically, the ‘Sustainability Management Steering Group’, whose operations have been ongoing over the last five years, has been positioned as a representative instrument in enabling inter-departmental communication and collaboration. Our sustainability report ‘M-Story’ (which celebrates its fifth anniversary this year) is also crucial in improving the value of LS Mtron and the pride of our employees in being part of the company. Behind all these achievements is the convergence of communication, teamwork and LS Mtron’s unique value that our employees live by: LS Mtron people ‘immediately’ take action ‘no matter what’ ‘until they reach their goal’. It is only natural that these accomplishments, in turn, lead to sustainable growth. CEO Message 5 Q. What are LS Mtron’s top priorities in advancing sustainability management in 2014? To strengthen our capability as a Global Player based on sustainability management, we will focus on the following initiatives in 2014. First, we will conduct in-depth customer interviews and surveys concerning our tractor and injection molding operations, as a way to build further communication capabilities and credibility with our stakeholders. Second, we will assist our overseas subsidiaries (mainly in China) in establishing sustainability management systems to secure a global competitive edge in sustainability management. Specifically, our Chinese subsidiaries will be directly evaluated on their sustainability management initiatives and financial performance to help them build stronger executive capabilities. Third, we will take a comprehensive approach in managing risks (preventing the risk of local regulatory violations) while aiding overseas subsidiaries with improving their local operational capabilities. Fourth, eco-friendly design factors that reflect division-specific characteristics will be developed to take the lead in developing green products and to respond to the growing green product market. Fifth, we will not only disseminate sustainability management to our suppliers, but also assist them in advancing sustainability management so as to facilitate shared growth along our value chain. Q. How do you see LS Mtron’s sustainable growth vision for the next five years? After five years of remarkable progress, people might suspect that such success could lead us straight into the trap of complacency. Yet, we at LS Mtron will not fall into that trap. Rather, we will continue to endeavor great pursuits, return to the basics and start anew. We are faced with severe uncertainties and fluctuations in our company, both internally and externally and this challenges us to make fundamental changes and sustainable innovations. Thus, we will focus on improving the quality of our operations, with an emphasis on efficiency. Specifically, the key initiative for our sustainable growth in the next five years will be listening to the voice of our stakeholders and doing our utmost to deliver greater satisfaction and credibility to them. We believe in the importance of seamless communication with stakeholders as a way to take the lead in developing quality products. It is also instrumental in preemptively responding to the expectations and requirements of customers, markets and other stakeholders. It is through such endeavors that we are taking the lead in gaining market intelligence and that we are leading changing market conditions and creating forward-looking value (eco-friendly products). Q. What is the purpose and what are the applicable principles of LS Mtron’s sustainability report? LS Mtron’s sustainability reports enable us to reflect on the past year and identify necessary improvements and they also serve their basic role, as a communication channel for our stakeholders. We at LS Mtron, vow to present what we are as a company—a company that operates in a transparent and credible manner through sustainability reporting. In addition, our sustainability reports will evolve as a communication channel to take a mutually-beneficial approach in overcoming challenges and seeking shared growth with our customers, suppliers and any other stakeholders who may interact with us. This year’s M-Story summarizes our activities from the past five years and presents our commitment to reach new frontiers. All LS Mtron employees, including myself, believe that our top priority is to communicate with our stakeholders more proactively. Based on an in-depth understanding of our stakeholders, we will pursue sustainable business that creates both credibility and value. Dear Stakeholder, Your sincere interest and honest feedback on our fifth M-Story will be greatly appreciated. Thank you. Jae-Seol Shim President & CEO 6 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron’s Growth and Development in 2013 Growth and Our Growth and Development through the Perspective of Business Policy Build a Stronger Global Competitive · Signing global supply contracts to deliver 59,000 tractors · Becoming the world’s first to mass-produce Global Sales Growth (On a consolidated basis, KRW 100 million) 6 battery copper foil 2013 7,448 Edge · Increasing sales by 21% in the Chinese market from the previous year 2012 6,774 · Initiation by the UC Division to supply the Chinese hybrid bus market 2011 3,770 · Establishing three overseas subsidiaries in Brazil, Vietnam and other regions (2013~2014) Breakthrough · Posting 36.5% in CAGR since the inception Contribution of Innovation Limitations · Maintaining No. 1 position in market share in the Initiatives to Operating Profit domestic tractor market (On a consolidated basis, KRW 100 million) · Nurturing 232 innovation talents through in-house 2013 242 certification programs · Undertaking 211 innovation projects 2012 190 (Breakthrough Limitations project and others) 2011 187 No. 1 Mtron · Receiving the Korea’s Top 100 Great Work Place Award Ratio of Certified Quality People Receiving the CEO Award Management Engineers (Total quality workforce. %) Receiving the Grand Prize in the manufacturing segment for three straight years 2013 43 · Receiving The Golden Presidential Award at the National 1 Quality Circle Competition 2012 15 · Reaching 43% in the ratio of quality management engineers 2011 9 Development Growth and Development in 2013 At a glance 7 LS Mtron endeavors to respect economic, social and environmental value in its entire business conduct and grow hand-in-hand with its stakeholders. Jan. Visiting the Feb. Launching companyclient company CNHi wide innovation 3C courses Our Monthly Growth and Development Mar. Becoming the world's 1st to massproduce and sell 6 battery copper foil Apr. Completing the May Celebrating the Hi-Tech Center in Anyang 2nd Happy Family Day Jun. Hosting the groundJul. Holding a dialogue with the breaking ceremony for a CEO held in celebration of the tractor engine plant 5th anniversary of LS Mtron Aug. Initiating the We Sep. Becoming the industry Love Farming Village leader in launching carbonVolunteer Group labelled tractors Oct. Completing a tractor production/ sales subsidiary in Brazil Nov. Receiving the CEO Award Dec. Signing and the ‘Korea’s Top 100 Great global tractor Work Place’ Award from GWP supply contracts Korea for three straight years 8 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron’s Sustained Growth Since Its Inception Sustainable Growth Between 2009 and 2013, Our Sales Increased by 214% Our Operating Profit Increased by 4 times 8 17,96 2 16,32 7 15,00 8,092 Sales and Operating Profit 5,717 (Unit: KRW 100 million, on a consolidated basis) Sales Operating Profit 670 574 468 * 2009~2010 performance was not audited due to 388 a change in accounting standards in 2011 * The data excludes discontinued operations <LS Tower> (The Air Conditioning Division was 169 transferred in May 1 of 2011) 2012 2013 2010 2011 2009 Sustainable At a glance Growth Since Its Inception 9 LS Mtron was established in 2008 as a manufacturer of industrial machinery and cutting-edge components with a global competitive edge and a stronger expertise under the LS Group. Business Vision Philosophy Core Value LS is a faithful and reliable business partner Trust Passion Spirit of Challenge Belief/Respect/ Engagement/Persistence/ Sense of purpose/ Collaboration with LS people leads to greater success Cooperation Accountability Confidence/Execution Company Overview *As of December 31 of 2013 Company Name LS Mtron Ltd. Gross Sales KRW 1.7968 trillion/KRW 1.0204 trillion Date of Establishment July 1 of 2008 (On a consolidated/non-consolidated basis) Head Office LS Tower, 127, LS-ro, Dongan-gu, Anyang City, Operating KRW 67 billion/KRW 46.3 billion Gyeonggi Province, Korea Profit (On a consolidated/non-consolidated basis) Employees 3,737/1,726 (including subsidiaries/Head Office) Total Assets KRW 1.6845 trillion (On a consolidated basis) Main Products Tractors, Injection molding machines, Copper foil, Liabilities KRW 1. 1191 trillion (On a consolidated basis) Connectors, Automotive rubber hose, Caterpillars, Capital KRW 565.4 billion (On a consolidated basis) Ultra capacitors, FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate) Organizational Chart Tractor Business Machinery Business Division Division Injection Molding Special Business Copper Foil FCCL Board of CEO Directors Electronic Component Ultra capacitors Automotive Component CSO CFO Directly-Controlled Units CHO CPO CTO Chinese Headquarters Quality Management Directly-Controlled Units Innovation Internal Audit & Consulting 10 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron, Expanding its Global Presence Global Expansion China (Yantai) Polish YTLS Branch Ratio of Overseas Workforce China (Qingdao) Japanese 31% 1,156 employees LSMQ, LSEQ Branch China (Wuxi) Chinese (Shanghai) LSMW Headquarter Vietnam LSEV Indonesia LSMI Our 12 Overseas Subsidiaries and Branches – Created to Broaden the Foundation of Global Growth and Networking (Based on incorporation filing dates/excluding sub-subsidiaries) : LS Mtron/Branch 3 12 : Subsidiary 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Major Tractor Injection Molding Copper Foil FCCL Business Major General farmers and trusted Samsung Electronics, LG Chem, Samsung SDI, LG LG Innotek, STEMCO(Samsung farming businesses Hyundai Mobis, Hanil E-Wha, Innotek, Doosan Electrosubsidiary), etc. Customers PT.YASUNLI, etc Materials, DAEDUCK GDS, Panasonic, Sony, BYD, etc. Global At a glance Expansion 11 LS Mtron has 12 overseas locations in China, Brazil, the U.S., Vietnam and other parts of the world and Ratio of Overseas Sales has a total of 3,700 employees across the globe. (On a consolidated basis, KRW 100 million) 17,968 2011 2012 2013 16,322 Overseas 3,770 6,774 7,448 15,007 41% ROW 145 239 627 42% Europe 397 511 574 25% North America 957 1,624 2,490 Asia (Except Korea) 2,271 4,400 3,757 Korea 11,237 9,548 10,520 (Unit: KRW 100 million) 2011 2012 2013 Ratio of Overseas Sales in 2013 41% USA KRW 744.8 billion LSTA Anyang Head Office, Sales Department, R&D Center Ansan Daesung Electric Co., Ltd. Brazilian Branch Indong Brazil Jeonju LSMB Jeongeup CASCO Co., Ltd. Jeongeup Electronic Automotive Special Ultra Component Component Business Capacitors Samsung, LG, Large Chinese GM, Hyundai Motor Company, Defense Acquisition Program Global companies in the wind customers, etc. Renault, Nissan, etc. Administration(DAPA), power, solar power, electricity combat mobility equipment and vehicle industries manufacturers, overseas defense companies, etc. 12 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Tractor 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category XR SERIES Supplying to more than Fully tapping the Central and Latin Premium Compact Tractor American markets through the completed • Improved operator ease through small compact cabins 40 countries across the tractor plant in Brazil • 32 forward and 16 reverse gears, including a super low globe as Korea’s speed mode • Designated for spraying pesticide 5,000 Strengthening the global Unit No. 1 tractor company tractor production network • Best-in-class high capacity fuel tank • Easier use of implements through four auxiliary through the completion hydraulic ports Manufacturing 30~100hp of the 3d plant in Brazil • Improved work efficiency through electro-hydraulic tractors in a cutting-edge (Followed by Korea and power steering plant with annual capacity China) of 5,000 units XU SERIES Major Achievements in 2013 Emerging into one of the global top five tractor makers High Durability and Exceptional Workability • Completed the construction of a tractor through strengthened global • Improved fuel efficiency and durability through ecoplant in Brazil presence friendly tier4 engines • Signed a contract to supply 24,750 units to ASI • Enhanced air cleaning functionality and management (state-owned agricultural machinery company efficiency within the engine • Easier use of implements through four auxiliary in Uzbekistan) • Expanded and extended the contract with CNHi LS Mtron developed tractor production sites in hydraulic ports • Best-in-class hydraulic lift force to supply 34,000 units Brazil, after Korea and China and declared its • Increased night-time work convenience through the • Topped the domestic market in market share goal of becoming a global tractor maker. In Ocinstallation of rear lighting tober 2013, we completed the construction of a cutting-edge tractor plant with an annual capacity Plus SERIES Major Plans for 2014 Comfortable Cabin and Higher Fuel Efficiency of 5,000 units in the city of Garuba, Santa Catar• To complete the construction of an eco-friendly • Significantly improved output, torque and fuel efficiency engine plant ina, a key agricultural area in Brazil. This plant through the installation of direct injection engines, turbo • To strengthen the competitive edge of localized consists of office and manufacturing buildings, chargers and intercoolers • Increased safety and durability through the application of models in China, Brazil and other regions as well as a test drive course on a 80,000m2 site, automatic 4WD hydraulic brakes and cerametallic clutches • To sign a win-win cooperation agreement with and will primarily produce tractors in the 30~100 • Enhanced operational convenience through front/rear the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation to hs range. As these tractors will be shipped to wheel electro-hydraulic LSD (limited slip differential) promote the consumption of domestically-grown • Maximized transmission efficiency through optimized agricultural products Brazil and other neighboring countries, the compower transmission pathways pletion of this plant will help LS Mtron establish • Best-in-class hydraulic lift force an outpost, allowing easier access to the wider U SERIES Central and Latin American market. Our goal is Operator-driven Options and Exceptional Workability to reach KRW 150 billion in sales and 15% in • Reduced engine oil consumption through best-in-class market share (based on 100hs and under tractors) output & fuel efficiency as well as optimization matching • Pressure correction applied to power shuttle clutches in Brazil to evolve into a Top Tier brand. • Increased additional front/rear weight • Improved filter replacement cycles and filtration performance through the installation of seven-inch high capacity air cleaners Shibaura ISM Tier 4 Engine Independent PTO Meets EPA’s most stringent Independent PTO easily emission standards while operated by switch on the delivering rated horsepower dashboard quietly with low vibraion Hydrostatic Power Steering New Front Design Hydrostatic Power Steering More stylish Crom plated front offers an easy control and design helps reduce fatigue largely < XR4046 > At a glance 13 Injection Molding 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category MII SERIES Eco-friendly injection Years of committed effort in building a • Reduced power consumption as well as hydraulic fluids stronger R&D platform that led to the and cooling water consumption molding system with development of numerous new products • Improved plasticization performance L/D:22 improved productivity and Developing a super largeDeveloping a double• Enhanced precision of mold open limit locations • Reduced dry-cycle time diverse product line-up scale hydraulic upgrade color, dissimilar material• Product line-up: 450 tons, 550 tons, 650 tons, 850 tons and 1,050 tons SII enabled new clamping Model mechanism E SERIES Model TK • High-speed injection through the application of high-output high-response AC servo motors Major Achievements in 2013 • Five-point toggle-type high-strength clamping device and LS toggle-type energy-saving high-speed injection mechanism • Developed new products and key technologies • Energy-saving (60% reduction against the hydraulic type) Super large-scale hydraulic upgrade (LGH-SII) series 350EII and 400EII Double-color/dissimilar material-enabled new Model LTE and low-noise, clean molding • Double-color/dissimilar material-enabled and super high-speed injection, light guide plate injection molding machines, and other product line-ups clamping mechanism • Product line-up: 30~550 tons At LS Mtron, we have continuously invested our Major Plans for 2014 resources in building a stronger R&D platform, SII SERIES from research capabilities to molding technology, • Reduced dry-cycle time • To build stronger capabilities in key overseas • Reduced clamping load through improved hydraulic circuits locations in Indonesia, Poland and other countries with the goal of developing world-class injection • Improved precision of mold open limit locations • To develop new products molding machines. In 2013, this commitment • Established work convenience through cylinder booster Electric fine-pitch connector injection molding machine enabled us to introduce numerous new products. improvement Y/L-type mid-to-large double-color injection • Product line-up: 1,300 tons, 1,800 tons, 2,000 tons, 3,000 tons Furthermore, strategic research projects were molding machine undertaken to move ahead of competitors. ExamLTE SERIES Vertical injection molding machine ples of such projects included: precision molding • Hi-speed, precision molding through the application of and control technology, plasticization devices high-response servo motors • Energy-saving (50% reduction against the conventional to respond to wide-ranging resin and molding toggle-type), low-noise (70Db) compounds and next-generation controllers to • High-strength, ultra-lightweight clamping devices deliver diverse functionalities. It was based on • Application of one cylinder-type, easily-installed precision molding devices such platform technology that we developed • Product line-up: 90~380 tons the super large-scale hydraulic SII model. The upgraded functionalities and performance of the SII saved more than 50% in electricity costs, showed a 20% improvement in plasticization performance and enhanced mold open-close reproducibility, improvement in oil leaks and noise attenuation when compared to standard injection 20% Reduction in 55% Reduction in Hydraulic Oil molding machines. Furthermore, we developed Installation Space Separation of mold-clamping Compact two-platen new cylinders from mold openspecial injection molding machines with doubleclamping mechanism close cylinders reduces the color/dissimilar material-based new mechanisms reduces installation spaces consumption of hydraulic through the strategic technology partnership with by more than 20% against fluids by 55% against the conventional approach a Japanese special injection molding machine existing pressure technology maker. Our toggle-type LTE model was also designed to meet customer needs for energy saving in consideration of increasing electricity costs and to maximize productivity gains. 30% Saving in Energy 30% Reduction in Cycle Time Consumption Short-stroke four cylinders P/Q-controllable variable and high-pressure design pump system helps save help shorten pressure more than 30% in energy boosting time while being consumption against chosen as a back pressureconventional systems relieving standard < LGH-1300S > 14 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Battery Copper Foil Applications FCCL Copper Foil Applications < Battery Copper Foil > Copper Foil 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Battery Copper Foil World’s 1st to produce 6 battery Core materials that lead copper foil • Used as a negative current collector for rechargeable batteries the electronic circuit and that power mobile phones, notebooks and ESS 1/17 75% (Energy Storage System) rechargeable battery LSB-STN • Mass-producing 6 copper foil for the 1st time in the world industry One seventeenth of A4Improving battery capacity (Standard) to deliver reduced thickness and increased battery capacity against the conventional copper foil sized paper in thickness while reducing thickness • Developing proprietary technology to produce and supply to 75% of that of the wide-width, long-distance products Assisting customers conventional 8 battery in saving on costs copper foil • Delivering uniform properties (strength, elongation) and appearance (thickness, profile and section) to improve Major Achievements in 2013 battery reliability LSSHSN • Copper foil developed to respond to metal-based active • Became the world’s first to mass-produce 6 LS Mtron became the world’s first to success(Highmaterials as a way to increase the capacity of lithium-ion battery copper foil strength) batteries fully mass-produce 6 battery copper foil and • Developed a fine-pitch FCCL copper foil formula • Battery copper foil with tensile strength twice the height of with improved chemical resistance it is currently supplying this foil to major global standard copper foil (33 65 f/ ) Assisting customers • Developed very low-profile copper foil for package battery makers. Rechargeable batteries that in improving the productivity of the roll-to-roll manufacturing process (yield, flux, etc.) and HDI PCB applications power mobile phones, notebooks, IT devices and • Thermal stability secured to maintain high-strength following even electric vehicles are composed of cathode, the battery manufacturing process • Glossy property maintained on both sides of the copper foil Major Plans for 2014 anode, electrolyte, and separator. Battery copper to secure uniformity in the application of active materials • To improve the efficiency of battery production through foil plays a key role as a negative current collec• World’s 1st to develop 4 battery copper foil (potential to increase battery capacity and reduce battery thickness) the long-distance supply of battery copper foil tor and thus the manufacturing of it demands ad• To develop high-strength battery copper foil for highvanced technology. Since the introduction of 8 capacity batteries copper foil for rechargeable battery applications FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminate) Copper Foil • To develop copper foil for LDD (Laser Direct Drilling) seven years ago, there unfortunately has been no • Used for FPCB (Flexible Printed Circuit Board) mounted on applications • To establish a FCCL copper foil line-up including E-FX further progress due to challenges with manufacsmartphones and other digital devices copper foil as a replacement of rolled copper foil turing technology. LS Mtron, however, successLSU-FXR • Assisting customers in improving processing (flux, yield) fully developed and mass-produced 6 battery through reverse treatment process LSE-FXN • Maintaining properties that are equal to or above those of copper foil based on its top-notch plating and rolled copper foil (tensile strength, elongation, elasticity, price, etc.) roll-to-roll technology. Specifically, 6 equals • Supplying 7 ultra-thin copper foil that maintains high-strength at room temperature Assisting customers in handling thin only one seventeenth of A4-sized paper in thickcopper foil during the manufacturing process, while enabling ness or 75% of a conventional 8 copper foil fine pitch for FPCB applications LSB-FXN • Standard-type copper foil that responds to general-purpose in thickness, and thus this thinner copper foil is FCCL products expected to deliver a slimmer form factor while significantly prolonging battery life. Demand for 6 battery copper foil is expected to continuCircuit Copper Foil ously rise in order to meet the needs of increased • Used for PCB (Printed Circuit Board) and CCL (Copper Clad Laminate), raw materials for PCB battery capacity and to reduce the thickness of mobile phones. LSU-LPN, • Enabling fine pitch through ultra-thin and very low-profile copper LSB-LPV foil while securing high peel strength through surface treatment technology LSU-DTN • Enabling laser drill processing (without separate blackening treatment), while reducing processing costs and lead time through the elimination of the blackening process for PCB companies At a glance 15 FCCL 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Display Circuit Materials Core materials that lead the No. 2 in global market share! Taking a leap FCCL forward towards global No. 1 in M/S display industry COF Applications • Flexible materials to be mounted on LCD display devices Semi-additive • New technique for the existing COF process Applications • Single/double-sided COF for mobile applications Expanding sales through Building the competitive increased production edge of its products FPC Applications (Mobile Display Applications) capacity through improved yields Double-sided • Used for 55 pitch and under products for smartphone Materials applications • Lower surface profile against casting-type FCCL is Establishing a quality Establishing a competitive advantageous in high-speed data transmission Single-sided • Main product category for FPC applications competitive edge through edge in price through cost Major Achievements in 2013 top-notch quality savings Materials • LCD display application • Need for Cr-free and highly-etchable materials • Identified new overseas customers in Japan and other regions • Developed double-sided FCCL products EMI Shield Products (EMI Shield Applications) • Ranked second in global market share FCCLs are used as circuit materials for bendable FPCBs that are mounted on mobile phones, PCB Gasket • Used for polymer-based finger strip gaskets Materials • High-elongation EMI films to respond to increasingly Major Plans for 2014 displays and other electronic products. Presently, thinner high signal IT products the global FCCL market is dominated by three • To reach 30% in global market share companies: LS Mtron and two other Japanese • To develop new products for display applications • To secure world-class productivity competitors. As Korea’s sole FCCL maker with its own proprietary technology, LS Mtron produces FCCL films and these products are shipped to medium-to-large display companies such as Samsung and LG through LGIT and STEMCO. This year, we are establishing business relationships with Japanese and Taiwanese clients to further expand our market dominance. Recently, ‘flexible’ is emerging as a key term in the smartphone market and this will further expand the application of FCCLs that we produce at LS Mtron. In addition, we are developing touch screen materials on the basis of the roll-to-roll sputtering technology and advancing into the EMI shield material market segment as a way to tap newlyemerging, high value-added markets. Display FCCL Applications Touch Panel Materials Metal Mech Applications < Display (COF) FCCL > 16 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Electronic Component 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Connector Global maker with Taking the ‘business development’ • B2B connector to connect the main board and different types of modules approach by developing customized Designed to respond to customer demand for reduced mounting areas top-notch quality and products that meet client needs aligned with the increasing capacity of smartphone batteries independent technology Global Connector • Micro USB connectors for charging and data transmission Designed to respond to such smartphone requirements as fast data development capability Top 5 m-USB transmission and fast charging as well as customer requirements for higher mounting strength Proactively tapping the Increasing sales of m-USB Board to Board Connector global market so as to rank connectors through Part Number Type Pitch Width Height Pin Variation in the global top five in the differentiated ideas and GB042-xxP-H10-E3000 Plug 0.4mm 3.9mm 1.0mm 10, 14, 20, 24, 28, 30, 34, Major Achievements in 2013 mobile phone connector mass-production GB042-xxS-H10-E3000 Receptacle 40, 44, 50, 54, 60, 64, 70 market by 2018 GB04Q-xxP-H08-E5000 Plug 0.4mm 2.5mm 0.8mm 10, 14, 16, 20, 24, 30, • Laid the foundation for growth by reinforcing GB04Q-xxS-H08-E5000 Receptacle 34, 40 the domestic captive market GB35K-xxP-H08-E5000 Plug 0.35mm 2.5mm 0.8mm 24 • Developed customized products and GB35K-xxS-H08-E5000 Receptacle GB301-xxP-H08-E5000 Plug 0.3mm 1.9mm 0.8mm 24 innovative processing technology for massLS Mtron’s Electronic Component Division has GB301-xxS-H08-E5000 Receptacle production • Successfully completed the relocation to continued to progress through customer-driven Anyang Hi-Tech Center sales, innovative technology and exceptional Micro USB Connector quality. Specifically, since 2012, the division has Part Number Pin No. Type Mount Type USB Spec. GU07C-5P-E2000 5 Receptacle Standard & Top Mount 2.0 Major Plans for 2014 been taking the “business development” sales GU07D-7P-E1500 7 Receptacle Standard & Top Mount 2.0 approach to deliver customer value through the GU07G-7P-E2000 7 Receptacle Reverse & Mid-Mount 2.0 • To increase sales to Samsung and LG through development of customized products that satisfy GU07H-7P-E2000 7 Receptacle Standard & Mid-Mount 2.0 the ‘Business Development’ sales approach GU07K-11P-E2000 11 Receptacle Standard & Top Mount 3.0(compatible) • To accelerate the creation of outcomes with customer needs. Sustained commitment to “busiGU07L-11P-E2000 11 Receptacle Standard & Mid-Mount 3.0(compatible) large Chinese customers and global customers ness development” sales led to notable outcomes • To develop new standard mobile I/O in working with Samsung, LG and other major Antenna • To build a global competitive edge by domestic client companies in 2013. The division • Covering the broadband operational frequency range, to be applied to establishing a subsidiary in Vietnam wide-ranging wireless communication systems is building on its successful achievements to take • Efficient space utilization design technology to enable slim form factor the same “business development” approach to and to respond to reduced antenna mounting areas large, rapidly-growing Chinese and global cus• Application: LTE, Wi-Fi, GPS, BT tomers. Such endeavors are positively welcomed SIMA Antenna by potential customers and are producing tanRadiator No. Radiator Met. Frequency Band gible outcomes. The Electronic Component Divi2 STS GSM850, 900,1800,1900 sion vows to make LS Mtron a global component WCDMA900, 2100 supplier through the customer-driven perspective, 2 Copper(Ni plated) DCN/USPCS, LTE B13 innovative quality and the never-ending spirit of FPCB Antenna Connector & Antenna Applications challenge. Radiator No. Radiator Met. Frequency Band 1 Copper LTE B5/B3 1 Copper GPS/GNSS LMA Antenna Radiator No. Radiator Met. Frequency Band 1 Ni/Copper Plated GSM, LTE, UMTS, GPS 1 Ni/Copper Plated GSM, LTE, UMTS, GPS GPS Module Condition Chipset Frequency Band < Board to Board Connector > VCC = 5.0V SiRFstarV GPS, GLONASS Interface = USB/UART < SIMA Antenna > < Micro USB Connector > At a glance 17 Automotive Component 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Brake Hose Manufactured through Due primarily to the presence of diesel • Transmitting the hydraulic pressure of brake fluids when the brake vehicles aligned with high-efficiency and pedal is applied exceptional technology eco-friendly trends, a continual rise in • Delivering products that meet customer requirements concerning and cutting-edge facilities automotive hose operations is expected exceptional durability, high pressure and low expansion, as the highest security grade is required among other automotive to guarantee top-notch Aiming to reach KRW KRW 35 billion-worth contracts components that are directly related to driver safety Category Size Materials Standard Customers 350 signed with Hyundai/Kia Motors, quality and safety billion KRW 15 billion worth contracts HTLV Φ3.2 x Φ10.2 EPDM / PVA / EPDM DOT3 DOT4 Co.H, Co.G, Co.R signed with Renault HDLV Φ4.8 x Φ12.0 EPDM / PVA / DOT3 DOT4 Co.H, Co.R in sales by 2016 EPDM+CR Completing the expansion of * Testing standards : FMVSS 106, SAE J1401 Major Achievements in 2013 manufacturing facilities with the • Posted more than 10% growth in sales against 2012 KRW 20 billion investment CAC (Charged Air Cooler) Hose • Established a global competitive edge in brake hose • Transmitting the charge air that is supplied through the turbo assembly prices charger to the intercooler engine and the engine combustion Manufacturing just one single vehicle requires chamber Major Plans for 2014 approximately 60 different types of hoses. The • Serving as a core component to improve engine combustion efficiency, leading to increased engine output and reduced gas • To initiate efforts to supply brake hose products Automotive Component Division produces wideexhaust emissions. to Honda ranging high and low pressure hose assembly Category Materials Operating Customers • To fully launch key overseas manufacturing components that are mounted on vehicles for the Inner Tube Layered Yarn Outer Tube locations transmission of fluid and hydraulic pressure. Its Type FKM/VMQ ARAMID VMQ 210°C (peak : 240°C) Co. G • To develop automated brake hose assembly lines of AEM ARAMID AEM 160°C (peak : 180°C) Co. G mainstream products include brake hoses and Extrusion ACM ARAMID ACM 170°C (peak : 190°C) Co. G power steering hoses, as well as ultra-low expanNBR ARAMID CR 100°C (peak : 110°C) Co. G sion brake hoses that were developed in response to market requirements for more eco-friendly and efficient automobiles. Furthermore, the division successfully expanded its production line of CAC (Charged Air Cooler) hoses that fully comply with EURO V standards, the most stringent environmental standards in the world. In 2009, the division signed a $120 million CAC hose supply contract with General Motors of the U.S. to serve GM plants all over the world. In 2013, the division signed contracts with Hyundai ∙ Kia Motors and Renault of France to deliver brake hoses and power steering hoses totaling KRW 50 billion. In this same year, the division also completed the expansion of its Indong Plant after investing KRW 20 billion, which went to expand its shipment area by 1686m2 and create a new 496m2-sized testing lab. The division plans to set Brake Hose & CAC Hose Applications up overseas production locations in Brazil and Indonesia to scale up its business operations. < Brake Hose > < CAC (Charged Air Cooler) Hose > 18 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Special Business 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category K2 Caterpillar (Caterpillars) Paving the way for business growth and • 60-ton grade high strength available receiving the National Defense Minister’s • Designed to respond to high mobility requirements Evolving into a global maker Commendation • Developing high-durability rubber materials through stable quality and ceaseless technological Trust Sustained commitment to future leading technology and diversified overseas K55A1 Caterpillar • Designed to respond to improved vehicle performance • Improving the durability of rubber pads innovation Building trust with customers as an customer portfolio • Considering scalability into other vehicles in the same vehicle family outstanding defense Chosen as a topcompany performing defense K1A1 Caterpillar Major Achievements in 2013 company and honored • Improving component-specific strength stability with the DAPA • Increasing durability life significantly • Posted 18% growth in sales against the Commissioner’s citation • Exceptional affordability previous year • Received the National Defense Minister’s K9 Caterpillar Commendation LS Mtron is Korea’s sole manufacturer of cat• Contributing to reducing imports through the localization erpillars, which are responsible for supporting and replacement of imports • Considering the unique terrain/operational features of Korea Major Plans for 2014 the load of combat mobility equipment (tanks, • Ensuring stability in satisfying caterpillar/pad life requirements • To initiate the full-fledged mass-production of armored vehicles, self-propelled artillery) and caterpillars for the next-generation flagship tank K2 securing mobility under rough road conditions. REVETMENT-KIT • High-durability through the use of specialty steel • To secure forward-looking, market-leading Since 1975, the Special Business Division has technology (highly durable and lightweight) • Variation in shape to meet diverse purposes been supplying the nation’s armed forces for • Easy to install and disassemble due to the bolt-fastening • Laying the foundation for business growth and receiving the National Defense Minister’s Award more than three decades and its commitment was mechanism recognized in early 2013 when the company was chosen as a representative outstanding defense company by the DAPA (Defense Acquisition Program Administration) Commissioner. In late 2013, LS Mtron was also honored with the National Defense Minister’s Commendation for its remarkable export outcomes. In 2013, our endeavors to diversify our customer portfolio in the national and global markets led to an 18% growth in sales from the previous year and this increase allowed us to set a new record in sales. We will continue to deliver new products based on emerging, forward-looking and market-leading technology (durable and lightweight), while increasing the sales at our overseas operations as part of our sustained endeavors for sustainable growth. Our goal is to develop new products through cutting-edge technology and establish a stronger global presence so as to evolve into a global top maker and pioneer the advancement of the defense industry. < K2 Caterpillar Assembly > At a glance 19 UC Applications < LSUC > Ultra Capacitors 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Cell LSUC, leading the nextInitiating mass production and supply to Category Part# Voltage Capacitance DC ESR Type the Chinese hybrid bus market generation ESS market S-type LSUC 002R8S 0100F EA LSUC 002R8S 0120F EA 2.8V 2.8V 100F 120F 9.00mΩ 9.00mΩ Snap-in Snap-in 3,000F 10,000 UC-equipped L-type LSUC 002R8L 0350F EA 2.8V 350F 3.20mΩ Lug hybrid buses LSUC 002R8L 0400F EA 2.8V 400F 3.00mΩ Lug manufactured in 2013, C-type LSUC 002R7C 0650F EA 2.7V 650F 0.57mΩ Cylindrical LSUC 002R7C 1200F EA 2.7V 1200F 0.33mΩ Cylindrical Mass-producing and which is set to grow to LSUC 002R7C 1500F EA 2.7V 1500F 0.28mΩ Cylindrical supplying 3000-farad UC 20,000 units a year starting LSUC 002R7C 2000F EA 2.7V 2000F 0.27mΩ Cylindrical cells to one of the three major from 2014 LSUC 002R7C 3000F EA 2.7V 3000F 0.23mΩ Cylindrical hybrid bus makers in China LSUC 02R85C 3000F EA 2.85V 3000F 0.23mΩ Cylindrical Major Achievements in 2013 Pilot operation of hybrid Standardization of UCbuses in 10 regions in China, equipped HEV and PHEV Module • Initiated mass production and supply to to be extended to 25 regions buses Part# Rated Max. Nominal DC ESR Chinese hybrid bus companies and Japanese Voltage Voltage Capacitance in 2014 industrial facility companies LSUM 016R8L 0058F EA 16.8V 18.0V 58.3F 22mΩ • Achieved innovation in productivity gains LSUM 016R2C 0500F EA 16.2V 17.1V 500F 1.7mΩ through new coating technology and its LSUM 048R6C 0166F EA 48.6V 51.3V 166F 5.0mΩ application to mass production Since January 2013, LS Mtron’s UC Division LSUM 086R4C 0093F EA 86.4V 91.2V 93F 11.3mΩ • Increased production capacity through the has been supplying 3000-farad UC cells to ComLSUM 129R6C 0062F EA 129.6V 136.8V 62.5F 13.2mΩ relocation of production sites to Anyang pany A, one of the big three hybrid bus makers Hi-Tech Center in China. In 2013, the division delivered 180,000 cells (worth KRW 6 billion), to Company A, and Major Plans for 2014 expects there to be an explosive growth in its sales • To increase market share in major global from 2014 onward. Since the initiation of the pilot markets and tap into new markets hybrid bus project in 2008 to time the Beijing • To expand the production capacity of C-type Olympics, the Chinese government has been takproducts • To launch high-voltage cells (2.85V) and new ing the lead in operating hybrid buses. Since the technology-enabled modules announcement of the “notice on the new & renewable energy vehicle distribution and application” in September 2013, the Chinese government has been taking broader policy initiatives to distribute eco-friendly vehicles in mega cities and key locations by 2015. Accordingly, the number of hybrid bus project areas rose from 10 to 25 and this will lead to a significant growth in the size of relevant markets. Therefore, LS Mtron is working with Chinese suppliers to accelerate its endeavors to tap the Chinese market while making additional facility investments to expand its production capacity. Once such investment is completed, it will afford the company production capacity to generate KRW 20 billion in annual sales. 20 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Casting Materials Korea’s single largest and CASCO. Co., Ltd. market-leading cast-making company With 24,000 tons in annual production capacity, we deliver wide-ranging super-large-sized and large-sized casting products. Based on continued R&D and differentiated quality, we continue to expand our market presence. 2013 Business Highlight Major Product Category Overview Large-sized Ship Engine Cylinder Block • Year of Establishment: 2005 Tap into new markets to boost our status Low-speed engine cylinder blocks, composed composed of • Main Products: Marine engine frames, gas turbine as korea’s single largest cast-making high-strength cast iron materials, were localized in 1985 and parts, wind power generator parts, casting products company are now being supplied to major vessel engine makers in or injection molding machines Korea’s 1st to develop the A breakthrough that was Korea and overseas. • Main Customers: Manufacturers of marine engines, 12V50DF engine block achieved through proprietary wind power generators and injection molding technology in the large-sized Win Power Hub/Main Frame machines engine material segment Cast iron materials for wind power generation applications are used in low-temperature conditions and are used to • Employees: 107 generate wind power turbines. Our 5MW Hub excluded alloy in the development process and is being supplied to By successfully developing the 12V50DF major domestic wind power companies. Major Achievements in 2013 medium-speed engine block in October 2013, • Led the large-sized, medium-speed engine parts and we became the nation’s 1st to localize largeInlet Case materials market sized DF engine materials for LGN ships, which Designed specifically for its application in LNG-powered Mass-production of the 6L50DF crankcase combined cycle power generators, our Inlet Case is made of Development of the 12V50DF crankcase had previously been completely dependent on nodular cast iron materials and has been supplied to GE in • Supplied stave coolers to overseas steel mills imports from Europe. This was another signifithe U.S. for more than two decades. Brazil, Indonesia, etc. cant breakthrough that demonstrated the furtherStave Cooler evolving technological capabilities of CASCO, Developed in 1996 for the first time in Korea with an Major Plans in 2014 whose strength lies in such large-sized casting aim to extend the life span of blast furnaces under highmaterials. In the rapidly-growing large-sized, temperature operating conditions, our stave coolers are • To expand our market share in the medium-speed capable of producing cooling effects and improving the engine market medium-speed engine materials segment, CASlifespan of furnaces by more than 50%. Mass-production of the 12V50DF crankcase CO, as the nation’s single largest cast-making Market diversification through new product company, developed and mass-produced this new development product to solidify its status as a leader in the • To respond to the recovering vessel engine market domestic materials industry. CASCO will initiate • To develop large-sized materials for industrial machinery the mass-production of its large-sized, mediumspeed engine materials from 2014 onward and signed a contract to supply more than 30 units of the 12VDF engine block per year to WartsilaHyundai by 2017, which is expected to generate more than KRW 6 billion in sales per year. < 12V50DF Medium-Speed Engine Block > Casting materials applications At a glance 21 Yantai Leading Solution Auto Parts China Co., Ltd. (YTLS) We value the Chinese market as a strategic location to build YTLS specializes in manufacturing automotive brake hoses, through a ‘robust global competitive edge’. Presently, we operate its joint venture relationship with Yantai Asia Victory Automation, and is building on its automated processing facilities and robust in a total of four business areas: tractors, injection molding, quality management system. With its extensive sales network, YTLS electronic components and automotive components. is supplying high-quality automotive hoses to Shanghai GM, and Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation. Year of Establishment: 2005 Flagship Product: Automotive brake hose Main Customer: Automotive makers No. of Employees: 80 LS Machinery (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (LSMQ) LSMQ's annual production capacity amounts to 20,000 and the subsidiary is supplying 55~100hs tractors optimized for local Chinese conditions to 253 dealers nationwide. Thanks to its exceptional product performance, LSMQ is expanding its export markets into the U.S., Brazil, and Uzbekistan. Year of Establishment: 2007 Chinese Headquarters Flagship Product: Tractors Major Customer: Farmers (Shanghai Branch) No. of Employees: 205 Year of Establishment: 2010 Support business operations in China LS Machinery (Wuxi) Ltd. LS Electronic-Devices Qingdao Co., Ltd. (LSMW) (LSEQ) LSMW has an established sales and service network in 20 major cities With its full quality-commitment to customers LSEQ is evolving into in China. LSMW is improving its quality and expanding its customer a partner that delivers a truly impressive customers, experience. base while exporting to India, Thailand, Indonesia, Brazil and the rest The mobile phones and display parts manufactured through LSEQ's of the world. differentiated automation technology and quality management system are supplied to Samsung, Apple, ZTE and other global top Year of Establishment: 2004 players. Flagship Product: Injection molding machines Major Customer: Automotive parts companies (automotive parts, Year of Establishment: 2007 home appliance parts, electronic parts, etc.) Flagship Product: Micro USBs for cell phones, small-sized FPCs for No. of Employees: 265 FPD applications, etc. Main Customer: Mobile phone and display makers No. of Employees: 460 22 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Machinery (Qingdao) 2013 Business Highlight Moving towards becoming No. 1 in Co., Ltd. (LSMQ) 8,300km tractor ride spanning across China: 85 days in the thick of Chinese the Chinese medium-to-large tractor Major Achievements in 2013 agriculture market through sustained technology • Increased domestic (Chinese) sales by 130% development and innovation • Initiated exports to Brazil and Uzbekistan • Identified and nurtured top-performing/new dealers Secured 253 dealers (including 73 new dealers) In May 2013, the ‘World’s 1st Cross-China LS Tractor Ride’ campaign was initiated in Harbin to help Major Plans for 2014 those affected by the devastating earthquake that hit Sichuan Province. LSMQ offered free-of-charge • To refine the distribution network and strengthen tractors to Gi-Tae Kang, a professional tractor traveler. Embarking on a feat that has never been attemptcustomer contact points ed by anyone in China, we were both excited and concerned. Our LS tractors, started their journey with • To build robust C/S capabilities (Preventive inspections Gi-Tae Kang in Jiamusi City, Heilongjiang Province, and traveled a total of 8,300km over a period of 85 in each area, etc.) • To develop localized models in Uzbekistan and other days until they reached their final destination in Liuzhou City, Jiangxi Province. During this expedition, export markets local farmers and 29 tractor dealers were visited and temporary stops were made at schools in rural areas • To expand the product line-up to include 70hs, 80hs, to launch pro bono activities and help farmers. This challenge not only helped to raise customers’ awareand 85hs tractors ness regarding the capabilities of LS tractors, it gave us an optimal opportunity to prove our excellence • To develop combines and technological prowess. LS Machinery (Wuxi) Ltd. 2013 Business Highlight Injection molding machines that dare to (LSMW) Networking with core customers in the Yancheng automotive parts industry deliver unbeatable quality and service in Major Achievements in 2013 to speed up its advancement into the China Chinese automotive parts market • Increased domestic (Chinese) sales by 40% • Undertook company-wide quality innovation initiatives to fully realign management/technology standards and improve employees’ quality capabilities • Operated preliminary service and regular touring service systems • Improved the competitive edge of small-sized injection molding machines (development of toggle-type machines) Major Plans for 2014 China is both the world’s largest automobile producer, and consumer. This is why global automotive parts makers turn their eyes to the growing Chinese market and are making stronger inroads to car makers in • To expand the domestic (Chinese) customer base China. In line with this market trend, LSMW strove to partner with influential customers in the automo• To expand preliminary services, regular touring services, and technology exchange meetings tive parts industry. These endeavors led to a success in supplying 40 injection molding machines to such • To improve the performance of electric type machines representative automotive parts companies in Yancheng as Hanil, Hyundai Mobis, Nifco and Kohsan. Seand secure their cost competitive edge curing these core customers in Yancheng is expected to have a positive impact in terms of expanding into • To generate substantial outcomes from quality the automotive parts market of other regions. In 2014, LSMW will attract even more new local customers innovation initiatives to diversify its customer base. *Before Service: Services that are provided to inspect possible product failures before such failures occur LS Electronic-Devices 2013 Business Highlight Electronic components that deliver (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (LSEQ) The key to securing customer credibility in quality lies in expedient execution of customer satisfaction on the basis of a Major Achievements in 2013 innovation initiatives and quality-driven global top-notch competitive edge in partnerships with suppliers manufacturing • Sales increased by 40% • Expanded investment in localizing highly-advanced half-finished products • Improved productivity by investing in inspecting & packaging machines From the initial stage of introducing new products in its product line-up, LSEQ established a Cross Func• Secured increased production capacity by expanding tional Team (CFT) in conjunction with the Head Office in Korea to embark on daily status management plant facilities and the expedient execution of innovation initiatives. This firm commitment enabled LSEQ to satisfy stringent quality and delivery due date requirements and to expand its supply volume, as well as the scope of its product supply. Furthermore, LSEQ increased its investment in inspection & packing machines (which Major Plans for 2014 are cutting-edge image inspection devices), as part of its automated production lines, along with its dielec•To establish a product line-up for high value-added tric inspection devices, to build a more robust competitive edge in manufacturing and build trust with its mobile phone connectors (USB 3.0, waterproof connectors, etc.) customers. LSEQ also recognizes its suppliers as business partners who share the ultimate goal of securing • To expand the scope and ratio of localized half-finished higher quality for its customers. Its technology support for suppliers led to a success in localizing I/M halfproducts finished products for mobile phones and half-finished sophisticated shell press products, in addition to the Pd-plating Advanced bending added advantage of speeding up to customer requirement responses and delivery due dates. LSEQ also foLocalization target 30% 50% cuses on identifying and nurturing local suppliers to expand the localization of half-finished products and • To expand the global customer base local sourcing, as a way to contribute to community development. At a glance 23 Major Product Category • Kai Series (55hs): Economical, easy-to-operate tractor with extensive functionalities • U Series (55hs): Medium-sized tractor suitable for paddy field farming for its ease in operation and multi-stage transmission functionality • P Series (70-100hs): Lightweight medium-to-large sized tractor perfect for multi-functional long-term operations P Series • Adoption of the latest hydraulic system and rain-proof technology • Enclosed cabin design decreases noise and vibration • Available transmission gears of: 12 forward and 12 reverse • Minimized steering diameter (3.31m) ensures operability, even in limited areas • Suitable for both paddy fields and dry fields (due to its optimized front and rear weight ratio) < LS1004 > Major Product Category • Medium-to-Super Large Sized 2-Platen Series (450~3,200t): Developed through proprietary technology, reduced installation areas, lower operating cost • Small-sized Precision Series (80~350t): Exceptional and smooth injection molding and back pressure measuring control • Electric-type Series (50~300t): Energy-saving, low-noise and clean molding • Toggle-type Series (80~380t): Power-saving effects through the adoption of the servo-control system as well as high-strength templates Medium-to-Super Large Sized 2-Platen Series (450M~3,200t) • Smaller installation areas, higher efficiency and lower operating cost • User-centric installation of controllers • Dramatic reduction in noise and functionality to generate energy through the optimized design of hydraulic devices • Minimized mold deformations through high-strength, ultra-lightweight templates • 50% reduction in the consumption of hydraulic fluids < LGH 1050 ES-GC > Major Product Category • Precision Connectors for Cell Phones : Micro USBs, batteries, RF connectors < Board to Board Connector > • Precision Connectors for FPD Applications : I/O, FPC connectors Micro USB for Mobile Phones • Effective prevention of smartphone plasticity risks through the VCC-averting S.P structure • Quality that can be trusted by customers through all-out vision automated inspections • Simultaneous production of standardized products through the double-form design of packaging materials (respond to international micro USB product size standards) Small-Sized FPC for FPD Applications (0.4mm/0.5mm pitch) • Advancing into the new product pad market while responding to the development of existing TV monitors, FPD technology (o.4 pitch, 0.8mm in height) • Improved SMT performance by reducing the number of golden leads on connectors • Compliance with internationally-mandated eco-friendliness standards < Micro USB Connector > 24 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron’s corporate governance is led by the board of directors (BOD) and other professional executives. Corporate Governance Board of Directors The members in our board of directors (BOD) are selected for their expertise in their respective fields, as well as for their job capabilities. The BOD is the highest decision-making body in the company. In 2013, the BOD met five (BOD) times (with a 100% attendance rate) to approve all 16 of its agenda items. Presently, LS Mtron remains a non-listed company. Composition of the BOD (As of May, 2014) The CEO and the BOD chair act separately, while a profesName Position Experiences sional executive is appointed as the CEO and the President Cha-Yol Koo Chairman of the • Business management major at in charge of the general company management. Aside from BOD Korea University matters stipulated by relevant laws or by the Article of As• Former director at LG International Corporation sociation, any remaining matters that require BOD approval • Former Vice President at LG Invest are decided on by the CEO or through management meetings. ment & Securities Jae-Seol CEO • Mechanical engineering major at As a way to prevent any conflicts of interest between the Shim Hanyang University company and its board members, directors who have any in• Former Vice President at LS C&S terest in the agenda items to be voted on by the BOD cannot Sung-Wook CFO • Accounting major at Chonbuk Yoon National University exercise their voting rights on such matters. Our directors are • Former head of the Finance Team at compensated in accordance with relevant regulations within LS Mtron Soo-Taek Auditor • Mechanical engineering major at the limit approved at the general shareholder meeting. In Choi Pusan National University 2013, registered members of the BOD received KRW 21.62 • Former CEO, Schmidlin-Korea million in compensation. Authority and In accordance with the corporate Articles of Association, there is one auditor at LS Mtron. The auditor is responsible for performing audits on our accounting and business practices in order to ensure the transparency and legality of Responsibility of our business conduct. To this end, the auditor may request the directors to brief him/her on business operations and the Auditor investigate the company’s operations and asset status, whenever the need arises. Shareholder As of the end of 2013, the number of LS Mtron’s issued shares stood at 9,000,000 and they are wholly owned by LS Corporation. LS Mtron is not listed on the stock market and thus is not subject to the adoption of the concentrated Composition vote system, the adoption of either written ballot or electronic ballot voting, nor is it subject to exercise minority shareholder rights. Management Monthly management meetings, presided by the CEO, serve as a decision-making venue to discuss business directions, review business results (in relation to company-wide business conduct) and to report major issues in the ecoMeeting nomic, social and environmental fields. • Discuss Business Directions Review business results and discuss issues to reach set • Economy targets Approval of major investment plans and Major Reports Prepared and Information • Report Major Issues Concerning Company-wide Business follow-up evaluations Conduct Business results and forecasts Business philosophy and mid/long-term vision Establishment of overseas subsidiaries Business management improvement, market/industry/ Mid-term strategy and business plans competitor trends, etc. Outcomes on the review of financial perfor Agenda Follow up on major management indicators as a way to mance from the 2012 innovation initiatives respond to risks • Society & Environment Improve the target alignment Outcomes of the 2012 customer satisfaction Outcomes of management evaluation, status of quality/ survey Shared in 2013 productivity and other management indicators Trends in relation to labor law revisions Status of innovation initiatives and sustainability Status of customer complaints and plans to management improve operational standards Review capital/facility/R&D investments, along with Plans to establish a LG childcare center company-wide policies Progress of public-private joint investment technology development projects • Attendees: CEO, executives, business team leaders and Directions to advance sustainability manage other major teams ment at the Chinese Headquarters Oper • Hosted: Monthly ation • Supervising Department: Business Management & Sharing of information concerning transactions with high-risk nations Planning Team Corporate Governance / Ethics & Integrity 25 Ethics & Integrity are the building blocks that create outcomes at LS Mtron. Ethics & Integrity Operational Innovative Technology Partner • Responsible Organization: Ethics Executive Office within the Internal Audit & Consulting Team under the direct leadership of the CEO • Major Responsibilities: Set and implement the ethics management strategy, Directions and an operate ethics practice programs, promote ethics culture and offer training • Code of Ethics: Standards employees live by in directing the ethical Action Framework implications of their actions and value judgments Grow with Fulfill Pursue Build business Chapter1/ Responsibility and Obligation to Customers stakeholders and corporate social sustainable ethics Chapter2/ Employee Ethics build trust responsibility growth Chapter3/ Fair Competition (Competitors) Chapter4/ Fair Trade(Suppliers) Build a Culture of Fairness Champter5/ Corporate Responsibility to Employees Embed Ethics Management into Daily Operations Chapter6/ Responsibility to Society and the Nation Ethical Standards The full version of LS Mtron’s Ethical Standards is available on : a http://ethics.lsmtron.co.kr/rule/law.asp Ethics Management Ombudsman/Ethics Counseling Office The Cyber Ombudsman and Ethics Counseling Offices Complaints Submitted and Handled through the Cyber Ombudsman Systems are currently available on our corporate website. FurEthical Standards Responsibility and Employee Ethics Fair Trade Obligation to Customers thermore, informant protection programs are provided to No. of Complaints 3 2 4 ensure that stakeholders (such as employees, customers and suppliers) feel free to report or be counseled on any issues they may have. Such programs include confidentiality, identity protection and exemptions. In 2013, a total of nine reports were submitted. Following the investigation of these reports, any violations against regulations or unethical practices were addressed with appropriate action in accordance with relevant corporate policies. Clean Company We established a system to allow employees to voluntarily report and return any bribes that were inevitably accepted. In cases where it is impossible to return these bribes, they are donated to local social welfare facilities. Procedures to Handle Violations Complaints Complaints Submitted/ Registered Action Taken LS Mtron set forth behavioral rules that govern unethical behaviors. If these rules are violated, the DisciplinCyber LS Mtron’s Ombudsman/ Ethics Executive ary Committee is convened to handle such cases. The Stakeholders Ethics Counseling Office Office committee determines the severity of disciplinary measures and executes them in accordance with the causes Outcomes Notified for such actions and their review standards. Initiatives to Hosting the Compliance Management Declaration Ceremony At the 2014 kick-off meeting, LS Mtron officially declared its commitment to compliance management, as a way to Streng-then Ethics further dedicate the company to advancing ethics management. Management Offering Employee Training on Ethical Standards Capabilities Following the ethical standards training for all employees, new recruits are required to complete mandatory introductory training on ethical standards, while expatriate employees are trained on ethics management prior to their assignment. In 2013, three sessions of regular training (79 employees) and 16 sessions of year-round training (32 employees) were provided. Conducting Ethics Performance Surveys We survey our domestic suppliers, as well as the local suppliers of our Chinese subsidiaries, on our ethics performance every year. Specifically, in 2013, LS Mtron’s materiality test for sustainability management and shared growth initiatives were promoted in alignment with the annual ethics performance survey. Undertaking Consistent Promotional Activities We consistently share actual examples and messages in relation to ethics management through internal/external bulletin boards in order to build a stronger ethics awareness among employees and to encourage stakeholders to engage themselves in these activities. 26 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron sets company-wide SM goals and strategies in the fields of the economy, society and the environment and evaluates its achievements accordingly. Sustainability Management (SM) Framework Vision LS Mtron’s 2nd-term SM was initiated in 2013. The 2nd-term goal is to ‘Establish Global Standards’ as a way to proactively comply with standards and norms required of corporate citizens in the global market environment. Under this overarching goal are four Implementation Strategies and seven Focus Areas while LSpartnership, LS Group’s business philosophy, and ethics management serve as the foundation to take action. Green and Comfortable World Corporate Vision Innovative Technology Partner 2015 Target Establish Global Standards Core Value Enhanced Stakeholder Trust Implementation Strategies Comply with Create Stakeholder Manage Communicate Global Standards Values Stakeholder Risks Quality And Technology Employee Innovation Shared Social Green Focus Areas Customer Competitive Value Initiatives Growth Contribution Management Satisfaction Edge Enhancement Ethics Management Executional Foundation LSpartnership® Strategy Setting Since 2010, LS Mtron has selected economic, social and environmental strategic indicators for SM and made evaluations accordingly. In 2013, such indicators were considered in evaluating the Head of the Staff Division and the and Performance Heads of Departments under the direct leadership of the company CEO, accounting for 10% of the total perforEvaluation System mance indicators. Meanwhile, divisions and departments independently set SM targets for 2013 and reported to the CEO through final consultations with the Business Management & Planning Team. Once these targets are approved, progress is monitored through the bi-monthly SM Steering Group meetings supervised by the CSO. The steering group is operated by the Business Management & Planning Team, which is the supervising department of manageSetting SectorMonitoring by the ment meetings. Specific Tasks Steering Group Beginning of Year Performance evaluations are made three times: at the end of H1, Q3 and at the end of each year. After the end-ofEnd Yearof Year Round the-year internal evaluation, an inspection is made by an official evaluation team and the final result is approved by the CEO. This final outcome bases remuneration in each division. Each division also sets departmental and individual targets to empower employees and fully engage them. As for major issues, progress and results are directly Evaluation reported at management meetings and disclosed to stakeholders through sustainability reports. Sustainability Management(SM) Framework 27 Operational System LS Mtron takes an integrated approach in managing its SM initiative through various systems and meetings. Specifically, the bi-monthly SM Steering Council launched in 2010, serves as a decision-making body that ensures the balanced growth of all stakeholder values. The SM Executive Office, under the Business Management & Planning Team, is responsible for the operation of the council and integrated SM. A Total of 11 Reports Sustainability Management Steering Council Made in 2013 Division Team Major Function Subcommittees 11 Under the Direct Control of the CEO Quality Management Quality, Customer Satisfaction Quality and Customer Satisfaction Innovation Innovation Initiatives Internal Audit & Consulting Ethics Management Ethics Executive Office Integrated CSO Management & Planning SM Executive Office Management, Risk : Integrated SM(Sustainability Management) CHO Human Resources Management Body HR, Welfare Training, Labor HR Development Management Environment, Green Management Health/safety Green Management Business Support Social Contribution Social Contribution Corporate Collaboration CPO Shared Growth Win-Win Partnership & Prosperity CTO Technology Management R&D, Eco-Friendly Products Eco-Friendly Products Company-Wide SM 2013 Operational Outcomes of the SM Steering Council Steering Group Meetings In 2013, six rounds of company-wide SM Steering Group meetings were held (20th~25th). The 20th meeting was held Hosted in January to report SM plans for each division and disclose plans to expand green products while the 2012 sustain27 ability report was being approved by the CSO at the 21st meeting. The 22nd meeting held in May, set H2 plans to meetings review the progress of SM tasks. The following three meetings (from the 23rd to 25th meetings) allowed each divi(2010~ Mar. 2014) sion to report progress and outcomes in implementing the set plans. Major topics addressed through these meetings include supporting the carbon labelling certification, facilitating social contribution, responding to the shared growth index, establishing a LG childcare center, improving job training systems for each job category, advancing SM at overseas subsidiaries and reviewing the outcomes of the GHG emissions IT system development. Integrated Risk We take an integrated approach in risk management to address both financial and non-financial risks as a way to advance sustainable growth. To this end, risk issues are identified and addressed throughout the entire life cycle of Management business operations each year. To ensure efficient response to major risks, manuals are developed to launch the work flow, as well as detailed action plans for each step of the risk occurrence, from development to deterioration. In 2013, a preemptive risk monitoring process was developed, in addition to the revision and improvement of existing risk response manuals, in order to detect and prevent the possibility of risks year-round. In cases where it is highly likely that a specific risk occurs as a result of such constant monitoring, this is reported to the top decision-making body and appropriate action is taken. 28 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron defines its stakeholders as anyone who directly/indirectly interacts with the company in business conduct. Stakeholder Engagement and Materiality Test LS Mtron’s In initiating our 2nd term of SM, we redefined our stakeholders through the analyses of global trends and through our stakeholders. Our key stakeholders include customers, employees, suppliers, global/local communities, and the Stakeholders environment (earth/ecology) itself. Our general stakeholders include central/local governments and shareholders/ investors. Create values/address risks Customer Earth/Ecology G at he k ro ions & Feedbac p in Employee Central/Local Government io n s / Communication id e n tify Supplier Shareholder/Investor Reaching Vision and Building p in r is k a Robust Organizational ro s e th : Key Stakeholders Competitive Edge Ga Global/ Local Community : General Stakeholders Disclose achievements & feedback Outcomes of LS Mtron conducts the materiality test each year to plan its SM for the following year. This year, we identified 25 SM issues to be addressed in 2014, in consideration of diverse internal/external conditions. We surveyed our the 2013 stakeholders to gauge their level of interest, while gathering feedback from top management and other employees Materiality Test to understand the levels of business impact. The outcomes were used to classify these issues into High Materiality, Medium Materiality and Low Materiality issues and were used in setting a SM strategy for 2014. High Issues from the Previous 2013 Materiality Test Matrix Issues Considered in Conducting Materiality Tests the Materiality Test 2012 Business Impact Medium area High area Internal 1. Quality competitiveness • Risk management • Technological competitiveness • LS Mtron’s vision and mid-term strategy • Fair evaluation/remuneration • Quality competitiveness 2. Technological competitiveness • Management meeting reports and decisions • New business development • Work/life balance 3. New business development made at the SM Steering Council • Employee health & safety • Talent recruitment and fostering • SM principles and regulations 4. Business results • Innovation • Fair trade • Completion of implementation task targets 5. CRM • Ethics management set in the previous year • CRM 6. Fair trade • Team-specific strategic indicators 7.Employee health & safety 2011 Low area Medium area External • Management of pollution and • Patent management 1. GHG emissions reduction • GRI(G3.1), ISO 26000, UNGC principles and etc. harmful substances • Shared growth 2. Quality competitiveness • Opinions made by SM advisory groups • Labor relations management • Information security • Trends of competitors and industry leaders 3. CRM • Social contribution • CSR dissemination to suppliers • Customer’s CSR check list index and questions 4. Strengthen after-sales activities • GHG emissions reduction • Energy/raw materials management raised by external organizations • Governance • Eco-friendly products/facilities 5. Gathering supplier feedback • Issues addressed by the media in relation to • Contribution to local economies 6. Fair trade LS Mtron • Water resource 7. Shared growth • Management Stakeholder Interest Survey of Stakeholder Expectations and Requirements In 2013, we surveyed the suppliers and employees among our key stakeholders to identify their expectations and requirements, as a way to create value for these stakeholders and to respond to relevant risks. From 2014 onward, the scope of this survey will extend to cover customers, local communities and earth/ecology areas of interest to fully reflect the voice of our stakeholders in our operations. At a glance 29 LS Mtron’s Achievements and Understanding of and Response to High Materiality Issues in 2013 Technological Technological and quality competitiveness was selected as our top-priority issue, from 2012. LS Mtron firmly believes that these two issues are instrumental in gaining customer credibility and laying the foundation for growth. and Quality Our response is to forge even closer industry-academia partnerships to secure the platform technology that constiCompetitiveness tutes the core of our business. In 2013, Open Innovation was selected as an SM issue and our strategic labs were Related Pages: P.34-36, 48-50 expanded to 19. Meanwhile, we recognize that organizational quality competitiveness comes from that of each individual employee. Therefore, we are operating a company-wide quality talent nurturing system to build an even stronger competitive edge in quality. As of 2013, our quality management engineers and ISO 9001 examiners accounted for 43% and 45% of the total quality workforce and their ratios are increasing continuously. Work/Life Balance We made a big jump on the list when it came to work/life balance in 2013. We at LS Mtron, are committed to improving the quality of life of our entire staff and delivering a great workplace. The 2nd Happy Family Day event held in 2013, brought the family members of all our employees together under the theme of ‘Respect the elderly and seek cross-generational harmony’ and offered a meaningful opportunity for parents and their children to spend quality time together. Our unique Refresh Leave program encourages employees to take a concentrated half-yearly leave for at least three days and up to five days, as a way to promote the full use of their yearly leave. Furthermore, our welfare and benefits programs provide a wide array of support opportunities in childcare, health (of employees and their families) and housing. These endeavors and achievements won us the Great Work Place Award for three straight years and the CEO Award by GWP Korea in 2013. LS Mtron is rapidly growing in size and new recruits accounted for approximately 16% of the total workforce in Talent Recruitment 2013. This prompted us to recognize talent recruitment and career development management as a highly material isand Nurturing sue in terms of business impact. This was further evidenced in the results of our 2013 stakeholder survey conducted Related Pages: P.50, 53-55 of our employees: approximately 68% of the 728 respondents selected talent recruitment and nurturing as one of their major expectations. To respond to this organizational trend, we selected support for new recruits in adjusting to the company early on, strengthened our endeavors to retain staff and established job training systems for each job category, while taking action accordingly. Fair trade and ethics management have been consistently ranked high on our list of material issues over the past Fair Trade and Ethics three years. In consideration of recent business conditions, shared growth with suppliers has become an essential Management prerequisite for LS Mtron, as a manufacturing company. We specifically selected fair trade as one of our manageRelated Pages: P.25, 37, 39 ment issues of 2013: our basic contract form was updated in accordance with the standard subcontract form proposed by the Fair Trade Commission and fair trade guidelines were incorporated into our corporate policy to protect the rights and interests of our suppliers. Furthermore, with the belief that suppliers are specifically critical, among other stakeholders in our organizational ethics, we conduct anonymous ethics surveys of our supplies each year. The outcomes are reported to the CEO and reflected in our shared growth initiatives. CRM We expect there to be significant improvements in our CRM initiatives for 2014. Specifically, we will collaborate with an external professional survey organization to enhance the reliability of our customer satisfaction surveys, (Customer Relationwhich form the foundation of CRM. The scope of our previous surveys was limited to quality, marketing, after-sales ship Management) services and deadlines. However, these surveys will go further to include in-depth interviews with our customers Related Pages: P.34-36 regarding our overall SM—ranging from purchasing, ordering and product/service activities—to customer responsibility and needed improvements. 30 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron presents the SM Steering Wheel that defines its SM focus areas based on the outcomes of the annual materiality test. 2013 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT STEERING WHEEL Communication Channel Stakeholders Who Interact with LS Mtron GRI G4 Aspects Managerial Issue Focus Area • Meeting with CEO • CEO MBWA (management by wandering around) • Gathering of innovation officers • Mtron6 Festival • Innovation initiative bulletin Employee, Customer, Supplier • Customer satisfaction survey • Ombudsman • Gathering of VOC (Voice of Customer) • Ethics Counseling Office • Product presentation (Product exhibition) • Clean Company • Survey of customer expectations • Ethics Performance Surveys e e d • Quality Innovation Festival rs om nm an de st er ct ol • Customized Innovation Initiatives Cu v du cy • Vision-sharing dealer meeting ke r, Go Pro iva y, Pr lie al h St c et er pp o af m a L S o En tir •C Su ral/ d an , Cu st ne ss nt r, e or lth ng ve ip • E por Ce ea li t iti nsh th ate H be pe atio t nt ics G Innovation er La om Rel en & ov In er om ce st rvi yC r m te na Initiatives lit me ge gr n Cu Se ua to na ity ce • Q Cus Ma nd • 1 y A er G Ac en tiv era lit m ion iti l ua to t Q Cus sfac Employee, Central/Local Government es Supplier Environmental Assessment, Supti Sa Employment, Training and Education • Engagement and Cooperation 8 2 Customer, Supplier, • Global HR • Strengthen the Competitive Enhancement Council • Gathering of VOS (Voice • Labor-management working-level Employee of Supplier) Integrated • Recruit and Foster Talent Edge of Our Suppliers plier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier consultations and meetings/ Shared • Regular discussion meeting Labor-management discussions Value 7 Sustainability 3 Central/Local Government with suppliers Growth • Employee Engagement • Fair Trade • Grievance Resolution Committee Management Enhancement • Performance-sharing supplier • Employee communication event and Dialogue • Facilitate Communication meetings Assessment for Impacts on Society • Survey on the level of ethics • Organizational capacity surveys management at LS Mtron • Cyber Ombudsman 6 gy 4 • Survey on supplier’s • Surveys of employee expectations ce it a R om tE c h lo ive 5 Co S pl n expectations no tit an ru ing l C rc oy Pr e So nt oc ec n •F dv ec nd ica ea tio ir ee og ci ch e e ac Co ep ai rib ial O tE Tr Green es d • A • R ta g va Te mp dg In ilit n re co Vo ram al ts olo n, Management /R no re t al nd Ou n t s ut n lu l io ts at rib en ity nt s ca In rtu len ive /L C Co E om Lo pl h at ac io o oy e &D rs ee •R ec oc ee m ee uc p n u a t Em uti tat n m ic Im , •T pe N T eti • Respond to Climate Change ve oy al ris Ed Im o iv og y, p u ni pl • Operation of Advanced m d Ea Co ni pa y Em an (u m t ESH Business Sites i c rt mm e ts ity )|e s ng • Employee Health & Safety h/ ,L dire ni un te c Ec un o o on • Green Products ca In m itu m ol it l ic m st Energy Emissions, Products and Services, • Consultation with local government agencies Co In Occupational Health and Safety Gl (Anyang City, Wanju-gun Office) • Cooperation with industry-academia ob • Cooperation with NGOs cooperation partners (universities) Global/Local Community, Employee, (Partners in social contribution programs) • Cooperation with university labs (Lab.) Earth/Ecology • One Company One School affiliation, One Company • Change Agent initiative One Village affiliation • Job level-specific discussion • Cooperation with local cultural/arts/sports organizations • Environmental policy presentations by central/local • Surveys of community expectations governments • Discussions with environmental NGOs and environ mental engineer councils • Green company information disclosure • Local Agenda 21 in Anyang • Industrial Health and Safety Committee and committee meetings At a glance 31 Focus Areas 01 INNOVATION INITIATIVES P.32-33 02 QUALITY & CUSTOMER SATISFACTION P.34-36 03 SHARED GROWTH P.37-39 04 social contribution P.40-43 05 green management P.44-47 06 technology competitive edge P.48-50 07 EMPLOYEE VALUE ENHANCEMENT P.51-55 In 2013, LS Mtron presents seven Focus Areas of SM. The 1st page of each Focus Area presents a summary of major relevant details. The 1st page of each Focus Area summarizes the declaration of value pursued by each area, achievements against the set plans for each SM issue for 2013, and stakeholder benefits from such achievements, in addition to major 2014 plans for each issue. As for top priority tasks undertaken by each department, their progress is reviewed regularly. In so doing, we do our utmost to keep our promises with stakeholders. The body section aims to present a detailed and focused picture of the most critical 2013 achievements and 2014 plans. This 2013 report is LS Mtron’s 5th sustainability report. We believe that the previous four reports offered sufficient information on our basic management framework and systems. Thus, this report focuses on the value we created for the concerned year, as well as the key points to disclose to stakeholders. Our sustainability reports provide a cross-sectional view of LS Mtron’s on-going growth. We hope that our readers can glean how we are evolving even further. LS Mtron is a corporation deeply committed to sustainability reporting and fully onboard with the principles of social responsibility. 32 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 1 INNOVATION INITIATIVES 24.2 billion Creating Financial Outcomes from Innovation Initiatives W Our innovation initiatives produced KRW 24.2 billion in financial outcomes and contributed to 44.3% of the operating income. It is through the identification of challenging and creative innovation initiatives, along with the enthusiasm to reach over any obstacle to meet our goals, that we–through in Financial sustained innovation initiatives–lead to create even Outcomes Generated greater business success. 12 Securing a Technological Competitive Edge through Breakthrough Limitations Tasks The completion of 12 ‘Break Through Limitations’ tasks paves the way for our employees to strengthen our global competitive edge and build Initiatives Completed capabilities to evolve into a Global No. 1 company. Declaration LS Mtron will undertake customized innovation initiatives that create substantial outcomes. These outcomes will create a culture of innovation that ushers in a new future which will become a key driver in creating economic and social value. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Customized To offer training to embed innovation • Completed by all employees, 4.4 points in Embedding 3C* (behavioral patterns that Jun. Innovation initiatives into daily behaviors trainee satisfaction (against the 5 point define LS Mtron’s innovation initiatives) Initiatives full mark) into daily operations * 3C: Challenge/Creativity/Communication To create financial outcomes from • KRW 24.21 billion generated in financial Contributing to the business performance Dec. innovation initiatives outcomes from 200 innovation tasks (Big Y of LS Mtron for executives, VE, 6Sigma) To secure a technological competitive • 12 tasks completed Strengthening our market competitive Dec. edge through Breakthrough Limitations Upgraded level of development capacity edge tasks through secured key technology To strengthen daily innovation initiatives • 98.8% of the employees made suggestions Strengthening business fitness through (20 suggestions per person on average) daily innovation initiatives, Securing inno• 121 value creation tasks completed in the vation capabilities at overseas subsidiaries Staff Division • 20 quality circle tasks completed at overseas subsidiaries, 4th round of Immediate Practice training offered 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans Ensure the Stability • To develop and operate a thorough waste management program to build an innovation-driven culture of the 1st-term • To develop LS Mtron’s unique problem-solving methodology Innovation, Fully • To offer team leader innovation training to strengthen innovation leadership Launch the • To set directions for and undertake 3P Break Through Limitations tasks for each innovation target 2nd-term Innovation • To develop a multi-dimensional innovation initiative evaluation mechanism • To strengthen basic innovation initiatives continuously: Elevate the level of 5S initiatives, Improve the quality of suggestions 5S: Arrangement, Organization, Cleaning, Cleanness, Discipline Note) These five activities are referred to as 5S because these words, originated in the Japanese manufacturing industry, begin with the alphabet ‘S’ when translated into Japanese Innovation Initiative 33 Our growth continues from a culture of innovation and this culture is what drives us to take immediate action to reach our established targets, regardless of any obstacle. Customized LS Mtron has been undertaking customized innovation initiatives since the inception of the company. The 1st-term innovation helped us establish our unique innovation model Mtron 6 and this laid the groundwork for customized Innovation Initiatives innovation initiatives. The 2nd-term innovation began in 2013 to further advance our innovation initiatives. This extended the scope of these initiatives, from the production and shop floor, to the Staff Division. In 2013, a total of 27 company-wide 3C training sessions were provided to realign our basic capabilities, built through the 1st-term innovation initiatives, and to embed such initiatives into the fabric of our corporate DNA. For us at LS Mtron, ‘Challenge’ means that we fearlessly challenge ourselves to reach even higher goals (Global No.1). ‘Creativity’, means that we dare to present creative ideas, that we break through limitations and that we don’t let fear of failure impede our ability to think outside the box. ‘Communication’ means that we maximize our organizational capabilities through a culture of free and developmental communication. Accomplishments from Breakthrough Limitation Tasks Maximize customer satisfaction through the ‘Business Secure a global technological competitive edge Development’ sales approach taken by the Electronic through Breakthrough Limitations tasks Component Division Become the world’s 1st to launch massSuggest product improvements to produced 6 battery copper foil help solve customer complaints Battery copper foil plays a key role as a To resolve quality problems that occur in the negative current collector and only a few use phase, we explored improvements on companies are capable of supplying this cutconnectors. We redesigned our products by ting-edge material worldwide, as its manufacusing spaces that had never been used beturing has required advanced technology. LS fore. This successfully addressed and solved Mtron secured world-class plating technolthe problem that our customers had been unogy (manufacturing battery copper foil with satisfied with. It was through creative thinkuniform thickness and properties) as well as ing and an enterprising spirit (rather than a web-handling technology (transporting and conventional approach) that we presented a rolling thin battery copper foil without creasproduct that exceeded customer expectations ing or tearing) to become the world’s 1st to and maximized their satisfaction. mass-produce 6 battery copper foil. 201 4 pl a n Operational Directions of the 2nd-term Innovation We plan to develop and operate wide-ranging programs to embed ‘3C innovation behaviors’ into daily operations so that our employees easily recognize them and change the way they work to ultimately generate tangible outcomes. In addition, we will focus on expanding the problem-solving methodology TRIZ as well as 6Sigma DFSS (Design for Six Sigma), improve project capabilities to intensively undertake Breakthrough Limitations tasks, strengthen daily innovation initiatives (making suggestions and 5S) and disseminate innovation initiatives into our overseas subsidiaries. While building a culture of innovation, we will also set directions for Breakthrough Limitations tasks in each of the 3P areas, realign customized innovation tools and strengthen the internal innovation capabilities of each division. The definition of waste will be expanded to encompass more stringent waste-elimination initiatives concerning corporate culture and indirect office operations, so as to deliver a more efficient and productive organization. 34 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 2 QUALITY & CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Quality Management Improve Quality Capabilities and Nurture Engineers Accounting for Improvement Experts 43 Our commitment to nurturing a professional technical % workforce, capable of fully adopting and disseminating quality management systems to cater to shifting customer needs, allowed 43% of our quality workforce of the Total Quality Workforce to become certified in quality management in 2013. Iso 9001 Certification Examiners Accounting Iso 9001 Certification for 45% (of the Total Quality Workforce) Examiners Accounting for 45% Our endeavors to nurture experts with the ISO quality management system and strengthen quality innovation systems, as well as quality management capabilities, enabled 45% of our quality workforce to become certified ISO 9001 examiners in 2013. of the Total Quality Workforce Quality We recognize customers as the foundation for our existence and provide products and services that satisfy customer Policy expectations and requirements, so as to deliver credible and impressive customer experience. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Quality To nurture quality talent • 43% of the workforce became certified Visits to major customers/monitoring and Jun. Competiquality management engineers technical seminars tiveness • 45% of the workforce became certified Nurturing experts on the ISO quality Dec. ISO9001 examiners management system • The plan to nurture 50% of the workforce Improving the internal examiner Dec. as internal quality examiners expanded to nurturing process a quality talent nurturing system To offer quality training courses • ISO/TS16949 requirements and core tool Securing quality capabilities • Supplier quality diagnoses and evaluations To establish an environmental • Offline management system developed or Securing a quality competitive edge and harmful substance management system under sustained supplementation responding to environmental risks To secure a quality competitive edge • 21 improvements on quality defects, 46 Securing quality capabilities system realignments, 16 cases of support for overseas subsidiaries, 99 cases of support for suppliers Customer To deliver differentiated service quality • The scope of activities extended (2014~) Setting business strategy through the Dec. Relationship that leads to real-life benefits to Product quality and brand awareness identification/analyses of customer needs Management customers in the Tractor Division To conduct customer satisfaction • Plans set to improve on the existing Improving the reliability of customer Dec. surveys research methods in terms of evaluation satisfaction surveys scales and surveys only To continuously undertake division• Service staff capabilities strengthened Delivering customer satisfaction specific customer satisfaction initiatives • Visits to major customers/monitoring and and strengthen customer contact points technical seminars 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Quality • To conduct customer satisfaction surveys (commissioned to Customer • To Implement the quality talent nurturing system and nurture Competitiveness professional survey service providers(Targets: Tractor/Injection Relationship talent Molding Divisions Management • To Secure a competitive edge in quality(expanded operation of • To Undertake division-specific customer satisfaction initiatives quality training for overseas subsidiaries) continuously and strengthen customer contact points • To Develop an environmental harmful substance management system Quality & Customer Satisfaction 35 LS Mtron’s sustained growth is the result of its commitment to quality management that puts customers first. Quality Talent In 2013, our quality talent nurturing system was realigned to build global-level quality capabilities, offer training and undertake job level-specific quality initiatives. This improved system aims to nurture talented individuals who Nurturing System understand the 3P (People/Process/Product) strategy, LS Mtron’s basic quality strategy, and who take the lead in positive change. To this end, approximately 230 employees from all divisions were surveyed and interviewed to identify capability items required to advance quality management. The outcomes were based on the development of a quality talent nurturing system roadmap. We used a process approach to the quality system to analyze areaspecific job capabilities (quality planning, quality management, quality assurance, quality improvement) and job level-specific required capabilities, in order to establish a nurturing system. Our quality training consists of mandatory courses that are classified into quality basics/basic/advanced courses for office and technical workers, as well as specialized courses that include ISO/TS16949 Core Tool, reliability, and supplier quality management, improvement and guidance. Our quality talent nurturing system, to be launched in the beginning of 2014, will offer more quality training opportunities to all our employees, nurture quality innovation leaders in each area and establish a qualitydriven culture, so as to strengthen our quality innovation system and quality management capabilities. Quality Management In the face of increasingly fiercer competition, we are continuously committed to delivering impeccable, high-quality products and services that reflect customer requests. Our quality management system was designed to monitor the that Caters to Customer thoughts and suggestions of diverse customers in real-time and improve on any weaknesses, so as to put customer Needs satisfaction first and deliver perfect, quality products. We also have a process to immediately report customer feedback and relevant outcomes to the CEO, so as to handle customer requirements in the shortest time frame and minimize the risk of customer complaints. Furthermore, we conduct annual customer satisfaction surveys to perfect our quality and customer-centered management system by attentively attending to their feedback and/or suggestions. 201 4 pl a n What are the plans for customer satisfaction surveys in 2014? To improve the credibility of our customer satisfaction surveys, we plan to collaborate with external professional agencies in conducting such surveys. While we primarily conducted customer satisfaction surveys on such limited categories as quality, marketing, aftersales services and deadlines, we will now include in-depth customer interviews. These interviews will help us identify their response to our overall operations from purchasing and ordering, to product & service activities, as well as their requirements for necessary improvement. In 2014, this new survey method will target our Tractor Division, whose main customers are farmers. Customer satisfaction surveys that specifically cover agricultural machinery will allow us to identify product strategy directions for customers in each segment and to develop detailed product strategies by evaluating the adoption of new products and identifying appropriate price levels for each product. Furthermore, the features of our products & services, as well as their counterparts from competitors, will be evaluated and measures to improve on them will be developed. In so doing, we will be able to identify top priority tasks related to pricing and quality, which are representative factors that influence purchasing decisions. In addition, we will be in a better position to undertake sustained improvement to deliver even greater customer satisfaction. 36 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Mtron vows to set the standard for customer satisfaction–from anywhere in the world. No Spec, No Work! No Spec, No Work represents the quality improvement initiative undertaken by the Injection Molding Division. This aims to firmly establish standard compliance practices and voluntarily improve on existing unreasonable practices, Quality Innovation to deliver uniform quality in the global market. Work and technology that demand absolute compliance are standardInitiative ized and area-specific quality innovation tasks are undertaken to establish a Zero Defect system. This was done in conjunction with quality capability reinforcement training to ensure that work process and technology standards are continuously realigned, in addition to the improvement of the standard system. Furthermore, continuous monitoring ensures that the set standards are abided by and that improvement is made voluntarily. In July 2013, the quality innovation rally was hosted to widely disseminate the purpose and action plans of the No Spec, No Work initiatives and customers were invited to the demonstration of electric injection molding machines. LS Mtron vows to continuously endeavor to develop self-initiated problem-solving capabilities, establish a quality-driven culture where anyone can fulfill his/her responsibility through process improvement and efforts towards greater customer satisfaction. Deliver Uniform Global Quality Worldwide Work Process Standard Technical Standard Standardized Operation (Policy/Rule) (Work/Facility/Inspection) • Global single standard • Criteria for necessary standards • Daily execution of standards • Process-based standardized (Readiness) /voluntary improvement operation • Work-standard alignment • Easy-View environment • Same rule for all plants (Completeness) • Realignment of the change • Easy-to-understand standard management system (Compliance) Linear Execution of Best Practices Standard-based Work Environment Operational R&R Global standard Work-standard standard clarification unification alignment optimization Culture of Compliance ( No Spec, No Work ) At a glance 37 3 SHARED GROWTH KRW Public-Private Joint Investment Technology 7.6 billion Development Projects LS Mtron is undertaking public-private joint investment technology development projects as part of its R&D funding support policy, in conjunction with the Small & Medium Business Administration (SMBA) and the Large & Small Business Cooperation Foundation. In 2013, a total of 10 projects were In Total Expenditures undertaken and a total of KRW 7.6 billion was invested. LS Mtron will establish a virtuous cycle of mutually-beneficial cooperation that pursues shared growth on Declaration the basis of fair trade and secure competitive capabilities to expand its presence in the global market. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Strengthen To offer customized support • PMS certification consulting offered to seven Strengthening suppliers’ capabilities and the Compefor an improved competitive edge suppliers improving the stability of each other’s titive Edge • Quality consulting offered to four suppliers quality of Our To undertake public-private joint • 10 projects undertaken, a total of KRW 7.6 Developing key components and contribNov. Suppliers investment technology development billion invested (development of a bean uting to parts localization projects harvester, etc.) To operate the FTA system and • OCS (origin-of-country management system) Managing country-of-origin data, PreDec. offer training training offered venting FTA-related risks • FTA training offered To operate the Win-Win Partnership Fund • The Win-Win Partnership Fund increased in Improving the financial stability of size and its loans improved in 2013 suppliers • Prime rates reinforced Fair Trade To maintain 100% cash-equivalent • 100% cash equivalent payment Improving the financial stability of payment suppliers To update the basic transaction • The standard subcontracting form from the Improving the stability of transactions Sep. contract form Fair Trade Commission reflected through the update of the transaction • Subcontractors taking precedence in the contract form contract form update, followed by SMEs and large companies To comply with the four guidelines from • Four guidelines disclosed and integrated Protecting the rights of suppliers the Fair Trade Commission into the corporate policy • Four guidelines reflected in the basic transaction contract form To elevate the level of LS Mtron’s • 4.34 points in ethics level (against the fiveImproving business ethics and dissemiSep. business ethics point full mark nating ethics awareness to suppliers Facilitate To operate wide-ranging offline • Direct dialogue channels operated such as Enhancing the understanding of Communicommunication channels business presentations and performanceoperations and communication cation (half-yearly in each division) sharing supplier events 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Strengthen the • To sign the shared growth agreement and to undertake Fair Trade • To complying with the four guidelines Competitive Edge relevant initiatives of Our Suppliers • To undertake public-private joint investment technology Facilitate • To host business presentations and performance-sharing development projects and launch additional projects Communication supplier events • To improve the FTA system and offer training • To increase deposits in the Win-Win Partnership Fund 38 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Working together, not only with our brain, but also with our heart, is what defines the partnership between LS Mtron and its suppliers. Six Shared Growth Initiatives Status of Suppliers Suppliers’ Expectations and Requirements Indicator Unit 2013 Suppliers(Domestic/Overseas) No. of suppliers 2,034/186 Real-time sharing of payment order data 90 | 13% Purchases Made Korea KRW billion 497.9 Shared growth support for tier 2 suppliers 82 | 12% China KRW billion 79.2 Expand Q-Partners and related support 74 | 10% Europe KRW billion 42.8 Joint R&D 71 | 10% Japan KRW billion 36.6 Quality/production technology guidance 58 | 8% Others KRW billion 16.7 Capacity-Building Support Q-Partner Q-파트너 Program “We offer wide-ranging capacity-building programs to directly assist suppliers in Securing Financial generating business outcomes.” Stability for Our Suppliers Our focus in 2013 was to offer quality and “Our Q-partner program was designed to productive capacity-building support for certify outstanding suppliers as a way to lay suppliers. Our suppliers in the Tractor and the basis for shared growth and strengthen Injection Molding Divisions were provided with “We develop diverse financial support our global partnership.” Quality Mind-up training and four suppliers programs to ensure the funding stability of were aided in establishing quality inspection our suppliers.” Our suppliers are fairly evaluated each year management standards and received relevant for their quality, prices, their compliance The LS Win-Win Partnership Fund was designed consulting. LS Mtron’s Quality Masters with deadlines, and their technological and to offer prime rates to assist our suppliers in were sent to these suppliers in person to management capabilities. Top-performing securing operating funds. In 2013, our deposits provide more practical support. In addition, partners in these areas are then selected in the fund rose to KRW 2.4 billion and prime PMS (productivity improvement technique) as Q-Partners. The management capability rates were adjusted upward. In addition, cash certification support was offered to seven assessment category includes security, payments for subcontractors rose four times, suppliers. environmental organizations, legal nonwhile payment deadlines were shortened compliance, injury management and labor from 24 days for cash payment and 20 days for disputes. These Q-Partners are granted bill settlement to 10 days respectively. Since a certificate and a signboard and take October 2010, we have been making full, cash312 precedence in receiving various opportunities suppliers equivalent payments to our suppliers. including payment conditions, training expense support, and R&D for one year. Our (521 employees) Q-Partner program will cover sustainability management more extensively as evaluation criteria and we will disseminate sustainability management to our suppliers. Training Details Suppliers(Employees) Disseminating a culture of innovation 66(66) LS Win-Win Partnership Fund 2013 Strengthening the quality-oriented mindset 21(231) LS Mtron’s Deposits KRW 2.4 billion Q-Partner (Unit: KRW billion) Response to FTAs 48(55) Fund Size KRW 6 billion Year 2011 2012 2013 On-site improvement initiatives 37(117) Prime Rate 1.65~2.95% No. of Q-Partners 34 33 35 Mutually-beneficial cooperation Funding Results Approximately Cash Payment 114.3 128.5 142.4 in environment and safety 40(52) KRW 5 billion At a glance 39 Transparent Supply Chain, Cleaner Environment Proactive Communication “LS Mtron will build a sustainable supply chain through stronger fair trade relationships and green carbon partnerships.” LS Mtron is evaluated for its business ethics “It is through seamless communication and by suppliers each year and the outcomes are feedback gathering that LS Mtron pursues reflected in its operations. The evaluation criteria mutually-beneficial growth with suppliers.” include satisfaction with LS Mtron’s ethics Monthly evaluations made by suppliers and management, employee attitude, fair trade and feedback gathered to identify necessary competition, satisfaction with communication, improvements enable us to build even and the priorities of mutually-beneficial stronger capabilities and ensure mutuallycooperation initiatives required to promote beneficial communication. While such shared growth. In the fields of the environment Stronger Competitive Edge in R&D supplier evaluations were performed only in and safety, we offered supplier training on the the Tractor Division, their scope will extend development of GHG inventories and chemicals to all the divisions in 2014 to maximize their management through the government-led synergistic effects. Meanwhile, we continue to Green Partnership program. In addition, our improve on our purchasing system to ensure win-win safety program serves to deliver an “LS Mtron assists suppliers with technology that information is communicated accurately. injury-free workplace. development to prepare for a shared future.” Furthermore, each division hosts business LS Mtron is undertaking public-private joint presentations and the year-end performanceinvestment technology development projects sharing supplier events serve to expand as part of its R&D funding support policy, in opportunities to meet suppliers face-to-face How do suppliers evaluate the ethics conjunction with the Small & Medium Business and communicate more actively. management of LS Mtron? Administration (SMBA) and the Large & Small 2014 ACHIEVEMENT _ Improvement on the (On a scale of one to five) Business Cooperation Foundation. Over the Order Data System 4.34 4.36 past three years, we invested KRW 18.4 billion in We are committed to seamless and honest 40 projects. Such commitment was recognized communication with our suppliers. In early 4.22 at the Shared Growth Fair 2013 and we were 2014, we revised and added new elements honored with the Excellent Investor Award and to our manuals to clearly communicate the Task Discovery Award. Furthermore, we when, how much and how supplies should filed joint patent applications on technology be delivered. Meanwhile, we reinforced our developed in conjunction with suppliers, while server to ensure the trouble-free operation introducing the technology escrow system, as of the E-procurement and the Web-Ban of a way to protect the invaluable trade secrets suppliers. Furthermore, we set up a fair work and/or key technology of our suppliers. process that requires an electronic, documentbased agreement on matters requiring mutual 2011 2012 2013 consent such as pricing and order changes. INTERVIEW Dal-Hyun Eom, President of DAE CHANG Industrial Co., Ltd. Daechang Industrial is a Daegu-based agricultural machinery component maker with a 40-year history. We produce the cabins, which serve as an integral part of LS Mtron tractors. Thanks to the innovation and commitment of all our employees, we were able to grow into a small, yet strong company, with KRW 20 billion in sales and partnerships and 80 component and parts suppliers. Since LS Mtron launched its Q-Partner program in 2008, we have been selected as Q-Partner for our top-notch performance for six straight years up until 2013. We have also undertaken three public-private joint investment technology development projects, LS Mtron’s representative mutually-beneficial cooperation program, over the past three years as LS Mtron’s best partner. Establishing the new plant called DAE CHAMG-AMCO Co., Ltd. in November 2013, allowed us to make another leap forward. The completion of this new plant significantly increased our cabin production and stabilized our supply of them, while the geographical proximity of this plant to LS Mtron’s Jeonju Plant (located in the Wanju Techno Valley) led to dramatic savings in logistics costs, when compared to the previous transport route that originated in Daegu. We will continue to innovate and endeavor to usher in a bright future of shared growth. 40 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 4 social contribution 2 We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group, LS Mtron’s representative social contribution program, undertakes practical volunteer activities (free-of-charge inspections of agricultural machines) and makes talent donations for farming villages located in the vicinity of LS Mtron plants, seniors living alone and the less privileged, as a way to spread the ‘Happy Virus’ throughout those Volunteered farming villages. Declaration LS Mtron will fully engage in the development and growth of the local communities where it is based, fulfill its social responsibility through employee volunteerism and deliver a flourishing area where everyone lives in harmony. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Facilitate To strengthen support to facilitate • Social Contribution Awards granted Increasing the number of employee Employee employee volunteerism • Volunteer activities of new recruits undertaken volunteers Volunteerism To forge sisterhood relationships with • One Company One Village campaign Building closer ties with local villages and schools in the vicinity of launched in Chudong village and Bongdong communities LS Mtron’s locations Elementary School supported Expand support for local cultural/arts/ • Sponsorship and employees’ participation Improving awareness of LS Mtron in local sports events as well as employees’ expanded for such local cultural/arts/sports communities participation events as the Jeonju International Film Festival, the Jeonju World Sori Festival and the International Sculpture Exhibition Representative To launch the 3rd Global Happy Village • Delayed to 2014 Social campaign Contribution To operate We Love Farming Village • Date: Aug./Nov. Laying the basis for representative social Programs Volunteer Group • Venue: Pyeongchon village, Jeongeup, North contribution programs Jeolla/Daegae-myeon, Gumi City, North Gyeongsang • Details: Taking self-portrait photos for the elderly, hairdresser services, tractor inspections, improvement of living conditions • Participants: Informal members and employees of site-specific volunteer groups 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Facilitate • To re-establish social contribution strategy and system Representative • To expand domestic representative social giving programs Employee • To undertake the One Person One Day volunteer campaign Social Contribution • To establish social contribution systems for overseas subsidiaries Volunteerism • To forge sisterhood ties with local communities and offer Programs sponsorship to cultural, arts and sports events Social Contribution 41 LS Mtron employees come together on their own initiative to volunteer anywhere their kind-spirited efforts are needed. Community At LS Mtron, we ensure the spontaneity and autonomy of our volunteer activities and volunteer groups are under operation at each site. While such site-specific volunteer activities remain informal, the Social Contribution SubVolunteerism committee and other supportive systems offer systemized assistance to such activities. Our community volunteer group is operated at each of our four business sites in Jeonju, Anyang, Jeongeup and Indong and presently, approximately 500 employees are volunteering. LS Mtron’s community volunteer group not only welcomes the participation of its employees—but also the participation of their families and suppliers. 1 Sarang Silcheonhoe 2 Huimang Nanumi (Love Practicing Team) (Anyang) (Sharing Hope Team) (Indong) • Major Beneficiary: Yanji House (Rehabilita• Major Beneficiary: Shelter of Love(Local care tion facility for patients with Cerebral Palsy), facilities for those with mental disabilities), Gyeonggi Office of Child Fund, Anyang Nice Gumi Elementary School Christian Family (children’s welfare center) 1 • Activity: Help bathe regularly, offer regular • Activity: Help bathe regularly/clean/dine edusupport for children from broken homes, help cation, donate money and supplies, support deliver briquettes, build sisterhood ties with for local teenagers, etc. overseas children 2 3 Sarang Nanumhoe 3 4 Sarang Silcheonhoe (Love Sharing Team) (Jeonju) (Love Practicing Team) (Jeongeup) 4 • Major Beneficiary: Da Ae Community, Hill of • Major Beneficiary: Welfare facilities for the Grace, etc. disabled, childcare centers, House of Sharing, • Activity: Donate money and supplies, help etc. make kimchi, support construction and • Activity: Help repair homes for elderly people hands-on activities living alone and those from broken homes, care for long-term patients, and donate money and supplies Community LS Mtron sponsors cultural, arts and sports events every year to help develop culture and improve the quality of life in the communities where it is based. Specifically, we have been a sustained sponsor to the Jeonju International Film Engagement Festival and the Jeonju World Sori Festival, two representative cultural festivals of North Jeolla where our Jeonju Plant is located since 2008. Our employees volunteer for these events on the festival sites and join forces with local residents. In addition, our sponsorship to the World Sori Festival and the International Sculpture Exhibition contributes to the promotion of the cultural industry. In Chudong village, with which we forged One Company One Village sisterhood ties, we support local future farmers in taking field trips to other villages with advanced agricultural practices. We also assist students at Yeonmudae Technical High School (Meister High School), with whom we signed the sponsorship agreement in 2012, in taking experience-based field learning courses. In so doing, we help local communities grow and nurture outstanding talent. In addition, we signed the MOU to promote the sales of local agricultural products with the National Agricultural Cooperative Federation and sponsored agricultural product advertising that was supervised by the federation. This helped us support garlic farmers and farmers who grow ecofriendly onions, as these farmers were suffering due to declining prices. 42 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group has positioned itself as LS Mtron’s representative social contribution program. We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group Our representative social contribution program ‘We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group’ attends to lowincome farming villages and the aging population. These population segments are seriously concerning society and this program aids both the elderly who live alone, and the less privileged. Improving living conditions and practical volunteer activities aligned with our operations, such as free-of-charge farm machinery inspections and employee-sponsored talent donations (taking self-portraits for the elderly, hairdressing and taping therapy) are all designed to spread the ‘Happy Virus’ throughout the beneficiary village. This ongoing program is positioning itself as LS Mtron’s unique and differentiated social giving initiative and will extend its scope from the local communities where the company is based, to farming villages across the nation. ‘We Love Farming Village Volunteer Group’ delivers contentment not only to beneficiaries, but also to our employees and their families. [ Pyeongchon Village in Jeongeup ] Pyeongchon Village, Majeong-ri, Jeongeup City, North Jeolla Hairdressing Service Serving Meals and Offering Entertainment At a glance 43 [ Dogae-myeon in Gumi ] Dogae-ri, Dogae-myeon, Gumi City, North Gyeongsang Improving Living Conditions Self-Portrait Photos for the Elderly Free-of-Charge Inspections of Farming Machines 201 4 pl a n Social Contribution Operational Plans LS Mtron will undertake beneficiary-centered and sincere social contribution initiatives to help promote a warmer kind of world, where even businesses and companies forge sincere relations and their stakeholders truly benefit from one another. To this end, we will set a mid/long-term social contribution strategy, establish a multi-dimensional system and develop internal operational and management systems. Furthermore, we aim to launch the ‘One Person One Day Campaign’, operate ‘Day of Team Leader Volunteerism’ and develop site-specific customized volunteer programs to ensure that not just beneficiaries, but also all participating employees, have an enjoyable experience. In so doing, LS Mtron will be fully engaged in addressing social issues, fulfill its social responsibility and go the extra mile to evolve into a company that creates shared value. 44 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 5 green management 4 8 GHG Emissions Monitoring System To proactively respond to ever-increasing effects of climate change, LS Mtron completed the development of the GHG CO2 emissions monitoring system for each of its four plants and eight business divisions. This Business will greatly boost our capacity in managing Plants Divisions GHG emissions reduction targets. Declaration LS Mtron will continue to undertake energy-saving and GHG emissions reduction initiatives and support the expansion of its green business so as to become a global-leading green company in the industrial machinery and cutting-edge component industry. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Respond to To develop a GHG emissions monitoring • Completed the development of the Improving GHG target management Jun. Climate system monitoring system for each of the four plants capacity Change and eight business divisions To develop a GHG/Energy IT system • Completed the company-wide GHG/energy Developing a GHG database and share Sep. IT system data in real time To obtain the carbon labeling certificate • Became Korea’s 1st to obtain the carbon Securing a competitive edge in green Nov. awarded by the Ministry of Environment labeling certificate for the tractor model products (PLUS Series 7188) Shared Green Growth System • Calculated the carbon footprint of products Building a green partnership along the Nov. • Analyzed and improve energy processes supply chain Operation of High-Tech To identify major risks • Completed the improvement of Reducing environmental safety risks Aug. Advanced ESH Center and integrate their 25 risk factors from the relocation of our business site Business Sites prevention/maintenance • Established and revised 102 safety into internal policies regulations Overseas To support system develop• Operated and provided the environmental Tightening the environmental safety Sep. Subsidiaries ments and perform fire safety diagnosis checklist and diagnostic review system and enhance its -prevention evaluations methods effectiveness To nurture environmental • Offered video training to nurture Boosting the level of environmental Sep. safety officers professional staff safety management at our overseas • Disseminated risk factor identification/ subsidiaries mitigation techniques Employee To operate a smoking cessation program • Created the smoking cessation fund and Establishing a healthy smoke-free work Feb. Health & reached a 64% smoking cessation success rate environment Safety To improve environmental safety risk • Re-evaluated company-wide risk levels, Improving self-initiated environmental Apr. evaluation tightened management standards and safety management capabilities on a offered training division level To nurture professional fire-prevention staff • 26 fire safety managers were certified (74 Improving on-site fire management Dec. within the accumulated number) Green To strengthen the management • Re-defined eco-friendly design elements and Expanding green product line-ups and Oct. Products of green products set operational plans in each division strengthen the management of them R&D investment in green products: • KRW 17.94 billion Expanding R&D of green products KRW 20.2 billion Percentage of green products • 47.4% Expanding R&D of green products being sold: 47% 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Thoroughly • To build a chemicals management system Step Up Preventive • To review environmental safety practices and facilitate relevant Respond To • To set a strategy to respond to the upcoming GHG emissions Measures to Minicampaigns Environmental trading scheme Mize Accidents • To improve the environmental safety management systems of Safety Risks • To support accident prevention efforts at overseas subsidiaries our suppliers Bolster Production • To set a new green product operation model of Green Products • To increase the No. of green products rated Grade 1 or above, to a Grade 8 rating Green Management 45 LS Mtron Cares for the Environment and its Value Chain Grows Hand-in-Hand with its Suppliers. Shared Green As part of the ‘Government-Sponsored Large Business-SME Green Carbon Partnership Projects’ that we have participated in since 2012, we have assisted 20 suppliers in conducting energy diagnoses, building GHG inventories Growth System and diagnosing fire safety hazards. In 2013, we have helped 20 suppliers identify their energy consumption status and improve their facilities and processes to reduce energy consumption. These diagnostic activities helped us identify ways to reduce energy use by approximately 11% and LS Mtron is currently working with these suppliers to reduce their GHG emissions even more. Furthermore, we aided suppliers in calculating their GHG inventories so they could create their own GHG emissions regulatory response system—and independently manage their performance—by providing them with relevant guidelines and inventory calculation tools. We also evaluated the safety management of our suppliers, with our own internal standards, to help them prevent safety accidents. We diagnosed the safety of the electric and fire systems at 20 of our supplier sites and 89% of the identified improvements were successfully completed. Major Activities Under Government-Sponsored Projects Analysis of GHG Emissions • Build GHG inventories • By emission source, on a monthly basis • Calculate the carbon footprint of products • Intensity analysis, etc. • Analyze and improve energy processes • Commitment to reducing GHG emissions • Build green management systems (Revise standards and procedures, etc.) • Nurture green management experts • Develop green management information systems (IT) • Develop a management system for harmful chemicals Green Products At LS Mtron, we believe that developing green products is an incredibly effective way to deliver new value to our customers. Moreover, it helps us fulfill our environmental responsibility and greatly minimizes our environmental footprint in the manufacturing process. Since 2010, we have defined the boundary of green products to facilitate their development and have introduced a number of green design processes. Each year, we follow internal standards to define green products (products whose basic design elements were improved or products that belong to the green business category) and strive to expand the R&D and sales of these eco-conscious products. Carbon Labeling In 2013, LS Mtron became the 1st Korean company to obtain the carbon labeling certificate in the tractor industry (PLUS Series P7188). We gather process/material-specific parts data, calculate the GHG emissions of our entire process (through calculating our carbon footprint), and transparently disclose our carbon emissions to consumers. In so doing, we encourage our consumers to opt for < PLUS Series P7188 Model > greener products. 46 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Through our GHG/energy IT system, we advance the transparency and reliability of environmental management. GHG Emissions Company-Wide GHG Emission Response System and IT System Starting with our plant in Jeongeup in 2012, all our plants became subject to the government-led target management Management system in 2013. Consequently, in 2013, our GHG emissions rose by 10.8% from the previous year to 112,931tCO2 Trend in GHG Emissions but their intensity declined due to the intensive efforts of each division to reduce GHG emissions. In 2013, we de(tco2) veloped our own GHG/energy IT system to not only manage the status of energy consumption by energy source, but Scope1 Scope2 also to efficiently manage energy use and reduce our consumption. Furthermore, we calculate expected GHG emis112,931 sions in making new facility investments to allow for comparability management. This allows us to reach our set 99,415 101,915 reduction targets and systematically manage our GHG consumption. 103,031 93,603 91,903 GHG · Energy IT System and Structure 7,507 8,312 9,900 Specifications Reduction Activities 2011 2012 2013 • Facility information • Reduction technology information • Register product-specific • Status of reduction activities production volume data Emission Intensity Measured • Energy unit price information against Sales (tco2/KRW 100 million) Action Plans Community 0.15 0.14 0.14 • Set the base year • Notifications • Baseline emissions/Action plans • Archive • Facility-specific action plans Calculation of Expected Mid/Long-term GHG Emissions 2011 2012 2013 At LS Mtron, we manage mid/long-term emissions data in consideration of product-specific market forecasts and production plans, along with the status of facility construction/expansion at each plant. Although we begin with shortterm process/production technology improvements, we also take a mid/long-term perspective in consultations regardRatio of Energy Sources ing new facility investments and in establishing a process to reduce our environmental footprint and GHG emissions. Major Reduction Activities Undertaken Facility Activity Expected Reductions(tco2/year) Investment(KRW million) Production Facility Improvement Reduce power consumption by adjusting the spacing 944 172.0 among production facilities Process Improvement Improve operation conditions by controlling cooling 248 1.2 Electricity 90.0% Diesel 0.7% temperatures and pressure LNG 7.5% LPG 0.1% Freezer Replace old freezers with new high-efficiency models 159 31.0 Gasoline 0.2% Steam 1.5% Driving Facility Improvement Install inverters to respond to load fluctuations 158 28.4 At a glance 47 Each of our plants ensures they use environmental resources more efficiently and prevent safety accidents through detailed safety inspections and health & safety training. Environmental Health & Safety Initiatives Undertaken at Each Plant To conserve water and reduce wastewater discharge, As a way to prevent environmental safety accidents, we recently deployed wastewater recovery (reverse we established the Green Patrol program, where osmosis) and re-treatment facilities to align our professional staff in each division offer intensive previous wastewater treatment (which had simply safety support, while conducting joint laborAnyang Plant Jeonju Plant been discharged through processing facilities), with management monthly inspections to identify a recycling process. By recycling our wastewater, and improve work-related risk factors. Such a (Water Resource Management) we were able to reduce wastewater discharge by (Environmental Health commitment to workplace health & safety was & Safety Patrol) 38%. This was recognized as a best practice in water recognized at the Honorary Occupational Safety conservation and earned us the Grand Prize at the Supervisor Presentation 2013, where we were Gyeonggi Environmental Awards. awarded the Grand Prize. Wastewater Reuse Process Diagram Detailed Initiatives Generation of Wastewater Production Process • Assignment of dedicated professional health & safety staff to each division • Sustained discovery and improvement of process-related Physical · Chemical hazard & risk factors Treatment • Prevention of safety accidents through facility-specific regular inspections Discharge M/F Ion Exchange Resin R/O Our Jeongeup Plant operates a facility that recovers copper from wastewater and reuses it as Wastewater Reuse Process raw materials. To reduce the consumption of raw materials and minimize resource waste, more than Jeongeup Plant Our Indong Plant offers its suppliers a mutually95% of the copper ion contained in wastewater is beneficial environmental safety program. By raising recovered and reused in manufacturing processes. safety awareness and improving risk factors among (Resource Reuse) suppliers through support for risk evaluation & Production Process Solution Storage Tank Concentrator Indong Plant improvement and safety training, we consistently assist our suppliers in preventing accidents. (Mutually-Beneficial Environmental Safety Program) Detailed Initiatives • Improvement of health & safety risk factors (23 cases) • Support for health & safety lecturers • Guidance in preparing process-specific work safety procedures • Dissemination of danger prediction training and stretching techniques H2SO4 A B tower C tower tower Recovery of Copper 48 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 6 technology competitive edge 19 Stronger O/I Partnership based on Core Platform Technology In line with rapidly-shifting market conditions and increasingly complex and diversified customer needs, we are forging even closer cooperative relationships with academia to strengthen our platform technology that lies at the core of our business operations. In 2013, the number of our Strategic Labs rose to 19, and in 2014, we O/I Final Selection of will expand the scope of our Strategic Labs to include Strategic Labs professional research institutes and overseas/local labs. *O/I = Open Innovation Declaration LS Mtron will recruit and nurture outstanding R&D talent in the industrial machinery, cutting-edge component and materials segment, while producing top consumer solutions through open innovation and the development of green products. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Advance To undertake government-sponsored/ • Undertook 37 government-sponsored/ Reinforcing O/I partnerships on the basis Open commissioned projects commissioned projects of core platform technology Innovation To select Strategic Labs in alignment with • Selected 19 Strategic Labs core platform technology Recruit and To secure exceptional talent in Korea and • Secured seven industrial scholarship students Securing outstanding talent Nurture overseas • Secured seven talented individuals through Outstanding Lab tours R&D Talent • Secured Target Labs (38 labs) and key strategic locations (19 labs) To nurture outstanding talent • Provided degree/MBA programs to nine Nurturing outstanding talent employees • Developed a R&D training system • Offered leadership training to team leaders and PMs To develop and implement organizational • Hosted executive discussions (communication Facilitating inter-divisional Dec. culture revitalization programs on a job position/organizational level) communication • Offered a researcher engagement program (C.A.) • Celebrated Communication Day Technological To increase our cases of patent• Succeeded in winning the 1st patent Strengthening patent licensing rights Competitive infringement litigations infringement litigation trial To place top priority on the security of • Discovered highly valuable patents: 34 (key Strengthening the patent portfolio Dec. future technology, through the discovery patent: 34 patents, essential patent: 4 patents) of essential patents To improve the patent application grading • Reviewed the patent application grading Securing high-quality patent rights Dec. system guidelines and plans to raise patent attorney fees to more reasonable levels To implement six TRIZ tasks and offer • Undertook 10 tasks, Reached 45% in Offering employees opportunities to Dec. TRIZ Level 1 training completion of Level 1 training improve their problem-solving skills and develop individual potential 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Advance Open • To foster Strategic Labs by core platform technology Develop a Foundation • To reinforce specialized patent training and operate a patent Innovation • To diversify strategic partners for a Technological counseling center Recruit and • To focus on the internal nurturing of key talent Competitive Edge • To discover highly valuable patents Nurture • To develop a mid/long-term HR management system (HRM) • To set and apply guidelines for the patent application grading Outstanding • To secure dedicated staff and build a system for R&D training system R&D Talent • To establish the EVP (Employee Value Proposition) for the R&D • To enhance the level of TRIZ tasks and training workforce Technology Competitive Edge 49 Our Collaboration with Academia Forms the Deep-Rooted Source for Our Technology and Knowledge. Commitment to and Rapidly-shifting market conditions and increasingly complex and diversifying customer needs are shining a spotlight on the value of open innovation in corporate R&D strategy. At LS Mtron, we recognize our academic partners Achievement in as a major stakeholder group; we collaborate closely with them to reinforce our position in platform technology, Securing Core which constitutes the core of our operations. In 2013, we gained more Strategic Labs, bringing their number up to Platform Technology 19. In 2014, to add to the qualitative aspect of this quantitative growth, we plan to make even further improvements by working with professional research institutes and technology advisors. Major 2013 Achievements in Open Innovation Our participation in the ‘electronically-controllable large-size tractor development’ project, a cutting-edge technology R&D project led by the Ministry of Food, Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries, allowed us to complete the development of optimal tractor CVT control simulation modeling technology in March 2014. This was the result of our joint endeavors with a research team from SungKyunKwan University and this model was designed to improve the accuracy of modeling through testing the characteristics of element parts. This simulation model is the 1st of its kind developed by LS Mtron to conduct optimal control analyses of engines, transmissions and implements and is expected to shorten both time and cost expenditures, while improving the quality of large-sized tractor development. We have recently initiated the development of OLED high-barrier films as part of the government-sponsored project to ‘develop graphene-based materials/parts technology’ supervised by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy with an aim to create new markets. Presently, we are developing barrier films and reactive sputtering technology through R&D and general cooperation with numerous universities and research institutes. Once completed, we expect this project to offer us barrier film and reactive sputtering technology capabilities. As part of the public-private joint projects led by the Small and Medium Business Administration, our Automotive Component Division has been working with its suppliers on the brake hose assembly automation project from November 2012 to October 2014. We expect this project to deliver productivity gains in our assembly line, as well as a reduction in labor costs. Category As-Is To-Be Productivity 2,800 units/day 3,200 units/day Workforce Four persons/line 0.5 persons/line Type of Process Manual Process Automated Process < Automated Inspection < Automated Clamping Technology > Technology > < Model Change Technology > < Automated Supply < Automated Transport Technology > Technology > Increasing Efficiency Opening PMS for Technology Development a a Our R&D project management system PMS (Project Management System) was designed to improve the efficiency and Ability to Execute and execution of our R&D operations. In developing PMS, we undertook PI activities to redefine our R&D process R&D Operations and develop our system, while R&D processes optimized for our R&D operational environments and user convenience for our researchers, were also taken into account in designing this system. PMS enables us to share the progress of R&D projects among relevant parties (top management/PMs/researchers) in real time. This in turn, helps shorten project lead times, efficiently manage human/financial resources and expedite decisions in addressing risks. We believe all these improvements will lead to improved R&D outcomes. 50 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 We Deliver New Value by Developing Top-Notch Products and Securing Core Technology. Mid/Long-term Using TRIZ to Build Creative Problem-Solving Capabilities We introduced TRIZ in 2012 as a creative problem-solving methodology, and since then, 151 employees have Initiatives to Secure become certified Level 1 TRIZ experts. In 2013, a total of 10 tasks were undertaken to explore ideas in accorTechnological dance with TRIZ processes and share verification outcomes regarding TRIZ’s applicability. One of these tasks was Competitive Edge published as a paper at the Global TRIZ Conference and was warmly welcomed by global TRIZ experts. We will continue to foster TRIZ experts and extend our cooperation beyond developing our own creative problem-solving capabilities to further promote the development of TRIZ on a nation-wide level. Broadening the IP Portfolio through the Proactive Exploration of Ideas The continued growth of our overseas sales inevitably exposes us to global patent disputes. The increasing likelihood of such a risk prompted us to actively identify IP seeds so that we could build and broaden our IP portfolio, while remaining attentive to potential core/strategic/essential patents. As part of our efforts in building our own IP portfolio, we are discovering ‘core/essential‘ patents. Not only will this help us become a market leader, it will also broaden our market presence while we discover ‘strategic/applicable patents’ to respond to the entry of our competitors upon our market. In addition, we are looking for ‘core technology/ideas’ in relation to the development of technology and products on the part of our R&D team and other business divisions as a way to protect our IP rights. Included in our analyses of major patents disclosed by our competitors is to design our products around this as a way to minimize business risks. In 2014, we will expand our ‘IP training initiative’ to fully support our employees with their job-related invention activities. 201 4 pl a n Customized Training Programs to Nurture a Top-Notch R&D Workforce Fostering internal talent is the key to the sustainability management of any company. While we have been offering company-wide training programs, we will focus more on customized training to nurture a top-notch R&D workforce. We believe that identifying the EVP (Employee Value Propositioning) of our researchers and developing a mid/long-term R&D talent promotion roadmap will contribute to securing our technological competitive edge and improving company-wide outcomes. Our future executive leaders will receive R&D Biz leadership and LS T-MBA/MBA courses, while future technology leaders will benefit from the broadening of the current employee PhD courses. We will also develop and launch specialized technology training courses to secure the platform technology required in this convergence-driven era. Another critical element regarding our training program: we are planning to increase the number of employees at the 6 Sigma Level BB or above and at the TRIZ Lv2 or above. This will help our R&D workforce to enhance their creative problem-solving capabilities. Building a Robust IP Portfolio through the Discovery of Top-Notch Patents and Greater Rewards for Job-related Inventions The increasingly dominant global trade protectionism based on patents and other types of intellectual property rights highlight the importance of IP rights. This prompted us at LS Mtron to come up with and undertake measures to build a stronger and more extensive IP portfolio. While we have relied greatly on our researchers to create IP right applications, we will empower our staff in charge of managing IP rights to actively discover outstanding patents (strategic/core/essential patents) in each phase of the respective R&D projects. In so doing, we will be able to secure each and every top-notch patent that had previously been neglected due to our lack of expertise regarding IP rights. Furthermore, our long-standing job-related invention reward program will be reinforced to motivate our employees to create more inventions and ultimately contribute to broadening and advancing our IP portfolio. At a glance 51 7 EMPLOYEE VALUE ENHANCEMENT Job Training Completed in Employee Capacity-Building Each Job Category Organizational capabilities are based on individual capabilities. Therefore, we at LS Mtron operate job training systems for R&D, sales, production 397 and support staff to ensure that each and every LS Mtron employee produces the best-possible employees outcomes in their respective position. Declaration LS Mtron recognizes its employees as both stakeholders, and as the main agents that create corporate value. We respect the human rights of every employee, assist our employees with capacity-building and build an organizational culture that promotes engagement and communication. 2013 Achievements against the Set Plans Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity SM Issue Plans Achievements Benefits (Business and Stakeholders) Month Evaluation Global HR To improve the office worker promotion • Improved the evaluation methods for Clarifying the criteria of promotion Jun. system manager CR and general manager PRB evaluations To improve HR systems • Improved the errors in the recruitment and Increasing the efficiency of system Dec. evaluation systems operation To assist an overseas subsidiary • Completed support to establish overall HR Stabilizing subsidiary operations early Dec. (LSMB in Brazil) in developing their systems – recruitment, evaluation, promotion, on through swift localization HR system compensation, and welfare & benefits To focus on nurturing candidates for • Created and foster a pool of candidates that Strengthening the adaptability of expaexpatriate positions doubles the number of available positions triates well before the commencement of their overseas assignments To swiftly recruit outstanding talent for • Focused recruiting employees for growth Recruiting talent in alignment with growth businesses and R&D operations businesses and R&D operations (49 employees) business outcomes Employee To strengthen the caring program for • General training on the 1st work day for new Supporting new hires with a Jun. Capacitynew hires hires/Future Camp for new hires ‘soft landing’ Building To establish job training systems for each • Developed and operated job training systems Strengthening employee’s job capabiliSep. job category and develop/operate for R&D/sales/production/support staff ties and organizational competitive edge relevant courses To build leadership capacity of executives/ • Executive Coaching: Offered to three Improving organizational competitive team leaders executives and one team leader group edge based on robust leadership of • Team Leader Capacity-Building Program: executives and team leaders Efficient communication, Influence-Building Program Employee Operate employee communication • Hosted 53 sessions of the dialogue with Facilitating communication across Engagement channels heads of divisions (teams) different job positions/Improve the and • Major improvements made based on working-level grievance/issue Communisuggestions gathering process cation Operate job-related training programs Redefine R&R and staff operation to relieve the increased work load Operate an organizational • Performed DISC (behavior type examination) Generating synergistic effects by activation program diagnoses, improved understanding among facilitating team-level communication employees, slated plans to diagnose/improve operational efficiency 2014 Plans SM Issue Plans SM Issue Plans Global HR • To strengthen our competitive edge in recruitment by enhancing Employee • To develop a job training system for technical workers our corporate awareness Capacity-Building • To introduce/operate a job credit system • To operate the HR system to nurture candidates for heads of Employee • To host dialogues with heads of business divisions (teams) subsidiaries/team leaders Engagement • To evaluate the organizational activity level and develop an • To develop a HR system to nurture key talent at overseas subsidiaries and Communication activation program • To improve the promotion system for the R&D workforce 52 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 We Build a Global HR Culture to Assist Our Employees in Becoming No. 1 Mtron People, Regardless of their Location. Improvement With the completion of our tractor plant in Brazil in October 2013, we assisted our Brazilian subsidiary in building their own HR system for two months (between May and June), to swiftly localize our business philosophy and of the LSMB HR HR system. Through carefully analyzing and reviewing the status of overall HR matters in terms of their urgency Infrastructure and importance, we helped build a localized HR system that reflects the specificities of our Brazil plant regarding recruitment, evaluation, promotion, compensation and the welfare & benefits system. Through our sustained interest and support, this system will be continually upgraded. HR Support at LSMB Facility Category Details Recruitment Standards/Methods • Phase-specific review criteria, methods, etc. Operation • From recruitment to assignment Treatment • Criteria to determine job positions and pay levels upon recruitment Job Descriptions • Develop and manage job descriptions Overseas Offices Evaluation System/Criteria • Basic directions and principles of evaluation management including detailed criteria, methods, etc. 12 • Structure, weighting, scaling of evaluation categories Operation • From setting targets to F/B and utilization Meet Global Standards Promotion System/Criteria • Basic directions and principles including detailed promotion and Reflect Local criteria, methods, etc. Regulations and (Including subsidiaries and branches) Specificities Operation • Detailed operational process Title/Position • Title/position structure Remuneration Adequacy of Pay Levels • Competitive edge in wage against competitors • Internal fairness Total Overseas Staff • Entry-level pay management for each job level Operation of the Pay • Pay raise methods 1,156 employees Others System Welfare & Benefits ERP Business Trip • Size of performance pay, payment criteria • Support categories and detailed criteria • ERP operation • Operating standards for business trip expenses (As of the end of 2013) 201 4 pl a n Global HR Plans a Since our Vietnamese electronic component subsidiary (LSEV) is slated for establishment in 2014, we will assist LSEV in building its own HR system on the basis of our accumulated experience in completing HR systems in China, the U.S. and Brazil. We also plan to assist our Chinese subsidiaries in nurturing locally-hired key talent. While our Chinese subsidiaries have their overall HR system up and running, our goal is to build and operate a talent nurturing program to meet the growing needs required in fostering local employees. To this end, we will develop a key talent localization roadmap by defining positions that should be swiftly localized and designing a phased-in nurturing plan that considers subsidiary-specific organizational structures, and organization-specific roles & responsibilities. Employee value Enhancement 53 Job Training that Builds Expertise and Strengthens Capability Serves as the Foundation of a Robust Competitive Edge. Development and Our job-category-specific training system was designed to enhance the expertise required of varying positions. Starting with the sales category in 2011, this system was extended to cover R&D, production and support categories Operation of a Jobin 2013. In developing training courses, employees were surveyed and interviewed on the necessary capabilities, Category-specific knowledge and skills required for each job category, while external professional organizations and best practices Training System were analyzed on multiple aspects. In 2013, approximately 400 employees attended a total of 34 courses and they ranked their satisfaction with training at 4.4 points, on a scale from one to five. Training System Development Process (2012) (~ Apr. 2013) (~ Jun. 2013) (~ Dec. 2013) Review job training Improve the sales training Verify the job training by job category system / Identify production Offer job training system (R&D, production, support) training courses Survey the needs of Survey on the effectiveness Benchmark other companies production/support staff of sales training • Survey • Improve courses and identify (Identify necessary knowledge/ • Trend/training indicators a new course launching process skills for each job category) Survey and comparison Review the R&D Identify production training by external professional job training system courses organizations • Conduct external benchmarking and identify a system structure • Verify module-specific needs • Build a job training system • Literature review, interview (importance/urgency) aligned with the group-level LG Academy Status of Job Training Sales R&D No. of Courses 9 No. of Courses 9 Total No. of Trainees 147 Total No. of Trainees 132 Expectations of employee nurturing and training Completion: 397 Trainees 68 % Support No. of Courses Total No. of Trainees 12 56 Production No. of Courses Total No. of Trainees 4 62 (According to the 2013 stakeholder survey of employees) 54 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 We offer diverse programs to assist new recruits adapt to their new work life at LS Mtron with a sense of ownership and peace of mind. Programs and Initiatives Related to the Retention of New Recruits Common Basic Training for New Hires • Purpose: Assist new recruits in adapting to work life early on • Details: Company overview, corporate system overview, New Recruits out of the Total 2013 how to use the in-house intranet, etc. Workforce 16 % (Based on the Head Office) Launching Future Camp Celebratory and Activity Caring Programs for New Hires We launched ‘Future Camp’ for new hires that had no previous experience within a • New Recruits: Flower baskets, celebratory letters signed by the CEO, corporate organization (attended by 20 new hires). For employees celebrating their first restaurant gift certificates anniversary with LS Mtron, ‘Future Camp’ provided these employees an opportunity to • Experienced New Hires: Restaurant gift certificates (Family dining) • On the 1st day of work at LS Mtron, welcoming events, such as the look back on their days at the company and celebrate and encourage each other as cowelcome luncheon, are hosted for new hires by the CHO (head of the workers. This helped them develop a deeper sense of belonging and pride, look ahead support division) at their future career and renew their commitment as LS Mtron employees. As part of Caring Programs our new hire retention program, we will continue to improve and complement such Evaluation of Experienced New Hires well-received programs and training courses. • Experienced new hires are exempt from being evaluated in the same year as their recruitment (Special care is taken during the adjustment period to provide employees sufficient preparation time to generate outcomes) Expansion of Introductory Training for Technical Workers Interview Programs • General: Interview with the HR team director during introductory The sustained growth of our business scale led to the recruitment of 120 new technical training workers over the past three years. To respond to the trend of increased recruitment • New Recruits: Interview with the head of the HR team/HR managers among technical workers, our technical worker introductory training–which previously two months following recruitment • Experienced New Recruits: Bi-weekly interviews with department had only been offered on a plant level–was integrated on a company-wide level heads for the first two months to strengthen its overall structure and maximize training outcomes in encouraging HR Guidebook new hires to adapt to LS Mtron early on. In 2013, three sessions of such training was • The HR Guidebook is permanently posted on the document bulletin board to offer employees an easy-to-understand explanation to offered (three-day training). The training content spanned a variety of matters–from general matters including the HR system, welfare & benefits, and ones essential to working at any company–to understanding more about LS Mtron. major corporate policies. It covered HR basics, welfare & benefits programs, environmental safety training and Mentoring Program (3-months) • Purpose: For veteran employees to offer their experience and business manners. In addition, we hosted celebratory events for new recruits (badge knowledge in assisting new hires build their capacity and reach their and souvenir awarding, dinner party), to reinforce the sense of pride these employees full potential can feel in being part of the LS Mtron team. • Monetary Support for Mentoring Day: KRW 100,000/month, mentors are granted one credit point At a glance 55 Group Introduction LS Mtron Introduction Overseas Training in China • Purpose: Empower new hires to be confident, • Purpose: Help new hires understand the • Purpose: Better understand LS Mtron’s global New Hires practice LSpartnership, and embed essential overview of the company and its basic operations and build capabilities and a global working-level skills (attitude, work skills) into regulations while embedding core values into mindset their daily operations daily operations so as to adapt early on • Details: Tour the production lines of Chinese (JUMP Program) • Details: Understanding LS, attitudes and the • Build robust self-initiated leadership by subsidiaries and hold discussions, experience a basic work skills required of new recruits developing a sense of ownership and positive local culture, find the traces of Korean history in thinking China, project presentations, etc. • Details: Understanding LS Mtron/corporate systems, basic skill training, work skills/ teamwork/basic innovation training Vision Setting Future Camp Work Smart/OA • Purpose: Set personal visions and goals, • Purpose: Reflect on the past one year at • Purpose: Improve the work performance and develop positive thinking for a better work life LS Mtron, reinforce employee pride and work capabilities of new recruits • Details: Reignite your enthusiasm, select fundamentally shift one’s perspective • Details: Work value, working style, smart work meaningful goals, develop positive attitudes, to engage in one’s work with renewed process/skills, power points/excel/word skills executional persistence, set goals/vision commitment • Details: My small success at LS, Fresh Inspiration, Greater Value Together, dinner party Group Introduction LS Mtron Introduction Experienced New • Purpose: Improve a sense of pride and • Purpose: Deepen understanding of and Hires ownership on the basis of understanding LS loyalty to LS Mtron and support new hires and LSpartnership adapt early on • Details: LS study, business site tours, • Details: Understanding the company/ understanding LSpartnership, vision setting, systems, relationship skills, understanding self-awareness campaign, LS People Harmony, the organizational culture, basic innovation special lectures by key opinion leaders training Introcutory Training(3days) Technical Workers • Purpose: Improve understanding of and pride in LS Mtron • Details: Understanding LS Mtron, challenge activities, Good Work Life, Beyond Generational Barriers, celebratory ceremonies for new hires 56 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Introduction of the Sustainability Management (SM) System to the Chinese Headquarters China ISO 26000 and other global standards concerning anti-corruption, environmental pollution, human rights protection and labor practices give rise to the expansion of SM across the globe. In China, relevant laws and regulations are tightening accordingly. As we believe that these trends will have a substantial impact on future business conditions and require our proactive response, we declared the full-fledged introduction of SM at our Chinese Headquarters in December 2013. Before each Chinese subsidiary secures its own management capabilities, the SM Executive Office at the Head Office in Korea will continue to extend its scope of management to China. Meanwhile, the SM Steering Council at the Chinese Headquarters has already begun operations, and is attended by the Chinese Business Support Team and each Chinese subsidiary. a SM Action Framework in China Integrated Management of SM Issues and Response to Regulatory Compliance in Addressing Business Risks SM Steering Group in China Company-Wide SM Steering (Operated by: Chinese Business Group Support Team) SM Executive SM Executive Office at the Office in China Head Office (Chinese Headquarters) Direct/Indirect Support for LS Machinery (Qingdao) LS Machinery (Wuxi) Ltd. LS Electronic-Devices Co., Ltd. (LSMQ) (LSMW) Qingdao Co., Ltd. (LSEQ) Implementation Tasks Operational Directions • Secure comprehensive capabilities concerning HR, labor, the environment, safety, social contributions, innovation, etc. • Respond to risks in conducting business in China through the integrated management of social issues and local regulations • Serve as a channel between the Head Office in Korea and the Chinese subsidiaries for effective communication and the generation of outcomes Major Initiatives Undertaken in 2014 Support for the Comprehensive Management of Build Robust SM Capabilities of Employees SM-related Local Regulations • Reinforce management capabilities in the areas of Expected • Respond to regulatory audits more proactively Expected environment/safety, HR/labor, and ethics Goal • Respond swiftly to tightening regulations Goal • Improve the organizational culture and strengthen loyalty of locally-hired staff Indicators Common Tasks Customized Tasks Aligned with Local Functions that generate Functions that need improvement Regulations CSR Report according to business Global synergistic effects through Preparation Guidelines common response characteristics and pending SM Guidelines organizational issues for Chinese Companies (GRI G 3.1) Top Priorities (CASS-CSR 2.0) • Ethics management training • Environment/safety • Social contribution initiatives • HR/labor, etc. LS Mtron's Chinese Subsidiaries 57 LS Machinery (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (LSMQ) Innovation Innovation initiatives encourage a “think outside the box” approach and contribute to generating substantial business outcomes through this novel shift in context. At LSMQ, substantial improvement is being made on the basis of disseminating Initiatives a basic innovation philosophy and the 5S suggestion program. In 2013, a total of 691 innovative suggestions were made, out of which 12 were selected as especially noteworthy. The suggestion that was most highly rated, ‘tractor electronic circuit flat screen model’ is currently being used for more effective employee training. It also contributed to improving the work capabilities of new recruits and helped make the repair jobs of CS staff at dealers easier. Another suggestion, ‘mobile engine disassembly jig’ provided an idea on how to reduce dependence on cranes so that operators can repair engines in a much wider variety of locations. Ultimately, this suggestion helped reduce the time it took fulfill tasks and improved work efficiency. LSMQ offers free-of-charge training on such topics as quality improvement, as part of its initiatives to help with its capacMutually-Beneficial ity-building of suppliers. In December 2013, technical management training was offered on ‘quality management and agile Cooperation with response of suppliers’. This training, attended by approximately 100 suppliers, led to an improvement in the internal manSuppliers agement capabilities of our suppliers. It also significantly improved our supplier’s ability to comply with delivery due dates and satisfy parts quality criteria. Safe production technique and fire safety training was offered to all LS Mtron employees. Improvement measures were taken Workplace in potentially-dangerous areas within the plant and alert devices were installed in landing gear. In addition, employees on Environment and the shop floor must wear safety gear (e.g., safety helmets) during the manufacturing process. All employees were also enSafety Initiatives gaged in the 5S program to improve work environments and maintain a clean workplace. In 2013, firefighting drills were conducted twice and training on the use of firefighting equipment was also provided. LSMQ believes that the first step to delivering customer satisfaction is to secure a competitive edge in quality and thus it is Customer committed to offering high-quality products and services. Satisfaction and Quality Improvement Achievements in Improving Quality and Developing Technology in 2013 Initiatives 1. Increase the size of the auxiliary fuel tank (Model P): Improvement in work time and work efficiency 2. Install a wet-type filter: Decrease in the frequency of filter replacements, which increases suitability for windy and sandy areas and reduces maintenance costs on the part of customers 3. Add a locking system to the fuel tank: Prevention of the inflow of foreign substances from outside, guarantee of normal engine operations 4. Install a half-hinged door on the side of the driver’s cabin: Convenience in operation in spring and fall without having to turn on the air-conditioning device, reduction in oil consumption 5. Install a rear-wheel distance-adjustable washer: Convenience in accommodating varying ridges and furrows in a variety of places 6. Strengthen the 4WD protection: Convenience in operating (even on congested roads) as well as in places with varying working conditions 58 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 LS Machinery (Wuxi) Ltd. (LSMW) ‘No Spec, No Work’ LSMW recognizes sustained quality improvement as an essential prerequisite for sustainability and is undertaking acrossthe-board quality innovation initiatives. With the quality innovation initiation ceremony and the chanting of the slogan Quality Innovation ‘No Spec, No Work’, standards and manuals were realigned: 274 work process management standards regarding winning Initiative orders, procurement, production and shipment were completed, along with 271 work manuals on shop-floor processing and assembly and 121 inspection manuals on the reception of parts and the shipment of finished products. Furthermore, quality training and exercises were offered to analyze the root cause of defects and identify issues through inter-departmental collaboration. LSMW will continue to fully abide by standards and make improvements. LSMW has been fully committed to supporting its suppliers toward shared growth. It selected three suppliers who were Quality Innovation required to improve their quality as its top priority and joined forces in undertaking company-wide quality innovation Initiatives Undertaken initiatives. One of these suppliers learned an advanced technology from their Korean industry peer and succeeded in indeWith Suppliers pendently developing an automated welding machine. In 2014, five additional suppliers will be selected to be part of these initiatives. LSMW vows to assist its suppliers identify their vulnerabilities, offer differentiated guidance and help bolster their competitive edge. We believe that services, in their truest sense, should be do more than simply address customer complaints; they should also Before Service prevent problems and deliver products that satisfy customer needs even before such needs arise. As its first step in deliver(Services that are provided ing such services, LSMW offered ‘Before Services’ – preliminary facility inspections and parts replacements to more than to inspect possible prod20 customers in 10 regions. This Before Service was warmly welcomed by customers and will continue in 2014. In addiuct failures before such tion, LSMW is intensively promoting its power-saving injection molding machines in line with the emerging social issues failures occur) of eco-friendliness and energy saving. LSMW will further step up its R&D endeavors with power-saving products. We hosted technology exchange events with customers working in relation to the automobile industry in East China to help Technology Exchange them enhance their facility efficiency of peripheral devices, as well as the machinery we supply. These events provided us with Automotive Parts with the opportunity to introduce our new products and technology and discuss technology applications and future trends Manufacturers related to injection molding machines used in the automobile industry. They also offered a venue for mutual exchange among these customers working in automobile-related industries. Employee safety is our top priority and we ensure that it always comes first. It is with this mindset that we operate the SafeWorkplace ty Committee, attended by the head of the subsidiary and by managers from respective departments. Committee members Environment & Safety patrol the workplace frequently to identify safety risk factors and take immediate action, while monthly employee morning Improvement meetings are held to share safety risk factors to prevent safety accidents and raise safety awareness. Furthermore, our employee lounges on the shop floor were refurbished so that our production workers can rest in a more pleasant environment during their breaks. We replaced all our office furniture with new furniture and installed LCD monitors so that employees could more comfortably tune into educational videos and share their views on major corporate issues. Before Service: Services that are provided to inspect possible product failures before such failures occur. LS Mtron's Chinese Subsidiaries 59 LS Electronic-Devices (Qingdao) Co., Ltd. (LSEQ) Innovation Since its inception, LSEQ has developed its innovation master plan to weave innovation practices into the fabric of its corporate DNA. LSEQ’s innovation initiatives extend from the ‘Ten Commands for Improvement’ and the ‘2S activity Initiatives to program’ to the ‘One Person One Project initiative,’ quality circle activities and suggestions. Critical innovation projects Generate Substantial are undertaken under the name of ‘Immediate Undertaking.’ Such immediate-undertaking initiatives allowed us to stabilize the operation of new products (e.g., RF connector) while circle-specific 2S training was reinforced to ensure self-initiated Outcomes improvement and management, with circle leaders on the shop floor taking the lead. Eleven ‘One Person One Projects’ were undertaken to generate outcomes in stabilizing the operation of transferred products early on and to upgrade existing product manufacturing technology and improve work processes (e.g., shortening of settlement time). In addition, 638 suggestions were made to help decrease incidences of shop floor losses and improve plant operations. LSEQ is engaged in a wide array of mutually-beneficial cooperation initiatives to help its suppliers exceed the expectations Shared Growth of their customers. The quality agreement ceremony was hosted to review the quality improvement activities taken the Initiatives previous year, share on implemented improvements, and agree on the quality targets and necessary projects that suppliers need to reach and fulfill. Following this ceremony, regular monthly meetings were held to share the progress of the projects and to offer such benefits as training and shortened payment deadlines to top-performing suppliers. Furthermore, LSEQ offered its staff to help local plating companies with their facility investments and prompt operational stabilization. They also conducted regular environmental safety inspections to disseminate fire-prevention awareness and provided these companies with emergency response advice. In 2013, LSEQ completed a total of four quality improvement projects. One of their major achievements was to reduce the Customer number of process-related quality issues by 50%. LSEQ also invested in image inspection and dielectric inspection devices Satisfaction and to eliminate risks concerning product plasticity failures. LSEQ’s quality qualification managers were sent to the Head Quality ImproveOffice in Korea to receive training in order to proactively manage the quality of products, whose manufacturing will be transferred from Korea to LSEQ. To improve the level of quality management even while product types increasingly vary, ment Initiatives LSEQ reorganized its quality organization and assigned responsible staff to a specific function as way to enhance work expertise and consistency. At the request of customers for CS services, LSEQ offered emergency support, while conducting quality evaluation and analyses on behalf of local Chinese customers, in the cases where LSEQ owned such quality evaluation equipment that these customers lacked. Key production technology engineers were selected to receive three months of training at the Head Office in Korea. In Robust transferring the manufacturing facility of highly-advanced products, technical engineers and MT, the staff of LSEQ were Technological first sent to the Head Office in Korea to receive preliminary training prior to the transfer. During the transfer period, facility Competitive Edge developers made in-person visits to offer professional training advice on the facility set-up and mass-production. If necessary, additional paid training was conducted following the transfer. Improvement LSEQ invested in the expansion of existing shower rooms within the plant and supplied several daily necessities free-ofcharge. LSEQ also repaired the restrooms, installed satellite TVs and replaced old air-conditioners at the corporate dormiof Working tory to ensure its employees staying there were comfortably accommodated. LSEQ is also interested in revitalizing its orConditions ganizational culture through hosting company-wide picnics and monthly birthday parties. The health of the people at LSEQ is very important and this is why we make it a point to ensure that all LSEQ employees are able to receive annual health check-ups at reputable medical institutions. We are also working on providing our employees greater access to preventive health care equipment, such as the free-of-charge table tennis room and fitness machines at our new plant. 60 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Suppliers Employees Governments 826.3 billion (KRW) 205.8 billion (KRW) 11.4 billion (KRW) Raw Materials Cost, etc. Sum of wage, retirement benefits and Sum of taxes, utility charges and Distribution of welfare & benefits expenditures income taxes Economic Outcomes Local Earth/ Communities Investors Ecology 0.2 billion (KRW) 30.5 billion (KRW) 2.3 billion (KRW) Sum of donations and social Interest payments made Sum of environmental, climate and contribution expenditures health & safety investments Appendix 61 Facts & Figures 66 Memberships, Awards, and UNGC COP Report 67 GRI G4 Index, Core 70 Independent Assurance Statement 72 Report Preparation & Previous Reports At a glance 61 LS Mtron and Its Subsidiaries Summary Financial Statements (Unit: KRW million) th th th Category 6 -Term (As of Dec. 31, 2013) 5 -Term (As of Dec. 31, 2012) 4 -Term (Dec. 31, 2011) Total Assets 1,684,469 1,672,867 1,479,103 Current Assets 802,545 838,046 749,999 Non-current Assets 881,924 834,821 729,104 Total Liabilities 1,119,070 1,117,573 931,891 Current Liabilities 889,183 786,539 619,834 Non-current Liabilities 229,887 331,034 312,057 Total Shareholders' Equity 565,399 555,294 547,212 Equity Ownership by Controlling Shareholders 565,508 554,694 547,212 Equity Ownership by Non-controlling Shareholders (109) 600 Total assets of LS Mtron and its subsidiaries rose by 1% from the previous year to KRW 1,684,469 million while their total liabilities stayed almost the same at KRW 1,119,070 million. Their total shareholders’ equity rose 2% from the previous year to KRW 565,399 million. They have successfully maintained an exceptional financial structure and their financial stability is expected to remain at high levels for the time being in consideration of the growing profit-making capabilities of major operations. Summary Income Statements (Unit: KRW million) th th th Category 6 -Term (Jan. 1, 2013~Dec. 31, 2013) 5 -Term (Jan. 1, 2012~Dec. 31, 2012) 4 -Term (Jan. 1, 2011~Dec. 31, 2011) Sales 1,796,777 1,632,170 1,500,727 Operating Income 67,084 46,819 57,390 Net Income from Continuing Operations 29,801 19,189 20,309 Income from Discontinued Operations -174 3,845 62,114 Net Income 29,627 23,034 82,423 Sales of LS Mtron and its subsidiaries rose 10% from the previous year to KRW 1,796,777 million and their operating income and net income surged dramatically by 43% and 29% respectively from the previous year to KRW 67,084 million and KRW 29,627 million. LS Mtron Summary Financial Statements (Unit: KRW million) th th th Category 6 -Term (As of Dec. 31, 2013) 5 -Term (As of Dec. 31, 2012) 4 -Term (Dec. 31, 2011) Total Assets 1,153,713 1,151,908 1,002,467 Current Assets 431,767 472,942 399,186 Non-current Assets 721,946 678,966 603,281 Total Liabilities 546,121 555,710 426,372 Current Liabilities 416,673 345,908 259,883 Non-current Liabilities 129,448 209,802 166,488 Total Shareholders’ Equity 607,592 596,198 576,095 Capital 45,000 45,000 45,000 Paid-in Capital in Excess of Par Value 426,066 426,066 425,887 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (4,418) (1,588) (1,551) Retained Earnings 140,944 126,720 106,758 Summary Income Statements (Unit: KRW million) Category 6th-Term (Jan. 1, 2013~Dec. 31, 2013) 5th-Term (Jan. 1, 2012~Dec. 31, 2012) 4th-Term (Jan. 1, 2011~Dec. 31, 201) Sales 1,020,367 923,783 888,712 Operating Income 46,348 40,466 53,537 Net Income from Continuing Operations 27,457 31,468 36,079 Income from Discontinued Operations -174 3,845 63,409 Net Income 27,283 35,313 99,488 62 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Innovation Initiatives Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Financial Value Created/Contribution to Operating Income KRW 100 million/% 187/33 190/43 242/44 Innovation Tasks 6 Sigma No. of tasks 59 50 49 LPS No. of tasks 33 46 38 LS Mtron Production System VE No. of tasks 39 27 22 Value Engineering TRIZ No. of tasks Not undertaken 5 10 Daily Tasks No. of tasks 21 74 70 Nurture Innovation Talent No. of persons 146 183 232 Problem-solving experts certified by the company No. of Innovation Activities Suggested Per person 21 21 20 Quality and Customer Satisfaction Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Improvement in Internal Failure Cost % 1 -46 17 (Cost ratio of the pertinent year-Cost ratio of the previous year)/Cost ratio of the previous year × 100 Improvement in Losses from Customer Complaints % 2 -16 32 (Loss rate of the pertinent year-Loss rate of the previous year)/Loss rate of the previous year × 100 Ratio of Certified Quality Management Engineers % 9 15 43 Against the company-wide quality division workforce Ratio of ISO9001 Examiners % 30 46 45 Against the company-wide quality division workforce Quality Improvement in product quality defects No. of cases 24 9 21 Competitiveness Realignment of the quality management system No. of cases 38 50 46 Initiatives Support for overseas subsidiaries No. of cases 14 23 16 Support for suppliers No. of cases 100 71 99 Shared Growth Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Ratio of Cash-Equivalent Payments % 100 100 100 Job Training for Suppliers No. of trainees 180 134 210 3C, FTA, suggestion program, association training Q-Partner Suppliers No. of suppliers 34 33 35 Select and nurture LS Mtron's top-performing suppliers Participants in the Win-Win Partnership Fund/Fund Value No. of companies/ Not operated 20/35 22/60 KRW 100 million Public-Private Joint Investment Technology Development No. of projects/ 9/34 18/83 10/76 LS Mtron's contribution accounts for 1/3 of the total Projects/Investment KRW 100 million Social Contribution Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Investment in Social Contribution Initiatives KRW 100 million 5.7 3.5 1.8 Employee Volunteers No. of persons 331 418 407 Jeonju No. of persons 130 98 114 Jeongeup No. of persons 38 93 99 Anyang No. of persons 63 56 77 Indong No. of persons 100 171 117 Volunteer Hours No. of hours 1,922 2,339 2,254 Robust Technological Competitive Edge Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note R&D Investment KRW 100 million 261 328 416 Open innovation No. of cases 26 37 New indicator first reported in 2012 Patent Applications No. of applications 170 191 238 Selection of Strategic Labs No. of Labs 9 19 New indicator first reported in 2012. Strategic Labs work with LS Mtron in undertaking projects, signing MOUs or interacting through training or seminars, thus strategic partnership is required Ratio of Green Products in Sales/ %/KRW 100 million 35/3,283 44/4,035 47/4,961 Products improved on the basis of internal basic Sales of Green Products eco-friendly design elements. Ratio of green products in sales: Sales of green products/Total sales x 100 Ratio of Green Products in R&D Investment/ GHG emissions reduction %/No. of projects 18/8 3/2 2/1 No. of Green Product R&D Projects Reduction in harmfulness %/No. of projects 58/29 73/29 84/23 Resource-saving %/No. of projects 24/19 24/20 14/18 At a glance 63 Employee Value Creation Indicators Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Total Head Office (LS Mtron) No. of persons 1,625 1,683 1,726 Excluding dispatched workers and day laborers Employees Including domestic/ 3,512 3,636 3,737 Excluding dispatched workers and day laborers overseas subsidiaries Type of Regular Male No. of persons 1,445 1,461 1,492 Based on the Head Office hereafter Contract Female No. of persons 45 40 45 Non-regular Male No. of persons 83 123 127 Female No. of persons 52 59 62 Type of Office Male No. of persons 810 833 844 Employment Female No. of persons 44 39 44 (Excluding nonTechnical Male No. of persons 635 628 648 regular workers) Female No. of persons 1 1 1 New Hires New hires No. of persons 346 263 273 The fairly high number recorded in 2011 was due to the transition of 91 and Resignees contracted workers to regular positions Creation of employment % -1.55 3.56 2.6 Formula: (No. of employees in the pertinent year-No. of employees in the previous year)/No. of employees in the previous year × 100 The negative number in 2011 is due to the transfer of our air-conditioning operations in May 2011, which resulted in a drop in the number of employees. No. of resignees No. of persons 63 92 81 The number includes resignations made for a number of reasons including retirement, scholastic schedule increases to the need to attend to household matters and turnover Ratio of resignees % 3.8 5.5 4.7 By Region Jeonju No. of persons 742 787 803 Employees in the Tractor, Injection Molding and Special Business Divisions (By Jeongeup No. of persons 247 225 213 Employees in the CF and FCCL Divisions Establishment) Anyang No. of persons 537 543 606 Employees at the Head Office, Hi-Tech Center, R&D Center Indong No. of persons 117 128 103 Employees in the Automotive Component Division By Age Group 20's No. of persons 259 258 262 30's No. of persons 642 670 679 40's No. of persons 410 398 406 50 and older No. of persons 332 357 379 Diversity Female employees No. of persons 97 99 107 Ratio of female employees % 6.0 5.9 6.2 No. of female managers No. of persons 5 Those in manager positions and above, new indicator introduced in 2013 Ratio of female office workers % 5.0 4.5 5.0 Ratio of new female hires % 18.7 22.8 27.5 Given that the employment of women is relatively low due to the inherent characteristics of the machinery/parts manufacturing industry, LS Mtron is interested in recruiting more women and strives to raise the ratio of women to men within its workforce No. of disabled employees No. of persons 40 31 32 Ratio of disabled employees % 2.4 1.8 1.9 Welfare and Employees who took Male No. of persons 1 0 Communication childcare leave Female No. of persons 1 2 4 Reinstatement after childcare leave % N/A 100 100 No. of employees returned to work for the pertinent year/No. of employees eligible to return to work for the pertinent year × 100 Employees who took childbirth leave No. of persons 7 4 4 Welfare & benefits expenses KRW 100 million 211 227 Based on audit reports Employees who receive psychological No. of persons 315 228 480 Individual and group counseling provided by professional counselors counseling Dialogue with heads of divisions No. of occasions 28 52 53 Self-initiated events are hosted more than once every quarter to build a group (teams) and executive officers communication channel between the top management and employees (discussions, breakfast meetings, performance watching) Training Per capita training expenses KRW 1,000 1,789 1,550 2,186 The dramatic surge in 2013 training expenses is due to newly-launched courses (job training for production workers, Future Camp for new recruits) and company-wide innovation training Per capita training hours No. of hours 148 109 123 By position Executives No. of hours 127 103 New indicator introduced in 2012 General managers No. of hours 76 72 New indicator introduced in 2012 Deputy general managers No. of hours 117 100 New indicator introduced in 2012 Managers No. of hours 103 118 New indicator introduced in 2012 Assistant managers No. of hours 96 128 New indicator introduced in 2012 Assistants No. of hours 139 171 New indicator introduced in 2012 Specialized sustainability management training No. of persons 193 277 335 Reading-based correspondence education on sustainability management for office workers 64 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note Retirement Fund DB planholders No. of persons 1,402 1,319 1,421 Fund operator: Eight institutions including NH Bank (As of 2013) DC planholders No. of persons 58 74 100 Labor Unionized workers No. of persons 630 628 647 No. of unionized workers/ Ratio of unionized workers % 83.2 41.8 37.5 Total No. of employees × 100 Others Ratio of entry level pay against the legal minimum wage % 183 New indicator introduced in 2013 Ratio of average pay of both genders % 100 100 100 Based on fixed pay Labor-related Major business operations commissioned not to regular Existence None None None Issues workers but to the self-employed or individuals Training-related Ratio of reviews made of regular performance and % 100 100 100 Based on regular workers Issues career development Human RightsWe do not have any business areas that are highly likely to infringe on the freedom of association or collective bargaining or incur child labor or forced labor. We joined the UN Global Compact in 2010 to abide by its ten principles concerning the guarantee of the freedom of association and collective bargaining, the ban on human rights/labor-related discrimination, related Issues the eradication of child labor/forced labor. Our employment policy clearly stipulates that we prohibit child labor and all types of forced labor as well as unfair treatment and discrimination concerning recruitment, promotion, compensation, training and retirement in accordance with labor related laws and international labor standards. When our unionized workers are transferred or relocated, plants are relocated, or changes occur in business operations, the labor union is notified and the concerned parties following pre-determined periods of preliminary consultations. Green Management Indicator Unit 2011 2012 2013 Note GHG Emissions tCO2 99,415 101,915 112,931 Indirect Emissions tCO2 73,717 76,828 83,861 Fixed Combustion tCO2 13,229 11,901 12,975 Mobile Combustion and Others tCO2 12,469 13,186 16,095 GHG Emissions by Source tCO2 99,415 101,915 112,931 Indirect Emissions tCO2 91,908 93,602 103,031 Fixed Combustion tCO2 6,180 7,090 8,113 Mobile Combustion and Others tCO2 1,327 1,222 1,787 GHG Intensity tCO2/KRW million 0.14 0.15 0.14 Total Energy Consumption TJ 1,933 2,076 2,297 Energy Intensity TJ/KRW million 0.003 0.003 0.003 Reduction in Energy Consumption TJ 56 145 ESH Expenses and Investments KRW million 789 1,007 2,274 Environment KRW million 522 590 1,447 The relocation to the High-Tech Center led to increases in environmental facility investment (wastewater treatment/ water filtration/air pollution control) Climate Change KRW million 77 197 350 Investment in new facilities (freezers, compressors) Health & Safety KRW million 190 220 477 Investment in new facilities (air balancers, fire hydrants) Primary Raw Materials Consumption of primary raw materials at the Jeongeup, Anyang and Indong sites Copper ton 14,676 9,901 11,779 Carbon and Rubber ton 1,436 1,651 1,710 Synthetic Resin ton 94 121 179 Water Consumption ton 589,469 728,484 837,729 Water is sourced from the Han River, the Mangyeong River and the Nakdong River Industrial Water ton 507,540 639,332 701,710 Residential Water ton 65,246 81,613 124,598 Underground Water ton 16,683 7,539 11,421 Emission of Pollutants Dust Kg 12,106 11,544 13,029 COD Kg 7,671 15,315 36,828 Production of copper foil increased at the Jeongeup Plant SS Kg 4,069 7,326 10,805 Production of copper foil increased at the Jeongeup Plant Discharge of Wastewater ton 334,618 506,306 499,958 Recycled Water ton 457,045 418,605 703,401 Water Recycling % 56 43 74 The relocation to the High-Tech Center led to investment in new facilities Generation of Waste ton 4,310 4,808 4,140 General ton 3,958 4,542 3,880 Designated ton 352 266 259 Waste Recycling % 81 84 82 Ozone-depleting Substances – HCFC-based substances Kg 3,000 3,000 4,000 The decline is due to the disposal of the air-conditioning operations in 2011 No. of Occupational Injuries No. of injuries 3 2 4 Occupational Injury Rates % 0.21 0.13 0.40 Industrial Health & Safety Committee Meeting No. of meetings 16 20 20 All our sites, both in Korea and abroad, are not located in areas that were designated as water protection areas, special management areas or biodiversity preservation areas. In 2013, there was no significant leakage of hazardous substances and we fully comply with the Basel Convention on the ‘Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal’. We provide our customers with information that should be disclosed in relation to the product environmental safety labeling (plastics, metals, rubber, etc.) through the approval sheet system. At a glance 65 Welfare & Benefits Programs Category Details Legally-mandated Welfare & Benefits Four major insurance plans Health insurance, National Pension Fund, employment insurance, occupational health & safety insurance Childcare and Education Expenses Tuition for employees' children Middle & high schools, undergraduate students Workplace childcare facility Commissioned childcare facility (Jeonju) Family Events and Disaster Recovery Support for family events Special leave and bonus provided for important family events Funeral supplies Funeral wreathes/personnel/supplies Celebration of the 1st birthday of employees' children A golden ring is offered as a celebratory gift Recovery from natural disasters Monetary support is given for property damages cuased by fires, storms and floods Health Care for Employees and Their Families Collective term insurance Insurance benefits are offered for such reasons as cancer diagnoses/disease/health Support for medical expenses Medical expenses for employees Medical expenses for employee families Support for comprehensive health check-ups Comprehensive health check-ups for employees and their spouses Psychological counseling Counseling office (Individual/group counseling) Self-development and Leisure Selective welfare & benefits Welfare card program Self-development Cyber training center Financial support for job-related or language skill training Condominium facilities Support accommodation fees at hotels/condominiums/pensions Baek-Am Training Academy Support accommodations at the academy Picnics/Sports Day Financial support for picnics/sports day events Stable Housing for Employees Housing loan interest Support for interest payment (Bi-annual deposits/purchase) Dormitory Available for employees working at the pertinent site Rewards for Long-Tenured and/or Bonus for long-tenured staff Financial rewards for long-time service Top-Performing Employees Travel gift certificates for long-tenured staff Offered to those reach their 15th or 20th year working at LS Mtron Commemoration of retirement at retirement age Souvenirs and financial rewards for those who retire at their retirement age Overseas training for those who retire at retirement age Overseas training offered to those who retire at their retirement age Overseas training for top-performing employees Annual overseas training of certain scales Awards When Awards Hosted By Award May Honorary Occupational Safety Supervisor Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency Grand Prize Presentation in Jeolla Province North Jeolla Quality Circle Competition North Jeolla Provincial Government Grand Prize (TS Quality Circle) Jun. Happiness Sharing Awards Ministry of Health and Welfare Minister of Health and Welfare Award (Love Practicing Team at the Jeongeup Plant) Oct. Korean Sustainability Conference Korean Standards Association Excellence Award in the manufacturing sector, KRCA Global Materials and Parts Industry Fair Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy (MOTIE) Silver Industrial Metal (head of the CF Division) Large Business-SME Shared Growth Fair 2013 Small and Medium Business Administration Excellent Investor for Shared Growth Award, Task Discovery Award Nov. Korea's Top 100 Great Work Place Awards GWP Korea Grand Prize in the manufacturing sector, GWP Best CEO Award (CEO Jae-Seol Shim) National Quality Management Competition Korean Agency for Technology and Standards, Presidential Commendation (head of the Electronic Component Division) MOTIE Presidential Golden Award (TS Quality Circle) Dec. North Jeolla Volunteer Competition North Jeolla Provincial Government Governor's Commendation (Love Practicing Team at the Jeonju Plant) 14th Gyeonggi Environmental Green Awards Gyeonggi Provincial Governmnet Excellence Award Regulatory Compliance Category 2011 2012 2013 Penalties and non-financial sanctions imposed due to the violation of environmental regulations None None None Regulatory violations regarding product-related customer safety and health None None None Violations of product-related information disclosure regulations (labeling, .etc.) None None None Violations of marketing and communication regulations None None None Regulatory violations regarding customer’s personal information protection None None None Violations regarding product supply None None None Violations regarding the prohibition of discrimination None None None Violations regarding the infringement of the rights of local residents None None None Agricultural Machinery Price-Fixing Incident Handled by the Fair Trade Commission: LS Mtron was imposed KRW 2.223 billion in panelties by the Fair Trade Commission on charge of agricultural machinery price-fixing on June 28, 2013. (As of the submission date of this report, there was an on-going litigation concerning the revocation of disposition and as such, the final penalty amount may change.) 66 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Improvement in Personal Data Security To safeguard the personal information of our customers and employees, we set internal management plans and developed a personal data privacy management system in 2013. We also set up a Personal Data Security Council to offer regular internal training and conduct independent security reviews. Furthermore, we examined the purpose of storing personal data to minimize personal data entry items that we require while narrowing the data access authority to prevent any data breaches. In 2014, we plan to introduce encryption, access control and other personal data security solutions to ensure that we manage such sensitive information more stringently. Thus far, there have been no incidences of personal data beaches and we will strive to maintain this excellent record in the upcoming years. Government Subsidy In 2012, net government subsidies amounted to KRW 2.53 billion and technology expense redemptions amounted to KRW 630 million. Membership • Economy Korea Chamber of Commerce & Industry, Korea Industrial Technology Association, Korea West Area Defense Industry Security Association, Wanju Industrial Complex Promotion Association, Ministry of Knowledge Economy Association Korea Agricultural Machinery Industry Cooperative, Korea Management Association, Korea Defense Industry Association, Korea Printed Circuit Association, Korea Intellectual Property Association, Korean Standards Association, Korea Synthetic Resin Processing Machinery Industry Cooperative • Society Korea Industry Safety Association, Reserve Forces Commanders Association, Wanju Industrial Complex Safety Supervisor Association Fair Competition Federation, Korea Fire Safety Association • Environment Wanju Industrial Complex Fire Safety Supervisor Association, Wanju Industrial Complex Environment AssociationGreen Company Council, Korea Environmental Engineers Association • Sustainability Management United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) UNGC COP Report We joined the UN Global Compact on September 2, 2011 and comply with 10 principles in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. All employees and executives at LS Mtron will take the lead in creating a fair and transparent society by complying with the UN Global Compact on the four areas, and fulfilling duties and actions required for a corporate citizen. The Ten Principles LS Mtron policies page Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally • Code of Conduct, Chapter 2: Basic Ethics of Employees proclaimed human rights; and. • Employment Regulation Introduction Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract Labour Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective • Collective Agreement recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Code of Conduct, Chapter 5: Corporate Responsibilities for Employees Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Employment Regulation Introduction Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and, Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental • Green Management Policy challenges; Clause 2. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and developing environmentally Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; friendly products and Clause 3. Building safe and healthy environment as well as preventing hazards Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly Clause 4. Win-win green management and corporate social responsibility technologies. • Code of Conduct, Chapter 6: Responsibilities for Country and Society Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including • Code of Conduct extortion and bribery. Chapter 3: Fair Competition(with Competitors) Chapter 4. Fair Business Transaction(Subcontractors) Chapter 6. Responsibilities for Country and Society • Business Partner Ethics Implement Special Contract At a glance 67 GRI G4 Index, CORE 1. General Standard Disclosures Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Strategy and G4-1 CEO s statement 4-5 Analysis G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 5, 28-30 Organizational G4-3 Name of the organization 9 Profile G4-4 Primary brands, products and services 12-23 G4-5 Location of the organization's headquarters 9 G4-6 Countries where the organization operates 10-11 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 24 G4-8 Markets served 10-11 G4-9 Scale of reporting organization 9 G4-10 Breakdown of workforce 21, 63 G4-11 Employees covered by bargaining agreements 64 G4-12 Organization s supply chain 38 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period N/A G4-14 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is addressed 5, 44-45, 66 G4-15 External principles and other initiatives to which the organization subcribes or which it endorses 66 G4-16 Memberships in associations 66 Identified G4-17 Entities included in the organization s consolidated financial statements 10-11 Material Aspects G4-18 Process for defining report content and aspect boundaries 2, 28-30 and Boundaries G4-19 Material aspects 28 G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 2, 28 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 2, 28 G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any re-staments of information provided in earlier reports N/A G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods N/A Stakeholder G4-24 Stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 28 Engagement G4-25 Basis for indentification and selection of stakeholders 28 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 28 G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 28-30 Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period 2 G4-29 Date of the most recent report 2 G4-30 Reporting cycle 2 G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 G4-32 GRI content index 67-71 G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 26, 70-71 Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the report 24, 27 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior 24, 26 executives and other employees. G4-36 Executive-level positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics 24, 27 G4-37 Processes for consultation betwen stakeholders and the highest governance body 27 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 24 G4-39 Position of the Chairman of the Board 24 G4-40 Processes for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the highest governance body 24 G4-41 Processes in place to avoid conflicts of interest 24 G4-42 Executive-level roles in setting purposes, values, and strategy 24 G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body's collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. 24, 26-27 G4-44 Processes and actions taken with regard to highest governance body's performance 26 G4-45 Highest governance body's role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and 26-28 opportunities G4-46 Highest governance body's role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization's risk mangement processes 24 G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body's review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities 24 G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the sustainability report 27 G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body 24-25 G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanisms used to 24-25 address them. G4-51 Executive-level compensations 24, 26 G4-52 Process for determining remuneration 24 G4-53 Process for seeking stakeholder views regarding remuneration N/A G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization's highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. Ethics and G4-56 Organization s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior 25 Integrity G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behaviour 25 G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about ethical and lawful behaviour 25 68 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 2. Specific Standard Disclosures Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Disclosures on G4-DMA a. Report why the Aspect is material. Report the impacts that make this Aspect material. b. Report how the organization manages the Management material Aspect or its impacts. c. Report the evaluation of the management approach, including: Approach (DMA) The mechanisms for evaluating the effectiveness of the management approach The results of the evaluation of the management approach Any related adjustments to the management approach Economic Economic G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 60-61 Performance G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization s activities due to climate change 46 G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization s defined benefit plan obligations 64 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 66 Market Presence G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation 64 G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significantlocations of operation Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 40-43, 62 Impacts G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 40-43 Procurement G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 38 Practices Environmental Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 64 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 47 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 64 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization G4-EN5 Energy intensity 46, 64 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 46, 64 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 45 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 64 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 47, 64 Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas N/A G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value 65 outside protected areas G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored N/A G4-EN14 Total number of iucn red list species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of N/A extinction risk Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 46, 64 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 2) 46, 64 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions (scope 3) 46, 64 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 46, 64 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (ghg) emissions 46, 64 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ods) 64 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 64 Effluents and G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 64 Waste G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 64 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 65 G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the basel convention2 annex i, ii, iii, 65 and viii, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the organization's 65 discharges of water and runoff Products and G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 45 Services G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 65 Transport G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for the organization's operations, and N/A transporting members of the workforce Overall G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 46, 64 Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 38, 47 Environmental G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 47 Assessment Labor/ G4-EN34 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified 25 Management Relations Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 63 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or parttime employees, by significant locations of operation 65 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 63 Labor/ManageG4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified 64 ment Relations Occupational G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise 64 Health and Safety on occupational health and safety programs At a glance 69 Completed, Partially Completed, Not Completed, Continuous Activity Aspect Indicator Description Status Page Occupational G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region 47, 64 Health and Safety and by gender G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation N/A G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 47 Training and G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 63 Education G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender and by employee category 64 Diversity and G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 63 Equal Opportunity membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal RemuneraG4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations of operation 64 tion for Women and Men Supplier AssessG4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria ment for Labor G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken Practices Labor Practices G4-LA16 Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 25 Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 25 operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 25 Freedom of AsG4-HR4 Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at 64 sociation and Colsignificant risk, and measures taken to support these rights lective Bargaining Child Labor G4-HR5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective 64 abolition of child labor Forced or ComG4-HR6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the 64 pulsory Labor elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor Security Practices G4-HR7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization s human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to operations N/A Indigenous Rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples and actions taken N/A Assessment G4-HR9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Supplier Human G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria Rights Assessment G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken Human Rights G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 25 Grievance Mechanisms Society Local G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs Communities Anti-corruption G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities N/A G4-SO3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the significant risks identified G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 25 G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 25 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary N/A Anti-competitive G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes 65 Behavior Compliance G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations 65 Supplier AssessG4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society ment for Impacts G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken on Society Grievance MechaG4-SO11 Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms 25 nisms for Impacts on Society Product Responsibility Customer Health G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement 34 and Safety G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products 65 and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by the organization s procedures for product and service information and labeling, and 65 Service Labeling percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements G4-PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and 65 labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 34-35 Marketing G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products N/A Communications G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including 65 advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Customer Privacy G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 64-65 Compliance G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and 65 services 70 LS Mtron Sustainability Report 2013 Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (‘BISD’ hereafter), led by the Korean Chamber of Commerce and Industry (KCCI), was commissioned to perform an independent ‘third-party’ assurance of the ‘2013 LS Mtron Sustainability Report’ and presents its findings as follows. Purpose This assurance statement aims to verify whether this report contains any significant errors or biases and to conduct an independent assurance engagement of whether LS Mtron’s sustainability management issues were appropriately identified and reported so as to present BISD’s assurance findings. Responsibility and Independence This report outlines LS Mtron’s endeavors, achievements and future plans in advancing sustainability management in 2013 and LS Mtron is solely responsible for preparing this report. To maintain its independence and autonomy in performing the assurance engagement of this report and in offering its findings as an assurance provider to the management of LS Mtron, BISD does not have any business-related or profit-pursuing interest in LS Mtron aside from this third-party assurance engagement. Assurance Standards and Limitations BISD followed the three principles (completeness, materiality, responsiveness) of the AA1000AS (2008) as well as the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. The boundary of this assurance engagement is limited to LS Mtron’s performance in 2013 and excludes any data prior to 2013. BISD conducted on-site inspections of the Head Office in Anyang, among other domestic and overseas establishments of LS Mtron and did not include online data in its scope of assurance. In addition, LS Mtron’s GHG emissions data (which was already verified by a thirdparty organization), was not included in this assurance engagement. Assurance Methods BISD did not participate in any stakeholder engagement activities undertaken by LS Mtron. BISD’s assurance engagement was based on interviews with LS Mtron employees and the verification of the related documents provided by LS Mtron. Major assurance methods are as follows: • Verify whether LS Mtron’s internal sustainability reporting standards were applied • Verify the contents, as well as the information gathering processes, used in the Korean version of the report • Verify the information, policies and systems related to the materiality test and material issues • Conduct on-site inspections and interviews with supervisors at the Head Office Findings BISD abided by the assurance methods described in this assurance statement in performing this assurance engagement and recommended LS Mtron to modify the report content if deemed necessary. Based on the above processes, BISD believes that this report is void of any significant errors and is in accordance with the core option as proposed by the GRI G4 Core standards. At a glance 71 On the basis of this assurance engagement, BISD presents the following findings in consideration of the AA1000APS principles. • Completeness: Does LS Mtron comply with the stakeholder engagement principles to ensure responsible and strategic responses in advancing sustainability management? In initiating its 2nd-term of sustainability management, LS Mtron redefined its stakeholders and operated communication channels accordingly so as to gather feedback and better understand the major issues concerning customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, and earth/ecology. BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were neglected in the process of gathering issues through the stakeholder communication channels operated by LS Mtron. • Materiality: Does LS Mtron include material issues that impact its stakeholders throughout its sustainability management? BISD verifies that LS Mtron resolved its major sustainability management issues through the materiality test process. As part of this process, it also gathered feedback, in terms of the expectations of respective stakeholder groups, so as to identify material issues. BISD is not aware of any significant issues omitted from the materiality test process. • Responsiveness: Does LS Mtron appropriately respond to stakeholder issues? BISD verifies that LS Mtron addressed its major sustainability management issues in each sector and disclosed its performance as measured against the previous year’s plans (as well as plans for the following year), as a way to appropriately respond to the issues of interest to stakeholders. BISD is not aware of any areas that run counter to the responsiveness principle in LS Mtron’s response to major sustainability management issues and relevant achievements (from the materiality perspective), in this report. Recommendations BISD offers the following recommendations—within a boundary that does not impact its assurance outcomes. • BISD believes that upon initiating its 2nd-term of sustainability management, LS Mtron redefined who its stakeholders were and continued to host its Sustainability Management Steering Group and subcommittee meetings as part of its sincere commitment to sustainability management. When it comes to customers who are defined as a key stakeholder group, however, LS Mtron identified ‘customer relationship management’ as a key material issue. Yet, the Company focuses on future plans in reporting any of the concrete actions it takes or communication channels it uses. BISD recommends that LS Mtron fully disclose its activities in the reporting period in its future reports. • Conducting business in a more ethical manner is instrumental to any global company aiming to expand its global business presence. In line with its quantitative growth, LS Mtron needs to reinforce its ethics management system and training to prevent the drastic rise of anti-corruption risks. Given that LS Mtron publicly announced its commitment to compliance management at the 2014 kickoff meeting, BISD believes that LS Mtron will benefit from disclosing that it is reinforcing its ethics management substantially and managing organizations prone to anti-corruption risks in its future reports. • In China, where LS Mtron is presently focusing its business operations, there have been repeated issues concerning human rights and labor issues. Given the scope of LS Mtron’s influence, BISD believes that the company needs to undertake more robust initiatives to address human rights and labor issues and report on such issues. May 2014 Tae-Jin Park _ President Report Preparation This report was prepared under the supervision of the Sustainability Report Editorial Meeting which consists of the Sustainability Management Steering Group and the Sustainability Management Executive Office, in accordance with LS Mtron's sustainability management reporting system, with the support offered by business division. General Management For More Information Chief Strategy Officer (CSO): LS Mtron www.lsmtron.com James Kim (Senior Vice President) Tractor Division www.lstractor.com Business Management & Planning Team: Injection Molding Division www.lsinjection.com Sang-Min Lee, Jong-Hyun Park Special Business Division www.lstrackshoe.com Sustainability Management Executive Office: Electronic Component Division www.lscomponent.com Mark Myung-Hoon Yoo, Ho-Sung Cho UC Division www.ultracapacitor.co.kr LS Mtron’s business report dart.fss.or.kr Information on the LS Group www.lsholdings.com Participating Employees Previous Reports Tractor Division: Ji-Tae Kim, In Lee Injection Molding Division: Jai-Kwan Seo, Jin-Jeong Kim Special Business Division: Gun-Wook Hwang, Yun-Je Jo CF Division: Sun-Ik Hwang, Dong-Jin Cho Electronic Component Division: Hyeong-Ju Lee, Hyung-Kwon Park Automotive Component Division: Jeong-ill Choi, Oe-Young Jung FCCL Division: Gyu-Mun Kim, Yun-Ho Yang UC Division: Kwon-Yong Yoon LSMQ: Young-Rae You, leo zhang LAMW: Seung-Taeg Kim, Qian lihua LSEQ: Jae-Pil Choi, Tai-Hao Shen Chinese Headquarters: Goo-yun Chung, Dong-Gen Jin Internal Audit & Consulting Team: Eui-Jae Yoo, Yong-Sang Lee Sustainability Report 2009 Sustainability Report 2010 Technology Management Team: Jong-Dae Byun, Nam-Kyoon Kim Green Management Team: Chul-Eung Jun, Sung-Jin Lee Corporate Collaboration & Prosperity Team: Gill-Sang Lee, Jeong-Geun Kim Business Support Team: Tae-Geun Lee, James Lee, Na-Rae Choi Human Resources Team: Chang-Woo Lee, Chan-Jin Park Human Resources Development Team: Myoung-Ho Park, Hong-Keun Park, Byung-Jun Kim Quality Management Team: Hee-Jung Park, Dae-Sung Oh Innovation Team: Hyun-Kyu Park, Soo-Mi Chae, Sung-Pyo Cho Sustainability Report 2011 Sustainability Report 2012 Date of Publication: 26 May 2013 Publisher: Jae-Seol Shim The inner pages of the 2013 LS Mtron Sustainability Report were printed on Renoir paper (manufactured by Moorim Paper) and Publishing Company: LS Mtron Ltd. the cover pages on Classic Crest Stipple paper (manufactured by Samwon Paper). Both types of paper are eco-friendly and come Design: Honey Communications Co., Ltd. with the FSCTM certification owned by the Forest Stewardship CouncilTM to select products derived from wood lumbered from Translator: Ji-Won Seo responsible sources that have been developed and managed in an eco-friendly manner. Furthermore, this report was printed in Editor: Jennifer Ann Finch soy ink, which contributes to significantly reducing pollutants from the printing process at a FSC-certified printing house.
