Statement of support In 2009 we set a goal for Kaffehuset Friele to buy 100% certified sustainable coffee within 5 years. We have come a long way with more than two-thirds of the green coffee volumes bought over the last years being certified; partly by Fairtrade and mainly by Utz Certified (www.utzcertified.org). The coffee prices have been at an all time high, however, and we have had some challenges increasing the volumes of certified sustainable coffee. We experienced a set-back in the certified volumes in 2012 due to extreme weather conditions in Colombia and Central-America causing scarcity in quality and quantity. For 2013 we were back on track and in 2014 we will reach appr. 70% certified coffee of the total volume purchased. It is important for Kaffehuset Friele to be sincere in our social responsibility and we therefore find it reassuring to have an organisation like Global Compact to help us reach our goals of sustainability. There are many issues that we alone cannot address, which a network of companies commited to sustainable trade can. It is also very useful be part of a National network called Ethical Trading Initiative Norway (www.ieh.no) (ETI Norway). We report yearly to this initiative on the progress we are making on sustainable coffee sourcing. Olav Munch, ceo Kaffehuset Friele Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals Kaffehuset Frieles goal is to influence the respect for Human & Labour Rights and environmental protection, both within the company and towards our business partners. Based on our commitment we have with the guidance from ETI Norway set up the Kaffehuset Friele Code of Conduct to make our position clear for all our suppliers, for our own staff and for other partners. Our Code of Conduct contains labourand enviornment requirements, as well as other ethical requirements, which comply with provisions in the international conventions and instruments, such as the ILO Core Conventions. Implementation We submit our Code of Conduct to all our green coffee suppliers, and ask them to sign that they comply. In addition, our main green coffee suppliers have been asked to fill out a Self-Assessment developed by ETI Norway. So far we have not conducted independent audits of these practices to the few of our suppliers that do not comply with any of the certification systems we encourage. In 2014 more than two-thirds of our green coffee will be bought from certified coffee farms, and our goal is to increase this even further. At the moment we are committed to buying coffee that is certified by Fairtrade and Utz Certified. They are both committed to providing practices that implement human rights through the whole supply chain. We trust these certifications with their third party audits and believe that they are capable of handling any violations that they may find. We do, however, encourage the main certifications within the coffee trade to create a unison audit system. Many of our suppliers are certified by more than one and are constantly being audited because of this. Labour Assessment, policy and goals This is covered in our Code of Conducts; below are the headlines in each chapter: 1. Forced and compulsory labour (ILO Conventions Nos. 29 and 105) 2. Freedom of Association and the Right to Collective Bargaining (ILO Conventions Nos. 87, 98, 135 and 154) 3. Child Labour (UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, ILO Conventions Nos. 138, 182 and 79, and ILO Recommendation No. 146) 4. Discrimination (ILO Conventions Nos. 100 and 111 and the UN Convention on Discrimination Against Women) 5. Harsh or Inhumane Treatment 6. Health and Safety (ILO Convention No. 155 and ILO Recommendation No. 164) 7. Wages (ILO Convention No. 131) 8. Working Hours (ILO Convention No. 1 and 14) 9. Regular Employment Implementation As stated under Human Rights we have submitted our Code of Conduct to most of our suppliers. We receive and log a signed copy for them to comply. We do also submit self-assessment forms for our green coffee suppliers which we receive and log. This is a practice we have expanded to other suppliers packaging). Our internal practices adhere to Norwegian law. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Environmental measures shall be taken into consideration throughout the production and distribution chain ranging from the production of raw material to the consumer sale. Local, regional and global environmental aspects shall be considered. The local environment at the production site shall not be exploited or degraded by pollution. National and international environmental legislation and regulations shall be respected. Relevant discharge permits shall be obtained where required. Hazardous chemicals and other substances shall be carefully managed. Implementation Kaffehuset Friele has included our environmental policies in our Code of Conduct. Our certified coffee also has similar, if not stricter, environmental policies in their certification systems. In 2011 we were certified according to a national environment code, called Miljøfyrtårn (www.miljofyrtarn.no); and we report every year about our actions. At our roastery in Bergen, Norway we have been measuring and reorganising our own environmental practices. By switching from oil fueled to gas fueled burners, we have reduced our yearly emissions by 500 ton C02. The bulk handling system for green coffee allows us to increase the filling grade of each container, hence reducing the overseas shipments by 10%. We are thus reducing yearly emissions by 200 tons CO2. All in all we have been reducing our yearly emissions by appr. 25% from a level of 2600 tons in 2008 to 2000 tons over the last years. We have recently finalized an energy saving project at our roaster, recycling the heat from our roasters back into the factory, producing stable temperatures and hot water. Our waste control is over 80% sorted and several recyclable practices have been put in place. Kaffehuset Friele has also bought several carbon credits both within clean energy and in tree planting projects. It has been important to us to invest in environmental projects that are in countries we do business with. Relevant links: http://www.friele.no/samfunnsansvar/ http://www.friele.no/samfunnsansvar/rapporter/ http://www.utzcertified.org/index.php http://www.fairtrade.no/
