Delivering a sustainable energy business Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Contents Company overview 01 Sustainability performance highlights FY2014 Sustainability strategy 02 Message from the CEO 04 About the report A key element of Essar Energy’s strategy 06 Essar Energy at a glance 08 Awards and recognition received is a strong commitment to being a good during the reporting period corporate citizen. In order to build and 08 Significant changes during the reporting period operate oil, gas and power assets over 09 Our stakeholders 11 Materiality their lifespans of several decades, it is 12 Corporate governance critical that we take into account the 15 Our people 19 Health, safety and environment needs of all stakeholders, particularly the 31 Product responsibility people and communities in neighbouring 35 Community 42 Memberships areas. Within this, we have a particular 43 Performance indicators 53 GRI G3.1 OGSS, IPIECA/API/ focus on environment, education and OGP and UNGC index entrepreneurship. We believe that this is 68 Assurance statement 70 Glossary the best way for us to create value in a sustainable, long‑term way. Report application level Standard disclosures C C+ B B+ A A+ G3 Profile Disclosures Report on 1.1, 2.1‑2.10, 3.1‑3.8, Report on all criteria listed for Same requirement for Level B 3.10‑3.12, 4.1‑4.4, 4.14‑4.15 Level C plus: 1.2, 3.9, 3.13, 4.5‑4.13, 4.16‑4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured G3 Management Not required Management Approach Management Approach Approach Disclosures Disclosures for each Disclosures for each Indicator Category Indicator Category G3 Performance Indicators Report on a minimum of Report on a minimum of Report on each core G3 and & Sector Supplement 10 Performance Indicators, 20 Performance Indicators, Sector Supplement* Indicator Performance Indicators including at least one at least one from each of with due regard to the Materiality from each of: Economic, Economic, Environmental, Principle by either: Social and Environmental Human rights, Labour, Society, Product Responsibility a) reporting on the Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission *Sector supplement in final version Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 01 Sustainability performance highlights FY2014 Governance • Vadinar refinery saves • Essar Oil and Essar Power 95 million kWh of energy; established Safety and over five times increase in Sustainability Committees the energy saved last year at Board level • 20% reduction in hazardous Safety waste generation at • Zero lost time injury frequency Vadinar refinery rate achieved by power plants • Zero oil spills reported by at Hazira and Vadinar with all sites Bhander Power completing 10 years without lost time • E&P Durgapur certified to incident on 1 April 2014 ISO 14001:2004 • E&P Durgapur certified to CSR OHSAS 18001:2007 • Nearly 127,400 beneficiaries of healthcare initiatives • E&P Durgapur achieves undertaken at various sites; 4.55 million LTI free hours 33% increase from last year on 31 March 2014 • Nearly 90,000 beneficiaries • 62% reduction in overall of community care initiatives process safety event undertaken at various sites; frequency rate marginal increase of 1% • 48% increase in number from last year of contractors trained • Over 28,000 beneficiaries in health and safety by of educational initiatives Power Business Group undertaken at various sites; • 52% increase in contractor 58% increase from last year toolbox talks delivered • Over 157 million INR spent across sites on various initiatives during • Zero occupational disease the year rate achieved at all sites Environment • Essar Oil ranked second in India looking across all sectors and industries in Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index in CDP India Climate Change Report 2013 • Essar Oil recommended by Det Norske Veritas for certification to Energy Management System – ISO 50001:2011 Top to bottom • Essar Oil’s fuel switch project Reverse osmosis plant at registered for carbon credits E&P Durgapur Petcoke catcher pond at Vadinar Educational initiative at Vadinar 02 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Message from the CEO “We are committed to minimising pollution, reducing our environmental footprint and optimising resource consumption by planning and carrying out operations through environmentally responsible processes and practices”. Sushil Maroo Chief Executive Officer Introduction We operate oil and gas and power As a signatory to the United Nations assets which have lifespans of Global Compact principles, we are I am pleased to present several decades. Therefore, it is committed to following a clearly to you Essar Energy’s critical that these assets can operate defined way of operating across sustainably for a very long period, all our businesses, with a focus on third Sustainability taking into account the needs of all environment, labour, anti‑corruption Report covering FY2014. stakeholders, particularly the people and human rights. We believe that Essar Energy and communities in the neighbouring acting ethically and responsibly is the areas. Despite continued challenges key to creating long‑term value for all believes that to create in the Oil and Gas, and Power sector, of our stakeholders. This report is our a successful long‑term we continue to optimise and enhance second Communication on Progress our operations. on the actions taken during the year business, a strong focus to integrate the Global Compact One of the key elements of the on sustainability is Company’s strategy is a strong Principles in our business. vital, with a particular commitment to be a good corporate Our employees are our biggest asset emphasis on the citizen. As such, sustainability is a without whom we cannot achieve our boardroom priority and issues are business objectives. Our priorities last communities in discussed and reviewed on a regular year included employee retention, which we operate. basis by the Safety and Sustainability succession planning and nurturing Committee. In addition, the Boards of and growing internal talent. Various our subsidiary companies Essar Oil employee engagement initiatives, and Essar Power have established coupled with an enhanced focus on Safety and Sustainability Committees individual training, helped us to meet to ensure that the welfare of our people our objectives. and their communities sit at the very Managing the health and safety of the heart of our business. people who work for us, both directly and indirectly, continued to be our top priority last year. The focus at most of our sites was to enhance safety culture, contractor safety management, risk assessment and training. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 03 LPG and hydrogen spheres at Vadinar refinery Although our overall safety Leadership Index (‘CDLI’), Essar Oil dedicated jet fuel testing laboratory performance was good and various achieved a score of 92 out of 100, approved by the Directorate General sites won external recognition for and was the only energy company in of Aeronautical Quality Assurance. their safety efforts, there were also India to be featured in the Top 20 list. The laboratory has been designed to key learnings from the incidents that Overall, Essar Oil came second in the cater to the jet fuel demands complying occurred at our sites which we will CDLI list cutting across all sectors. with BIS and DEF STAN 91. use to further improve our safety This score was achieved in spite of the Community engagement projects processes. Regretfully, this included the Vadinar refinery’s enhanced complexity have continued to be a key priority fatalities of two contractual workers at and increase in output, as well as the for us over the past year and these our power plant at Salaya. additional emissions from coal‑based are undertaken through the Essar We are committed to minimising power generation and higher emissions Foundation. We continually strive to pollution, reducing our environmental from the Exploration and Production improve the lives of our communities footprint and optimising resource division’s increased coal bed around our operational sites by consumption by planning and carrying methane production. focusing on activities in the areas of out operations through environmentally During the year, our sites also made healthcare, education, environment, responsible processes and practices. progress in terms of certification to infrastructure and creating sustainable We continually assess environmental international standards. Our refinery livelihoods. In FY2014 there were risks in our operations through risk and at Vadinar was recommended for 245,400 beneficiaries of our initiatives impact assessments, and audits. All certification to energy management across various sites. of our operations have environmental system ISO 50001 and E&P Durgapur We are committed to continuing our management plans which are specific was certified to integrated health and focus on making a positive contribution to each site. safety, and environment management to society and the environment As a responsible global energy systems (OHSAS 18001 and and demonstrating the progress company, Essar Energy recognises ISO 14001). we make each year in our future its obligations with regard to climate As an ISO 9001 certified organisation, sustainability reports. change mitigation and adaptation. Our we deploy stringent measures to approach continues to aim at providing ensure the quality of our products. clean solutions to our customers The quality control assessment and reducing our carbon footprint by starts from the raw material stage Sushil Maroo adopting the latest technology and unloaded through crude and product Chief Executive Officer energy conservation measures. process streams and right through to Essar Energy plc We continue to report our carbon ship loading. June 2014 performance at Carbon Disclosure Our refinery at Vadinar has a fully Project (‘CDP’) level. For the third equipped laboratory to certify the successive year, Essar Oil was ranked refinery’s range of products such as the highest scorer in the energy sector LPG, kerosene, jet fuel, gasoline, by the Carbon Disclosure Project, diesel, furnace oil, bitumen, petcoke India. In terms of the Carbon Disclosure and vacuum gasoil. We also have a 04 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 About the report This Report includes information on our four principal businesses, namely Refining and Marketing, India; Refining and Marketing, UK; Exploration and Production; and Power. Birds at Essar House, Vadinar The assets owned by the Company This Report, our third, adheres to the This Sustainability Report is also our and those that are directly under its following frameworks and provides second Communication on Progress operational and management control our performance during the period on the application of the UNGC are included within the Report. 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014; principles. The index at the end of the The compiled data includes information 1. GRI G3.1 Guidelines; Report clearly shows the mapping of from all the operating sites. the GRI indicators with IPIECA /OGP/ 2. GRI Oil and Gas Sector Supplement; The Report excludes information on: API and UNGC indicators. 3. IPIECA /API /OGP Oil and Gas • fuel retail outlets in India, as we run Industry Guidance on voluntary a franchise model and therefore do sustainability reporting; and not own the outlets; and 4. AccountAbility as per AA1000APS – • Algoma power plant, as the plant 2008. These principles are inclusivity, is under the operational control of materiality and responsiveness. our sister company, Essar Steel Algoma, Canada. How we approached the reporting principles Materiality and Stakeholder inclusiveness Completeness sustainability context Our stakeholder engagement strategy The Report addresses 76 core There has been no significant change is to collaborate with our stakeholders indicators of GRI G3.1 Guidelines of in the material issues identified last at various levels to achieve a which 65 have been fully reported and year. Whilst the Annual Report FY2014 positive outcome for all. Please see eight partially reported. The Report also provides detailed information on the ‘Our stakeholders’ section for addresses 22 additional indicators. financial risks, this Report details our detailed information. A reasonable explanation has been non‑financial risks and the issues which provided against all those indicators are mainly material to the Company which have not been reported or have and of concern to the stakeholders. only been partially reported in the Please see the ‘Materiality’ section GRI G3.1 content index appended for detailed information. to this Report. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 05 Mango orchard at Vadinar refinery greenbelt Application of the reporting principles for defining quality The following Qualitative information in this Report Reliability includes new case studies and As an organisation we continue to section sets out an initiatives taken during the reporting believe that assurance brings credibility explanation of the period. Wherever applicable, quantitative data is included to to the Report. It helps to enhance the quality and reliability of information application of the GRI substantiate the information. Standard provided therein and gives us feedback data measurement techniques are reporting principles used for data collection, collation from a different perspective, which is vital in our quest for improvement. for defining quality and analysis. References to standard We engaged Ernst & Young LLP, India, protocols are included in the relevant to provide independent assurance on sections. Where necessary, mention this Report in line with the requirements Balance of any assumptions has been made of ISAE 3000 and AA 1000AS Type 2 The Report includes both favourable where the data has been estimated. Moderate Assurance. The details of and unfavourable results in economic, Timeliness the scope and extent are described in social and environmental aspects. the assurance statement provided by Our last report was released in Ernst & Young. Comparability July 2013. We aim to continue publishing the report within four to six We have tried to include information Wherever available, four year data months at the end of each fiscal year. in this Report that we believe our has been included for the purpose stakeholders would like to see or of comparability to enable our Clarity know and we encourage any feedback stakeholders to analyse performance We have sought to present which would help to improve our over time. the information in a way that is subsequent reports. Accuracy understandable and usable by our Please send your feedback or On the basis that this Report is readers and stakeholders. Graphs suggestions to the following: essentially the progress made during and charts have been used wherever Sonal Kohli, Head of Sustainability, the reporting period, qualitative possible. Cross references to the Essar Energy Ltd, sonal.kohli@essar.com. information excludes policy statements Annual Report and links to our website and briefings about the internal have also been provided to enable the processes in place, unless there has stakeholders to obtain further detailed been a change in the reporting period. information, if required. This information may be accessed at www.essarenergy.com. 06 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Essar Energy at a glance Essar Energy’s strategy is to create a world‑class, low‑cost integrated energy company, 9 positioned to capitalise on India’s 23 3 rapidly growing energy demand. 24 25 22 19 7 20 21 2 15 14 1 18 16 4 We have US$18 billion of total assets 11 6 13 12 5 17 which include operations and growth 10 projects in the areas of petroleum refining 8 and marketing, exploration and production and power generation and transmission. India Stanlow refinery Ellesmere Port, UK Algoma Power Plant 85 MW Registered office Ontario District, Canada London Corporate office Mumbai Block 114 Vietnam Vietnam OPL 226 Block Nigeria Nigeria Aries Coal Mine 64 MT Kenya Petroleum Indonesia Kenya Stanlow refinery Ellesmere Port, UK South East Tungal Block Madagascar Blocks Indonesia Madagascar Power Algoma Power Plant 85 MW Registered office Ontario District, Canada Head office London Coal mines Mauritius Refining and Marketing Mozambique Coal Mine 35 MT Exploration and Production Mozambique Offices India’s need for energy OPL 226 Block Nigeria Nigeria remains intact India Power Domestic coal projects Captive/ROE projects 19. Mahan I – 1,200 MW India’s need for energy continues to Refining and Marketing 11. Hazira – 515 MW 20. Tori I – 1,200 MW grow strongly from a low base, with 1. Vadinar Refinery – 12. Hazira II – 270 MW 21. Tori II – 600 MW demand for power rising at around 6% 20 mmtpa 13. Bhander – 500 MW per year and for oil products at around Coal mines Exploration and Production 14. Vadinar – 120 MW 4% to 5% per year. Per capita use of 22. Mahan Coal Block – 2. Raniganj CBM 15. Vadinar PI – 380 MW energy has great potential for growth, 73 mmt with approximately one third of India’s 3. Rajmahal CBM 16. Vadinar PII – 510 MW 23. Amelia Coal Block – 1.2 billion population still having no 4. Sohagpur CBM 17. Paradip – 120 MW 50 mmt access to electricity and the deficit of 5. Talchir CBM 24. Chakla Coal Block – Imported coal project generation relative to demand running 6. IB Valley CBM 71 mmt at 9%. Therefore, Essar Energy’s 18. Salaya I – 1,200 MW 25. Ashok Karkata Coal 7. Mehsana Oil Block strategy of investing in large‑scale, Block – 100 mmt 8. Ratna/R Series low‑cost energy assets with long 9. Assam Oil Blocks lifespans continues to be logical 10. Mumbai Offshore and sound. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 07 Refining and Marketing – India Essar Energy’s Refining and Marketing With a Nelson complexity of business in India comprises the Vadinar 11.8, it is one of the world’s refinery in Gujarat and a retail franchise most complex refineries. network of around 1,400 fuel stations. With a nameplate capacity of 405,000 barrels of oil per day, Vadinar is India’s second largest single location refinery. Refining and Marketing – UK Essar Energy owns and operates the Well positioned in the north west of UK’s second largest refinery at Stanlow, England, Stanlow supplies around 15% which has a nameplate capacity of of the UK’s transport fuels. 296,000 barrels of oil per day. Exploration and Production Essar Energy has 15 oil and gas blocks At Raniganj, our first CBM block under in India and internationally. The focus development, 183 wells had been is on developing its unconventional drilled as at end of March 2014 with gas resources in India, where it has approvals received to drill up to 650 five CBM blocks totalling 10 trillion over the life of the field. cubic feet of reserves and prospective resources, making it the largest coal bed methane player in the country. Power Essar Energy is India’s leading private power producer with seven operational power plants and one in Canada with a total current capacity of 3,910 MW, rising to 6,700 MW eventually. 08 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Awards and recognition received during the reporting period Company Department Award category Award instituted by Essar Oil Limited Carbon management Second in Carbon Disclosure Leadership Carbon Disclosure Project Index (CDLI) Essar Power Energy and efficiency Energy efficient unit Confederation of Indian Industry Limited, Hazira Essar Oil Limited Energy performance Excellence in energy conservation and Indian Chemical Council management Essar Oil Limited Energy performance Second prize in refinery energy performance Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas OGCF‑2013 for category‑2 (refineries having steam generation more than 600MT/hr) for managing steam leaks by CHT Essar Oil Limited HR and environment Gold category in environment and HR Skoch Renaissance Awards Essar Oil Limited HSE Best “near miss incident” reporting refinery OISD, Ministry of Petroleum and award for the year Natural Gas Essar Oil Limited HSE 5S gold category Quality Forum Circle of India – Gujarat State Essar Power HSE Golden peacock award, 2013 Institute of Directors Limited, Hazira Essar Power HSE Gold award in gas based sector for safety Greentech Foundation Limited, Hazira management Essar Power HSE Certificate of appreciation National Safety Council Limited, Hazira Essar Oil Limited Operational Silver certificate of merit in India The Economic Times efficiency Manufacturing Excellence Awards Significant changes during the reporting period February 2014 Essar Energy secures Stage 2 forest clearance for Mahan coal block December 2013 Essar Oil issues 83,849,814 equity shares on conversion of FCCBs December 2013 Essar Energy issues notice to convert FCCBs aggregating US$262 million into Essar Oil equity November 2013 Essar Energy announces update to Free Float and FTSE inclusion October 2013 Essar Energy to exit Kenya Petroleum Refinery September 2013 Essar Energy announces US$147 million bond issue in power business August 2013 Essar Energy appoints Sushil Maroo as Chief Executive Officer August 2013 Essar Oil UK confirms new Board appointments July 2013 Essar Energy announces US$125 million bond issue in power business May 2013 Essar Oil appoints Virendra Singh Jain as an Independent Director May 2013 Essar Energy exercises call option in respect of shares in Essar Oil Limited Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 09 Our stakeholders As an organisation, we continued to engage with our stakeholders from different constituencies through various interventions throughout the year. Inside battery limit area at Vadinar Our stakeholder interventions, specific Employees Community to business segment and geography, • Provided up‑to‑date material • Conducted meetings with the helped us to identify stakeholders’ information about the Company via local community at various sites to expectations and continually improve the Company’s intranet, website, understand their expectations and our stakeholder engagement internal TV channel and email. receive feedback on the various programme. projects undertaken in the villages. • Organised themed activities on The following gives a snapshot of special occasions. • Interacted with the local our engagement initiatives with government and district authorities • Provided training through different different stakeholders during the to organise programmes in media such as classroom sessions, reporting period: partnership with them. web based training, site visits. • Encouraged employee participation • Organised several programmes in in volunteering activities at areas of education, environment, various sites. healthcare and community care. • Celebrated local festivals with the community. • Organised sports events in different villages across sites. • Organised visits for the villagers to exhibitions, nature park and other places of excursion. Laboratory at Vadinar refinery 10 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Our stakeholders continued Coal handling system at Salaya power plant Investors • arranged site visits for investors Suppliers and service providers Ensured that all material information and analysts in order to provide • As required, held service meetings on the Company was broadly more detailed knowledge of the to discuss service issues, quality disseminated to investors, analysts and Essar Energy Group. During the and safety. the media and that this information was 12 months ended 31 March 2014, available on the Company’s website at one site visit was organised in India Customers www.essarenergy.com. Distribution of for investors and analysts which • Organised meetings from time information was via the UK’s regulatory included presentations by the to time with customers to news service, via email to the business teams, copies of which understand their needs and receive Company’s extensive contact database are available on the Company’s feedback and suggestions for and through an email alert system on website; and further improvement. the Company’s website: • ensured that relevant and up‑to‑date information on the Government and regulatory • the Chief Executive Officer, authorities Chief Finance Officer and Company and its operations, together with press releases • Lobbied on various policy Director of Investor Relations and financial results and Annual issues concerning the sector in and Communications regularly Reports, were available on the different geographies. met institutional shareholders, potential investors, and analysts Company’s website. • Provided information per the either individually or as part of Since the Company was delisted applicable legislative requirements. Group meetings; from the London Stock Exchange • Organised site visits to • held presentations or conference on 10 June 2014, the above activities showcase various initiatives and calls with investors and analysts have ceased. periodic inspections. at the time of announcements Contractors • Organised site visits for of quarterly Interim Management periodic inspections. • Provided health and safety training Statements and financial results • Interacted at sector specific for contractors at all sites. or other major news. Historical conferences and programmes. webcasts of half and full year • Organised campaigns to promote financial results announcements good safety practices. were held on the Company’s • Organised monthly safety meetings website for a minimum of to review performance. 12 months; • Organised competitions on key occasions such as Safety Day. • Shared best practices or lessons learnt from incidents via safety timeout. • Organised health camps to promote health and well‑being. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 11 Materiality Our material issues have not changed significantly since last year. We continued with the five part materiality test to identify, prioritise and review the issues. Rangoli made by employees on World Environment Day The five part materiality test included: Our interaction with the various Information such as approach, • policy‑based performance; stakeholders during the year also performance in the reporting period helped us in prioritising a few issues. against each material issue can be • direct, short‑term financial impacts; The materiality matrix set out below found in the respective sections of • stakeholder behaviour the Report. includes the issues which are material and concerns; to the Company as a whole. • societal norms (regulatory and non‑regulatory); and • business peer‑based norms. Low Medium High Energy use and management Climate change Biodiversity management Process safety management Oil spills Contractor safety High Stakeholder’s concern Water use and management New or emerging regulation Anti‑corruption Waste management Employee engagement Medium Community engagement Low Current or potential effect on Company’s economic, social or environmental performance 12 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate governance The Company complies with the revised UK Corporate Governance Code (the ‘Code’) published by the Financial Reporting Council (‘FRC’) in September 2012 which applies to all premium listed companies listed on the London Stock Exchange. The Code can be found on the FRC’s website. During the 12 months ended 31 March 2014, the Company The matters which are reserved for the Board are set out in a has complied with the Code in all respects, save that in formal schedule, approved by the Board and include: respect of Code Provision A.3.1. Mr Prashant Ruia did not • the overall Group strategy and long range plans; meet the independence criteria set out in the Code on his • stewardship of business performance; appointment as Chairman due to his involvement with Essar Group. The Independent Non‑Executive Directors and the • devising and reviewing the corporate governance Chief Executive Officer consider Mr Prashant Ruia to be structure of the Group; an appropriate Chairman due to the depth and breadth of • approval of all new capital projects and any acquisitions his knowledge of the Company and its strategy, business including joint ventures or divestments; activities and operations. Both the Chairman and Mr Ravi • approval of the annual budget, including maintenance Ruia do not take part in deliberations on any related party and project capital expenditure and the operating plan; transactions approved by the Board. • delegated levels of authority and the annual and half‑year On 10 June 2014, Essar Energy plc was delisted from financial results and shareholder communications; the London Stock Exchange and on 21 July 2014, was • the system of internal control and risk management; registered as a private company. The Company no longer has to apply the Code. All statements made in relation to • the Group management structure; compliance with the Code are deemed to be effective as at • recommending dividend policy for shareholder approval; 31 March 2014. • appointment of external auditors; The Board is the decision‑making body for all matters • entering into related party transactions; material to the Company’s finances, strategy and reputation. • entering into new committed financial facilities; It is collectively responsible for the long‑term success • approving the Financial and Treasury Risks Policy; and of the Company and has ultimate responsibility for the management, direction and performance of the Group and • appointments to the Board. its businesses. The Board is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters and is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business. View of the refinery from Essar House, Vadinar Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 13 Structure of the Board Essar Energy Board Nominations and Safety and Remuneration Audit Committee Governance Sustainability Committee Committee Committee For details on the Board and the committees, please refer to the Annual Report for FY2014. Our approach to risk management The management of conflicts of interest The overall responsibility for risk management, and Directors are required to demonstrate unquestioned determination of appetite to undertake activities subject to honesty and integrity, a willingness to question, challenge risk and uncertainty, resides with the Board of Essar Energy. and critique, and a desire to understand and commit to the However, given the nature of our business, the Boards highest standards of governance. Each Director must ensure of our divisions and key management personnel across that no decision or action is taken that places his interests in the Company play an important part in managing and front of the interests of the business. Decisions of the Board monitoring risks. are made collectively by means of open and constructive The Company has established formal policies to promote debate where each Board member is free to question or an environment of good governance and robust risk challenge the opinions of others. management. The Board has established a risk register that The Company operates a process whereby each Board identifies strategic risks together with financial, operational member is required to disclose any actual or potential and compliance risks. The register includes a description of conflicts of interest and each of the Directors are aware of the nature, extent and implication of the risks together with the need to notify the Company of any potential conflicts of the related management controls. The risk register is formally interest. Directors’ declaration of interests forms a standard reviewed by the Board on a half‑yearly basis to monitor item on the agenda for each Board meeting. Potential principal risks and the strategies deployed to mitigate them. conflicts are considered and, if appropriate, approved Ongoing monitoring and management of risks takes place and noted with any conflicted Director not voting on the on a monthly basis at business review meetings where matter. Given their involvement with Essar Group, both the Chief Executive Officer of Essar Energy discusses key the Chairman and Mr Ravi Ruia on a number of occasions developments and new risks arising within the underlying excluded themselves from consideration of the business of business divisions. Similarly, the key developments in risks the meeting. A record of conflicts or potential conflicts for impacting the Company at a corporate level are discussed at each Director is maintained and reviewed on a regular basis each Board meeting. The Audit Committee is also charged by the Company. with monitoring effective implementation of controls across the business divisions that specifically impact financial risks. Further details of the procedures undertaken by the Board of Essar Energy and its Committees are set out in ‘Governance Framework’ section of the Annual Report. 14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Corporate governance continued Performance evaluation The Group has implemented extensive measures to A performance review of the Board, its Committees and ensure that the Group, all its subsidiaries, branches, its Executive and Non‑Executive Directors was undertaken divisions and controlled affiliated companies and all of its during the FY2014. It entailed the completion of detailed employees comply with the Company’s anti‑corruption questionnaires by each Director and was followed by policies and procedures. All employees of the Company, a composite written report prepared by the Company including Senior Management, are subject to ongoing Secretary. The evaluation concluded that the Board and communications and training to build awareness of its its Committees continue to operate effectively and each anti‑corruption and bribery policies and procedures. The Director is contributing effectively and demonstrates policies and procedures contain requirements in relation to commitment to his role, however there were certain areas i) the conduct of employees; ii) arrangements pertaining to identified for improvement in relation to a greater focus by political contributions, charitable donations, gifts, hospitality, the Board on risk oversight and strategy and the need for entertainment and sponsored travel and retaining third the Board to consider greater diversity in its number. The parties; and iii) prohibition of facilitation payments. Board has taken steps during the year to address the areas To create enterprise‑wide awareness and improve identiﬁed for improvement by receiving more detailed, regular understanding of the anti‑corruption policies and procedures reports from the Audit Committee on the Group’s key risks, across all levels of employment, the Group utilises various in advance of the Board’s annual review of internal control channels of information and communication technologies, and risk management. including an online competency evaluation tool on awareness, face‑to‑face training sessions such as leadership Anti‑corruption and bribery programmes, ‘Train the Trainers’ programmes, awareness Essar Energy is committed to ensuring that its strategy, programmes, e‑news alerts and road‑shows. In addition, business and operations are built around a culture of ethical the Group ensures that all third parties are engaged following business practice at all levels within the Company. Since proper due diligence and that all contracts signed by the the UK Bribery Act 2010 (the ‘Act’) came into force, the Group incorporate appropriate anti‑corruption clauses, Company has carried out comprehensive risk assessment according to the relevant risk, in order to safeguard the and developed and strengthened its policies and systems/ interests of the Group. procedures relating to anti‑corruption and bribery in line with During the reporting period, 539 employees were trained in the Act. Our anti‑corruption policy is fundamental to this. the UK Bribery Act. Case study Mumbai: e‑Legal compliance management system The business consequences of any statutory legal non‑compliance can be huge so compliance risks form an essential part of the risk control management framework. In 2011, after a thorough study of its legal and compliance requirements, Essar Oil introduced an Enterprise Resource Planning (‘ERP’)‑based compliance management system to improve the reliability and consistency of its compliance process. The new comprehensive legal compliance management system performs the following functions: • maps business processes to compliances through online documentation; • maps roles and responsibilities to compliances and establishes accountability; and • provides internal controls for statutory and regulatory compliances through planning, scheduling, escalations and reporting. To date, the system boasts of over 275 users across 71 departments and covers over 200 acts/rules and over 11,100 compliances. Power grid at Salaya Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 15 Our people At Essar, we believe that our people are our most valuable assets who are fundamental to the achievement of our aspirations. Control room at gas gathering station, Durgapur Without our employees we cannot achieve our business The following chart represents the number of permanent objectives so our priorities last year continued to be employees by business segment. employee retention, succession planning and nurturing and growing internal talent. Various employee engagement initiatives coupled with enhanced focus on individual training Employees by business needs in alignment with the business objectives helped us (percentage, number) meet our objectives. 7% 263 We continue to value learning at all levels within the Company and truly believe that learning is a continuous 29% 38% process. We encourage employees to take responsibility 1,088 1,459 of their learning needs and offer them several platforms of learning to have a meaningful experience. Workforce Our workforce consists of permanent employees, fixed-term contract employees and third-party contract employees. Fixed-term contract employees include personnel directly hired through the Company on a fixed-contract basis for a period ranging one and three years for certain projects. 26% Third-party contract employees include the average number 1,005 of workmen deployed by the contractors for specific jobs at sites. Refining and Marketing – India Collective bargaining agreements exist only at our Stanlow Refining and Marketing – UK Power Business Group refinery. 55% of permanent and fixed-term contract E&P employees at Stanlow are covered by such agreements. 16 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Our people continued During FY2014 there has been an overall increase of 65% in Talent management and succession planning the number of third-party contract employees hired by the At Essar Energy, we recognise that the workforce in the Company. This increase is due to an increase in the number Oil and Gas and Power industry is ageing rapidly and there of workmen deployed by the contractors at project sites. is a need to build a sustainable talent pipeline especially for The E&P business converted all the third-party contract our Key Critical Positions (‘KCP’). Our talent management employees to fixed-term contract employees. That is why programme has therefore helped us to identify the right the number of third-party contract employees for E&P talent to enable leadership continuity and also to build a business is zero in the reporting period. The chart below succession pool. Our businesses have ensured that there provides the change in Essar Energy’s workforce in the last are multiple successors available for key roles and that these four years. successors are being provided with appropriate training to assume those roles in due course. Workforce by type At Essar Oil, 100% of the 36 KCPs have internal successors identified as compared to 90% in FY2013. For positions 217 where internal successors have been identified, we have looked both inside and outside the Company to create a pipeline of suitable professionals who can fill these positions. 92 80 For example, at Vadinar, Essar Oil has introduced the following initiatives to strengthen the process. A critical talent dashboard with a detailed background of the 43 positions, incumbents and successors has been prepared for decision makers to review succession decisions. Details 2,891 3,814 3,890 6,415 of any training undertaken or required is also included. In FY2015, there will be a renewed focus on engaging with, and retaining this talent pool of 103 employees comprising of KCPs and successors. Additionally, there is a second talent group consisting of 2,744 3,967 3,912 3,815 high-performance high-potential individuals, known as Box 1 individuals, who will occupy KCPs and successor roles in the future. FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Permanent employees Third-party contract Fixed-term contract The percentage of women in the workforce varies across the business segments. An overall percentage for Essar Energy is given below: Percentage of women employees 7 6.48 6.66 6.63 6 5.61 5 4 3 2 1 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Our performance by business segment is given in detail in the ‘Performance Indicators’ section on pages 46 to 48. Central control room at Vadinar refinery Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 17 Case study Essar Oil: Appreciative inquiry DISCOVERY Appreciating At Essar Oil, we discovered that the more technology What works best? we put in to “reconnect” and communicate with our What gives life? employees the less the human experience became. An ‘Appreciative inquiry’ has been introduced in FY2014 DREAM to connect with employees at the positive core‑creating, DESTINY Envisioning results Sustaining destiny superior levels of human engagement. The ‘Appreciative What are employees Implementation calling for? inquiry’ is designed to discover and value those factors and execution of What could work well proposed design that ‘give life’ to an organisation, group or individual. It is What will be? in future? What might be? about reminding employees about the things that make the organisation unique, powerful and the best it can be. DESIGN The HR team regularly interacts with individual employees Co-constructing to “discover” what is and what might be the “dream”. Planning and prioritising processes that The idea is to get employees to focus on the positives work well and participate in the “design” of an ideal experience that What should be the ideal? will become the “destiny” of the Company. The 4D cycle became the core of our interactions. Close to 700 Appreciative inquiries were conducted in The focus soon shifted from problems to solutions FY2014. The areas for inquiry included culture, connect, and from problem solving to reflecting on what we communication, careers, engagement, learning and do best. Some of the actions taken in engagement, development, rewards and recognition, HR technology, communication, learning and development, innovation, PMS, HR operations and policies, compensation, talent pay and benefits were influenced by the inputs received in management, talent acquisition and induction. the Appreciative inquiry process. Employees were encouraged to talk about products and The Company is now in the process of compiling the services they liked the most. They also shared ideas success stories which will inspire greater participation of how to make things better. Gradually they started in this process. The Appreciative inquiry has become focusing on eliminating the occasions of “getting it a powerful tool in creating a psychological contract wrong”, and started working together to find, understand, with employees, helping them to understand that high learn from and expand the occasions of “getting it right”. performing teams are happy teams. Laboratory at Vadinar 18 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Our people continued Human rights Forced or compulsory labour Essar Energy respects the human rights of its employees. Essar Energy does not engage in or support the use We abide by the human rights laws applicable to the of forced or compulsory labour. countries in which we operate and also address these issues Discrimination in our investments and contracts. Essar Energy does not engage in or support discrimination Our code of conduct and policies address all relevant risks in hiring, remuneration, access to training, promotion, and issues relating to human rights. These policies include termination, or retirement based on race, national or social but are not limited to sustainability policy, health, safety and origin, caste, birth, religion, gender or any other grounds that environment policy, the whistle‑blower policy, policy against could give rise to discrimination. sexual harassment, business practice policy and open Disciplinary practices door policy. Essar Energy treats all personnel with dignity and respect, The policies listed above are communicated to employees including any circumstances where disciplinary action might at the time of joining the Company. These policies are also be required. available on the Essar Group intranet. The policies are Working hours reviewed periodically for their continued applicability to the Essar Energy complies with applicable laws and industry businesses. The implementation of the policies at different standards with regard to working hours and public holidays. levels of the Company is evaluated during internal audits The normal working week, not including overtime, is defined conducted at regular intervals. by the laws applicable in the countries where we operate. During the reporting period, a new act to provide protection Equal opportunities against sexual harassment of women at the workplace and Essar Energy is an equal opportunities employer and for the prevention and redressal of complaints of sexual believes in equal remuneration for equal work. harassment and connected matters came into force in India. The Act is called The Sexual Harassment of Women Employment opportunities are open to applicants from at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition & Redressal) Act, diverse backgrounds and all levels of ability throughout the 2013. The new Act mandates that companies constitute an Company. Disabled people are encouraged to apply and will Internal Complaints Committee for redressal of complaints be provided with the appropriate training according to their and implement a formal grievance mechanism. Essar level of aptitude and ability. In the event that an employee Energy’s sites in India have constituted committees to becomes disabled during the course of their employment, comply with these requirements. The Company’s existing the Company seeks to redeploy or retrain the employee, policy against sexual harassment was also reviewed for wherever possible. continued applicability. Workshops were organised to raise A diversity and inclusion policy is in place for Essar Oil UK awareness of this policy among employees. The businesses employees based at the Stanlow refinery. The policy also also organised orientation programmes for employees and refers to the key UK employment legislation that provides members of their Internal Complaints Committee. the legal framework for equal opportunities. This policy and adherence to the Equal Pay Act 1970 (as amended), ensures Child labour that employees are paid at equal levels across the different Essar Energy does not engage in or support the use grades within the Company, irrespective of gender. of child labour. Control room at Vadinar Power Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 19 Health, safety and environment At Essar Energy, health, safety and environment (‘HSE’) continue to be among our critical sustainability priorities. HSE is an integral part of the management of our business. Flamingoes in tandem near Vadinar oil terminal The Group’s HSE Control Framework drives our operations. Our overall safety performance changed marginally over the Significant HSE and social performance (‘SP’) risks last year with a few incidents detailed below: associated with business activities are assessed and Stanlow: November 2013 controlled to levels as low as reasonably practicable. People On November 14, 2013 a furnace fire broke out at a vacuum who have responsibility for HSE and SP are competent unit at the Stanlow refinery in Ellesmere Port. The incident and have the resources to perform their roles. A ‘Permit to was dealt with by the site’s emergency response team with Work’ process is used to manage the risks of hazardous support from the Cheshire Fire and Rescue Service. The fire work. Changes to facilities, processes and organisations are was extinguished within 20 minutes and no one was injured managed to maintain risk controls. Emergency response during the incident. A full investigation into the incident was plans, including those for medical emergencies and spills or conducted and repair work is expected to be completed in releases to the environment are established and exercised H2 FY2015. to ensure preparedness in the event of an incident. Incidents are investigated and analysed to identify improvements. Salaya power: January 2014 HSE and SP data is prepared and reported in conformity On January 24, 2014 an incident occurred at the 1,200MW with Group and relevant regulatory requirements applicable Salaya I power project involving the fatalities of two to such data. Assurance is provided to the Board of Essar contractual workers while conducting routine maintenance to Energy that HSE and SP controls, including process safety one of the plant’s two boilers, the job was outsourced to an controls, are effective. expert company. A third contractual worker suffered non‑life threatening injuries. The operations at Salaya recommenced Health and safety performance following an outage of 20 days. The Company has taken all Our goal is to have zero fatalities, zero incidents that can actions necessary to ensure that an incident of this nature harm people and the environment. We strive to continually does not recur. improve our safety performance and learn from every incident. During the year, 3,170 near misses were reported across all sites. 20 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued During the reporting period, zero lost time injury frequency Near misses rates were achieved by power plants at Hazira and Vadinar with Bhander Power, achieving 10 years without lost 9,000 time incident as at 1 April 2014. E&P Durgapur achieved 8,053 4.55 million LTI free hours as at 31 March 2014. 8,000 Contractor management Number of near misses reported 7,000 Contractors comprise over 60% of our workforce. As such 6,000 a great deal of work goes into ensuring that contractors are 5,000 suitably skilled and trained to perform their roles. There are rigorous processes that must be adhered to when recruiting 4,000 3,358 contractors and monitoring their performance, including 3,171 3,170 3,000 their adherence to our strict HSE policies. Accordingly, contractors who fail to follow our HSE policies and 2,000 procedures are black‑listed. This year saw a 48% increase 1,000 in number of contractors trained in health and safety by Power Business Group. Overall there was a 52% increase in 0 contractor toolbox talks delivered across sites. The number FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 of contractors assessed for competency went up by 117% over the last year. Contractor competency assessment Number of fatalities 2 1,999 2,000 Number of contractors assessed Contractors 1,500 Employees 1 1,005 1,000 915 758 500 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked Fatality rate per million hours worked 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.06 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.04 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.01 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 21 Health LTIFR by business segment Health risks are systematically identified, assessed and controlled at all stages of the business lifecycle. Fitness to 0.24 work evaluations are established and applied where there are significant health or safety risks. Policies and programmes are established covering the use of alcohol and 0.19 drugs. Employees have access to medical services that take into account the risks associated with the type and location 0.17 of their work. Human factors and engineering principles are considered and applied during the design stage of projects. All sites achieved zero occupational disease rate in FY2014. 0.12 Our Occupational Health Centre (‘OHC’) at Vadinar refinery 0.10 conducts regular first aid training that is certified and approved by the Government of Gujarat. During the year to 31 March 2014, 75 people were trained. 0.05 0.05 0.05 0.04 0.03 0.02 0 0 0 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 R&M India R&M UK PBG E&P Case study Vadinar: career by colour vision The Occupational Health Centre (‘OHC’) at Vadinar refinery The letter also provided guidelines to these students on routinely conducts fitness checks for prospective new careers and occupations that they could opt for and what employees. In FY2008, during the course of one such they should avoid. check for a batch of campus recruits, a young engineer Since 2009, the OHC team has screened over 6,000 was found to be colour blind and declared ‘unfit’ to work students, from 25 schools in four towns around the in the refinery and control panel areas. The young man Vadinar complex. Around 200 students have been was naturally devastated and understood the decision. diagnosed with colour blindness but now they are able to But this got us thinking and what emerged was the project make better decisions about their choice of occupation in ‘Career by colour vision’. the future. The standard test for colour blindness takes only a couple of minutes for diagnosis and requires no specialised instruments or medical skills for examination. With this knowledge, the OHC team consulted some career counsellors and drew up exhaustive lists of contemporary career options. In FY2009, they launched a scheme to screen local students of Class 9‑12 in Jamnagar and we screened 1,664 students. The children diagnosed with colour vision abnormalities, were provided with a letter for their parents advising them to consult an ophthalmologist to verify the diagnosis. Schoolchildren lining up for colour blindness test at Jamnagar 22 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued Personal safety Process safety event rate per million hours All of our sites have established procedures and safe working practices based on rigorous safety risk assessments. Employees and contractors are continuously 3 trained on safe working procedures and practices and they are monitored closely. 2.10 Process safety 2 Our sites and assets operate within established safe operating limits. The technical integrity of assets is maintained by systematic inspection, testing, maintenance 1.41 1.09 and management. The design and construction of new 1 assets and modifications to existing assets are all carried out in accordance with industry standards. Emergency response drills, critical equipment inspections, internal and external 0.41 audits are periodically conducted to obtain assurance on 0 the operating management system. In FY2014, there has FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 been a 62% reduction in the overall process safety event frequency rate. Transport Number of tier-1 process safety events All of our sites have established controls to manage transport safety risks, including road and maritime safety. 3 3 3 All drivers are trained by competent agencies and journey management plans and maintenance of vehicles are routinely undertaken. During the year, E&P Durgapur installed Global Positioning System on all the vehicles it owns and operates 2 to improve overall transport performance. Maritime safety controls have been put in place for owned, operated or contracted vessels, floating assets, berths 1 1 and off‑take facilities. Vessels used for bulk transport are inspected before acceptance. OHSAS certification by business 0 Sites Number of 0 Business certified sites certified Percentage FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Refining India Vadinar 1 out of 1 100 Refining UK — 0 out of 1 0 E&P India Durgapur 1 out of 2 50 Power Hazira, Number of tier-2 process safety events Business Group Vadinar 3 out of 5 60 40 39 38 30 20 17 12 10 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 23 Governance Case study In FY2014, the Health, Safety and Environment Committee was renamed the Safety and Sustainability Committee. Its remit was expanded to include other sustainability aspects Vadinar: employee safety such as Corporate Social Responsibility (‘CSR’). In addition, perception survey the Boards of Essar Oil and Power Business Group also constituted Safety and Sustainability Committees. The new Increasingly, safety perception surveys are used as a sustainability governance structure of Essar Energy is set measure of the health and safety culture in organisations. out below: Often employee behaviour is influenced by what they perceive to be true. As a result, in FY2012 our refinery at Vadinar engaged DuPont India to conduct an employee Safety and Sustainability Committee safety perception survey and since then many successful (Board level) initiatives have been introduced such as Site Safety Observations, Disciplinary Procedure and Life Saving Rules among others. Monthly Review Committee During FY2014, Vadinar decided to conduct another (Energy business level) safety perception survey through a web portal to encourage the widest participation possible and reduce the environmental impact by making the exercise paperless. A questionnaire comprising 54 Business Executive Committees questions on the following eight areas was sent to all (Business level) employees: management commitment/ involvement; safety procedure and practices; supervisor involvement; employee participation/safety culture; communication; safety training; personal role and process safety. Management Safety Committee Encouragingly, over 76% of employees participated in the (Site level) survey, which resulted in a higher score than the FY2012 survey and demonstrated that there has been a marked improvement in perception of all aspects of safety, from management commitment and the value attached to it Contractor Safety Committee through to employee empowerment and involvement. (Site level) The Safety and Sustainability Committee met once during the year and visited Stanlow as part of their ongoing commitment to HSE issues. In addition to the committees mentioned above, in terms of overall HSE management, our site at Stanlow has five additional committees that have a mandate to monitor formally and advise on occupational health and safety. Around 50 employees are involved in these five committees, equating to around 5% of employees. Survey outcome document 24 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued Environment Water We recognise and assess environmental risks continuously In our quest to reduce the burden on natural resources, in our operations through risk and impact assessments and water and material management have been given high regular audits. Our approach is towards mitigating risks, priority. Sites have used their material and water data to minimising pollution, reducing our environmental footprint identify potential savings and improved efficiencies. Efficient and optimising resource consumption. All the environmental recycling of water which would normally be discharged as aspects, impacts and plans are part of an environmental effluent has made most of our sites zero discharge sites management plan which is specific to each site. thereby reducing the requirement for freshwater withdrawal. The environmental management plans are aligned with Our power plants at Hazira, Vadinar and Salaya and the the international environmental management system ISO refinery at Vadinar are zero discharge sites. 14001:2004. We encourage all the businesses to get Our sites continue to identify opportunities to reduce the certified to the standard. The following table shows the freshwater consumption in their operations given that status of certification by business segment. freshwater is a scarce resource. A large percentage of the Sites Number of water used at Vadinar refinery consists of seawater which is Business certified sites certified Percentage either used as cooling tower make‑up or is passed through Refining India Vadinar 1 out of 1 100 the reverse osmosis plant for use in the refining process. The freshwater withdrawal for refinery operations is minimal Refining UK Stanlow 1 out of 1 100 and only a fraction of the total water withdrawn. E&P India Durgapur 1 out of 2 50 Power Hazira, Total water withdrawal* Business Group Vadinar 3 out of 5 60 (million m3) Environmental performance during the FY2014 100 • Essar Oil ranked second in India looking across all sectors and industries in Carbon Disclosure Leadership 84.64 Index in CDP India Climate Change Report 2013. 75 • Essar Oil recommended by Det Norske Veritas for 69.97 certification to Energy Management System – ISO 50001:2011. 50 • Essar Oil’s fuel switch project registered for carbon credits. 28.37 35.74 • Vadinar refinery saves 95 million kWh of energy; over 25 five times increase in the energy saved last year. • 20% reduction in hazardous waste generation at Vadinar refinery. 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 • Zero oil spills reported by all sites. *Includes both freshwater and seawater • E&P Durgapur certified to ISO 14001:2004. Volume of water recycled and reused  (million m3) 20 15 14.02 10 5.84 5.74 6.53 5 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 25 Climate change and energy management Replacement/retrofit of ID fans Our approach towards climate change mitigation and With the expansion of the refinery, the crude unit capacity adaptation continues to aim at providing clean solutions was increased from 14 to 18 MMTPA and heavier crude was to our customers and reducing our carbon footprint by processed in CDU‑1 unit. This resulted in increased firing adopting the latest technology and energy conservation and flue gas flow across the crude and vacuum heaters. measures. In addition, managing regulations, stakeholders’ But due to the limited capacity of CDU & VDU Heaters’ expectations and costs are key factors in our approach. ID fans there was a diversion of hot flue gases to the stack in order to maintain draft. This diversion led to direct At Essar Oil, the greenhouse gas (‘GHG’) mitigation energy loss and a reduction in heaters’ thermal efficiency. approach includes optimisation and energy conservation To prevent energy losses, the refinery installed new ID fans schemes. Various activities were carried out across the for the crude heaters in CDU‑1 and used existing ID fans Vadinar refinery which reduced energy consumption and in crude heaters for vacuum heaters. With an investment in turn the GHG emissions. of 37 million INR, the refinery achieved energy savings of Vadinar refinery saved 95 million kWh of energy; over five 5 Gcal/h. Encouragingly, the investment payback period times increase in the energy saved last year. The following was a mere five months and it has contributed an additional graph shows the increase in energy savings at Vadinar 179 million INR to the business. refinery over the last three years. Installation of ultrasonic flow meters Each feed pass to DCU heater is equipped with a Refinery India conventional orifice type flow meter and arrangement of Energy saved (MWh) continuous injection of High Pressure (‘HP’) wash oil to avoid orifice tapings blockage. This is critical as a false 95,179 flow reading may lead to spurious heater tripping and wash oil addition making up to total feed resulting in lower unit throughput. To ensure accurate and reliable flow measurement, ultrasonic flow meters have been installed in place of conventional meters on all 18 heater passes together with clamp‑on meters in the minimum bypass line for the heater charge pump. This has greatly helped to control heater operations and has eliminated the use of HP wash oil. It has also led to increased throughput across the heaters, and removed the congested piping lay‑out of the HP wash oil circuit in heater 18,224 and heater charge areas which is prone to safety hazards. 6,298 Significant energy savings of 5.5 Gcal/h have been achieved. Estimated savings for this modification are 158 million INR FY12 FY13 FY14 against an investment of 99.2 million INR, with payback period of 0.63 months. Heat recovery from heavy naphtha In our upstream business, venting and flaring do not occur Heavy naphtha product in crude unit-I, whose temperature in our Coal Bed Methane (‘CBM’) wells. Flaring is only at stripper column outlet is ~170°C and flow is ~60,700 Kg/ undertaken during operational impediments at the gas Hr, loses heat across two air fin coolers, and a cooling water gathering station. All venting and flaring in any future wells is exchanger. subject to procedures in the HSE control framework, which To maximise heat gain and prevent heavy naphtha heat requires this activity to be reduced to a minimum using rejection to the atmosphere, a welded plate type heat technological and procedural methods. exchanger was installed before the air fin coolers. By doing A few key energy saving projects undertaken by Vadinar so, ~1.6 Gcal/hr of the energy was recovered in boiler feed refinery during the year are set out below. water, resulting in generation of ~2.3 MT/hr MP steam and reducing the power consumption by switching off air fin coolers. This has helped to preheat BFW from 105°C to 150°C. With an investment of ~ 6.5 million INR, the annual savings achieved have been around 11.7 million INR. The return on investment has been achieved in just over six months. 26 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued LPG re‑routing to fuel gas header A proper LPG sampling procedure necessitates the cleaning/purging of the system volume to obtain a representative sample. In general around two to three times of the system volume is purged in order to obtain a representative sample and this purged LPG is vented to a LPG flare header resulting in loss of fuel. For a final product rundown sample, the system volume is around 2.53 litres and for a sphere certification sample it is around 1,414 litres. Hence, during a rundown product sample and a sphere certification sample some 3,222 litres/day (around 1,740 kg/day) of LPG was vented to flare which represents a sizable fuel loss. Consequently, a modification was proposed and this purge of LPG is now rerouted to the FG header which saves around 635 tonnes of LPG per annum. The investment layout was 6.04 million INR, and the estimated savings have been 33.6 million INR per year, resulting in a payback period of just one month. Energy performance The following graphs provide an overview of our energy consumption, intensity and emissions at our refineries in India and the UK. Refinery India Refinery India Direct energy consumption (million GJ) Direct GHG emissions (million tCO2e) 80 79 70 6.00 60 66 5.42 60 50 40 40 38.61 35.14 30 2.53 2.49 20 20 10 0 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Refinery India Refinery India Energy intensity (Gj/throughput) Carbon intensity (tCO2e/throughput) 5 0.3 0.27 3.95 0.27 4 0.2 0.18 3 3.19 0.19 2.51 2.49 2 0.1 1 0 0.0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 27 Refinery UK Refinery UK Direct energy consumption (million Gj) Energy intensity (Gj/throughput) 50 7 46 6.12 6 40 39.54 5 4.23 30 4 3.93 26 3 20 2 10 1 0 0 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY12 FY13 FY14 Refinery UK Refinery UK Direct GHG emissions (million tCO2e) Carbon intensity (tCO2e/throughput) 30 0.35 2.69 2.20 0.31 20 0.31 1.83 0.30 0.29 10 0.28 0 0.25 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY12 FY13 FY14 Non‑greenhouse gas emissions Our sites employ the best available techniques on combustion plant in order to meet the emission limits for SOX and NOX applicable in the respective geography, taking account of fuel type (gas, liquid, solid, natural gas) and the plant’s capacity in thermal input (MWth). Emissions are regularly assessed for continued compliance to the applicable local regulation. Fugitive emissions are controlled through periodic monitoring to detect leaks. Adequate controls are in place to reduce VOC emissions to as low as reasonably practicable. The following are a few sample measures /controls adopted for further reduction of SO2, NOX and VOC at Vadinar refinery: • installation of Low Temperature Shell Claus off Gas Treating Units (‘LT SCOT’) at the sulphur recovery unit for enhancing its efficiency; • low sulphur fuel like natural gas, refinery fuel gas and fuel oil are used in all the furnaces, heaters, and boilers to minimise SO2 emissions; • heaters, furnaces and boilers are equipped with low NOX burners to minimise NOX emissions; • floating roof storage tanks have been provided for the storage of hydrocarbons such as crude, naphtha, SKO, ATF, gasoline, diesel, and reformate to reduce VOC emissions; • a closed blow down system has been introduced for all process units to minimise VOC emissions from operations; • regular monitoring of stack emissions and ambient air quality as well as VOCs (‘Volatile Organic Compounds’) via portable monitors is carried out once a month; and • online ambient air quality monitoring stations at strategic locations and real time display at State Pollution Control Board. 28 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued Case study Vadinar: certification to Energy Management System, ISO 50001:2011 Mumbai: excelling in Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index As a part of our journey towards excellence, sustaining Essar Oil outperformed all previous achievements when the process of continual improvement, strengthening it was ranked second All‑India in the Carbon Disclosure our systems and working towards our next goal, our Leadership Index (‘CDLI’) in the Carbon Disclosure Project refinery at Vadinar took an important step forward (‘CDP’) India 200 Climate Change Report 2013 that ranks by implementing ISO 50001:2011. This involved a the top 200 companies by market capitalisation. commitment from top management and was initiated CDP is a UK‑based Global Carbon index that has pioneered by creating a roadmap, creating awareness amongst a global system which collects information about corporate employees and contractors, conducting workshops, behaviour on climate change. The CDLI score is the training sessions and quiz competitions. The energy benchmark to assess an organisation’s standing on carbon policy was also released by the management. management. This methodology provides for the analysis To implement the system, a large number of of Company responses in terms of both disclosure and EMS internal auditors were trained and certified performance as to the Company’s contribution to action on and the system reviewed by DNV. An ERP was climate change mitigation and adaptation. installed to capture and analyse performance to Scoring 92 points out of 100, EOL was the only energy/ keep the management updated on the status of its oil and gas sector company to have appeared in the top implementation. Existing SOP’s were revised and a 20 CDLI list in 2014. EOL’s rank is particularly significant new SOP introduced to standardise implementation in view of the fact that EOL is in a high emission business. throughout the Company. The benefits of implementing Considering the challenges associated with Vadinar’s an energy management system have included energy enhanced complexity (which increases emissions), as well as savings, cost savings, efficiency and a reduction the additional emissions from coal‑based power generation, in emissions. we have still been able to significantly outperform our previous year’s ranking and enhanced our score from 72 in 2013, to 92 in 2014. E&P Durgapur: fuel switch from diesel to CBM gas Essar is extracting CBM gas from the deeper coal seams in the Raniganj coal fields situated in the state of West Bengal. The project’s initial power requirement was met through diesel generators for drilling and installation of surface facilities. Since the project commissioning, the team at Durgapur has been gradually replacing the diesel generators with the CBM gas generators to reduce the CO2 emissions. Currently, the Raniganj project is using 17 diesel generators and 30 gas generators. The use of CBM gas has reduced CO2 emissions by over 50%. The emissions have dropped from 60 MT/day to 25 MT/day thereby resulting in an annual reduction of 12,775 MT of CO2 emissions. ISO 50001:2011 certificate Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 29 Biodiversity management The NIO study typically compares the results of the At Essar Energy, we follow a proactive and forward‑looking monitoring with the pre‑refinery baseline (1994 – 2004), as approach to the management of biodiversity. The risks to well as the development and post‑development phase of the changes in biodiversity and ecosystems arising from our Essar complex from 2006. assets and activities are monitored and assessed through Monthly monitoring of the marine ecosystem is undertaken a rigorous programme of impact assessments. Adequate by the Gujarat Institute of Desert Ecology (‘GuIDE’) at controls have been put in place to manage direct, secondary specific critical locations and it includes the following and cumulative impacts on biodiversity to ‘as low as indicators: reasonably practicable’. Regular performance monitoring • nine water quality parameters (salinity, pH, dissolved and reporting is conducted for assets that are in areas of oxygen, biochemical oxygen demand, nitrate, nitrite, high biodiversity value. phosphate, ammonia and phenols, petroleum An extended environmental impact assessment is carried hydrocarbons); out by qualified third parties on all projects that could have • three sediment quality parameters (anthropogenic trace an impact on biodiversity. The results of these assessments metals including chromium, nickel, copper, zinc, lead, are then included and addressed in each site’s environmental cadmium and mercury; petroleum hydrocarbons, organic management plan. While most of our sites do not pose a carbon and phosphorus); and biodiversity threat to their neighbouring areas there is an • 14 biological parameters. obvious risk to the marine ecosystem around our refinery at Vadinar. The Essar Oil refinery and the oil terminal (together In addition to the above measures, there is continuous referred to hereinafter as the ‘Essar complex’) are located at engagement with the Marine National Park authority and Vadinar in the proximity of the Gulf of Kutch which is known State Pollution Control Board. for its rich and diverse biodiversity. NIO has released the report of the comprehensive To limit our impact on the marine ecosystem, comprehensive monitoring conducted in FY2014. The table below provides marine monitoring is conducted annually by the National a snapshot of the major findings of the study: Institute of Oceanography (‘NIO’), the premier agency in the country devoted to the well‑being of the ocean environment. Aspect Whether conclusion comparable monitored FY2014 monitoring result with baseline (1994‑2004) Water quality Temperature <10°C Comparable with prevailing trend off Vadinar pH Avg 8.3 Yes Salinity Avg 38.1 ppt Marginally higher Suspended solids 32 mg/l Yes Dissolved oxygen 4.5 ml/l Yes BOD 3 mg/l Within expected range of the Gulf Sediment quality No gross contamination of sediment by heavy metals Yes Flora and fauna No indication of mangrove deterioration in the vicinity of Yes EOL/VOTL Composition of zooplankton fairly diverse and no adverse Yes impact observed Wide variety of live corals seen in various densities. Tagged Yes corals retrieved in good health and growth expansion Marine turtles, dolphins, whales and dugongs reported in — the Gulf 30 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Health, safety and environment continued Oil spills and emergency response Waste Essar Oil, India uses the services of a sister company, Our sites have adequate controls in place to reduce waste Vadinar Oil Terminal Limited (‘VOTL’), to manage crude oil generation. All the sites continue to identify opportunities imports and exports and for the distribution of petroleum to reuse waste for the same or alternative applications, products. VOTL is governed by the International Maritime including in other industries, or return unused materials to Organisation’s guidelines and protocol. Offshore pollution suppliers in addition to identifying opportunities for waste prevention and control is managed by VOTL. recycling and recovery. All waste is segregated, stored, In the event of a mooring mishap where a vessel breaks transported and disposed as per local regulatory standards. away from the berth, the product berth loading arms are Appropriate government‑approved disposal sites, methods fitted with powered emergency release couplers and the and contractors are used for disposal. Waste records are single point mooring hoses are fitted with marine breakaway maintained as per legal and other requirements. couplings to immediately shut off flow and prevent spills. Of all the hazardous waste generated at our refinery in In addition to these safety fittings, the terminal fully conforms Vadinar, only oily sludge is sent to landfill. All other wastes to the Indian coast guard requirements with regard to tier‑1 are either recycled or reused. The quantities of hazardous spill response equipment and training of response personnel and non‑hazardous waste generated by business segment as recommended by IMO. All employees at the terminal are is given in the ‘Performance indicators’ section on pages trained by the Indian coast guard on oil spill response tier‑1 49 to 52. emergencies. A select number of employees are also trained to handle tier‑2 emergencies. Number of significant spills 2 2 1 1 0 0 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Volume of significant spills (in litres) 350,000 323,500 300,000 250,000 200,000 150,000 100,000 50,000 20,625 0 0 0 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 31 Product responsibility Supply chain Exploration Refining Marketing Consumer and production Being a global organisation, we interact with a number of suppliers and partners. While we take care of the sustainability risks associated with the organisation as part of our business strategy, we continually strive to include ESG aspects in our interaction with the supply chain. The diagrams below provide a broad sequence of activities in the Oil and Gas business and the supply chain associated with the refining business. Oil and gas – sequence of activities Supply chain – refining business Crude Product Product Exploration Manufacturing Refining Marketing procurement transport sale and and production process and transport and storage distribution • Survey • Crude • Public sector • Crude • Equipment • Port • Public sector • Exploratory drilling • Fractional undertakings suppliers suppliers operators undertakings • Test wells distillation • Bulk customers • Port • Service • Shipowners • Bulk • Chemical • Retail outlets operators providers • Product customers • Separation processing • Crude • Technology transporter • Retail outlets • Gas gathering transporters Licensors station • Blending • Product • Product • Contractors • Utility insurers • Pipeline providers distribution quality check • Cargo • Product • Transport insurers • Contractors traders • Contractors • Storage and terminal operators Since the ESG risks associated with the supply chain can vary a lot, below is a snapshot of key risks that may be associated with the key stakeholders involved in the supply chain. Stakeholder involved Supply chain risk Company risk Crude procurement and transport Crude suppliers Human rights, health and safety, corruption Price, grade and quantity, timely delivery Port operators Regulatory, environmental (oil spill), safety Berth availability, port congestion, speed of loading/unloading, berth facilities (emergency response, pilots) Crude transporters Environmental (oil spill, emissions), safety Freight rates, technical (age of ships, type and security, human rights, regulatory of hull, oil major certification etc.) Contractors Health and safety, labour and human Cost and availability of skilled labour rights, regulatory Cargo insurers — Favourable contract conditions Manufacturing process Equipment suppliers Corruption, quality Quality, price, supplier reliability Service providers Corruption, quality Quality, price Technology licensors Quality, obsolete technology Reliability Utility providers — Reliability Contractors Health and safety, labour and human Cost and availability of skilled labour rights, regulatory Product transport and storage Shipowners Environmental (oil spill, emissions), safety Freight rates, technical (age of ships, type and security, human rights, regulatory of hull, oil major certification etc.) Product tanker transporter Safety, security, environmental (emissions) Cost, safety, security, timely delivery, technical Pipeline — Safety, security Product insurers — Favourable contract conditions Product traders Regulatory Financial Storage and terminal operators Safety, security Reliability Our Company has procedures in place that address in detail the requirements for vendor development, vendor evaluation, vendor performance management and vendor blacklisting. Each activity follows a periodic cycle for audit and review. As an organisation, we also encourage engaging local suppliers as far as possible. During the FY2014, our refinery in India spent over 82% of the total expenditure on materials and services on local suppliers. 32 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Product responsibility continued Marketing – India R&M, India Essar Oil continues to be the preferred supplier of its Domestic market sales by customer customers. We serve our customers better with our high (thousand tonnes) standards on product and service quality. We are committed to building long‑term relationships with our customers, 154 delivering maximum value to them. We have multiple 214 channels of communication with our customers and a fast 2,439 response time. We also regularly conduct face‑to‑face 2,992 meetings with them, both individually as well as in organised 557 customer meets. We continue to upgrade our products and services further by actively seeking suggestions and 1,212 128 feedback on our past performance from our customers. 843 During the FY2014, we sold around 11.9 MMT of our refinery products in the domestic market, representing about 60% 7,289 6,802 10,112 8,832 of our total production. When the country’s slowing demand growth is taken into account, this is commendable. Essar Oil serves mainly three customer segments – Public Sector Oil Marketing Companies (‘PSU OMC’s), direct bulk customers and retail outlets. We supply large quantities of MS, HSD, SKO and LPG to PSUs, while various products like petcoke, sulphur, bitumen and fuel oil are supplied to our FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 direct bulk customers for industrial use. PSU PSU OMCs continue to be our major customers, Direct customers and traders contributing to nearly 73% of our entire domestic sales Retail in FY2014. Domestic market sales by product R&M, India (refinery product only) Domestic market sales by customer (%) FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 LPG 596 576 819 806 6.15% 1.65% 1.21% 1.78% MS 851 828 933 931 10.85% 19.20% ATF/Kero 706 630 589 383 13.38% 24.85% HSD 5,344 4,777 7,818 6,833 FO 761 540 336 268 Bitumen 456 261 195 267 Petcoke – – 1,683 2,120 Sulphur 81 80 210 268 Sub‑total 8,795 7,692 12,583 11,876 80.47% 87.51% 79.59% 73.37% Quantities in thousand tonnes FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 LPG 6.78% 7.49% 6.51% 6.79% MS 9.68% 10.76% 7.41% 7.84% FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 ATF/Kero 8.03% 8.19% 4.68% 3.22% HSD 60.76% 62.10% 62.13% 57.54% PSU FO 8.65% 7.02% 2.67% 2.26% Direct customers and traders Retail Bitumen 5.18% 3.39% 1.55% 2.25% Petcoke 0.00% 0.00% 13.38% 17.85% Sulphur 0.92% 1.04% 1.67% 2.26% Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 33 Oil marketing companies Essar retail outlets We continue to have excellent and productive relationships Essar Oil has an extensive network of 1,400 operational with all of the public sector OMCs in India namely Indian Oil retail fuel outlets across the country and close to 300 Corporation, Bharat Petroleum Corporation and Hindustan outlets under various stages of construction. We supply Petroleum Corporation. We have long‑term product off‑take our network with our own refinery product as well as agreements with these companies, which benefit us as well product from various public sector OMCs. We have entered as our customers thereby reducing uncertainty. into agreements with various public sector OMCs to The annual off‑take numbers are finalised at the beginning supply our retail network from their refineries and depots. of the fiscal year and the pricing is transparent and formula This optimisation helps us to lower the cost of fuel supplied. based. Price adjustments are either conducted on a Essar Oil follows a franchise model in petrol retailing, fortnightly or monthly basis, depending on the product. under which the franchisee owns the land and invests in Products are supplied through multiple routes including rail, the equipment and other infrastructure. This is a nil capex road, pipeline and coastal shipping. model, which has helped us to quickly increase our network reach. We were the first private entity to introduce this model Direct customers in the country. Our direct sales comprise of sales to two distinct groups Public sector OMCs sell at retail prices below cost and – industrial end users and petroleum product traders. receive subsidies from the Government of India. The We supply to diverse industrial segments such as cement Government has deregulated the pricing of petrol, while plants, power plants, chemical units, fertiliser plants and diesel has not been totally decontrolled. Only bulk diesel construction companies. sales have been deregulated, whereas retail diesel prices are We have managed to successfully sell significantly higher not yet decontrolled. Retail diesel deregulation is necessary quantities of petcoke and sulphur this year, with the quantum to ensure a level playing field between the public and private of growth being ~ 25%. Small quantities were also exported, OMCs. Our overall retail sales during FY2014 stood at to take advantage of price and exchange rate fluctuations. 214,000 metric tonnes. We achieved our highest ever petrol We have also capitalised on the bulk HSD opportunity, after sales of 259,000 KL in FY2014. government deregulation of bulk HSD prices. Our bulk HSD Many of our outlets also offer multi‑fuel options apart from sale was the highest ever in FY2014, with a quantity of petrol and diesel. As at 31 March 2014, we have 29 stations 67 KT from our Vadinar refinery and Kochi depot. offering CNfG and six offering ALPG. Four CNG outlets and one ALPG outlet have been commissioned during the reporting period. We have entered into strategic tie‑ups with all leading gas marketing companies like Indraprastha Gas and Mahanagar Gas. We continue to expand our non‑fuel retail offerings across the network, and offer a diverse range of products and services ranging from lubricants, auto components, agricultural products, food and beverages, telecommunications to banking services. Retail outlet in India 34 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Product responsibility continued Exploration and production Power business CBM gas is a promising energy solution for India, which Our Power portfolio, originally consisting of gas and has large deposits of coal and limited oil and gas reserves. liquid fuel‑fired generation capacity, now has significant According to the Directorate General of Hydrocarbons coal‑fired capability. All of our new plants and those under database, India has an estimated 92 trillion cubic feet of development are coal‑fired and will utilise both domestic as CBM gas reserves. India is the world’s third largest producer well as imported coal. Our focus in the future is to complete of coal; however commercial production of CBM is still at a current projects and consolidate our position. As at very early stage in the country. 31 March 2014, our installed capacity was 3,910 MW and Our CBM block at Durgapur, in West Bengal, sells CBM we are in process of ramping it up to 6,700 MW. We expect mainly in the Durgapur industrial belt. CBM, which is to commission our Paradip and Hazira projects along with >99.9% natural gas, is an alternative to fuel oil and LPG. the entire transmission system by the end of FY2015. We commenced sales from our CBM blocks in August 2010 through cascades and then from August 2011 through a dedicated pipeline. As at the end of March 2014, there were 183 wells drilled with 151 in production. Production is currently around 190,000 scmd. Having secured phase III environmental clearance for Raniganj in March 2013, we have consent to increase the number of wells drilled by another 650. Our immediate intention is to increase the number of wells to over 350, which will enable us to reach our target production level of around 3 mmscm/d. The remaining wells will be drilled over the lifetime of the field to maintain production. Crude distillation and fluidised catalytic cracking unit at Vadinar Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 35 Community The community engagement projects at Essar Energy’s English language. A five member team from IBM from India locations are undertaken through the Essar Group different countries conducted an assessment study and Foundation (the ‘Essar Foundation’), which is a registered recommended action. The team spent a month on field not for profit organisation under the Indian Trust Act, during which they visited 17 schools, held discussions 1882. The engagement model is designed to deliver with parents, teachers and key officials from the education maximum value to the community in line with the Essar department. The outcome of the study was an insightful Foundation’s philosophy. report which EGF is currently working on to improve levels All of our brownfield and greenfield projects in India have of English language in the schools, which will benefit over to obtain prior environmental clearance from the Ministry 3,000 children and 150 teachers. of Environment and Forests, based on the evaluation of Gyanjyoti award for meritorious students the environmental impact assessment (EIA) report and As part of its efforts to promote higher education amongst public consultations. Land acquisition, rehabilitation the school children of rural West Bengal, Essar Foundation and resettlement are generically addressed in the EIA’s introduced Gyanjyoti, an initiative to recognise and reward environmental management plan and implemented as academically high performing students in schools located required by the rehabilitation and resettlement policy of the in the operational area of CBM Raniganj, Essar Oil Limited state Government where the project is located. Essar Energy Durgapur. The students from secondary (Std X) and higher is committed to abide by the law of the land. secondary (Std XII) sections across eight schools were Our engagement with the community starts at an early shortlisted on the basis of their academic performance in stage, when decisions on siting a project are made, and the West Bengal board examinations 2013. The Gyanjyoti continues through the entire lifecycle of operations. scholarships cover their basic educational expenses like During operations, a three pronged engagement approach books, fees and travelling. is followed including consultation with the team at sites, Career counselling for girls discussion with district level authorities and third-party needs Gopalpur Girls High School is the only all‑girls school assessment outcome. around the Gopalpur area near Durgapur with students Subsequently, a plan of activities for the year is drawn up from as many as 12 villages around the area. Most of these to ensure that the projects undertaken during the year have girls are first or second generation learners and several of maximum impact on the community. them belong to tribal groups that are traditionally known to practise early marriage. There are many cases of girls The Essar Foundation team located at sites visits the villages dropping out after Std X because higher education or career surrounding our operations regularly to interact with the options are rarely considered. Their exposure to current community which serves as a platform for the villagers to career options and opportunities is very limited. Under raise any issues. Essar’s ‘Million Hours to Society’ initiative, Essar Foundation During the FY2014, the Essar Group Foundation undertook organised an interface between Essarites and students of a number of initiatives in the areas of education, environment class X for a career counselling session. Employees from and community care. These initiatives ranged from E&P Durgapur enthusiastically volunteered to conduct the organising contact programmes to contributing to long‑term career counselling session at the school. projects. A snapshot of key initiatives undertaken during the year is given below. The detailed information on each may Effective management training be accessed on www.essar.com. Women in rural areas have steadily made strides in economic development, entrepreneurship and wider Education social changes through collective action and peer support. Indradhanush The mechanism that seems to have worked well in this In keeping with its focal endeavours at improving quality direction is that of women’s self‑help groups (‘SHG’s). of education, Essar Foundation organised Indradhanush, Essar Foundation has been organising a wide array of a vibrant two-day edutainment festival for school children initiatives under its capacity building programme for self‑help in Vadinar. 20 organisations of national repute and highly groups in 15 villages of Durgapur. In a series of meetings experienced in alternate education and activity-based and consultations held with SHG members, several teaching facilitated interactive workshops and hands-on issues regarding proper functioning and management of experiential learning activities for children and teachers. The SHGs emerged. One of the weak areas was group record festival, held in January 2014, focused on making science, management, credit and interest calculation and accounts mathematics, language, art and environment science maintenance. To address these gaps the Foundation interesting and creative by use of multiple media and tools. organised training in effective management to the SHG Over 3,000 children and teachers participated and efforts are leaders and treasurers in August, 2013. The training was on to collaborate with the government for inculcation of such inaugurated by the head and deputy head of the local methods in education system. village. 51 SHG leaders and treasurers of 37 groups from seven villages under Gopalpur Gram Panchayat attended IBM‑EGF collaboration the training. The training was conducted with technical Given the quality of education in the schools surrounding support from NGO partner Durgapur‑Sundaram Creative the Essar facilities at Salaya, children’s proficiency in Welfare Society. English language was found to be starkly low, impacting their confidence and performance in the subject. Essar Foundation joined hands with IBM Global to assess the proficiency level of children and teachers in the 36 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Community continued Boosting school enrolment Phase‑wise extension of mobile medical services Essar Foundation has been associated with schools and over three years communities in Gujarat in facilitating the ‘Shala Pravesh Villages Total Utsav/Kanya Kelavani Abhiyan’ (school enrolment drive, Phase Period added villages Beneficiaries especially for girls) over the past few years. The Gujarat Phase – I Jun 2010 government launched the initiative in 2003 to increase – Jun 2011 8 08 25,607 school enrolment and also to reduce the number of Phase – II Jul 2011 dropouts. The initiative aims to encourage children – Jan 2012 4 12 19,924 (especially girls) to attain primary education and bring down the rate of primary school dropouts. Essar believes in every Phase – III Feb 2012 child’s right to education and promotes education as being – May 2013 5 17 30,851 an enabler in building a self‑confident and empowered life. Phase – IV Jun 2013 The unique annual programme is conducted at primary – Mar 2014 6 23 4,655 schools across all 18,000‑plus villages in the state. During Total 81,037 the enrolment time, the schools are decorated to bear a festive look to attract children. The newly enrolled children All mobile medical camps are conducted at common are welcomed with a lot of gaiety and are given new study and accessible spots in villages, like community centres, materials to encourage them to attend school regularly. youth clubs, Panchayat buildings etc. Local volunteers During the reporting period, the Foundation contributed to from respective villages coordinate to conduct the camps the utsav with the distribution of more than 1,200 school kits effectively. A feedback register is placed at the mobile across 40 schools in 24 villages in the districts of Lalpur and medical van to gauge the efficiency and effectiveness of the Khambhaliya in Gujarat. services. Case studies have been regularly documented to Besides the above, a second vocational skill training disseminate the impact of these services. centre for women was inaugurated during the year. Mobile medical services are carried out with a van and a The centre provides an opportunity for vocational training in team of three that includes a doctor and two nurses from the promoting income generation activities towards economic partnering Vivekananda hospital. The services are currently self‑dependence. Initially, tailoring and kantha‑zardozi being provided on a fortnightly basis. The doorstep medical embroidery training will be provided to women and services reach 23 villages in Pratapur, Bidbehar, Molandigi adolescent girls with the support of technical partner and Gopalpur Gram Panchayats of two administrative blocks Durgapur–Sundaram. It is expected to train more than in Durgapur‑Faridpur and Kanksa. 150 women and girls in a span of one year in two batches Aanchal of six months each. Under the Aanchal project, Essar Foundation has adopted Healthcare Life Cycle Approach towards promoting gender equality, empowering women and improving maternal health. Special Mobile medical van emphasis is given on the first 1,000 days of life, i.e. from Essar Foundation’s mobile medical services completed pregnancy to first two years of child birth. The LCA approach three years of dedicated service to the community of the focuses on attitude, behaviour change and outlook of the CBM Raniganj block. Started in June 2010, more than society towards women holistically and not just in their 81,000 people have benefited from the initiatives. Health reproductive roles. is the most important focus area and the mobile medical service has been the flagship programme of the CSR Essar Foundation has involved members of Women Self initiatives undertaken. Women, children and elderly people Help Groups (‘SHG’s) by recognising their potential role as benefit the most from these services owing to their low powerful local development agents. Women are trained mobility and access to quality healthcare and services. and motivated to act as local leaders and involve them in The financial burden of health expenditure for poor families activities aimed to encourage social and behavioural change was also substantially reduced due to the initiatives. Prior in the areas of reproductive and child health, thus facilitating to the mobile services, people not only spent a lot of time the extensive community development intervention. This is and money in commuting long distances, they also had to part of their capacity building process. endure low-quality services. In October 2013, Essar Foundation conducted a two The objective of the initiative was to provide preventive day event to spread the knowledge about Reproductive and curative healthcare services with OPD services across Child Health. The main objective of the programme was the target villages. The services have gradually seen to deliver the knowledge about anti-natal care, promote considerable development in phases (see table). Apart from the institutional delivery, new born baby care, postnatal OPD camps, services have been extended to schools by care, health and nutrition of the pregnant and lactating conducting specialised health check‑up camps for school mother, colostrum, breast feeding process and ‘Janani children. Altogether 30 schools have been covered under Surkshya Yojona’ (Women Safety Programme). such camps in which 2,100 students have benefited. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 37 At Stanlow, the site has community liaison meetings which include senior site management and representatives of local communities, local authorities and regulators. The following gives a snapshot of activities and the spend by business segment during the reporting period. Essar Energy (India operations) Essar Energy (India operations) Total number of beneficiaries by sector Spend by sector (in mn INR) 16,329 (6%) 20.78 13% 127,393 (43%) 81.69 89,650 12.75 52% (31%) 8% 10.02 6% 32.18 30,652 21% (10%) 28,294 Healthcare (10%) Healthcare Education Education Environment Environment Community care Community care Other Other Refinery, India Refinery, India Total number of beneficiaries by sector Total spend by sector (in mn INR) 16,329 2.53 (10%) 5% 58,271 9.61 6.46 (36%) 21% 14% 9.97 53,052 21% (32%) 7,537 18.19 (5%) 39% 28,080 Healthcare (17%) Healthcare Education Education Environment Environment Community care Community care Other Other 38 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Community continued E&P, India E&P, India Total number of beneficiaries by sector Total spend by sector (in mn INR) 10,000 (13%) 35,625 5.33 (47%) 19% 20,553 (27%) 13.42 1.70 49% 6% 7.29 2,080 26% (3%) 7,887 Healthcare (10%) Education Healthcare Environment Education Community care Community care Other Other Power Business Group Power Business Group Total number of beneficiaries by sector Total spend by sector (in mn INR) 6,329 (9%) 5.54 33,497 7% 4.59 16,045 (48%) 6% (23%) 6.69 58.66 9% 78% 492 (1%) 12,870 Healthcare (19%) Education Healthcare Environment Education Community care Community care Other Other Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 39 Case study Case study Stanlow: Hinderton School Vadinar: harnessing the rain Essar Oil UK joined forces with local theatre company Water scarcity remains a stark reality in many parts of India. Action Transport Theatre (‘ATT’) to bring its STATIk Villages in and around the coastline are affected by soil production to Hinderton Primary School in Chester. salinity, which impacts the life of farmers and villagers in a The initiative was part of a much wider tie up which sees major way as fresh water for irrigation is not easily available. Essar support the theatre’s ‘Creative Kids’ programme One of the most effective ways of conserving water is rain which works with the local area’s 24 primary and water harvesting as it improves water quality, recharges special educational needs schools to deliver creative ground water and ensures fresh water sufficiency. workshops, theatre performances, family activities and In villages in Jamnagar, a few kilometres from the coast, special projects. the farmers are happy now; their crops are growing Hinderton is a small primary school in Chester for after more than a decade of failure. These farmers young people aged 4‑11 with a range of additional have benefited from Essar Foundation’s water resource needs, primarily communication difficulties and autistic development project that has targeted 10 villages in spectrum disorders. Performing STATIk at Hinderton a unique rain water harvesting programme. Initiated was the first ‘relaxed’ performance for ATT, with sound in early 2013, the project is based on a rigorous and lighting adjusted so as not to overstimulate the assessment study conducted by Bharatiya Agro pupils and an understanding that the audience may Industries Foundation (‘BAIF’), the technical partner for wander about or express themselves vocally during the the project. To date, work has been carried out in the performance. All 36 pupils in the school plus 20 staff villages of Jhakhar, Singach and Vadinar to harvest rain members watched the show. water in watershed structures and make fresh water STATIk is a production with strong visuals and little available for agriculture and drinking purposes. spoken language, meaning it is accessible to audiences New water harvesting structures have been created and with a range of communication and social difficulties. existing structures repaired. Tasks like pond deepening, Its central messages about being yourself and accepting repairing existing dams, creating check dams, nala difference were important in supporting both the plugging, well recharge structures, farm ponds and the school’s curriculum and the children’s development. creation of percolation tanks have resulted in fresh water Taking part in cultural activities such as this has a range all year round. of long‑term benefits for children – from being more The project has created water storage of more than likely to vote and volunteer, to improving cognitive ability 70 million litres and a recharge capacity of about by up to 20% and increasing employment opportunities. 230 million litres, benefiting more than a thousand families in the vicinity. In the next phase of the project, the villages of Mithoi, Kathi Devaria and Timbdi have been earmarked for water resource development work. STATIk performance Water harvesting near Jhakhar village in Vadinar 40 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Community continued Stanlow: Schools in Bloom Case study The Schools in Bloom is an annual competition, organised by Cheshire West and Chester Council and supported by Stanlow: artists in care Essar Oil UK, which encourages pupils across the borough to take part in schemes which enhance or make the best Stanlow refinery supports the work of Age UK Cheshire use of outdoor space within their school grounds. in the local community through the ‘Wear Purple’ project which gives people over the age of 50 the opportunity Over the years, competition entries have included a range of to work with professional artists to learn new skills and projects such as creating a floral display or wildlife garden, gain confidence in their creative abilities. During FY2014, planting a vegetable garden or undertaking environmental for the first time, the support enabled the charity to improvements. The schools involved are asked to use develop the ‘Artist in Care’ project offering shadowing gardening as a teaching tool, to teach children life skills opportunities to local artists and health care students and contribute to their emotional and physical health. from West Cheshire College in a great example of cross The competition also focuses on sustainability and the generational working. importance of bringing about behaviour change in young The artists and students shadowed professional artists people and those connected to them so that good habits to see first‑hand the benefits that creative activities can learned in schools are followed through into homes and bring. The lead artist, shadowing artists and students communities. worked alongside the care staff and activity coordinator Addressing environmental issues in school fits into virtually all learning the basic ‘how to’ skills needed to encourage aspects of the curriculum and helps to make learning, both continued creative activity after the project had finished. inside and outside the classroom, fun and engaging. During FY2014, the project worked with five centres The competition judges look for school projects in the Ellesmere Port area and had a total of seven incorporating the following criteria: students involved. Two students worked with musician • pupils should be involved in the project design, Aidan Jolly delivering music and singing sessions at development and implementation; Astbury Lodge and five students worked with Andy • projects should be chosen which give educational Leigh at Mayfields to deliver a range of art and craft benefits during and after a scheme has been completed; sessions. The feedback from all parties involved has been very positive, with care staff and the artists praising • plants should be grown from seeds or cuttings on site the students and the contribution their skills have and should encourage biodiversity; and bought to the project. The response from West Cheshire • planting schemes should show a variety of colour and College and the students themselves has proved the should consider the presentation of all planting displays, project to be a very worthwhile experience. including vegetables. In FY2014, 16 schools entered the competition resulting in three gold, six silver and seven bronze awards for efforts across a range of sustainable projects. The prizes were awarded at a special presentation hosted at the famous Ness Botanical Gardens with the children involved receiving certificates and gift vouchers – the latter to be used for the following year’s projects. Councillor Eleanor Johnson, a long standing champion for the Schools in Bloom competition, commented: “Children involved in gardening become more active learners, capable of thinking independently and adapting their skills and knowledge to new challenges. Gardening in schools can have a profound impact when it comes to giving children the skills they need to reach their full potential in life.” In FY2015, the aim is to expand the completion by introducing the theme ‘Incredible Edible All year Round Garden’. Schools will be required to show crops grown throughout the year and how they can be sustained for the future. It is envisaged that the competition will continue to evolve by challenging schools to a different environmental improvement scheme each year. Artists at work Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 41 Stanlow: Catalyst science discovery The second workshop, Explore Your Universe, introduces pupils to the exciting science that UK scientists and In September 2013, Essar Oil UK teamed up with Catalyst engineers are using at the moment and links directly to the Science Discovery Centre to deliver an initiative to support a Sc4 Physical Processes section of the National Curriculum. number of schools in their local community. Over 12 months Through hands‑on demonstrations with equipment such as the project will see 300 pupils, from 10 local primary a thermal imaging camera and a Van de Graaff generator schools, visit Catalyst to take part in hands‑on science pupils investigate electricity, light and the earth and beyond. workshops and spend time exploring the three interactive galleries at the centre. Almost 130 pupils have already visited The first of these sponsored visits took place in early the centre with the remainder booked to visit before the end October with a visit from Stanlow’s closest school, Elton of the school year in July. Primary, under the supervision of year five teacher Kevin Manning. He commented: “The content of the workshop, The primary focus of science teaching in Key Stage 2 the equipment provided, the expertise of the staff (primary level) is to enable pupils to broaden their scientific running the session and the venue were all very good. view of the world around them and gain a deeper The explanations were perfect for our children. It was fun understanding of a wide range of scientific ideas. Pupils and interactive and covered lots of areas that the children should do this through exploring and talking about their could then build upon. The visit definitely inspired many in ideas, asking their own questions about what they observe the class. The children were speaking about electrons and and making some decisions about which types of scientific ‘invisible’ light on Monday morning so this should add a enquiry are likely to be the best ways of answering them. positive long‑term effect”. They should draw simple conclusions and use some scientific language to write about what they find out. On their visit to Catalyst, the first workshop the children take part in is called Further Investigation Skills and links directly to the Scientific Enquiry element of the National Curriculum. Pupils use a unique piece of software, (developed by the Catalyst Education Manager) to help them plan and carry out an investigation into the neutralisation of stomach acid. The software programme guides them through their experiments, helps them gather results to present in graph form and encourages them to draw their conclusions. Students at Catalyst Science Discovery workshop 42 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Memberships Institution Scope Link The Associated ASSOCHAM, India’s premier apex chamber, covers a membership of over www.assocham.org Chambers of 200,000 companies and professionals across the country. As an apex industry Commerce and body, ASSOCHAM represents the interests of industry and trade, interfaces Industry of India with Government on policy issues and interacts with counterpart international organisations to promote bilateral economic issues. Centre for Chemical CCPS is a not‑for‑profit, corporate membership organisation within AIChE www.aiche.org/ccps Process Safety that identifies and addresses process safety needs within the chemical, pharmaceutical, and petroleum industries. CCPS brings together manufacturers, government agencies, consultants, academia and insurers to lead the way in improving industrial process safety. Chemical Industries The CIA represents the chemical and pharmaceutical businesses across the UK. www.cia.org.uk Association The Association focuses on influencing policy agenda across various industry issues and providing advice and professional services to its members, including training and handling and implementing new regulations. Confederation of CII is a non‑governmental, not‑for‑profit, industry led and industry managed www.cii.in Indian Industry organisation, playing a proactive role in India’s development process. Founded over 115 years ago, it is India’s premier business association, with a direct membership of over 8,100 organisations from the private as well as public sectors, including small and medium enterprises and multi‑national corporations, and an indirect membership of over 90,000 companies from around 400 national and regional sectoral associations. Engineering The EEMUA is a non‑profit membership organisation based in the UK that www.eemua.co.uk Equipment and aims to improve the operational, environmental and safety performance of the Material Users industrial facilities and assets of its member companies through sharing of best Association practices and experiences among members. Joint Oil and Industry JOIFF focuses on fire hazard management in the high hazard industries and other www.joiff.com Fire Forum commercial and industrial organisations. The JOIFF works towards developing the skills and knowledge of emergency response personnel through training, shared learning and technical advisory. Oil Companies The OCIMF is a voluntary association of oil companies worldwide which have an www.ocimf.com International Marine interest in shipping of crude oil, petroleum products, allied products and gas. The Forum OCIMF’s mission is to promote safe and environment friendly operations of global oil and gas movement and improving design and operation standards. Petroleum Federation PetroFed is a non‑profit organisation representing the hydrocarbon and related www.petrofed.org of India companies in public, private and joint sectors to promote the interests of petroleum industry in line with public and national policies, through self‑regulatory environment. UK Petroleum Industry The UKPIA is an association of nine member companies engaged in the www.ukpia.com Association downstream oil industry in the UK and represents their interests on a host of common issues such as refining and distribution and marketing. The association also spearheads the industry’s position on various legislative issues. United Nations Global The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy initiative for businesses that www.unglobalcompact.org Compact are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti‑corruption. By doing so, business, as a primary driver of globalisation, can help ensure that markets, commerce, technology and finance advance in ways that benefit economies and societies everywhere. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 43 Performance indicators Health and safety EE Ltda Refinery – India FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 HSE training – number of employees 6,361 12,533b 4,922 4,007 2,065 3,812 1,703 2,767 HSE training – number of contractors 6,606 — 5,825 5,110 1,519 1,853 1,879 4,193 HSE inductions – contractors 15,217 16,022 29,578 27,168 5,563 10,511 25,670 24,626 HSE meetings – employees 537 379 405 271 248 248 212 199 HSE meetings – contractors 1,181 246 375 86 12 12 70 19 Contractor competency assessment 1,999 758 1,005 915 423 241 390 795 Contractor tool box talks 136,670 89,961 97,266 68,495 37,535 70,475 86,414 65,925 HSE inspections 7,499 6,927 6,876 981 1,298 707 1,834 377 Near misses 3,170 3,358 2,768 1,080 750 735 731 517 Million hours worked – employees 9.62 37.61 5.39 3.98 3.45 3.91 3.05 3.00 Million hours worked – contractors 27.15 13.64 8.11 8.62 16.78 9.45 4.59 First aid cases 186 164 85 33 15 31 29 21 Medical treatment cases 38 50 29 19 14 13 18 8 Lost time injury – employees 2 1 2 0 0 0 0 0 Lost time injury – contractors 7 8 4 2 3 2 3 0 Days lost – employees 29 n/c n/c 0 0 0 0 0 Days lost – contractors 12,525 n/c n/c n/c 98 6,019 155 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – employees 0.04 n/c 0.07 0 0 0 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 0.07 n/c 0.06 0.05 0.07 0.04 0.07 0 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0.06 0.05 0.06 0.03 0.05 0.03 0.05 0 Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 2 1 0 0 0 1 0 0 Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – employees 0.60 n/c n/c 0 0 0 0 0 Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 92.28 n/c n/c n/c 2.27 71.76 3.28 0 Fatality rate per million hours worked 05 03 0 0 0 05 0 0 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of tier-1 process safety events 3 3 1 0 0 0 1 0 Number of tier-2 process safety events 12 38 39 17 10 33 35 17 Process safety event rate per million hours worked 0.41 1.09 2.10 1.41 0.83 0.31 0.57 0.45 Process safety training – number of employees 1,098 n/c n/c n/c 1,067 386 n/c n/c a – consolidated data for all the sites operational during the year b – combined data for employees and contractors n/c – not calculated 44 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Performance indicators continued Health and safety continued Refinery – UK E&P FY14 FY13 FY12a FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 HSE training – number of employees 2,418 2,075b 1,324 829 1,188 528 16 HSE training – number of contractors 2,158 — 2,506 692 847 199 41 HSE inductions – contractors 4,951 1,977 1,633 234 82 104 18 HSE meetings – employees 168 48 112 54 30 32 11 HSE meetings – contractors 1,110 198 179 33 24 101 43 Contractor competency assessment 866 273 402 473 47 0 31 Contractor tool box talks 3,349 11,433 7,681 38,278 400 472 171 HSE inspections 5,046 5,235 3,152 381 193 157 98 Near misses 2,071 2,055 1,365 31 83 14 5 Million hours worked – employees 1.92 2.01 1.19 0.72 0.54 0.29 0.2 Million hours worked – contractors 3.10 2.10 1.40 4.23 4.24 2.23 1.88 First aid cases 73 59 45 9 20 7 4 Medical treatment cases 10 6 3 5 8 4 10 Lost time injury – employees 1 0 0 1 1 2 0 Lost time injury – contractors 0 2 0 2 3 1 2 Days lost – employees 9 0 0 20 n/c n/c 0 Days lost – contractors 0 n/c 0 292 n/c n/c n/c LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – employees 0.10 0 0 0.28 0.37 1.36 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 0 0.19 0 09 0.14 09 0.21 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0.04 0.10 0 0.12 0.17 0.24 0.19 Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – employees 1 0 0 5.56 n/c n/c n/c Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 0.94 n/c 0 13.79 n/c n/c n/c Fatality rate per million hours worked 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Number of tier-1 process safety events 3 3 0 0 n/c n/c n/c Number of tier-2 process safety events 2 5 4 0 n/c n/c n/c Process safety event rate per million hours worked 1.00 1.94 1.53 0 n/c n/c n/c Process safety training – number of employees 0 n/c n/c 31 n/c n/c n/c a – data included from August 2011 in alignment with the date of acquistion of Stanlow refinery b – combined data for employees and contractors n/c – not calculated Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 45 Power Business Group FY14a FY13b FY12 FY11 HSE training – number of employees 1,049 1,241 1,367 1,224 HSE training – number of contractors 2,237 1,517 1,241 876 HSE inductions – contractors 4,469 3,452 2,171 2,524 HSE meetings – employees 67 53 49 61 HSE meetings – contractors 26 12 25 24 Contractor competency assessment 237 197 213 89 Contractor tool box talks 57,508 7,653 2,699 2,399 HSE inspections 774 792 1,733 506 Near misses 318 485 658 558 Million hours worked – employees 3.52 8.03 0.85 0.86 Million hours worked – contractors 11.19 0.00 1.57 1.57 First aid cases 89 54 4 8 Medical treatment cases 9 23 4 1 Lost time injury – employees 0 0 0 0 Lost time injury – contractors 2 1 0 0 Days lost – employees 0 0 0 0 Days lost – contractors 12,135 n/c 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – employees 0 0 0 0 LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 0.07 n/c 0 0 Overall LTIFR per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.02 0 0 Fatalities – employees 0 0 0 0 Fatalities – contractors 2 0 0 0 Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – employees 0 0 0 0 Lost day rate per 200,000 hours worked – contractors 216.84 n/c 0 0 Fatality rate per million hours worked 0.14 0 0 0 Occupational disease rate 0 0 0 0 a – data also includes the power plants at Mahan and Tori b – FY13 data also includes Vadinar PI and PII commissioned during the year n/c – not calculated 46 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Performance indicators continued Labour EE Ltda Refining and Marketing – Indiab FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Total workforce by type Employees 3,815 3,912 3,967 2,744 1,459 1,397 1,410 1,463 Fixed term contractc 217 80 92 43 21 15 18 9 Third party contractd 6,415 3,890 3,814 2,891 3,454 2,152 2,200 1,651 % employees covered by collective bargaining e e e e 0 0 0 0 % women employees 6.63 6.66 6.48 5.61 6.17 6.08 6.10 6.15 Number of employees by category Senior 219 221 188 161 86 87 82 90 Middle 844 848 824 513 360 351 330 308 Junior 2,786 2,908 3,029 2,104 1,013 959 998 1,065 Number of employees by gender Male 3,594 3,712 3,779 2,623 1,369 1,312 1,324 1,373 Female 255 265 262 155 90 85 86 90 Number of employees by age group Less than 30 1,445 1,594 1,763 1,396 580 577 619 677 30–50 1,872 1,848 1,809 1,249 816 764 738 731 >50 532 535 469 133 63 56 53 55 % employees returning to work after parental leave 97.37 97.0 80.0 n/c 66.67 50 100 n/c Employee turnover by category Senior 25 35 21 19 9 13 8 14 Middle 86 103 64 64 33 32 27 39 Junior 338 351 250 265 153 161 125 138 Employee turnover by gender Male 412 449 306 334 182 190 148 183 Female 37 40 29 14 13 16 12 8 Employee turnover by age group Below 30 251 256 159 156 113 125 80 80 30–50 180 190 142 170 78 74 73 98 More than 50 20 43 34 22 4 7 7 13 Total hires 313 357 584 876 199 132 141 297 Hires by category Senior 34 57 26 21 4 6 4 5 Middle 54 82 80 114 11 3 16 54 Junior 225 218 478 741 184 123 121 238 Hires by gender Male 290 329 586 832 188 127 132 286 Female 24 31 53 44 11 5 9 11 Hires by age group Less than 30 199 215 424 598 144 110 100 177 30–50 100 113 193 257 52 19 40 119 More than 50 15 32 22 21 3 3 1 1 Average hours of training per employee 34.01 44.10 n/c n/c 30.32 35.36 27.20 n/c Average hours of training by gender Male 35.94 n/c n/c n/c 30.80 n/c 27 n/c Female 26.22 n/c n/c n/c 23.20 n/c 30 n/c Number of employees appraised by gender 3,256 3,324 n/c n/c 1,450 1,382 1,471 n/c Male 3,025 3,082 n/c n/c 1,361 1,299 1,377 n/c Female 231 242 n/c n/c 89 83 94 n/c a – includes consolidated numbers for Refining and Marketing – India, Refining and Marketing – UK, Power and E&P business b – employee analysis includes permanent employees only c – personnel directly hired through the Company on a fixed-term contract basis for a period ranging one and three years for certain projects d – includes the average number of workmen deployed by the contractors for specific jobs at sites e – only Stanlow refinery has employees covered under collective bargaining n/c – not calculated Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 47 Refinery and Marketing – UK a Power Business Group FY14a FY13a FY12a,b FY14c FY13a FY12a FY11a Total workforce by type Employees 1,005 1,018 1,002 1,088 1,235 1,301 1,086 Fixed term contractd 34 27 24 25 23 35 20 Third party contracte 91 86 500 2,870 1,560 372 296 % employees covered by collective bargaining 55 56 55 0 0 0 0 % women employees 10.30 10.24 9.06 3.58 3.74 3.97 3.98 Number of employees by category Senior 45 37 29 57 63 52 50 Middle 266 269 258 168 167 177 155 Junior 728 739 739 863 1,028 1,107 901 Number of employees by gender Male 932 938 933 1,049 1,211 1,283 1,062 Female 107 107 93 39 47 53 44 Number of employees by age group less than 30 189 186 184 573 719 830 657 30‑50 451 469 506 479 490 455 408 >50 399 390 336 36 49 51 41 % employees returning to work after parental leave 100 100 0 100 100 100 n/c Employee turnover by category Senior 2 0 4 11 15 5 3 Middle 17 17 11 27 35 12 17 Junior 12 13 18 121 125 89 96 Employee turnover by gender Male 27 27 27 147 161 101 113 Female 4 3 6 12 14 5 3 Employee turnover by age group Below 30 9 7 1 90 85 67 54 30‑50 18 17 14 60 69 37 56 More than 50 6 6 18 9 21 2 6 Total hires 52 81 35 29 62 321 524 Hires by category Senior 1 3 6 9 11 6 12 Middle 18 31 11 6 10 32 49 Junior 33 47 18 14 41 283 463 Hires by gender Male 47 65 63 23 56 310 499 Female 5 16 21 6 6 11 25 Hires by age group less than 30 29 39 30 5 35 224 388 30‑50 20 35 51 19 16 86 122 More than 50 3 7 3 5 11 11 14 Average hours of training per employee 19 24.60 19.44 59.50 77.28 68.40 n/c Average hours of training by gender Male 25 25.05 20.24 58.83 77.04 14.16i n/c Female 13 21.10 10.96 77.49 82.72 11.2i n/c Number of employees appraised by gender 464 464 n/c 1,081 1,222 n/c n/c Male 379 376 n/c 1,043 1,177 n/c n/c Female 85 88 n/c 38 45 n/c n/c a – employee analysis includes permanent and fixed-term contract employees b – data included from August 2011 in alignment with the date of acquistion of Stanlow refinery c – employee analysis includes permanent employees only d – personnel directly hired through the Company on a fixed-term contract basis for a period ranging one and three years for certain projects e – includes the average number of workmen deployed by the contractors for specific jobs at sites n/c – not calculated 48 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Performance indicators continued Labour continued E&P FY14a FY13b FY12b FY11b Total workforce by type Employees 263 262 254 195 Fixed term contractc 137 15 15 14 Third party contractd 0 92 742 944 % employees covered by collective bargaining 0 0 0 0 % women employees 7.22 9.39 11.15 10.05 Number of employees by category Senior 31 34 25 21 Middle 50 61 59 50 Junior 182 182 185 138 Number of employees by gender Male 244 251 239 188 Female 19 26 30 21 Number of employees by age group less than 30 103 112 130 62 30‑50 126 125 110 110 >50 34 40 29 37 % employees returning to work after parental leave e e 100 n/c Employee turnover by category Senior 3 7 4 2 Middle 9 19 14 8 Junior 52 52 18 31 Employee turnover by gender Male 56 71 30 38 Female 8 7 6 3 Employee turnover by age group Below 30 39 39 11 22 30‑50 24 30 18 16 More than 50 1 9 7 3 Total hires 34 85 93 55 Hires by category Senior 3 9 5 4 Middle 4 22 14 11 Junior 27 54 74 40 Hires by gender Male 32 81 81 47 Female 2 4 12 8 Hires by age group less than 30 21 31 70 33 30‑50 9 43 16 16 More than 50 4 11 7 6 Average hours of training per employee 8.29 11.04 9.12 n/c Average hours of training by gender Male 8.18 11 4 n/c Female 9.68 12 10 n/c Number of employees appraised by gender 261 256 239 n/c Male 242 230 211 n/c Female 19 26 28 n/c a – employee analysis includes permanent employees only b – employee analysis includes permanent and fixed-term contract employees c – personnel directly hired through the Company on a fixed-term contract basis for a period ranging one and three years for certain projects d – includes the average number of workmen deployed by the contractors hired for specific jobs at sites e – not applicable as no employees took parental leave during the reporting period n/c – not calculated Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 49 Environment Unit Refinery Indiaa FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Material consumption Mmt crude processed 20.20 19.77 13.49 14.76 Direct energy consumption million GJ 65.62 79.00 35.14 38.61 Indirect energy consumption million GJ 0.01 0.04 0.15 0.32 Energy intensity GJ/t 3.19 3.95 2.49 2.51 Energy saved MWh 95178.87 18224.09 6297.89 n/c Total water withdrawal million m3 33.12 44.81 26.62 21.12 Water intensityb m3/t 0.86 2.27 1.97 1.43 Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 4.51 13.14 4.99 4.75 Percentage water recycled and reused % 88.40 29.33 18.75 22.51 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions million tCO2e 6.00 5.43 2.53 2.61 Scope 1 emissions million tCO2e 6.00 5.42 2.49 2.53 Scope 2 emissions million tCO2e 0.00 0.01 0.04 0.08 Carbon intensity tCO2e/t 0.27 0.27 0.19 0.18 Ozone depleting substances kg 536 456 390 300 NOx thousand tonnes 2.30 0.34 0.45 1.60 SOx thousand tonnes 4.49 3.58 2.48 4.93 SPM thousand tonnes 1.14 0.37 0.42 0.33 CO thousand tonnes 1.72 0.24 0.39 0.57 VOC thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c Total wastewater generated million m3 5.11 3.05 1.64 1.81 Wastewater recycled % 13.63 99.44 100.00 100.00 Total water discharge million m3 0.59 0.02 3.38 2.94 Hazardous wastec thousand tonnes 56.23 69.82 81.81 34.34 Non‑hazardous waste thousand tonnes 0.32 0.54 0.67 1.41 Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes 0.00 0.11 0.55 1.50 Waste recycled thousand tonnes 46.69 66.67 77.84 30.51 Number of significant spills number 0 0 0 0 Volume of significant spills thousand litre 0 0 0 0 Environmental protection expenditured million INR 130.55 285.45 969.67 2.75 Volume of flared hydrocarbon thousand tonnes 25.71 25.83 n/c n/c Volume of vented hydrocarbon thousand tonnes n/a n/a n/a n/a Contribution of flaring to total GHG emissions thousand tCO2e 16.79 20.49 n/c n/c Benzene content in fuel % 0 0 0 0 Lead content in fuel ppm 0 0 0 0 Sulphur content in fuele ppm e n/c n/c n/c a – Refinery India data includes power plant data i.e Vadinar Power, Vadinar PI (FY2013, FY2014) and PII (FY2013, FY2014) b – there has been a change in methodology for water intensity indicator, therefore FY14 data is not comparable with earlier data c – at our refinery in India, except for oily sludge which is sent to pollution control board approved authority, remaining waste is either reused or recycled d – excludes capital expenditure e – sulphur content in refinery fuel oil was 90 ppm on an average and in fuel oil was 0.26% by weight n/c – not calculated n/a – not applicable 50 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Performance indicators continued Environment continued Unit Refinery UK FY14 FY13 FY12a Material consumption Mmt crude processed 7.46 10.12 6.15 Direct energy consumption million GJ 45.66 39.54 26.00 Indirect energy consumption million GJ 0.58 0.59 0.40 Energy intensity GJ/t 6.12 3.93 4.23 Energy saved MWh n/c n/c n/c Total water withdrawal million m3 34.20 11.60 3.21 Water intensity m3/t 4.58 3.83 n/c Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 0.15 0.18 n/c Percentage water recycled and reused % 0.43 0.47 n/c Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions million tCO2e 2.29 2.69 1.83 Scope 1 emissions million tCO2e 2.20 2.69 1.83 Scope 2 emissions million tCO2e 0.00 0.00 0.00 Carbon intensity tCO2e/t 0.29 0.31 0.30 Ozone depleting substances kg 576 <100 n/c NOx thousand tonnes 3.00 3.93 2.88 SOx thousand tonnes 6.18 10.15 8.13 SPM thousand tonnes 0.11 0.19 0.12 CO thousand tonnes 1.02 n/c n/c VOC thousand tonnes 3.00 3.03 n/c Total wastewater generated million m3 29.57 31.02 n/c Wastewater recycled % 0.00 0.60 n/c Total water discharge million m3 22.24 3.66 24.00 Hazardous waste thousand tonnes 9.89 18.75 5.17 Non‑hazardous waste thousand tonnes 3.89 3.97 n/c Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes 1.13 0.67 n/c Waste recycled thousand tonnes 3.31 2.58 n/c Number of significant spills number 1 2 0 Volume of significant spills thousand litre 20.63 323.50 0 Environmental protection expenditure million INR n/c n/c n/c Volume of flared hydrocarbon thousand tonnes 7.94 6.57 n/c Volume of vented hydrocarbon thousand tonnes 3.02 3.03 n/c Contribution of flaring to total GHG emissions thousand tCO2e 22.15 19.56 n/c Benzene content in fuel % <1% <1 <1 Lead content in fuel ppm 0 0 0 Sulphur content in fuel ppm <10 <10 <10/c a – data included from August 2011 in alignment with the date of acquistion of Stanlow refinery n/c – not calculated Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 51 Unit E&P FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Direct energy consumption million GJ 0.12 0.00 0.11 0.07 Indirect energy consumption million GJ 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Energy saved MWh n/c n/c n/c n/c Total water withdrawal million m3 0.69 0.38 0.02 0.02 Water intensity m3/scm n/c n/c n/c n/c Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 0.03 0.09 0.00 0.00 Percentage water recycled and reused % n/c n/c n/c n/c Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions million tCO2e 0.03 0.02 0.02 0.02 Scope 1 emissions million tCO2e 0.03 0.00 0.02 0.02 Scope 2 emissions million tCO2e 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Carbon intensity tCO2e/scm n/c n/c n/c n/c Ozone depleting substances kg 0 0 0 0 NOx thousand tonnes 0.00 51.51 0.00 0.00 SOx thousand tonnes 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 SPM thousand tonnes 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 CO thousand tonnes 0.07 0.00 0.00 0.00 VOC thousand tonnes 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total wastewater generated million m3 0.08 0.01 0.00 0.00 Wastewater recycled % 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total water discharge million m3 0.40 0.01 0.00 0.00 Hazardous wasteg thousand tonnes 0.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 Non‑hazardous waste thousand tonnes 0.06 0.05 0.04 0.00 Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes 0.04 0.01 0.00 0.00 Waste recycled thousand tonnes 41.92 0 0 n/c Number of significant spills number 0 0 0 0 Volume of significant spills thousand litre 0 0 0 0 Environmental protection expenditure million INR 18.78 0.54 8.30 2.32 Volume of flared hydrocarbon thousand tonnes 1882.02 2447.15 0.00 0.00 Volume of vented hydrocarbon thousand tonnes 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 Contribution of flaring to total GHG emissions thousand tCO2e 4.62 5.8 0 0 n/c – not calculated 52 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Performance indicators continued Environment continued Unit Power business FY14 FY13 FY12 FY11 Direct energy consumption million GJ n/c 2.70 0.74 0.86 Indirect energy consumption million GJ 0.07 0.04 0.00 0.00 Auxillary consumption million MWh 0.45 n/c 0.09 0.11 Energy intensity GJ/MWh 9.96 n/c n/c n/c Energy saved GJ 2.71 12.87 n/c 0 Total water withdrawal million m3 16.64 13.56 5.89 7.24 Water intensity m3/MWh 2.50 n/c n/c n/c Volume of water recycled and reused million m3 1.84 0.70 0.75 1.09 Percentage water recycled and reused % 11.06 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions million tCO2e 5.72 n/c 1.87 2.31 Scope 1 emissions million tCO2e 5.72 n/c 1.87 2.31 Scope 2 emissions million tCO2e 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.00 Carbon intensity tCO2e/MWh 33.17 n/c n/c n/c Ozone depleting substances kg 27 16 29.5 14.5 NOx thousand tonnes 1.71 1.73 0.17 0.15 SOx thousand tonnes 4.97 3.93 0.00 0.00 SPM thousand tonnes 1.57 1.68 0.08 0.06 Total wastewater generated million m3 0.94 1.08 1.27 1.67 Wastewater recycled % 11.06 5.13 12.71 15.07 Total water discharge million m3 0.07 0.38 0.52 0.58 Hazardous waste thousand tonnes 4.51 0.01 0.03 0.05 Non‑hazardous waste thousand tonnes 194.40 n/c n/c n/c Waste sent to landfill thousand tonnes 13.22 0.00 0.00 0.00 Waste recycled thousand tonnes n/c n/c n/c n/c Number of significant spills number 0 0 0 0 Volume of significant spills thousand litre 0 0 0 0 Environmental protection expenditure million INR 0.43 30.75 1.11 1.28 n/c – not calculated Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 53 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index Standard disclosures part i: profile disclosures 1. Strategy and analysis GRI indicator Profile Level of Location of IPIECA disclosure Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks 1.1 Statement from the most Fully 2‑3 Statement of senior decision‑maker of the continuing organisation. support. 1.2 Description of key impacts, Fully 2‑3 risks, and opportunities. 2. Organisational profile GRI indicator Profile Level of Location of IPIECA disclosure Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks 2.1 Name of the organisation. Fully Front cover 2.2 Primary brands, products Fully 6 ‑7 www.essarenergy.com/aboutand/or services. us/our-profile/who-we-are. aspx 2.3 Operational structure of Fully 6 www.essarenergy.com/ the organisation, including operations.aspx main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organisation's Fully Back cover www.essarenergy.com/aboutheadquarters. us/contact-us.aspx 2.5 Number of countries where Fully 6 the organisation operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and Fully 12 legal form. 2.7 Markets served (including Fully 32‑34 geographic breakdown, sectors served and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting Fully 6 ‑7, 32, 46 organisation. 2.9 Significant changes during Fully 8 www.essarenergy.com/ the reporting period regarding investors-and-media/ size, structure or ownership. company-news/2013.aspx 2.10 Awards received in the Fully 8 reporting period. 54 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part i: profile disclosures continued 3. Report parameters GRI indicator Profile Level of Location of IPIECA disclosure Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks 3.1 Reporting period (e.g. fiscal/calendar year) for Fully 4 information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully 5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully 5 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully 5 or its contents. 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g. countries, divisions, Fully 4 subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope Fully 4 or boundary of the report (see completeness principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, Fully 4 leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases Fully ISO 9001; ISO of calculations, including assumptions and 14001; OHSAS techniques underlying estimations applied to 18001; GHG the compilation of the indicators and other Protocol, IPCC information in the report. Explain any decisions 2006; OGP; not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, IFRS, UNGC the GRI Indicator Protocols. and other relevant industry standards. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of Fully None information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such restatement (e.g. mergers/ acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting Fully 4 periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the standard Fully 53‑67 disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking Fully 5 external assurance for the report. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 55 4. Governance, commitments and engagement GRI indicator Profile Level of Location of IPIECA disclosure Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks 4.1 Governance structure of the Fully 12‑13, 23 Actions taken organisation, including committees under to implement the highest governance body responsible Principles 1‑10. for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the Fully 12 highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary Fully ARa 57 board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non‑executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and Fully ARa 58, employees to provide recommendations 64 or direction to the highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between compensation for Fully ARa 65 members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organisation's performance (including social and environmental performance). 4.6 Processes in place for the highest Fully 13 governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.7 Process for determining the composition, Fully ARa 56, qualifications and expertise of the 68 members of the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. 4.8 Internally developed statements of Fully 18, Actions taken mission or values, codes of conduct SRb 18, to implement and principles relevant to economic, 22-24 Principles 1‑10. environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance Fully 13 Actions taken body for overseeing the organisation's to implement identification and management of Principles 1‑10. economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest Fully 14 governance body's own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the Fully 13 Actions taken precautionary approach or principle is to implement addressed by the organisation. Principle 7. 4.12 Externally developed economic, Fully 42 Actions taken environmental and social charters, to implement principles or other initiatives to which the Principles 1‑10. organisation subscribes or endorses. a – Essar Energy Annual Report 2013 b – Essar Energy Sustainability Report 2013 56 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part i: profile disclosures continued 4. Governance, commitments and engagement continued GRI indicator UNGC Level of Location of IPIECA COP Profile disclosure Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator element Remarks 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as Fully 42 industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: *Has positions in governance bodies; *Participates in projects or committees; *Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or *Views membership as strategic. 4.14 COMM List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Fully 9‑10 organisation. 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of Not These were reported in our stakeholders with whom to engage. reported last year’s Report. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, Fully 9‑10 www.essarenergy.com/ including frequency of engagement by type investors-and-media/ and by stakeholder group. presentations/2013.aspx 4.17 COMM Key topics and concerns that have been Fully 9‑10 raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Standard disclosures part ii: Disclosures on Management Approach (‘DMA’s) GRI indicator G3.1 OGSS Level of Location of IPIECA DMAs Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks Actions taken to DMA EC Disclosure on Management Approach EC implement Principles 1, 4, 6 and 7. Economic performance Fully ARa 40 Market presence, including local content Fully 31‑34 Indirect economic impacts Fully 35‑40 Aspects Reserves Fully www. essarenergy. com/operations/ exploration‑and‑ production.aspx Actions taken to DMA EN Disclosure on Management Approach EN implement Principles 7, 8 and 9. Materials Fully 19 Energy COMM Fully 25‑27 Water Fully 24 Ecosystem services including biodiversity Fully 29 Aspects Emissions, effluents and waste Fully 27, 30 Products and services Fully 31 Compliance Fully 13‑14 Transport Fully 22 Overall Fully 24 a – Essar Energy Annual Report 2014 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 57 GRI indicator G3.1 OGSS Level of IPIECA DMAs Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks Disclosure on Management Actions taken to implement DMA LA Approach LA COMM Principles 1, 3 and 6. Employment Fully 15 Labour/management relations Fully 15, 18 Occupational health Fully 19 www.essar and safety COMM energy.com/ sustainability/ Aspects health-andsafety.aspx Training and education Fully www.essar.com/section_level1.aspx?cont_id=R8HhjeqM9ZQ= Diversity and equal opportunity Fully 18 Equal remuneration for women Fully 18 and men Disclosure on Management DMA HR Approach HR Investment and procurement Fully 18, 31 practices Non‑discrimination Fully 18 Freedom of association and Fully 18 collective bargaining Child labour Fully 18 Aspects Prevention of forced and Fully 18 compulsory labour Security practices COMM Fully 65 Indigenous rights COMM Fully 18 Assessment Fully 18 Remediation Fully 18 Disclosure on Management Actions taken to implement DMA SO Approach SO Principle 10. Local communities COMM Fully 35 Corruption COMM Fully 14 Public policy Fully 42 Anti‑competitive behaviour Fully 14 Aspects Compliance Fully 13 Emergency preparedness Fully 19 Involuntary resettlement Fully 35 Asset integrity and process safety Fully 22 Disclosure on Management Actions taken to implement DMA PR Approach PR Principles 1 to 8. Customer health and safety Fully www.essarenergy.com/sustainability/product-responsibility.aspx Product and service labelling Fully www.essarenergy.com/sustainability/product-responsibility.aspx Marketing communications Fully We retain well established advertising firms who follow country codes as Aspects applicable. Customer privacy Fully www.essarenergy.com/sustainability/product-responsibility.aspx Compliance Fully 13 Fossil fuel substitutes Fully Currently we do not have any plans for fossil fuel substitutes. 58 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators Economic GRI indicator Level of Location of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting disclosure indicator element Remarks Economic performance EC1 COMM Direct economic value generated and Fully 37, ARa 40, 45, SE4 distributed, including revenues, operating 71 costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 COMM Financial implications and other risks and Partially 25 Actions taken We have not opportunities for the organisation's activities reported to implement conducted any due to climate change. Principle 7. study to assess the financial implications. EC3 Coverage of the organisation's defined benefit Fully As per statute. plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Fully None received government. during the reporting period. Market presence EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage Fully 31 Outcomes by gender compared to local minimum wage from at significant locations of operation. implementing Principle 1. EC6 COMM Policy, practices, and proportion of spending Fully 31 SE5, Local refers to on locally‑based suppliers at significant SE6 the country of locations of operation. operation and as part of our procurement processes, the suppliers available locally are given preference. EC7 COMM Procedures for local hiring and proportion Fully 46‑48 SE5 – Actions Local is defined of senior management hired from the SE6 taken and as same country local community at significant locations of outcomes from and most of our operation. implementing employees are Principle 6. hired locally. Indirect economic impacts EC8 COMM Development and impact of infrastructure Fully 36‑42 SE4 investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in‑kind, or pro bono engagement. EC9 COMM Understanding and describing significant Fully 36‑42 SE6 indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves Fully www.essar and production. energy.com/ operations/ explorationand-production. aspx a – Essar Energy Annual Report 2014 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 59 Environmental GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Materials EN1 COMM Materials used by weight or volume. Partially 49‑52 Outcomes We are only from reporting implementing throughput Principle 8. and energy data. EN2 COMM Percentage of materials used that are recycled Fully No input materials Outcomes input materials. were recycled. from implementing Principles 8 and 9. Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy Fully 49‑52 E2 Outcomes source. from implementing Principle 8. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary Fully 49‑52 E2 Outcomes source. from implementing Principle 8. OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy. Fully None invested in the reporting period. OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated Fully 1.5 million units. by source. EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and Fully 25, 49‑52 E2 Outcomes efficiency improvements. from implementing Principles 8 and 9. EN6 Initiatives to provide energy‑efficient Fully None during the E3 Actions taken or renewable energy based products reporting period. to implement and services, and reductions in energy Principles 8 requirements as a result of these initiatives. and 9. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Fully 49‑52 E2 Actions taken consumption and reductions achieved. to implement Principles 8 and 9. Water EN8 COMM Total water withdrawal by source. Fully 49‑52 E6 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. EN9 COMM Water sources significantly affected by Fully None E6 Outcomes withdrawal of water. from implementing Principle 8. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water Fully 49‑52 E6 Outcomes recycled and reused. from implementing Principle 8 and 9. 60 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators continued Environmental continued GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, Fully 29 E5 Outcomes managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas from and areas of high biodiversity value outside implementing protected areas. Principle 8. EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, Fully 29 E5 Outcomes products, and services on biodiversity in from protected areas and areas of high biodiversity implementing value outside protected areas. Principle 8. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Fully 29 E4, E5 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. EN14 COMM Strategies, current actions, and future plans Fully 29 E5 Actions taken for managing impacts on biodiversity. to implement Principle 8. OG4 Number and percentage of significant Fully 29 operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored. EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and Fully SRa 30 Outcomes national conservation list species with habitats from in areas affected by operations, by level of implementing extinction risk. Principle 8. Emissions, effluents and waste EN16 COMM Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Fully 49‑52 E1, E4 Outcomes emissions by weight. from implementing Principle 8. EN17 COMM Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas Not — E1 Outcomes Currently emissions by weight. reported from it is not implementing part of Principle 8. our data collection system and we will report in 2015. EN18 COMM Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas Fully 25‑26 E1 Actions emissions and reductions achieved. taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9. EN19 Emissions of ozone‑depleting substances by Fully 49‑52 E7 Outcomes weight. from implementing Principle 8. EN20 COMM NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions Fully 49‑52 E7 Outcomes by type and weight. from implementing Principle 8. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and Fully 49‑52 E9 Outcomes destination. from implementing Principle 8. a – Essar Energy Sustainability Report 2013 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 61 GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Emissions, effluents and waste continued EN22 COMM Total weight of waste by type and disposal Fully 49‑52 E10 Outcomes method. from implementing Principle 8. OG5 Volume of formation or produced water. Not — Currently it is reported not part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015. EN23 COMM Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully 49‑52 E8 Outcomes from implementing Principle 8. OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon. Fully 49‑52 We do not vent hydrocarbon. OG7 Amount of drilling waste (drill mud and Not — Currently it is cuttings) and strategies for treatment and reported not part of our disposal. data collection system and we will report in 2015. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or Fully About 10% of Outcomes treated waste deemed hazardous under the waste at Stanlow from terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, is transported implementing and VIII, and percentage of transported waste overseas. Principle 8. shipped internationally. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and Fully 29 Outcomes biodiversity value of water bodies and related from habitats significantly affected by the reporting implementing organisation's discharges of water and runoff. Principle 8. Products and services EN26 COMM Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of Fully SRa 23-24, 26 Actions taken products and services, and extent of impact to implement mitigation. Principles 7, 8 and 9. EN27 Percentage of products sold and their Fully We do not have Outcomes packaging materials that are reclaimed by products that are from category. packaged. implementing Principles 8 and 9. OG8 Benzene, lead and sulphur content in fuels. Fully 49‑50 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total Fully None Outcomes number of non‑monetary sanctions for from non‑compliance with environmental laws implementing and regulations. Principle 8. Transport EN29 Significant environmental impacts of Not — We are transporting products and other goods reported currently not and materials used for the organisation's measuring operations, and transporting members of the scope 3 workforce. emissions. Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures Fully 49‑52 Actions and investments by type. taken and outcomes from implementing Principles 7, 8 and 9. a – Essar Energy Sustainability Report 2013 62 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators continued Social: labour practices and decent work GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment Fully 46‑48 type, employment contract and region, broken down by gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new Fully 46‑48 Outcomes from employee hires and employee implementing turnover by age group, gender Principle 6. and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full‑time Fully http://www.essar.com/ employees that are not provided to article.aspx?cont_ temporary or part‑time employees, id=agH2dggGe14= by major operations. LA15 Return to work and retention rates Fully 46‑48 after parental leave, by gender. Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered Fully 46‑47 Outcomes from by collective bargaining agreements. implementing Principles 1 and 3. LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding Fully Minimum notice Outcomes from significant operational changes, period is either as implementing including whether it is specified per management of Principle 3. in collective agreements. change procedure which is part of the management system or as specified in the bargaining agreement. Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce Fully Less than 25%. HS1, Outcomes from represented in formal joint SE16 implementing management‑worker health and Principle 1. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes. LA7COMM Rates of injury, occupational Partially 43‑45 HS3 Outcomes from Currently diseases, lost days and implementing we are not absenteeism, and number of Principle 1. consolidating work‑related fatalities by region data relating to and by gender. absenteeism. LA8 Education, training, counseling, Fully 35‑41 HS2 Actions taken prevention, and risk‑control to implement programmes in place to assist Principle 1. workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9 Health and safety topics covered Fully Training, PPE, SE16 Actions taken in formal agreements with trade fire‑fighting and to implement unions. appointment of safety Principle 1. representatives. a – Essar Energy Annual Report 2014 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 63 GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year Fully 46‑48 SE17 per employee by gender, and by employee category. LA11 Programs for skills management Fully www.essar.com/my_ SE17 and lifelong learning that support world_@_essar.html the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving Fully 46-48 SE17 regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies Fully 46‑48, ARa SE15 Outcomes and breakdown of employees per 57, 60‑61 from employee category according to implementing gender, age group, minority group Principles 1 membership, and other indicators of and 6. diversity. Equal remuneration for women and men LA14 Ratio of basic salary and Fully 18 Outcomes remuneration of women to men by from employee category, by significant implementing locations of operation. Principles 1 and 6. a – Essar Energy Annual Report 2013 64 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators continued Social: Human rights GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of Partially 18 SE8 Outcomes Currently number significant investment agreements from of contracts and and contracts that include clauses implementing agreements that incorporating human rights Principles 1 have undergone concerns, or that have undergone to 6. screening is not human rights screening. part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, Partially 18 SE9 Actions Currently number contractors and other business taken and of contracts and partners that have undergone outcomes from agreements that human rights screening, and implementing were declined is actions taken. Principles 1 not part of our to 6. data collection system and we will report in 2015. HR3 Total hours of employee training on Partially 46‑48 SE8 Outcomes Number of policies and procedures concerning from hours spent on aspects of human rights that are implementing human rights relevant to operations, including the Principles 1 training during the percentage of employees trained. to 6. induction training is not part of our data collection system and we will report in 2015. Non‑discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the SE18 Actions discrimination and corrective reporting period. taken and actions taken. outcomes from implementing Principles 1, 2 and 6. Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations and significant suppliers Fully The governing law Actions taken identified in which the right to adequately addresses to implement exercise freedom of association and the human rights Principles 1 collective bargaining may be violated requirements for to 3. or at significant risk, and actions operations and taken to support these rights. suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. Child labour HR6 Operations and significant suppliers Fully The governing law Actions taken identified as having significant risk adequately addresses to implement for incidents of child labour, and the human rights Principles 1, 2 measures taken to contribute to the requirements for and 5. effective abolition of child labour. operations and suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 65 GRI indicator Level of IPIECA UNGC COP Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator element Remarks Prevention of forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations and significant suppliers Fully The governing law Actions taken identified as having significant risk adequately addresses to implement for incidents of forced or compulsory the human rights Principles 1, 2 labour, and measures to contribute requirements for and 4. to the elimination of all forms of operations and forced or compulsory labour. suppliers identified as exposed to human rights violation. Security practices HR8 COMM Percentage of security personnel Fully All security personnel SE10 Outcomes trained in the organisation's policies hired directly by the from or procedures concerning aspects company are trained implementing of human rights that are relevant to in different aspects of Principles 1 operations. human rights. and 2. Indigenous rights HR9 COMM Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the Actions violations involving rights of reporting period. taken and indigenous people and outcomes from actions taken. implementing Principles 1 and 2. Assessment HR10 Percentage and total number of Fully 18 operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. OG9 Operations where indigenous Fully 35‑40 communities are present or affected by activities and where specific engagement strategies are in place. Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to Fully No case in the human rights filed, addressed and reporting period. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 66 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G3.1 OGSS; IPIECA/API/OGP and UNGC index continued Standard disclosures part iii: performance indicators continued Social: society GRI indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks Local communities SO1 Percentage of operations with Fully 35‑40 SE1 implemented local community – SE5 engagement, impact assessments, and development programmes. SO9 COMM Operations with significant potential Fully 35‑40 or actual negative impacts on local communities. SO10 COMM Prevention and mitigation measures Fully 35‑40 implemented in operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. OG10 Number and description of Fully None significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples. OG11 Number of sites that have been Fully None decommissioned and sites that are in the process of being decommissioned. Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of Fully 100% business units SE11 Outcomes from business units analysed for risks are analysed for – 12 implementing related to corruption. such risks. Principle 10. SO3 Percentage of employees trained Fully 01 SE11 Outcomes from in organisation's anti‑corruption implementing policies and procedures. Principle 10. SO4 Actions taken in response to Fully No case in the SE11 incidents of corruption. reporting period. Public policy SO5 COMM Public policy positions and Fully 42 SE14 Actions taken participation in public policy to implement development and lobbying. Principles 1 to 10. SO6 Total value of financial and in‑kind Fully None SE14 Outcomes from contributions to political parties, implementing politicians, and related institutions Principle 10. by country. Anti‑competitive behaviour SO7 Total number of legal actions Fully No case in the for anti‑competitive behaviour, reporting period. anti‑trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance SO8 COMM Monetary value of significant fines Fully No case in the and total number of non‑monetary reporting period. sanctions for non‑compliance with laws and regulations. Involuntary resettlement OG12 Operations where involuntary Fully None resettlement took place, the number of households resettled in each and how their livelihoods were affected in the process. Asset integrity and process safety OG13 Number of process safety events, Fully 43‑44 by business activity. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 67 Social: product responsibility GRI indicator Level of IPIECA Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of disclosure indicator UNGC COP element Remarks Customer health and safety PR1 Life cycle stages in which health Fully www.essarenergy. HS4 Actions taken and and safety impacts of products com/sustainability/ outcomes from and services are assessed for productimplementing improvement, and percentage of responsibility.aspx Principle 1. significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR2 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the HS4 Outcomes from non‑compliance with regulations reporting period. implementing and voluntary codes concerning Principle 1. health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service Fully www.essarenergy. HS4 Actions taken and information required by procedures, com/sustainability/ outcomes from and percentage of significant productimplementing products and services subject to responsibility.aspx Principle 8. such information requirements. PR4 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the HS4 Outcomes from non‑compliance with regulations reporting period. implementing and voluntary codes concerning Principle 8. product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to customer Partially 10 Results of satisfaction, including results of surveys are surveys measuring customer currently not satisfaction. available. We will report in 2015. Marketing communications PR6 Programmes for adherence to Fully We retain well HS4 laws, standards and voluntary established codes related to marketing advertising firms communications, including who follow country advertising, promotion, and codes as applicable. sponsorship. PR7 Total number of incidents of Fully No case in the non‑compliance with regulations reporting period. and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer privacy PR8 Total number of substantiated Fully No case in the Outcomes from complaints regarding breaches of reporting period. implementing customer privacy and losses of Principle 1. customer data. Compliance PR9 Monetary value of significant fines Fully No case in the for non‑compliance with laws and reporting period. regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Biofuels OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and Fully Currently we purchased meeting sustainability neither produce nor criteria. purchase biofuels. IPIECA Process safety Fully 43‑44 Indicator HS5 68 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Assurance statement The Board of Directors and Management Assurance criteria Essar Energy plc The assurance engagement was planned and performed in Mauritius accordance with the International Federation of Accountants’ Ernst & Young LLP (‘EY’) was retained by Essar Energy International Standard for Assurance Engagements Other plc (the ‘Company’) to provide independent assurance to than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information Essar Energy plc’s Sustainability Report (the ‘Report’) for (ISAE 3000) and the second edition of AccountAbility’s the FY2014. AA1000 Assurance Standard 2008 (AA1000AS). Our evidence‑gathering procedures were designed to obtain The development of the Report based on the Global a ‘limited’ level of assurance (as set out in ISAE 3000) Reporting Initiative (GRI‑G3.1) Guidelines; its content and on reporting principles and a ‘Type 2 Moderate’ level of presentation is the sole responsibility of the management assurance (as per AA1000AS), as well as conformance of of the Company. EY’s responsibility, as agreed with the sustainability performance indicators as per GRI G3.1 (2011) management of the Company, is to provide independent Guidelines, GRI Sector Supplement guidance for Oil and assurance on the report content as described in the scope Gas sector (OGSS) and the IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance Guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. activities is to the management of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with What we did to form our conclusions the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any In order to form our conclusions we undertook the following responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or key steps: organisation. Any dependence that any such third-party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance 1. interviewed select key senior personnel of the Company report should not be taken as a basis for interpreting the to understand the current processes in place for Company’s overall performance, except for the aspects capturing sustainability performance data as per GRI mentioned in the scope below. G3.1 guidelines, the Company’s sustainability vision and the progress made during the reporting period; Scope of assurance 2. reviewed the Company’s approach to stakeholder The scope of assurance covers the following aspects of engagement and processes for determining material the Report: issues through interviews and review of associated • data and information related to the Company’s documents with issue owners at the corporate office at sustainability performance for the period 1 April 2013 Mumbai (Maharashtra) and units at Vadinar and Salaya to 31 March 2014; in Gujarat and Raniganj in West Bengal; • the Company’s internal protocols, processes and 3. reviewed relevant documents and systems for gathering, controls related to the collection and collation of analysing and aggregating sustainability performance sustainability performance data; and data in the reporting period; and • review of information on sample GRI G3.1 (2011) core 4. interviewed the top management to understand their indicators covering the Company’s corporate office at commitment to sustainability, systems for sustainability Mumbai at the following sites of operations: performance management and the future outlook. 1. Refining and Marketing: Vadinar, Gujarat; 2. Power: Salaya and Vadinar, Gujarat; and 3. Exploration and Production: Raniganj, West Bengal. Limitations of our review The assurance scope excludes: • aspects of the Report and data/information other than those mentioned above; • data and information outside the defined reporting period i.e. 1 April 2013 to 31 March 2014; • the Company’s statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention provided by the Company; and • data and information on economic and financial performance of the Company. Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 69 Our observations: Responsiveness: • the Company continues to disclose its sustainability We are not aware of any matter that would lead us to believe performance to its stakeholders using several that the Company has not applied the responsiveness internationally accepted frameworks like Global principle for dealing with stakeholders on material aspects Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, GRI Oil covering its sustainability performance. The Company’s and Gas sector supplement, AccountAbility 1000 responsiveness to its local communities and contract Principles Standard as well as IPIECA Oil and Gas workforce was evidenced. Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability reporting. Reliability of performance information: The Company is also a signatory to United Nations We reviewed the accuracy and completeness of Global Compact (UNGC), which further demonstrates sustainability information in the Report. Nothing has come to its commitment to sustainability; our attention that causes us not to believe that the data has • the Company’s Board has constituted a Safety been presented fairly, in material respects, in keeping with and Sustainability Committee and a quarterly MIS the GRI G3.1 guidelines, GRI OGSS sector guidance, IPIECA for sustainability has been introduced to monitor Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on voluntary sustainability performance on key sustainability parameters; reporting and the Company’s reporting principles and criteria. Data errors were found in a few GRI G3.1 indicators • the Company continues to engage with communities during assurance and were subsequently corrected by the around its operations, and carries out developmental Company in the final Report. work in the focus areas of health, education and community care; Our assurance team and independence • certain data revisions occurred during the assurance Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary process. There is scope for improving the internal data professionals, has been drawn from our climate change and controls and documentation management, specifically for sustainability network and undertakes similar engagements indicators pertaining to water withdrawal and recycling, with a number of significant Indian and international water use intensity, waste, greenhouse gas emissions businesses. As an assurance provider, EY is required to and environmental protection expenditure; and comply with the independence requirements set out in • going forward, the Company may consider instituting International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of standardised definitions and reporting procedures for Ethics1 for Professional Accountants. EY’s independence various indicators in order to bring uniformity in reporting policies and procedures ensure compliance with the Code. from various operations. Our conclusions On the basis of our review scope and methodology, our conclusions are as follows: for Ernst & Young LLP Inclusiveness: Sudipta Das We are not aware of any matter that would lead us Partner to conclude that the Company has not applied the 23 June 2014 principle of inclusivity in engaging with key stakeholder Kolkata groups. The Company transparently discloses its stakeholder engagement approach and activities in the Sustainability Report. Materiality: Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that any material issue has been excluded from sustainability reporting by the Company. The Company has mapped its material issues as a materiality matrix which is disclosed in the sustainability report. Going forward the Report could cover a roadmap and/or performance targets on material issues in greater detail. 1. International Federation of Accountants (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. This Code establishes ethical requirements for professional accountants. The guidance related to network firms was updated in July 2006. 70 Essar Energy Limited Sustainability Report 2014 Glossary AA1000APS 2008 AccountAbility Principles Standard 2008 AA1000AS 2008 AccountAbility Assurance Standard 2008 ALPG Auto Liquefied Petroleum Gas API American Petroleum Institute AR Annual Report ATF Aviation Turbine Fuel CBM Coal Bed Methane CDLI Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index CDP Carbon Disclosure Project CHT Centre for High Technology CNG Compressed Natural Gas CO2 Carbon Dioxide Code The Corporate Governance Code, published by the FRC DNV Det Norske Veritas E&P Exploration and Production EGF The Essar Group Foundation EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EOL Essar Oil Limited ERP Enterprise Resource Planning ESG Environmental, Social and Governance FO Fuel Oil FRC Financial Reporting Council FTSE FTSE 100 Index, London Stock Exchange FY11, FY2011 Financial year ended 31 March 2011 FY12, FY2012 Financial year ended 31 March 2012 FY13, FY2013 Financial year ended 31 March 2013 FY14, FY2014 Financial year ended 31 March 2014 FY2015 Financial year ending 31 March 2015 Gcal/hr Gigacalories per hour GHG Greenhouse Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiative HR Human Resources HSD High Speed Diesel HSE Health, Safety and Environment IMO International Maritime Organisation IPIECA The Global Oil and Gas Industry Association for Environmental and Social Issues ISAE The International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISO International Standardisation Organisation LPG Liquefied Petroleum Gas LTIFR Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate Mmscm million metric standard cubic metres Mmt million metric tonnes Mmtpa million metric tonnes per annum MS Motor Spirit MW Mega Watt NGO Non‑Governmental Organisation NIO National Institute of Oceanography OCIMF Oil Companies International Marine Forum OGP The International Association of Oil and Gas Producers OMC Oil Marketing Companies PMS Performance Management System PPE Personal Protective Equipment PSU Public Sector Undertaking R&M Refining and Marketing scmd standard cubic metres per day SHG Self Help Group SKO Superior Kerosene Oil SOP Standard Operating Procedure SP Social Performance Std Standard UNGC United Nations Global Compact VOTL Vadinar Oil Terminal Limited Registered office: Essar Energy Limited 2nd Floor Lansdowne House 57 Berkeley Square London, W1J 6ER Telephone: +44 (0) 20 7408 8700 Head office: Essar Energy Limited Essar House 10 Frere Felix de Valois Street Port Louis, Mauritius Telephone: +230 405 1400
