TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS About The Report 3 Message From The CEO 4 CORPORATE PROFILE 5 OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 22 OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 86 About Turkcell 6 Operational and Financial Information 23 Our Environmental Policy and Investments 88 Turkcell in Numbers 7 Comprehensive Approach In Creating Our Environmentally-Friendly Practices 89 Products and Services 8 Employment 24 Our Energy Efficiency Efforts 93 Structure and Formation of the Partnerships and Contribution to New Energy Use in Office Buildings and Fields 96 Board of Directors 10 Business Ideas 26 Water and Waste Management 97 Shareholding Structure 11 Innovation and R&D Efforts 28 Investor Relations 12 Intellectual Property 32 ANNEXES 99 Our Sustainability Approach 13 Innovative Products and Services 33 Our Awards 99 Risk Management 15 Our Corporate Stakeholders 100 Business Continuity Management System 16 OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 39 GRI Statement 101 Quality Management 17 Our People 40 GRI and Global Compact Index 102 Business Ethics and Ethical Principles 18 Our Customers 58 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Our Suppliers 61 Product and Service Responsibility 64 Our Contribution to Society 65 HIGHLIGHTS OF THE REPORT TURKEY’S FIRST DOMESTIC TURKEY’S HIGH-TECH MONEY-BOX TURKCELL’S SMART PHONE, FOR VAN CONTRIBUTION THE TURKCELL TO CREATING T40 FOCUS ON EMPLOYMENT WOMEN IN s.34 “EQUALITY OF OPPORs.81 OUR TUNITY” ENVIRONMENT s.24 INNOVATION POLICY AND INVESTMENTS AND R&D EFFORTS DEVELOPERS s.42 OF THE FUTURE s.28 s.88 s.79 »3 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » ABOUT THE REPORT This report includes the practices and performance of Turkcell The information required for the report was collected by İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. during the period of 2012-2013 in holding focus group meetings with all relevant units under the corporate management and sustainability. Our report is based supervision of Turkcell’s Department of Corporate Responsibility, on the international reporting standard of Global Reporting Sponsorship and NGO Relations. Initiative (GRI) G3.1 and the UN Global Compact Communication The Sustainability Report, issued for the third time this year for on Progress standard. The indicator index can be found in the all our internal and external stakeholders, has been reviewed and Annexes section of the report. registered at level B by GRI. While the report does not include Turkcell’s affiliates and The first two Sustainability Reports of Turkcell were issued in overseas operations, some data included in the report represents 2009 and 2011. There have been no substantial changes in scope, Turkcell’s consolidated data. limits or measuring methods since the last report. The topics included in the report were identified and prioritized To minimize the environmental impact of the report, we chose to based on the direct feedback of stakeholders and the prioritized sharing it via Internet. stakeholder expectations forwarded via different departments. »4 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » Dear Stakeholders, environmentally-friendly practices. Highlights of the report include our M2M applications, which make a We are all aware that “sustainability in all areas” is difference in the lives of our corporate customers with vital for a future. I am glad to share with you our third their high efficiency and savings potential, the “Developers Sustainability Report, prepared in accordance with this of the Future” project, which brings technology closer understanding, which we place at the heart of all business to young people, our equality of opportunity projects processes and working principles. Covering the years 2012 aimed at social transformation, and R&D and innovation and 2013, this report is an outcome of Turkcell’s vision works to produce future technologies. We believe that of respect for and contribution to the society and the we set a good example for our country and sector in world, and presents Turkcell’s strong economic, social and the area of “Sustainable Development” with our efforts environmental performance to our stakeholders. in environmentally-friendly, renewable and alternative energy resources. Being an organization that has focused on improving people’s lives with innovative products and services For the next period, we are planning to initiate many new since the day of our foundation, we define sustainability projects with a focus of sustainability in collaboration as a multi-layered concept. We focus on sustainable with Turkcell Group employees, our customers, who are growth and economic and social benefits with our closest stakeholders, our partners, NGOs and public products and services that add value to the lives of our institutions. customers. While we acted as the driving force behind the development of the sector with our motto of “Our With your companionship, I completely believe that we business is technology our business is people”, social and can achieve a sustainable life and create a better world... environmental contribution has always been one of our Turkcell is Turkey’s Leader in Responsibility, and our priorities. Keeping this priority in mind, we not only expand performance will continue to be an important part of the range of our products and services with significant Turkey’s journey in corporate social responsibility in the environmental benefits by uniting our competencies in coming years. understanding consumers and technology but also strive to launch the environmentally-friendly technologies of the Yours sincerely, future in cooperation with our entire ecosystem. This year’s sustainability report includes our relations with customers and all other stakeholders, our Süreyya Ciliv products, operations, social responsibility projects and CEO »6 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE Belarus Germany Ukraine Kazakhstan Moldova ABOUT TURKCELL* Georgia Azerbaijan Turkey Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus As Turkey’s leading communication and technology company, As of 31 December 2013, Turkcell covers around 86.17% of the NATIONWIDE GLOBALLY Turkcell has a total of 35.2 million subscribers as of 31 December Turkish population with its 3G network and 99.49% with its 2G 35 71 2013. Being the market leader in five of the nine countries network. where it operates with around 71.3 million subscribers as of 31 Turkcell had revenues of 11.4 billionTRY (6 billion US Dollars) December 2013, Turkcell is a regional leader. and assets of 21.3 billionTRY (10 billion US Dollars) as of 31 December 2013. Listed in both the NYSE and ISE since July Turkcell was one of the first operators in the world to use 2000, Turkcell is the only Turkish company listed in the NYSE. HSPA+ technology. Offering a speed of up to 43.2 Mbps with MILLION MILLION dual-carrier technology, Turkcell continues to work in order to make the latest technology available to its customers quickly. The head office of Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş is located in Istanbul. During the years 2012 and 2013, there were no operational changes. SUBSCRIBERS SUBSCRIBERS A wholly-owned subsidiary of Turkcell, Turkcell Superonline is the first telecommunication operator in Turkey to offer fiber wideband access to homes with speeds of up to 1000 Mbps. * As of December, 31 2013 »7 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE MOBILE SECTOR IN TURKEY According to the Quarter 4 Report for the 2013 Market Data, prepared by ICTA; As of December 2013, there are nearly NUMBER OF 70 million mobile subscribers in Turkey, corresponding to a penetration rate of CUSTOMERS around 90.9%. When the population 35.2 aged 0-9 is excluded, the mobile penetration rate is higher than 100%. The number of 3G subscribers reached TURKCELL 49.3 million by the fourth quarter of 2013, and the number of subscribers IN NUMBERS MILLION receiving internet services on mobile computers and phones via 3G reached 24.2 million. In the fourth quarter of 2013, data usage with mobile internet reached NUMBER OF NUMBER OF 43,686 Tbytes and the number of M2M subscribers exceeded 2 million. For the BASE STATIONS EMPLOYEES same period, nearly 59.5% of mobile subscribers were prepaid line users 35,000 4,070 and within the last year, the rate of TURKCELL postpaid subscribers had increased from 38.4% to 40.5%. Nearly 90.9% of all mobile subscribers are individual subscribers and 9.1% are corporate subscribers. In 2013, the monthly revenue per subscriber in the mobile market increased by 3.64%, reaching 21.93TRY. NETWORK COVERAGE 99.49 -2G With an average air-time use of 330 minutes in the fourth quarter of 2013, Turkey was the country with the % longest total call duration among the %86.17 -3G European countries included. For detailed information: POPULATION COVERAGE http://www.turkcell.com.tr/ en/aboutus/investor-relations/ market-information »8 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Smart Map Bulk SMS Smart Energy Smart Home Solutions Smart Vehicle Mobile Signature Turkcell Magazine Turkcell Travel Smart Industry Turkcell Dream Partner Turkcell Platinium Turkcell My Phone Safe BIP Instant Messaging As Turkcell we closely follow our customers’ needs and expectations and design our products and services accordingly. With a variety of services Turkcell Smart Cloud Turkcell Wallet What is your Status? Smart Storage from mobile health to education, entertainment to finance we enrich the lives of our customers and try to bring value. »9 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE OUR VISION OUR VALUES OUR STRATEGIC PRIORITIES To ease and enrich the • We believe that customers come first As a Leading Communication and Technology Company, to grow in our core lives of our customers mobile communication business through increased use of voice and data, • We are an agile team through communication • to grow our existing international subsidiaries with a focus on profitability, • We promote open communication • to grow in the fixed broadband business by creating synergy among and technology solutions. • We are passionate about making a Turkcell Group companies through our fiber optic infrastructure, difference • to grow in the area of mobility, internet and convergence through new business opportunities, • We value people • to grow in domestic and international markets through communications, technology and new business opportunities, • to develop new service platforms that will enrich our relationship with our customers through our technical capabilities. »10 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE The highest governance body is the Board of Directors. Our business Compensation of the Board and Assessment of Management relations are managed with the instructions of the Board of Directors, The Compensation Policy adopted upon the resolution of the Company which represents and is accountable to the shareholders. The Board of Directors was submitted for the information of shareholders responsibilities and powers of the Board are outlined in our website. at the 2012 ordinary general meeting of the shareholders. However, STRUCTURE AND Members of the Board of Directors have no executive duties. The Board since the meeting could not be held, shareholders were informed with consists of 7 members, who are elected for a maximum period of 3 the General Assembly Briefing Document. The Compensation Policy has FORMATION OF years at the annual ordinary general meeting of shareholders. Every also been shared with the public in our website. THE BOARD OF Board member must have enough time to allocate for Board activities, DIRECTORS In the operating year 2012, a Compensation Committee was established expand their knowledge on the global telecommunication industry and to provide recommendations for the compensation principles of Board relevant sectors, and participate in at least 75% of Board meetings members and senior executives, taking into consideration the long-term annually. Every Board member is encouraged to limit the number of goals of the company. This committee is also responsible for identifying their Board memberships at other public companies. The purpose is the performance-related criteria to be used for compensation of senior to prevent such other memberships and associated obligations from executives and Board members, and presenting to the Board their having a substantial effect on the service provided as an active member recommendations for the remuneration to be provided. of the Company’s Board of Directors. In addition, the Corporate Management Committee is responsible for developing and monitoring a All rights, benefits and remuneration provided to Company Board compliance program for newly selected Board members. members and senior executives on a cumulative basis and the criteria and compensation principles used to determine them are disclosed to Three independent Board members have been appointed to the Turkcell the public by means of the Company compensation policy and operating Board of Directors by the Capital Markets Board (SPK) pursuant to reports. the second paragraph of Article 17 of the Securities Exchange Act No. 6362, and 4 Board members meeting the criterion of independence Loans and credits are not provided to Board members and senior have been appointed by SPK pursuant to subparagraph (k) of paragraph executives. one to Article 128 of the Securities Exchange Act No. 6362. Currently, following the Board member appointments by SPK, Turkcell Board of Directors consists of 7 members meeting the criterion of independence, of which 3 are independent members. All the board members are male. Three of the board members are in the age range of 30-50; the remaining four members are over the age of 50. In the operating year 2013, the Auditing Committee, Corporate Management Committee, Candidate Selection Committee, Compensation Committee and Early Risk Detection Committee worked For detailed information: under the Turkcell Board of Directors. The activities and operating http://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/investor-relations/ principles of the committees are outlined in the company’s website. corporate-governance/corporate-governance-guidelines »11 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Shareholder Share Nominal Share Value (TL) Percentage (%) Our founding partners are Sonera Holding, formerly known distribution proved to be very useful during the foundation of Turkcell Holding A.Ş. 1,122,000,000,238 %51.00 as Telecom Finland Ltd. and currently owned by TeliaSonera, Turkcell, when a GSM infrastructure was set up and became Çukurova Group and MV Holding. Çukurova Group is one of the operational in Turkey and services were developed. Çukurova Holding A.Ş. 995,509,429 %0.05 leading conglomerates in Turkey. Founded in December 2002 upon the merger of the Finnish telecommunication service Our issued capital has a nominal value of 2,200,000,000 TRY and Sonera Holding B.V. 287,632,179,557 %13.07 consists of 2,200,000,000 shares, each with a nominal value of provider Sonera Corporation and Swiss telecommunication operator Telia, TeliaSonera is a strong operator, which is 1 TRY. Publicy Traded 789,372,310,776 %35.88 particularly active in Scandinavian markets. Since 11 July 2000, our shares have been listed as stocks in Borsa TOTAL 2,200,000,000 %100.00 The experience of Sonera Holding in mobile communication and Istanbul and as ADS (American depository shares) in the New the extensive experience of Çukurova Group in marketing and York Stock Exchange. Currently, 2 ADSs represent 5 shares. »12 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE INVESTOR RELATIONS As the only Turkish company listed in the New York Stock Exchange and Borsa Istanbul, we have obligations arising from INFORMATION POLICY the capital markets of both countries, and we have created our The “Information Policy”, corporate management model accordingly. developed in accordance with SPK’s (Capital Markets Board of Turkey) Our entire communication with investors, financial analysts, Corporate Management Principles, regulates public disclosures based media members and similar stakeholders takes place within on capital market rules and in the “Turkcell Information Policy”. The aim of the “Turkcell compliance with the SPK, ISE, SEC Information Policy” is to ensure complete, fair, accurate, and NYSE regulations which the company is subject to. Following timely, understandable, low-cost, equal, accessible, active and approval of the Policy by the The Investor Relations transparent communication with all stakeholders, including Board, it was announced on the Department ensures shareholders, investors, employees and customers, in accordance Company website and presented with applicable regulations. The Turkcell Notification Committee for the information of shareholders that our shares remain provides supervision to ensure that developments which may at the Ordinary General Assembly in 2005. The amendments made in a preferred investment have an effect on the value of the company’s capital market tools the Company Information Policy in 2009 were also announced on the tool for both domestic be disclosed to the public within specified periods of time and website. in accordance with applicable legislation. Matters concerning In 2013, we participated in around 21 domestic and foreign and foreign investors, relations with shareholders and public disclosures fall under the conferences and roadshows, and made on-site visits to our Supervision and monitoring of the Information Policy falls in accordance with responsibility of the Investor Relations Department. investors in the US and Europe, meeting a total of close to 500 under the responsibility of our the governance The Turkcell Investor Relations Department makes regular corporate investors throughout the year. Investor and International Media Relations Department. The principles adopted by briefings to the company’s senior management and the The groups provided with direct information by the Investor Department is responsible for Board. Local and foreign investors and analysts participate in Relations Department include: ensuring complete, fair, accurate, the company. We are teleconferences with our senior management when full year and timely, understandable, low-cost, · Investors and Analysts equal, accessible, active and continuously working quarter results are announced. A feedback survey is conducted transparent communication to expand our investor at relevant periods for investors and analysts regarding their · Senior Management with all stakeholders, including shareholders, investors, expectations for the performance of the company and investor · Board Members base, to reflect our relations. employees and customers, in · Rating Agencies accordance with applicable operational success regulations and in line with the Based on survey outcomes, the market perception of the · Capital Markets Board (SPK) Information Policy principles. and potential to the company’s performance is managed proactively to reflect · Borsa Istanbul (BIST) Forward-looking statements market value, and company expectations. Throughout the year, discussions are held · Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) for the 2013 operating year are with investors at conferences and roadshows, and analyst and also disclosed via the Public present Turkcell in the · New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Announcements Platform. investor days are organized to share the company’s strategies. best way possible. »13 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH We have been Today, developments in the telecommunication sector and information technologies have a great impact on all aspects reporting our of life. This is why newly-developing mobile products and sustainability efforts, applications are adopted quite rapidly. Currently, 93% of the supported by many global population uses mobile devices and 1.4 billion people have smart phones. different departments, The same holds for Turkey as well; when the population aged since 2008. 0-9 is excluded, the mobile penetration rate is higher than 100%*. As a pioneer company in the Turkish telecommunication market, which develops just as quickly as the rest of the world, we continuously expand our competence in line with our values and vision, and offer quality and innovative solutions for the changing needs of the market. Since the first day when we began to operate with the motto “Our Business is Technology, Our Business is People”, we have been utilizing our technology to improve lives and contribute to sustainable development. As a market leader, we fulfill our market by maintaining effective relations with all stakeholders. Our sustainability management social, economic and environmental responsibilities, working in As a result of this approach, we have maintained our first place is being coordinated by the in the customer satisfaction index for 7 years and in 2013, we Corporate Responsibility, collaboration with all our stakeholders for a better future. We were found worthy of the “Black Statue”, the most prestigious Sponsorships and NGO also create channels to share this common value in a transparent Relations department. way. We made a commitment to sustainability by signing the UN award presented at the National Quality Awards organized by Global Compact in 2007. And as of 2008, we have been sharing the Turkish Society of Quality. our sustainability efforts with the public by means of corporate We placed employee satisfaction and development at the responsibility reports. heart of our corporate culture, and created the infrastructure Sustainability is managed under the coordination of the and system required to enable the works of HR, Internal * Information and Communication Departments of Corporate Responsibility, Sponsorship and NGO Communication and Academy. This won Turkcell İletişim Technologies Authority (ICTA), Sectoral Relations. As part of our professional approach, we perceive the Hizmetleri another award in the 20th People Management Research and Strategy Development Unit, Turkey Electronic Communication people, economy and environment as a whole, and we continue Congress of PERYÖN (Turkish Association for People Sector, Quarterly Market Data Report, to lead the way for the development of the telecommunication Management) in the category of Building an Employer Brand. 2013 4th Quarter »14 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE We are implementing In order to create a management system and team that can be agile In 2012-2013, our projects focused on the education of girls, towards changing market conditions, we adopted a transparent, enpowerment of women in the economy, creation of a mobile projects with a high integrated and straightforward way of management to maximize education infrastructure in agricultural areas and a permanent social impact through inter-departmental communication. residential project in the earthquake zone, meeting the volunteer work and On the other hand, our contribution to the Turkish economy is not communication needs of refugees, improving infrastructure and technology in sports, and enhancing our sponsorships in culture corporate projects. limited to the market volume created by our value-added services and arts through our technology. In addition, we played an active and employment figures reaching 4070 people. Our high technology role in the Job Equality Platform established in 2012 under the investments create an infrastructure that will make it easier for leadership of the Turkish Ministry of Family and Social Policies, and Turkey to keep up with global competition in telecommunication in developed our own policy and strategy for equality of opportunity, the medium term. Turkcell has continuously improved the efficiency educating and raising the awareness of our employees in this of its network operations and data centers, and established one of matter. We also represented Turkey in the United Nations as the largest R&D centers in the field of telecommunications in Turkey the first telecommunication company to adopt WEPs (Women’s with more than 700 full-time employees. Empowerment Principles) in 2013. With the “Developers of the Future” program initiated in 2013, From an environmental perspective, our greatest efforts focus on we aim at revealing the potential of Turkey in developing local the energy efficiency and optimization of Network Operations applications and at helping young people to develop in this area. This and Information Technologies departments. We also allocate program allows us to provide mobile application courses via internet a dedicated budget as well as time to research and application and support the development of young learners with our mentors. efforts for the utilization of renewable resources and alternative Our target is to contribute to the development of 50,000 people in energy solutions. the field of mobile application software with this program within 5 years. We want to create social benefits for Turkey with our In 2012-2013, we also implemented many solutions to achieve products and services in addition to social responsibility projects like savings in services and offices. For example, thanks to the We are investing in “Developers of the Future”. Besides increasing the human capacity widespread use of the telepresence technique (video conference), alternative energy in the telecommunication sector, we offer solutions providing travel between offices decreased by 40%. solutions by using efficiency and integration in many areas with the service potential of the sector. In 2013, we achieved savings of 1.5 billionTRY thanks to We are aware that the sustainability approach can serve as a great renewable energy leverage for corporate and sectoral transformation. Accordingly, sources. the M2M works conducted in many areas focused on efficiency and instead of limiting telecommunication solutions to present day optimization. needs, we aim at designing these solutions in a way that creates When deciding on corporate responsibility focus areas, we consider resources for future generations. Services developed from a the needs and resources of the region and society in general. sustainability perspective would not only provide long-term Projects are undertaken with active participation of the local solutions for corporate and individual customers but also enhance community and continuously monitored, and social impact analyses mutual trust. Based on this approach, we will continue with our are made. This enables our corporate projects to have a high social efforts to create a collective corporate consciousness. impact. »15 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE RISK MANAGEMENT Potential risks which may arise while we strive to achieve In the Corporate Risk Management process, we identify and assess the corporate and departmental targets identified in line with risks by departments, reach a management decision and take the strategies are managed under a Corporate Risk Management necessary actions. Each department is responsible for its own CRM (CRM) process. Corporate Risk Management, sponsored by the activities. Corporate Risk Management Contacts are chosen in each Internal Audit Director, coordinates the CRM process. The CRM department to act as the responsible person for the conduct of such Unit is responsible for ensuring that risks be assessed within activities. The Early Risk Detection the Corporate Risk Management methodology, risk prevention These people identify, analyze and assess any risks arising from Committee supports the Board measures are coordinated among departments and results are the processes and activities of their departments, which may of Directors by detecting at reported to the Early Risk Detection Committee. affect the realization of targets and submit them for approval of an early stage any risks which During the Board Meeting on 19 December 2012, it was resolved the department head. They ensure that any necessary actions may compromise the existence, development and continuity of to establish an “Early Risk Detection Committee” which would are planned, and communicate these plans to the Corporate the company, taking necessary report to the Board in accordance with Article 378 of the Turkish Risk Management Unit. The Corporate Risk Management Unit measures for any risks so Commercial Code and Capital Markets Board Communique Serial: provides the required support, coordinates the relevant groups identified, and conducting risk IV, No: 56 Regarding the Identification and Implementation of and conducts risk identification and risk analysis efforts. management efforts. Corporate Management Principles. »16 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE BUSINESS CONTINUITY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Turkcell Business Continuity Management describes potential threats Business Continuity and their effects. It creates a framework to build an effective response Management has always capacity in order to protect the interests, reputation, brands and been an integral part of value-creating activities of our stakeholders. The Turkcell Business Turkcell culture and has been Continuity Management System (BCMS) was set up with the purpose integrated with the plans made by the organization. We of implementing, deploying, monitoring, permanently establishing and have achieved the ISO 22301 improving business continuity efforts. certificate as recognition for Turkcell BCMS is a full-time effort supported by coordinators our efforts in keeping our and virtual teams. Regular business continuity trainings and promise of offering respectable awareness programs are conducted at the company. The service to our customers. effectiveness of Business Continuity Management is monitored annually through internal and external audits, management i controls and integrated inspections. We regularly test our business continuity plans to guarantee that our communication and warning procedures are in line with our business continuity targets. Under the Business Continuity Turkcell Business Continuity Management involves the Management System, protection of Turkcell’s critical operations against interruptions solutions are developed related to humans, nature or technology. Our purpose is to for all of our customers ensure the continuity of our call, messaging, mobile internet to use in case of disasters and societal security services at acceptable, predefined levels or emergencies. Detailed following an interruption. Business continuity plans are prepared information about some For Turkcell Business by taking customer expectations, company policies and legal of these solutions, i.e. Continuity Policy: obligations into consideration. These plans are implemented “Urgent SMS”, “Disaster http://www.turkcell. regularly to safeguard operations in case of an emergency. and Emergency Service” com.tr/en/aboutus/ We continuously improve our business continuity capacity in and “Earthquake Service” company-overview/ accordance with the international standard “ISO 22301 Societal can be found in the “Social business-continuitySecurity – Business Continuity Management System” and Contribution” section of this policy maintain our efforts in this direction with the group companies. report. »17 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE QUALITY MANAGEMENT In line with our Quality Policy, we measure the satisfaction of certifications. In addition to IT Service Management, we are our customers and all other stakeholders at regular intervals by constantly improving our quality approach with straightforward using specified methods. We then evaluate the measurement management perspectives. Furthermore, we are the first results and take the necessary corrective and preventive actions. telecommunications company in Turkey to be awarded the ISO/IEC 20000 certificate, the first globally valid standard in Information Our Quality Policy Technologies Service Management. The system, established with a continuous improvement We received the ISO/IEC 20000 certificate as a result of our approach, is managed according to our strategic business team effort demonstrating harmony in the strategic approaches priorities. It is the basis of our quality policy to ensure the and processes conducted by all units of the Information and consistent and continuously improving satisfaction of all our Communication Technologies Department over a period of more stakeholders, particularly our employees and their families. than one year. This made us one of the few GSM companies in the world to document that they have achieved the highest Quality Management Systems standard in information technologies service management. Senior Management of Turkcell has a customer-oriented With the structuring in 2011, we extended business continuity to management approach that is in compliance with laws and cover Group companies and suppliers as well. The Turkcell Group regulations for the implementation, development and continuous Business Continuity Management System has been structured improvement of the Quality Management System. Creating a and certified to ensure the continuity of our call, messaging, framework to achieve the vision and quality targets identified internet and societal security services in accordance with the by Senior Management, Turkcell Quality Policy and Strategic international standard “ISO 22301, societal security – business Business Priorities are evidence of this understanding. continuity management system”. Regular drills are conducted In addition to ISO 10002 and ICT 20000 systems, we have to ensure that the business continuity plans, prepared by taking been implementing the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management customer expectations, corporate policy and legal obligations System since 1999 and ISO 10002:2004 Customer Complaint into consideration, are functional in emergencies. Management System since 2011. We have renewed our ISO 27001:2005 Information Safety, ISO 20000:2005 and ISO 2000:2012 »18 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE It is the foundation of our business ethics to manage all our Ethics Committee and Its Work activities in an honest, transparent and accountable manner. BUSINESS ETHICS Developed in line with this understanding, the Company’s ethical Under the supervision of the Auditing Committee, the Ethics Committee arranges the necessary assignment or investigation AND ETHICAL rules have been organized with the internal regulations of for the matter and persons concerning any complaints and PRINCIPLES Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics. The Business Ethics reports that it receives, decides on a course of action based on Rules of Turkcell are in harmony with Turkcell’s policies, values the investigation results, and reports all of its activities to the and principles, and all employees including Board members and Auditing Committee on a quarterly basis. managers are expected to follow them. The Committee consists of 5 members, whose titles are at the By using the appropriate reporting channels, all employees must minimum level of Department Head. The Employee Relations report to the Turkcell Ethics Committee any circumstances or Director, Internal Audit Director and one director representing hearsay which may be in breach of the rules and regulations each of the Legal and Finance functions are natural members specified in the Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics of the committee. The other member is changed at intervals of Guide or may cause reasonable suspicion or concern that such at least 6 months and no longer than 1 year. Staff assignment breach may arise. Employees may directly or indirectly report is made with the selection and recommendation of the Ethics any non-compliant or unethical activities at the company to Committee. In principle, Ethics Committee members do not take the Ethics Committee by using the intranet, internal forms, part in any voting where possible faults of the employees of the telephone or electronic mail messages. Any non-compliant or units under their responsibility are discussed. unethical activities by customers or suppliers are notified to the Regular meetings are held quarterly, again in principle. At Auditing Committee through the Ethics Committee by means of these meetings, briefings are made for any matters requiring notifications and complaints. resolution, internal works to raise awareness and studies into the Ethical rules are outlined in the Company website, in the root causes of cases. Investor Relations section under Corporate Management. These In the 2013 operating year, no complaints were received from ethical rules complement the other appropriate policies, codes employees about discrimination. of conduct and guidelines already issued/to be issued by the company. Trainings and briefings are conducted throughout the year by using various channels in order to ensure that For detailed information: the Common Values and Code of Ethics are better known and http://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/investorembraced by employees. relations/corporate-governance/code-of-ethics »19 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE Compliance and Fair Competition We are obligated to comply with the regulatory rules which are applicable to us. Accordingly, a Regulatory Compliance Management team has been created by the senior management to monitor compliance. Regulatory Compliance Management monitors the compliance status by conducting internal audits and inspections in accordance with the 2013 ICTA (Information and Communications Technologies Authority) business plan. They report issues and risks to the relevant managers. The team communicates the information to Chief Officers and the Compliance Committee, follows up any issues with relevant groups, and shares the results with the Senior Management and Compliance Committee. This flow is communicated to all employees in a detailed manner in the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Procedure issued. In the Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics document, it Regulatory Compliance Management ensures that employees are is emphasized that both the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery reminded about regulatory rules in line with the findings of audits Act and local laws should be complied with when working with and inspections that are conducted within the scope of the 2013 public institutions. It is clearly stated that misuse of company ICTA business plan. For this purpose, open contests like KNOW assets and services, their utilization for personal interest, money & WIN are organized in the company, and easily understandable embezzlement, bribery, fraud or other forms of corruption are summary announcements of decisions are published in the examples of existing or suspicious breach or incidents which intranet pages “Do We Know That?” and “INSIDE Regulatory should be reported. Pursuant to Article 404 of the Compliance”. Employees are educated through Turkcell Academy about Sarbanes-Oxley Act, which The main areas of focus for which compliance work was carried Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics, and each employee public companies must comply with, Turkcell and consolidated out under the ICTA business plan in 2012-2013 include: receives awareness training over the intranet. group companies that are • Consumer Rights subject to auditing maintain Prevention of Conflicts of Interest • Accurate and Timely Information of Consumers For detailed internal control mechanisms. A conflict of interest occurs when an employee’s personal information: As part of such mechanisms, • Consumer Satisfaction interest conflicts or might conflict with Turkcell’s interests. The http://www. audits and assessments are • Fighting against Non-compliant Behavior rules regarding conflict of interest which employees must follow turkcell.com.tr/en/ conducted regularly to prevent • Competitive Market corruption. Results of the are specified in the Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics aboutus/investor• Changing Operators guide. Ethical rules cover the principles of working with Turkcell relations/corporateaudits are communicated to the Auditing Committee on a • Information Society and other relevant organizations, receiving/giving gifts and governance/code-ofmonthly basis. • Information Security security of customer and company information. ethics »20 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders consist of those parties that influence and are affected by our business. It is important that we always maintain effective communication with our stakeholders so we ensure Stakeholders Dialogue platforms Targets the continuity of dialogue platforms. Each business Employees ERP Human Resources Module, Academy Portal, Career Opportunities, Create different channels for effective communication with our unit identifies the key Suggest & Win, White Shadow, Turkcell Assist, internal ads, TIP, Night employees, ensure their participation in decision mechanisms, increase stakeholders that are directly Market, Your Turn to Talk, Insight, Annual Focus Group Meetings, their competence, contribute to their development and maintain a high relevant for them and those Mobilim, TSAG, That Deserves An Award, Social Clubs, employee level of motivation and engagement. stakeholders in their entirety engagement evaluation surveys constitute Turkcell’s corporate stakeholder groups. Customers Customer satisfaction surveys, Turkcell communication centers, Turkcell Improving the customer experience created with bidirectional By means of various regular stores, Turkcell sales points, chain stores, call center, voice response sustainable communication channels, understanding expectations and system, website, Turkcell-im WAP, SIM Menu, customer services needs correctly and structuring our processes accordingly. dialogue platforms, we learn over the internet and wap (online services), social media (Facebook, the expectations of our Twitter), complaint sites, SMS/USSD/Cell Info, e-mail, invoice, fax/ stakeholders and we take letter, Corporate Solution Centers (CSC), Consumer Associations actions to understand and meet them. »21 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » CORPORATE PROFILE PROF. DR. KEREM ALKİN Stakeholders Dialogue platforms Targets President of the Board MOBILSIAD (Mobile Service Provider Businessmen’s Association) Investors/ One-to-one meetings, teleconferences following quarterly statements, Ensuring that Turkcell shares are a preferred investment tool for Shareholders analyst meetings, investor and analyst days, domestic/overseas domestic and foreign investors, communicating Turkcell’s long-term Looking at the past 4 years, the Mobile conferences and roadshows, investor relations, website and social strategy and potential to stakeholders in a transparent and timely Service Provider Businessmen’s Association (MOBILSIAD) has witnessed the technological media, Public Announcements Platform manner, identifying the questions and expectations of stakeholders in transformation that the informatics industry line with Turkcell’s sustainability approach and providing the required went through with Turkcell, and the way information or contributing to the development of reports. in which the GSM system has evolved in terms of content and definition of services. During this period, we worked in harmony on sectoral regulations, the Consumer Rights Suppliers Supplier Portal, Supplier Management System, E-Firm Portal, Implementing a policy of transparency in internal and external Act and critical regulations such as the Draft Supplier Financing Program, E-mail, Telephone communications to fully apply total quality and performance Law on Electronic Commerce and the Act on Electronic Money. For the Impact Analysis of management processes and purchasing from an optimum number of the said legal regulations, we worked in close suppliers to achieve cost optimization and create a win-win platform. cooperation with the sectoral stakeholders, other NGOs and the public authority, making critical efforts for the future and sustainability of GSM and the Mobile World. Non-Governmental Board Memberships, Commission Working Group Memberships, Leading the sector and creating common benefits through effective At this point, we acted as an effective Organizations reporting studies, conference participations, one-to-one meetings, collaboration with NGOs mediator between the Ministry of project-based collaborations Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communications, the Information and Communication Technologies Authority, Ministry of Finance and Revenue Society Social investments, launches, events, NGOs, Turkcell Customer Increasing the number of services and content that contribute to society Administration, together with leading NGOs Services, social media and creating more social benefits for disadvantaged groups. working in Machine-to-Machine (M2M) technologies. Thanks to this mediation, we proved to the public authority that cancellation of the Special Communication Academic Institutions Conferences and Congresses, University Visits, Turkcell Masters Offering value to society by contributing to the development of people Tax paid for initial line activation and every Scholarship Program and new ideas with improvement solutions for customers, technology positive step taken for the sector would mean and leadership. a high level of national added value and higher tax revenues for the public authority as a result of the significant rise in the number of SIM cards. Media One-to-one meetings, press bulletins, press conferences, media events, Working to enhance corporate reputation and continue informing the Turkcell creates an extremely diversified special news, social media, turkcellmedya.com public. added value for the Turkish economy with its technological investments, qualified human resources and wide range of employment opportunities throughout Turkey. The Dealers Dealers meetings, e-mails, cellovision, dealer portal, Turkcell Contributing to the development of technology infrastructures and critically important social responsibility Technology Summit, ‘Technology Initiative for Corporates’ Conferences increasing interaction. Enhancing the impact of social benefit oriented projects undertaken by Turkcell help women in Anatolian Cities, Experience Centers projects and services through dealers at the local level. participate in employment and create added value, enable young people to have access to technology and employment opportunities, and give Turkey an effective infrastructure in technologies with a high added value. »23 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SORUMLULUK RAPORU 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT 2012 Data Notes 2013 Data Notes (M TRY) (M TRY) OPERATIONAL Net sales 10,507 This is the “net sales” amount in the consolidated SPK (Capital Markets Boards of Turkey) financial data disclosed to the public. 11,408 This is the “net sales” amount in the consolidated SPK (Capital Markets Boards of Turkey) financial data disclosed to the public. AND FINANCIAL Net profit 2,062 This is the “net profit” amount in the consolidated SPK financial 2,334 This is the “net profit” amount in the consolidated SPK financial INFORMATION data disclosed to the public. data disclosed to the public. Operating costs 6,245.85 In the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public, 6,698.27 In the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public, there is a note stating “It is the sum of sales costs, sales marketthere is a note stating “It is the sum of sales costs, sales marketing costs and general management costs. Personnel costs and ing costs and general management costs. Personnel costs and depreciation costs are excluded”. depreciation costs are excluded”. We directly contribute Sum of employee’s wages, 1,019.675 In the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public, it 1,165.163 In the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public, it additional income and severis the sum of “personnel costs” written off under the accounts of is the sum of “personnel costs” written off under the accounts of to the development of ance/termination pay “sales costs, sales marketing costs and general management costs”. “sales costs, sales marketing costs and general management costs”. the Turkish economy by Payments to shareholders No dividends were paid to shareholders. No dividends were paid to shareholders. creating employment Payments to the government 523,6 This is the “tax expenses” amount in the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public. (Includes the tax expense and 592.4 This is the “tax expenses” amount in the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public. (Includes the tax expense and opportunities deferred tax income for the period.) deferred tax income for the period.) throughout Turkey. Social investment expenses (donations, scholarships and 24 Represents the total amount of donations provided to various associations, foundations and organizations in 2012 and 2011. 23 Represents the total amount of donations provided to various associations, foundations and organizations in 2013 and 2012. With R&D, innovation social projects) Includes donations only; sponsorships are not included. Includes donations only; sponsorships are not included. and technology Total operating capital broken down in liabilities and equity 12,734.9 This is the “total equity” amount in the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public. 14,710.8 This is the “total equity” amount in the consolidated SPK financial data disclosed to the public. investments, we capital support both sectoral Market share 52% 51% growth and the Scope of the organization’s 6,7 The company provides additional benefits to its employees 6.6 The company provides additional benefits to its employees salary-based retirement plan in addition to their wages and contributes to their retirement in addition to their wages and contributes to their retirement development of liabilities plans. The company is obliged to contribute to retirement plans plans. The company is obliged to contribute to retirement plans at a certain percentage of the personnel wages. The company’s at a certain percentage of the personnel wages. The company’s Turkey. We increase expenses for retirement plans in the accounting period ending on expenses for retirement plans in the accounting period ending on the capacity of the 31 December 2012 amount to 6.7 mTL. 31 December 2013 amount to 6.6 mTL. Government Incentives 1.9 A Group subsidiary, Turkcell Technology receives incentives for 1.6 A Group subsidiary, Turkcell Technology receives incentives for organizations that Received 60% of its acceptable expenses under the “Support Program 60% of its acceptable expenses under the “Support Program we collaborate for Industrial R&D Projects” implemented in collaboration with TUBITAK and the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. 1.9 mTL was for Industrial R&D Projects” implemented in collaboration with TUBITAK and the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade. 1.6 mTL was with, creating an deducted accordingly from sales costs between 1 January and 31 deducted accordingly from sales costs between 1 January and 31 December 2012. December 2013. environment of mutual learning. *Turkcell Group data. »24 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT COMPREHENSIVE APPROACH IN CREATING EMPLOYMENT 80,000 ECOSYSTEM OF PEOPLE Turkcell works to provide added value to the Turkish We believe that employment is the most important driver cooperation, we have helped 2,173 people to receive training economy and employment. All Turkcell Group Companies behind sustainable development and we have had an exemplary and employed 474 people in Turkcell Communication Centers offer employment to nearly 13,000 people and create an strategic collaboration with ISKUR (Turkish Employment (TIMs) and Call Centers. ecosystem of 80,000 people with our dealers and business Agency) since 2010 in order to train qualified manpower for the partners. sector and ensure participation in the workforce. As part of this »25 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT One of the steps taken to ensure equality of opportunity in every field is to create suitable environments and business channels for the employment of people with disabilities. There are 310 employees with disabilities at Turkcell Group and the great majority of them are employed at the Turkcell Global Bilgi Call Centers around Turkey. 50% of employees at Turkcell Global Bilgi Karaman and • Increasing the employment capacity of the area where we Van Call Center are with disabilities. 2 employees with make investment, disabilities in İzmir and Istanbul work from home to provide • Helping individuals who are old enough to be employed, call center services. develop their skills and abilities, • Contributing to the improvement of the workforce quality of Turkcell Global Bilgi call centers provide employment for the area, nearly 11.000 people in a total of 24 locations, 19 of which • Ensuring that other industries in the area can benefit from the are found in Turkey in Istanbul, İzmir, Erzurum, Eskişehir, multiplier effect created by our investments and production, Diyarbakır, Ankara, Karaman and Artvin, 4 in Ukraine and 1 • Creating a significant source of income for the public with the in Belarus. taxes that we pay, We set up technological infrastructures and invest in call • Contributing to the maintenance of basic public services such centers in many regions of Turkey to render economic and as healthcare, education and transportation. social development sustainable by: »26 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT PARTNERSHIPS AND CONTRIBUTION TO NEW BUSINESS IDEAS We believe that the technological development, entrepreneurship and a sound investment environment are essential for increasing TURKCELL PARTNER NETWORK of these trainings ensure that the ecosystem is competent and Turkey’s competitiveness and YILMAZ KURTAY economical development. We knowledgeable about technology and infrastructure. Together with domestic and international technology companies, CEO care about new entrepreneurs Turkcell Partnership Management creates business models Turatel Mobil Medya LTD. We offer our partners many services that increase business and the birth of new companies that will help us reach individual and corporate customers by efficiency, such as corporate memory, communication, that will reinforce Turkey’s producing mobile and stationary solutions working on Turkcell From the first day we started to operational management, promotion and reporting over a secure global power and provide collaborate, we have seen Turkcell platform via the turkcellpartner.com portal, which we launched and Turkcell Superonline infrastructures. as a role model and tried to competitive edge. Turkcell is integrate their business processes 4 years ago and still remains the only digital information currently managing a broad and The Turkcell Partner Network includes more than 200 business into our own corporate business rich partnership ecosystem. management channel in Turkey. This successful application in partners, the global company which we collaborate with, NGOs, processes. Today, I can see that We create a significant we have achieved important the web channel was also replicated in the mobile medium. With investors and entrepreneurs, as well as more than 15,000 economic value and provide improvements from a corporate the Turkcell Mobile Partners Catalogue, our partners were able application developers, whose number is increasing each day. perspective. For our company, employment by supporting to present their products to customers and field sales teams, the advantages of working with the innovative ideas and the Together with our business partners, we aim at expanding Turkcell include benefiting from becoming even more effective. In addition, our partners can growth of existing technologyopen innovation in the field of information technologies and the support of a strong brand, receive live consultancy services in infrastructure and technical oriented companies. We increasing the competitive power of our company by exploring the opportunity to invest in new matters from this portal thanks to the Turkcell Partner Special contribute to the development and developing fields of activity opportunities that will make life easier for our customers. related to mobile technologies, and Support Platform. of entrepreneurs by combining the capability to stay dynamic on local and global expertise To this end, we organize trainings to share Turkcell skills and an individual and corporate level through new partnerships as mobile trends with partners as part of the Turkcell Partner thanks to collaborating with a part of our entrepreneurshipProgram, and the certificates of success presented at the end dynamic structure. driven focus. »27 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT ENTREPRENEURSHIP With an emphasis on business plans, we contribute to the recognition of young entrepreneurs with the business plan In 2012 and 2013, we worked to reach entrepreneurs from all over contests, which we have been organizing for many years now in Turkey with the strategic collaborations that we developed with order to encourage the development of new products and services. Endeavour, ODTU Teknokent, ITU Arı Çekirdek, Keiretsu Forum, In 2012 and 2013, we provided young people with the opportunity Start-up Weekend, METU–Tech Ban, Entrepreneurs Organization to find support to share and implement their business ideas with as well as other stakeholders. various activities including the Mobile Future, Mobile Application Aware that success Knowing that coaching services are one of the most important aids Contest, TeknoFikir Contest and ODTU New Ideas New Business in supporting business ideas with business plans and implementing Contest Informatics Category Sponsorship. in innovation is only them with a methodology, we continued providing support with possible with the technical and commercial experts from within Turkcell and by In addition, we also evaluate the projects reaching business development and entrepreneurship teams via Turkcell channels correct ecosystem, means of nesting/facilitation programs which we collaborate with. and strive to create commercial value. One of the most concrete The Startup Factory, in which we have been a founding partner we maintain close since 2011 with Özyeğin University, has accepted 1100 business achievements of recent years was the commercialization of a relations with all idea applications as of today. Of the 30 ventures qualifying to project forwarded to the new business team in the form of an idea, thanks to the joint efforts of the entrepreneurship team and NGOs, universities take part in the Startup Factory, 9 turned into companies, 1 closed business development teams. Allowing smartphone users to design down, 4 are in the nesting period and 12 are continuing with their and investor groups in R&D efforts. For the ventures accepted by the Startup Factory their own phone covers, telefonkilifim.com became an innovative the entrepreneurship as of today, resources of nearly 2 MillionTRY were collected from product in the retail channels. Another investor took part in this venture as well. ecosystem. angel investors and public support. »28 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT INNOVATION AND R&D EFFORTS TARIK KANDIRA Senior Product Manager At Turkcell, “innovation” is an essential business concept which changes your perspective about your job, the expectations of your customers, and new business models that shape the future in today’s increasingly competitive world. If you consider that organizations which fail to place enough significance on innovation have no competitive power going forward, it is an invaluable advantage to be an innovation ambassador and reflect on these subjects in terms of seeing the strengths of your company and areas INNOVATION CULTURE Innovation Ambassadors are a group of volunteers brought together of development. at Turkcell Technology in 2012 for the purpose of promoting a The TIP* platform is an excellent In 2013, we restructured our innovation efforts conducted at corporate culture of innovation. The group increased in number in example of iterative innovation. Turkcell Technology to involve the entire Turkcell ICT. Innovative early 2013 upon the announcement made for the entire ICT. Since the TIP platform can reach large groups of people, I am able to ideas coming from different channels are evaluated according learn about an issue that a team from Duties of innovation ambassadors include the following: to certain criteria, and innovative product, service and process segment groups is trying to resolve, ideas, which are found feasible, are added to our portfolio. The • Developing the skills and increasing the awareness of their or what TSAG** is planning to do for a group of people that they want to culture of innovation is an integral part of our company. Rewarding colleagues in innovation. help, without even leaving my desk. mechanisms are in place to show that creative thinking is valued • Encouraging colleagues to actively take part in innovative First of all, these platforms keep in all channels of the company and work groups are set up to you up-to-date and active. You are activities; organizing brainstorming sessions and workshops. exposed to different perspectives encourage innovative thinking. • Working in cooperation with the ICT innovation committee for and different methods, and meet new people with different skills. These Creative suggestions born out of these actions may be the personal strategic coordination of the organization in terms of innovation, practices enable you to take initiative idea of an employee or arise during routine work conducted at a unit or and acting as the major point of contact by communicating the and realize something. a specially designed brainstorming session. With the “segment-based vision of innovation to colleagues. innovation” efforts organized by Turkcell’s “innovation ambassadors”, we aim at transforming the innovative ideas produced within the * TIP: Turkcell Innovation Platform company into products and services that will improve customer ** TSAG: Turkcell Social Activity satisfaction and service quality. Group »29 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT Our R&D center is one of the largest centers in Significant projects of 2012-2013, the R&D content of which was registered by TUBITAK, are shown in the figure below: Turkey with over 700 full-time researchers. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 R&D EFFORTS CMS As Turkcell, we are one of the leading R&D and innovation ASINUS companies in Turkey founded with the aim of developing SIM competitive services and products in the field of information ALMOND and communication technologies. By developing services BI-SUN and products for network services and providers, SIM card ICM and terminal solutions, mobile internet, mobile marketing, multimedia applications, business intelligence solutions and CEP-T CÜZDAN TÜBİTAK TEYDEB business support systems, we have become one of the leading SMART HOME R&D bases in Turkey in the area of telecommunications. CALL CENTER We aimed at bringing analysis, development, testing and project ASUDE management teams together so that the works conducted at MOBIL ID Turkcell Information and Communication Technologies (ICT) SSET could be maintained more effectively. To this end, Turkcell MMS Maltepe Plaza employees and the teams at the TUBITAK MAM SPORCU TAKİP Technology Free Zone were relocated to the new TURKCELL Technology R&D Center. Established at an indoor area of 13,000 SAĞLIK TAKİBİ m2 in Maltepe, this building was also registered as an R&D USERVICE Center by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. SMART SPACES CARCODE Employing over 700 full-time researchers and allowing end-toITEA2 end performance of product and service development processes, CAP this center will make it possible for us to maximize our DEMWATCH competencies in information and communication technologies. Accomplished In process Private sector partnership As Turkcell, we also create value for other operators by In the phase of evaluation Contract phase University partnership ensuring the global expansion of those products and solutions that make a difference for Turkcell and Group companies. By exporting technology and software to the CIS (Commonwealth of Independent States), Russia, Middle East, Africa and Europe, we contribute to the national economy and aim at becoming a global brand. »30 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT In 2012-2013, 9 of our projects became eligible to be master’s and PhD studies with scholarships granted through The R&D intensity of TUTED-TURKCELL supported by TUBITAK. As of the end of 2013, 3 projects are the Informatics Association of Turkey. COLLABORATION still in the evaluation stage. As understood from the figure Turkcell Technology is Turkcell Technology is a member of the Boards of ITEA2 and 2.5 to 3 times higher The User Experience and above, collaborations with universities/research organizations Applied Telecommunication CELTIC+ clusters operating under the EUREKA network. Education and Testing and other business partners gained more importance in the EUREKA is an international collaboration platform supporting than global average projects initiated after 2012. Accordingly, we collaborate with Center, which has the most new companies developing niche technologies in their own the development of market-oriented products and processes, values. In 2012-2013, comprehensive technological which can be commercialized quickly. Major companies in infrastructure in Turkey, fields in addition to the large, leading companies in Turkey. popular technology fields come together under EUREKA and we implemented more was opened in August 2013 as part of the Faculty of As Turkcell, we do not limit our collaboration with universities develop joint projects. The international projects in which than 700 projects Computer and Informatics, to joint projects; we also organize undergraduate courses at Turkcell Technology was involved in 2012-2013 include the under more than 50 ITU, thanks to the funding various universities and help undergraduate students adapt to following: provided by the Istanbul professional life with internship programs. We also support framework projects. Development Agency (ISTKA) and the collaboration 2.4 million hours of between Turkcell, TUTED (All Telecommunications and engineering efforts CARCODE – Car to Car Businessmen’s Association) Content Delivery The purpose of CarCoDe is to create an on-board system that can use alternative wireless were spent in the R&D and Istanbul Technical communication technologies smoothly in order to offer a safer and easier driving experience (less University (ITU). traffic congestion, easy parking, toll payments, remote diagnostics and intuitive maintenance), a activities carried out cleaner physical environment (less air pollution), better response in emergencies (fleet and traffic during this period. It is aimed to offer training by tracking) and provide more enjoyable infotainment services to travelers. experts on user experience in addition to conducting scientific research at the DEMWATCH – Dementia A person with dementia experiences disorders in functions such as memory, thinking, reasoning, laboratory, where new Watch recognition of time and space, understanding what they read, speech and carrying out simple technologies and strategies daily tasks. In time, these irregularities in intellectual functions make it impossible for the patient are put to use and tests are made for end-to-end to continue with their daily activities. The incidence of the disease increases with age. One in design and development every two people in their 80s has dementia. It is aimed to develop an integrated solution that of products and services. allows the monitoring of vital signs, location and condition of patients with dementia by means The center will also provide of wearable patient tracking devices and sensors placed in the environment (with machine-toeducation opportunities in machine communication -M2Mtechnologies). Turkcell Teknoloji is responsible for the international telecommunications and coordination of the project. is expected to bring added For detailed value to Turkey by training CAP Collaborative Analytics information: a qualified workforce The purpose of the CAP project is to offer a flexible platform that can allow real-time access to many for the technology and Platform different data flows (open data, special data, corporate data, raw and clustered data) and make http://www. telecommunications sector performance analysis in different business areas. Turkcell Teknoloji is responsible for the international turkcelltech.com/ and developing new software coordination of the project. RDPage.aspx programs. »31 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT Turkcell raised the bar concerning the 4th generation telecommunication INVESTMENT IN FUTURE TECHNOLOGIES demonstrated. In addition, 4G upload and download speeds were WHAT IS LTE ADVANCED? services (4G). Turkcell continues its efforts and investments to provide its measured using the “Speedtest.net” online service (a website allowing visitors to test their connection speeds). The movie LTE Advanced is the name of Demonstrating customers with the future technologies. Data speeds expected download scenario was executed successfully. The participants the technology that will enable Turkey’s to be obtained in the 4th generation telecommunication services us to reach very high data also enjoyed 3D movies over 4G networks. speeds by aggregating carriers (4G) were tested in laboratory environment utilizing Turkcell highest speed technologies and the technical support from Huawei. The tests At the press event during which the LTE Advanced was on the same or different frequency bands. For example, mobile Internet were successfully completed, measuring data speeds up to 900 showcased, the activity that attracted the most attention was theoretical “download” speeds performance, Mbps. the demonstration of speeds up to 900 Mbps. As part of the in the range of 750 Mbps to test conducted in an laboratory environment, a file stored on 3 Gbps can be reached by Turkcell marked the In a press event, Turkcell allowed the participants from the a server was downloaded with data speeds up to 900 Mbps, a using the 100 MHz frequency press world to experience data speeds with LTE Advanced, a band as part of the carrier start of a new era in technology of the near future­­. HD video streaming over 4G was breathtaking speed described as the “technology of the future”, aggregation. 4G technologies. to show maximum data speeds. »32 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY As of the end of 2013, As Turkcell, we aim at becoming a global, pioneer technology • Allowing cross-licensing in complex product development company with national and international patent applications. More projects involving multiple technological areas the number of our than half of all patent applications in the telecommunication sector patent applications were made by Turkcell. In 2012, Turkcell had third place in Turkey • Reinforcing the technology leader position in the sector was 287 and we had and first place in Kocaeli province with 82 patent applications. • Measuring the efficiency of R&D expenditures By the end of 2013, Turkcell increased its total number of patent 49 registered patents. applications to 287, with 238 of them national and 49 international. • Measuring employee performance The number of the company’s registered patents was 49. In the patent application process, inventions are subjected to a preliminary assessment by the Patent Committee in a similar way Inventions created at Turkcell Technology are protected by as the IPScore method developed by the European Patent Office patents for the following purposes: (EPO). As a result of this assessment, risks and opportunities • Preventing the invention from being copied associated with the invention are quantified and its commercial • Avoiding legal issues which may arise during the value is determined by creating alternative scenarios. These commercialization of the invention analyses are also regularly made after the patent application is filed and the patent is obtained. • Creating an income for licensing »33 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVE FOR CORPORATES Turkey for the effective utilization of information technologies. Benefits of technology utilization for companies Technology Initiative for Corporates offers companies operational Turkcell has initiated a new service in Turkey, driven by the • Transportation and training cost savings achieved by using excellence and efficiency while at the same time paving the way belief that the utilization of technologies can spark growth for video-conferencing: 30% for a “unique” customer experience. Thus, when those companies both companies and the national economy. Having analyzed • Efficiency increase that the SMEs achieved by using network maximize their growth and profitability, this success will also the requirements of different industries and companies of any technologies: 7% guarantee an increased contribution to the national economy. As size, Turkcell invites to join all companies desiring to grow their part of this initiative, a corporate sales force of 2,000 employees • Cost benefits that Cloud Computing brings to a Medium-Sized businesses and increase their efficiency to the “Technology all around Turkey received a training of 10,000 hours in total. company: 80% Initiative for Corporates”. Through 15 workshops and 40 meetings held in different cities Turkcell has developed a new model by breaking new ground in 1,500 people received information and a further 500 people joined these meetings through video-conferencing. »34 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT TURKEY’S FIRST DOMESTIC HIGH-TECH SMART PHONE: THE TURKCELL T40 Turkcell T40 differentiates itself not only with its sound Turkcell underlined technology but also with its camera quality. With its a great success 5MP flash camera providing by becoming the excellent Face Time feature it very first Turkish also has Zero Shutter delay for not to miss any joyful moment. company to With internal memory of realize the dream 4GB, Turkcell T40 weighs only of producing 135 grams. Phone includes Turkcell has relocated the production of Turkey’s very first Qualcomm’s 1.2 Ghz dual core smart phones processor and has a 4 inch smart phones T40s that is developed by Turkish engineers SINCE 2013 domestically in 1 500 and designers. The production of Turkcell T40s has started at screen. T40 has a battery life Turkey. Through the Vestel’s Manisa factory in 2013 and became a great success of 240 hour standby time and by rapidly attracting consumers and selling over 100K. T40 480 minutes talk time. pipelines of Manisa provides high tech features especially designed for Turkish factory Turkcell people’s lifestyles with a user-friendly interface at an affordable T40s are the first price range. smart phones Specialized colors for domestic production MILLION MILLION TRY that are produced domestically in Prior to domestic production T40s were available only in black and white. With domestic production, national colors red and T SERIES ECONOMIC Turkey to meet with white were chosen over its old color scheme. MOBILE PHONES CONTRIBUTION Turkish consumers. »35 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT IN 2013 MORE THAN TURKCELL WALLET 10 Turkcell Wallet allows you to buy air-time and packages, transfer REACHING money, pay bills and perform other contactless transactions 2 with your mobile phone just like using a credit card. Launched in October 2012 as the most advanced mobile wallet solution in the world, Turkcell Wallet is used by 1.2 million people today. MILLION MILLION TURKCELL TRANSACTIONS SUBSCRIBERS MOBILE PAYMENT Allowing shopping at contracted merchant with a single SMS, Turkcell Mobile Payment makes it possible to do low-price shopping in a fast, easy and reliable way by using your mobile phone. UrfaCard is one of the services launched with the Turkcell Wallet It can be used as a payment tool in social networks, online technology. Designed to facilitate traveling in the city, this smart games, digital content and services, online learning sites, card came into use in Şanlıurfa in April 2013. Efforts are ongoing • The travel card can be refilled by using the debit card or credit contribution/subscription fee payments, physical product in other cities for widespread use of the application. Used in card in Turkcell Wallet. purchases and other online shopping channels. combination with Turkcell Wallet, UrfaCard provides the ease of • Anyone who does not want to use their debit card or credit electronic payment. In 2013, 2 million Turkcell subscribers paid 115 millionTRY in card can refill their travel card by using Turkcell Mobile more than 10 million transactions by using Turkcell Mobile Payment. The payment is reflected in their bill or deducted Payment, which is valid at more than 1,000 contracted merchant. from their account balance. • Thanks to the NFC technology fitted in public transport vehicles, people with NFC phones can use their mobile phone instead of a physical travel card on buses with the contactless travel card added to Turkcell Wallet. »36 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT Smart Education platform will transform education system digitally. Due to the Platform, students can access all needed educational materials at anytime from anywhere thanks to Turkcell technology. SMART EDUCATION Turkcell has developed a new education platform that will allow education institutions to train more successful students. Thanks to Turkcell Smart Education platform, education institutions will Within Turkcell Smart Education system, teachers can receive the • Product that can be redesigned according to the needs of be able to complete their digital transformation with Turkcell’s training program “Digital Education and Certificate” from Turkcell educational institutions outstanding technological support. This platform opens the door to Academy to prepare for digital transformation. In addition, parents a unique interactive classroom experience by providing interactive • Turkcell Superonline fiber optic reach solutions (up to are instantly informed on their children’s attendance, success, etc. education technologies including smart boards and tablet PCs. 1000Mbps speed) via Smart Education platform. With this system, the education institutions can store their • Content sharing through Turkcell Smart Cloud infrastructure, visuals as audio and digital content and share such content easily Turkcell Smart Education made its debut offering new education storage for educational materials with all students. Teachers and students enjoy fast, reliable and technologies to more than 2,000 students in 8 campuses of • Hardware materials (Smart Board, Tablet choices) uninterrupted Internet access over 3G, whether at school or home, Mektebim Schools operating in 15 different locations. • Non-stop access to education for students through 3G removing any limitations in education. technology provided by tablet and internet packages. Technological opportunities provided by Smart Education With its partners and group companies, Turkcell offers an end-to• Secure application and device management by using Turkcell • Education Applications by Turkcell Smart Education end education solution including fiber-optic network, smart cloud, Smart Hardware Management and education programs. Thanks to Smart Education that meets all • Technological infrastructure formed by Turkcell Smart • Turkcell Corporate APN providing secure internet education requirements under one platform, schools can receive all Education and availability at all level for corporations’ use • Turkcell Academy Education program providing certified the services they need from one source. digital technology trainings. »37 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT SMART TICKET In 2013, we extended our cooperation with the Turkish Football Federation (TFF). In addition to extending our sponsorship SMART CLOUD agreement, we made the decision to collaborate in new areas, one We offer our customers our new cloud service Smart Storage. of which was the Mobile Ticket initiative. Turkcell Smart Ticket Smart Storage service allows users to store their photograph, allowed football fans to enjoy privileges at all games played by the video and music files as well as other files in a safe manner, and Turkish National Football Team A. Just by sending an SMS, fans access and share them any time from any device with their friends Smart Storage not are able to purchase their tickets from wherever they are, without through e-mail and social networking sites. only safely stores the waiting in lines, and enter the stadium by using the gates specially allocated for them. Turkcell’s plans for 2014 include collaborating The photographs, taken by the Turkcell customers, who install the memories of Turkcell with other sports federations and clubs for the use of Turkcell application free-of-charge to their smart phones or tablet PCs, customers, but also are automatically stored in Smart Storage and any subsequent We saved both energy Smart Ticket. photographs are stored in Smart Storage without any further allows them to share and paper by sending a The smart ticket application not only saves users time, but also user interaction. In addition to the photographs, music files and easily their content, total of 17,000 tickets reduces the environmental impact. Natural resources are preserved other files downloaded to, and videos captured in smart devices including big files, and waste production is avoided through the use of smart tickets are also automatically stored in Smart Storage when 3G or Wi-fi via SMS as of the end instead of regular tickets which are made of fireproof thermal connection is available. via e-mail and social of 2013. paper and cannot be recycled. networking sites. »38 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ECONOMIC IMPACT M2M SOLUTIONS M2M (Machine to Machine) is a new technology designed to enable machines to be managed and monitored remotely and communicate ORKUN KARAYEL to each other through a specified SIM card. CEO, KSN Lojistik ve M2M is affecting daily routine of individuals and also businesses. Taşımacılık Due to its capability and extensive reach, M2M enables the creation With Ekip Mobil, Turkcell of new business models for companies. M2M solutions for vehicle offers solutions for logistics tracking system are widely being used right now. Medical automation companies to manage their in health industry and smart home solutions are some of the areas Distribution Companies in Turkey with our M2M Solutions. As daily shipments. On the giant where M2M is already in use and provides endless possibilities. screen which we installed of today, savings of more than 400,000 TRY has been achieved in our headquarters, we can M2M solutions can be categorized under six headlines: Smart Energy, in this area. With our M2M applications in industrial fields such monitor our shipments all Smart Industry, Smart Vehicle, Smart Health and Mobile POS and as agriculture, cold chain and electronics, our contribution to around Turkey online and on the national economy reached 100,000 TRY in 2012-2013. In a continuous basis by using Registry. Meter reader, logistics, POS and ATM on financial services this system. As KSN Lojistik, and even registry, farming and POS machines, refrigerators and collaboration with Kocaeli General Directorate of Water and we aim at using Turkcell’s dispensers, home security systems, A/C’s, vehicles, trucks, boats, Sewage Services (ISU), we launched the first wide-scale Smart powerful infrastructure to train, bicycles and helicopters, glasshouses, farms, poultry and field Water Management System in Turkey, making a contribution of transform the daily shipment nearly 10 million TRY. In addition, we were the only mobile operator procedure into a process that sprinkle systems and readers are, all 1,2 million machines, being allows easy monitoring and monitored and managed by Turkcell M2M technology. involved in the pilot Emergency Call (e-Call) project managed end-to-end management, under the leadership of the Ministry of Interior and implemented and provide our customers first in Antalya and Isparta, supporting the project with our M2M with better service thanks to IN 2013 MORE THAN infrastructure. the fast and reliable service 1.4 1.5 facilities for which Turkcell makes its systems available to its customers. MILLION BILLION We launched the first M2M platform and M2M-specific SIM card, and we are the USERS SAVINGS only operator that offers both vertical solutions and Our M2M solutions enabled savings of more than 1 billion TRY Vehicle tracking, guidance and on-the-road communication systems an M2M module in Turkey. for the national economy in 2012. In 2013, we transformed more result in a 15-20% fuel savings. According to an ICTA report, we Today, we are one of the top than 450,000 vehicles into Smart Vehicles with Turkcell’s M2M were the market leader in 2013 in both mobile POS solutions and 10 operators in Europe with infrastructure, which resulted in annual fuel savings of nearly 1 vehicle tracking (fleet management) applications. Turkey’s first our M2M solutions and our billion TRY in Turkey. With more than 100,000 smart energy and domestic electric car also became remote-controlled through goal for 2016 is to be in the water meters, we help to achieve a 10-15% reduction in electricity Turkcell M2M. top 5. and water consumption. We offer added value to 21 Electricity »40 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT OUR PEOPLE HUMAN RESOURCES MANAGEMENT Human Resources processes are developed by the Central HR manpower planning, compensation and additional benefits, Systems Development Department reporting to the Group organizational development and process improvement, internal Human Resources CXO and implemented by the Turkcell communication). These documents are kept on a portal that is accessible to every employee. Employees are also periodically Employee Relations Management Department. The Human informed via the corporate portal and e-mail system. Resources Policy is based on meeting the high ethical standards identified with Turkcell Common Values and Code of Ethics As required by the approach “We Value People”, one of the by embracing the responsibilities towards society, the market, Turkcell Values, all employees are at the main focus of our and the company, as well as the responsibilities of employees company. With innovative practices in Human Resources, we towards each other. believe that we support Turkcell, cited for years as the company where people want to work most, on its path to becoming an There are written procedures and regulations in place for employee brand. It is our belief that we make a difference by all Human Resources processes (selection and placement, shaping and restructuring all processes and practices that affect career movements, performance and talent management, our employees based on their feedback and perspectives. »41 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT OUR PEOPLE IN NUMBERS Breakdown of Employees by Gender, Age and Position Number of Employees with Disabilities* 2013 2012 2013 0-30 Years 30-50 Years Over 50 Years Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men CEO 1 22 86 24 87 *Numbers of Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. CXO 3 10 2 Number of Maternity Leaves and Rate of Returning to Work Director 27 41 1 Manager 2012 2013 6 6 175 379 1 5 * Total number of employees being 4181 in 31 December 2012, Number of Maternity Leaves 81 95 reached 4261 people at the end Professional 438 669 781 1505 4 16 of 2013. Part-time employees Rate of Returning to Work After 100% 100% that have been excluded Part-time 81 102 6 2 Leave from total employee numbers throughout the report, has been Total 525 777 992 1937 5 25 Number of Paternity Leaves 104 137 included in this calculation. »42 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT FOCUS ON WOMEN IN “EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY” Women’s empowerment in the economy, employment and social life is becoming increasingly important for the future of our country. As required by our philosophy “Strong Women, Strong Turkey”, we take equality of opportunity into consideration in every area for the “empowerment of women”. In the light of this strategy, we both undertake projects to support the empowerment of women and strengthen such projects through collaborations. Turkcell Equality of Opportunity Policy As Turkcell and Group companies, we created the “Turkcell Equality of Opportunity Policy” in June 2013 in order to emphasize the value that we place on “Equality at Work”. We first published the policy in the employee portal and our website for all employees to access and implement. After the policy was published, it was included in the content of the “HR Training from A to Z” and “Interview Techniques Training” for new managers to increase awareness. Our Equality of Opportunity Manifest We published our Equality of Opportunity Manifest in October 2013 for all Turkcell Group HR employees to follow in order • I prepare the job advertisements in accordance with our • I remind the relevant managers that pregnancy is not an to guide our employees and managers to act in line with the principles of equality of opportunity; I make a point of ensuring obstacle in recruitment and promotion evaluations. Equality of Opportunity Policy in all Human Resources practices. that male and female candidates are assessed in a way that • I select and place the candidates for PAF trainee programs in It is our aim that all of our HR processes are based on the allows equality of opportunity. accordance with the equality of opportunity principle. following 9 items and all HR employees follow them: • In cases where equality of opportunity is not at the ideal level, I • I provide our employees with the necessary training and • I ensure that there is no discrimination based on religion, encourage managers to establish a balance with their decisions development opportunities based on their functions and roles, language, race and gender in any Human Resources practices if male and female candidates have equal competencies. without discrimination. in line with our equality of opportunity policy. • I supervise the Talent Management Committees to be aware • I manage the compensation and additional benefit practices in • I follow up the number of female-male employees and of equality of opportunity, and remind the relevant managers accordance with the equality of opportunity principle and in managers in our departments with the details of recruitment, about our equality of opportunity policy and the rate of femaleline with company policies and procedures. severance and promotion in order to support equality of male employees in cases of promotion opportunities. opportunity. »43 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 51% 1) Woman-Oriented Human Resources Practices • Health-related information for female employees (breast PERCENTAGE OF cancer etc.) As Turkcell, we operate in a sector where the rate of female FEMALE EMPLOYEES • HAP (Programs for Life)* trainings employment is low. In Turkey, the rate of female employees in the telecommunication sector is estimated to be around 23%. • Preparation for Childbirth and Breathing Techniques Therefore, as the pioneer of the sector, we believe that we have Training more responsibility in the empowerment of women and their • Training on the Place of Women in Professional and participation in the workforce. Private Life • Being a Working Mother Training As Turkcell and Group companies Turkcell Global Bilgi and • First Aid Kit for the Working Parent Turkcell Superonline, we monitor equality of opportunity • Preparing for Motherhood on behalf of our employees in all our processes beginning • Birth Academy from recruitment. It is our goal that women are employed and benefit from the company processes in an equal • The Art of Parenthood manner with men. Our sensitivity extends not only to the • Raising Children Successfully Our Exemplary HR Practices in Equality of Opportunity: employment of women but also of people with disabilities. • Enlightening Our Children’s Way Training As Turkcell Human Resources, we implement numerous good • Raising Children Successfully Our aim was to maintain and, when possible, increase our practices on a continuous and periodic basis to make life easier • Private-Professional Life Balance already high rate of female employment in all regions of for our female employees, support their individual and career Turkey, and we are pleased to have increased this rate as of development and help them achieve harmony between their B. Harmonization of Professional and Family Life November 2013 compared to 49% in early 2013. Today, the family and professional life. • Nursing rooms in our buildings rate of all women employees in Turkcell Group is 51%. • Administrative leave allowing mothers to accompany their A. Development Activities children on the first day of school • Awareness-raising messages for parents and guardians sent • Special events and cultural activities for children and via the school portal and mobile phones families organized by the Turkcell Social Activity Group Women Employees of Turkcell Group in Numbers** (TSAG) Number of Number of Women Rate of Women Number of Rate of Women • Lower prices and payment advantages in Turkcell CLUB Employees Employees Employees Women Leaders Leaders for mothers and children in many areas from education to shopping Turkcell İletişim 4,070 1,424 35% 212 32% • 23 April Children’s Festivities organized at our company and Hizmetleri A.Ş attended by the children of our employees Turkcell Superonline 615 145 24% 19 25% Turkcell Global Bilgi 6,549 4,200 64% 275 50% Total 11,234 5,769 51% 506 39% *HAP: This is a personal development program which includes all topics that might be required by our employees in their professional and private life. Training is offered in many subjects from preparation for childbirth and Sufi philosophy to **As required by our “Equality at Work” principle, we started monitoring the number of women employees recruited, promoted and quitting work, and have included these innovation and communication within the program. figures in the HR reports submitted to the senior management as of 2013. »44 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT C. Facilities That Make Life Easier 3) Women-Oriented Initiatives Supported By Turkcell • Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs): • Child education support which can be selected under the scope • Equality at Work Platform In January 2013, we signed the Women’s Empowerment of the Flex Menu, the flexible additional benefits practice Principles, a product of the United Nations Global Compact, • Free health screenings (mammography, lung scan) The purpose of the Equality at Work Platform, initiated by the with UN Women. We represented Turkey in the sessions • Private healthcare insurance with coverage for children Ministry of Family and Social Policies in cooperation with the which took place for the 5th time in 2013 at the United • Daycare support private sector and under the guidance of the World Economic Nations gathering hosted by the Swiss and Australian • Dry-cleaning service provided at our plazas Forum, is to reduce the gap in Economic Participation and governments; we explained the company’s pioneering Opportunities in Turkey, noted in the Global Gender Gap Report, • Hairdresser service provided at our plazas women-oriented projects to the UN member state by up to 10% within the next three years. As one of the 5 members • Company organic market which makes organic food readily representatives, leading figures of the business world, of the project team created to design and implement the program’s available to us and is frequently used by mothers academics and NGO administrators. activities, we have been actively involved in the platform since D. Social Activities December 2012. • KAGIDER Equality of Opportunity Model Certification • Turkcell children’s club Turkcell’s Equality at Work Platform Commitments: Through being accredited by KAGIDER’s (Women • Tuesday Market guests • To prioritize our social responsibilities that empower women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey) Equality of Opportunity • Educational gifts in society and produce high-impact, innovative projects that Model, we aimed at setting an example for other companies • Children’s Art Workshops create value for Turkey in Turkey. Accordingly, as Turkcell and Group companies, we • Participation by mothers and children in our volunteerism • To ensure that our “Equality at Work” principles and practices underwent a comprehensive audit examining how we provide programs are extended to the business partners and suppliers in our equality of opportunity for our female employees in our • Pilates, Yoga, Breathing & Zumba courses ecosystem in order to empower women in employment and at company practices, particularly recruitment, compensation, • Makeup, Care and Style Workshops the workplace performance and talent management, promotion and training • Women’s Volleyball Team processes. In accordance with the positive assessment report • To maintain and even increase our high rates of female prepared by PwC auditors, we obtained the KAGIDER Equality employment, particularly in Anatolia 2) Women-Oriented Corporate Projects: of Opportunity Model Certificate on 23 October 2013. In order to encourage women of little means to participate in economic production and contribute to their social and economic empowerment, we help women benefit from the microloan system with the Women Empowerment in Economy project, which we RAISING THE AWARENESS OF SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS ABOUT EQUALITY OF OPPORTUNITY implement with support from the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and in cooperation with the Turkish Foundation for Waste “Strong Women, Strong Turkey” Declaration from Turkcell for its 1,566 Suppliers and 199 Business Partners Reduction (TISVA). As part of our efforts to provide equality of opportunity for women As of today, we have provided 100,000 scholarships to students in professional life, our awareness-raising efforts are ongoing for with the “Snowdrops” project, which we undertook in order to help Turkcell’s 1,566 suppliers and 199 business partners. young girls who could not attend school due to the limited means Accordingly, we sent e-mails and letters to our suppliers and of their families and enable them to continue with their education, partners in July and October 2013 to emphasize the importance thus contributing to equality of opportunity in education all over of the subject and offered our support and experience where they Turkey. More detailed information is given about the projects in the needed it in order to create awareness and spread the vision of Equality of Opportunity throughout Turkey. “Contribution to Society through Corporate Projects” section. »45 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT As part of our RECRUITMENT PROCESS The “White Shadow” Practice PIRIL KADIBEŞEGIL employment policy, The assessment stages of our recruitment process are based on the YAŞAR We have a practice named “White Shadow” designed to help candidates’ Turkcell Values, the Turkcell Behavior Model and the new colleagues adapt to their job and the corporate culture we consider the professional skills and experience required by the position. Our aim Senior Corporate Social Responsibility Specialist, Turkcell quickly. The White Shadow is assigned on a voluntary basis for a differences in our is to use the appropriate assessment tools in order to bring in the new employee’s first month. An older employee who knows the workforce as an best talent that can create added value for Turkcell. The first day at work is a stressful day for many people. Getting company well supports the new employee in everything during element of enrichment We publish the appropriate vacancies on Turkcell’s corporate to know the team, learning this one-month period, sharing their information. This allows website and career sites so that anyone who would like to work at where things are in the office, new employees to have fast and first-hand access to information for our business, the procedures that must be about general operations, workflow, relevant documents and Turkcell can follow up the job opportunities. In the advertisements, completed on the first day, etc. employees and we specify the qualifications required by the position and make our I can safely say that Turkcell’s systems, administrative work and general requirements. White Shadow practice makes ecosystem. With preliminary assessment according to these criteria. In line with the a difference in this regard. It is position’s requirements, candidates whose preliminary assessment Regretted Turnover Rates this understanding, immensely important to those becoming familiar with the is positive are offered the job following a competency-based decisions in our interview, a Technical Interview to understand their business skills, corporate culture and adapting Women Men Total Rate to it. Thanks to the accurate and employment Case Analysis, Personality Inventory, Knowledge Test, English consistent flow of information, Proficiency Test and Reference Check process. the period of orientation and 2012 79 63 142 4,45% processes are made adaptation is considerably independently of the At Turkcell, we make a point of prioritizing local candidates in our shortened for the employee. 2013 60 128 188 4,67% recruitment process. gender, age, beliefs, ethnicity, nationality, Breakdown of Hired and Released Employees by Gender and Age marital status, health Hired status, physical 2013 Hiring Rates disabilities and sexual 2012 2013 Total Hired 580 orientation of the Women % Men % Women % Men % Total Number of 4070 candidates. Under no Employees circumstances do we 0-30 Years 137 3% 243 6% 127 3% 208 5% Rate 14% allow child labor or 30-50 Years 48 1% 55 1% 75 2% 169 4% forced labor at our Over 50 Years 0 0% 0 0% 0 0% 1 0% companies. »46 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Performance and Talent Management We define our Performance and Talent Management process as 2012 Performance and Talent Management in Numbers a management tool which aims at creating a successful future Behavior Assessment for our employees by helping them focus on the vision, mission and targets of Turkcell Group. Our Performance and Talent 2012 2013 Management approach states that potential cannot be developed independently of business outcomes and behavior, and real Number % Number % of People of People potential can be revealed by the synergy between the two. Based on this approach, we aim at providing the correct tools Men 2199 64% 2068 65% and environment that will enable our employees to manage their Women 1262 36% 1096 35% career and performance. Total 3461 100% 3164 100% The Performance and Talent Management process has 3 main elements: Smart targets, behavior in line with the corporate Performance Assessment culture and values, and future potential. Implemented since 2007, this process requires employees to go through a series of 2012 2013 5 steps: Number % Number % their manager, customers, peers and team, which enables them of People of People 1) Setting Targets to receive feedback from multiple perspectives. Men 2210 63% 2156 64% We identify individual targets to make more effective use of our performance and aim for the right goals which are in line with 4) Target Assessment Women 1289 37% 1214 36% the targets of the company and function. We evaluate our individual targets and receive feedback about Total 3499 100% 3370 100% our performance throughout the year. 2) Interim Assessment Talent Management For effective target management, it is important to monitor our 5) Talent Management targets throughout the year and benefit from the coaching of 2012 2013 At Turkcell, each employee is considered a talent. From this our manager when needed. At mid-year, we review our progress perspective, talent management is the most important tool in Number % Number % towards targets with constructive and open feedback. revealing the potential that will carry Turkcell into the future and of People of People achieving sustainable success. 3) Behavior Assessment Men 2038 63% 2005 66% We evaluate the future potential of our employees together We make assessments as part of the Turkcell Group Behavior with their managers, based on the performance and behavior of Women 1173 37% 1038 34% Model in order to allow our employees to receive objective employees, through talent committees set up within department, Total 3211 100% 3343 100% feedback about their strengths and areas of development. function, company and group levels. Employees make a self-assessment and they are also assessed by »47 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Career Development monitors their actions and strives to guarantee the integrity and suited to their individual development needs or complete project quality of the program. works, which also include one-to-one coaching discussions. Turkcell employees have the opportunity to change their career paths or gain different experiences. At Turkcell, vacancies are first Areas of development are determined in the Individual • Our Talent Pool completes a 7-day Turkcell Group Executive announced internally as a requirement of the “You Come First” Development Plan discussion held between the mentees and MBA program which encompasses several disciplines. The principle. The purpose of this practice is to support the professional their managers, and mentors that can offer support in these program is organized by academics from Koç University and development of employees and offer them alternative career areas are assigned. This assignment is made through the mentee’s subject experts. The main purpose of the program is to enable opportunities. own choice and under the guidance of his/her manager. It is participants to complete their projects with the sponsorship of important that mentors are selected from among those people our CXOs and in line with the company’s high-priority initiatives. When a management position becomes vacant or a new who do not make decisions about the employee’s career choices This group also benefits from internal mentorship. management position is opened at Turkcell, it is preferred to fill that position from inside the company. and do not have a hierarchical relationship with that employee; • Our Directors, CXOs and CEOs also take part in customized whenever possible they are selected from different group classroom trainings or coaching programs suited to their Transfer and promotion actions are based on the assessment results. companies or functions. individual needs. With our rotational work opportunities, we enable employees to Number of Employees Benefiting from the Mentorship System • Furthermore, all levels of managers can access the Harvard be temporarily assigned to different functions, departments or Manage Mentor, a distance learning tool of Harvard Business units for the purpose of supporting their personal development, 2012 2013 School, and Get Abstract, the most comprehensive online library enriching their career by allowing them to work with different job in the world. descriptions, supporting a particular task or project for a certain period of time and using internal resources effectively. Women 13 18 Number of employees benefiting from the leadership program Men 14 43 Internal Promotion Rates Total 27 61 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Leadership Program Women Men Women Men Women 81.30% 85.50% 57.10% 88.00% 88.89% Our Leadership Development Programs cover all levels from CXO 3 21 3 19 candidate managers to the CEO with different programs. The Men 84.50% 85.80% 72.50% 85.70% 87.40% content and orientation of the programs is determined according to Director 29 60 32 65 the strategy and priorities of Turkcell Group for that year. Talent 31 33 28 30 Mentorship System • Our candidate managers and new managers learn the concepts Manager 249 497 236 476 Leadership development has become one of our most important in a class environment as part of the program and benefit priorities as a result of the fast growth, competition and changes New Manager 38 58 32 48 from the support of experienced managers through internal in the business world. Accordingly, some of our selected talents mentorship programs. They also receive classroom training and Preparation for 114 167 12 19 are matched with volunteering mentors advanced on the e-learning programs where they learn about the financial, legal Management leadership journey, and benefit from their mentorship. and human resources systems specific to Turkcell Group. TOTAL 464 836 343 657 Turkcell Academy works to ensure that participants are • Our experienced managers participate in classroom trainings supported and informed as necessary throughout the process, »48 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT As a leading technology EMPLOYEE TRAININGS company, it is our mission to share the most recent Turkcell Academy supports employees in content and topics included working as volunteer trainers under the in our development programs “Academy Trainer” title and enables more by using the most effective than 800 Turkcell employees to share technological solutions and their knowledge and expertise. infrastructures. What we aim with Turkcell Academy Turkcell Academy structures the strategic is to follow the Instructional development programs implemented System Design standard in the under the guidance of the senior design and implementation management on three main areas of focus: stages of development Customer, Technology and Leadership. programs undertaken in the In 2012, it reached 60,000 people in the light of the said mission, in Turkcell Group ecosystem and provided order to ensure that these 1,374,532 hours of training in total, an programs are standardized average of 17 hours per person. In 2013, and aligned with Turkcell it provided a total of 1,320,130 hours of Group’s strategies and training with an average of 22 hours per investments are measured. person. Turkcell A.Ş. employees received 57 hours of training per person from the Turkcell Academy in 2013. Our Training Performance 1,320 22 Employee Development in 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Numbers Number of Trainings Completed 217,468 335,576 511,503 669,242 633,524 Total Number of Training Hours 1,095,490 1,026,579 1,405,542 1,374,532 1,320,130 ,130 Rate of Trainings Provided by Internal Trainers 86% 81% 81% 85% 83% TOTAL TRAINING Number of Academy Trainers 500+ 542 710 810 758 TRAINING HOURS Rate of Internet-Based Training in 56% 71% 77% 85% 87% All Trainings HOURS PER PERSON Number of Training Partners 100+ 200 398 400+ 400+ »49 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT As one of the first corporate companies in Turkey to OUR TRAINING PERFORMANCE offer e-learning solutions 500 to employees, we reached 1.500.000 1.419.745 40,000 people through our 1.374.532 1.320.130 MORE THAN distance learning platforms 1.095.490 1.026.579 in 2012. We provided 85% of 1.000.000 800 all our training and education solutions by using distance 517.158 669.242 633.524 learning technologies. The 500.000 savings that we achieved with 217.468 335.576 INTERNAL distance learning solutions is equivalent to 22 million US 0 TRAININGS dollars. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 TRAINERS SUBJECTS Number of Participants Total Training hours We Make a Difference in Education Solutions with this model. 8,500 people completed this simulation-based their work and increase their level of expertise. We contributed training session, in which the participants made interactive choices to the development of 2,090 employees of our Regional Solution Turkcell Academy Distance Learning Platforms in an actual Turkcell Communication Center setting, and the level of Partners, who work for Turkcell’s network quality, with a total In line with our leading approach in technology, we aim at customer satisfaction changed according to these choices. of 70 training contents, including classroom-based and distance implementing the most appropriate methods that are able to meet learning. In 2013, we reached 60,000 people in the Turkcell Group ecosystem the development needs of individuals through platforms developed and provided 1 million 374 thousand 532 hours of training in total, The Leadership and Talent Management Unit of Turkcell as an alternative to traditional classroom trainings. Thanks to these an average of 17 hours per person. The MBA program organized in Academy, continue to support the strengthening of Turkcell alternative platforms, we reduce our carbon footprint by enabling collaboration with Bahçeşehir University, which aims at enabling Group’s leadership approach and common leadership culture by participants to receive training without the need to travel. the managers of corporate customers to know the business world contributing to the development of nearly 1,200 managers and In 2012, we added the Mobile Learning platform to our existing better and become more knowledgeable about the dynamics of this candidate managers at Turkcell Group. e-learning and virtual classroom infrastructures. By producing learning world, as well as the certificate programs organized in cooperation We continue offering “Programs for Life” trainings in order to solutions compatible with all smart devices, we enable both our with Anadolu University and designed to increase the level of support personal development through Turkcell Academy. With employees and corporate customers to benefit from these tools. The expertise in retail business at Turkcell Communication Centers, are more than 800 “Academy Trainers”, we supported our employees processes developed as part of the Turkcell Service and Sales Model ongoing. in working as volunteer trainers and, as of today, we have provided have been learnt by all employees at customer contact points. An In 2013, we initiated a program including 450 different specialist training on nearly 500 subjects by using internal resources. educational, game-based simulation was added to the development trainings as part of the Technology Development Program. process implemented for 6,200 people in 2011, which included Under the scope of the same program, we started the Analyst e-learning, trainings and seminars, in order to ensure the continuity of Development Program to help 250 analysts make a difference in a common language and perspective that reflects conduct coherent »50 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS MANAGEMENT 9 12 1975 Compensation and Additional Benefits Management at Turkcell 2013 In line with the vision of our company, the aim is to set up a compensation and additional benefits system which: • Helps to realize targets and strategies, • Rewards high performance, IN CERTIFICATE UNIVERSITIES STUDENTS • Is fair, innovative, competitive and transparent, • Supports the personal and professional development of PROGRAMS our employees, meets their individual needs and increases employee engagement. At Turkcell, we use the Hay Methodology to strengthen our We Add Value to Our Business through University-Industry Supporting Young People Who Have a Promising Future in Technology employees’ sense of progress in their career, demonstrate the Collaborations Since 2007, we have been offering the “Technology Leaders Master’s differences between the relative sizes of jobs objectively and With the “University-Industry Collaborations” undertaken by Scholarship Program” in order to support the development of obtain easily integrated solutions compatible with other human Turkcell Academy, we support numerous academic research young people who have a promising future in technology and raise resources systems and practices. works and projects and ensure coordination with business units a qualified workforce for the sector. Supported by the Informatics through collaboration with many prestigious universities in Turkey Association of Turkey, the program provides scholarships to master’s and leading academic institutions of the world such as Harvard students referred by the senior management of their universities and Business School and Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT). selected for their successful academic performance. As of today, we have provided 510 students with scholarships under this program. JOB University-Industry collaborations are vital in terms of developing APPRAISAL a qualified workforce for our country and opening new horizons for young people, who will soon become the new workforce, and enabling them to make sound career choices. Between November DENİZ AKSOY 2011 and December 2012, we reached 1,357 students at 11 Training Systems and Technologies Specialist, Turkcell universities through 8 certificate programs prepared in the light of our corporate knowledge and experience, raising a qualified Turkcell is one of several Turkish companies with the most competent human MACROPERFORMANCE resources. The team members always try to help each other develop and are ECONOMIC COMPENSATION AND TALENT workforce for the fast-growing informatics sector. encouraged to do so, which is wonderful. Also, the fact that this process runs INDICATORS MANAGEMENT Between October 2012 and December 2013, we reached 1,975 on a voluntary basis shows that the team is extremely open to sharing, and this students at 12 universities through 9 certificate programs strongly motivates the trainers. I benefit from the training system at Turkcell by providing and receiving training at the same time. While training people, you prepared in the light of our corporate knowledge and experience, prepare yourself for possible questions that might be asked regarding the subject raising a qualified workforce for the informatics sector. By you are covering, and share the participants’ knowledge and experience, both of bringing Turkcell Group managers together with 14,000 students which enhance your expertise on the subject. As I try to explain things to people, I constantly learn new pointers about areas such as handling difficulties and from 32 universities at 51 events, we pioneered the discussion communication. MARKET of topics such as “Mobile Innovation”, “New Technologies”, DYNAMICS “Entrepreneurship” and “Career” that could contribute to the vision and development of young people. »51 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Compensation is arranged according to the level structure that is • Transportation service* Flex Menu: Flexible Additional Benefit Program based on the work magnitude of job families and positions, and • Meal tickets* This program offers many options from gift vouchers and holiday individual performance is taken into consideration. As required by our • GSM line and device* packages to interim payment for the individual pension plan and Compensation and Additional Benefit policy and our leader position • Company vehicle suitable for the position a healthy life package. With Flex Menu, our flexible additional in the market, we monitor the market closely with compensation • Birthday leave*; employees can take a 1-day leave on their benefit program, our employees can create their own benefit surveys regularly carried out every year and review the wages. birthday. If the birthday falls on a weekend, the leave can package each year according to their individual needs. Turkcell does not have any actual situation or liabilities requiring be used on a weekday. This is not deducted from the annual collective bargaining. This is a type of agreement applied in places leave. Individual Pension System where workers and employers’ unions are present. According to • 5-day paternity leave; 2 extra days are allowed in addition to We give all our employees the opportunity to invest for their the constitution, establishing a union and union membership is the legal 3-day paternity leave, making a total of 5 days. future with the Individual Pension System and contribute to their discretionary. There are no workers or employers union in the • “First day of school” leave for mothers with children who are pension plans. When employees remain in the pension plan for structure of our company. in preschool or primary school 36 months, they become eligible for the contributions paid by the Gender-based discrimination is avoided in Compensation and company on their behalf. Additional Benefit determination and practices; all employees are • Daycare assistance for women employees with children aged evaluated in the same wage scale. 2-5 years 54% of our employees are covered by an individual pension plan. • Petrol aid Contributions to the pension plan vary according to the gross Our employees working in the bottom level of expertise are salary of the employee. We pay contributions at a rate of 2-3% of still remunerated above the minimum wage. Additionally, all our • Employee loans the employee’s gross salary based on their seniority. employees are made a premium payment according to their yearly • Relocation assistance; employees who are offered a position individual performance and achievements. in a different city after being positively evaluated for their Turkcell Assist application for an internal job advertisement are supported with relocation assistance. Turkcell Assist is a free service which allows our employees and Ratio of the average wage of male employees to that of their families to find solutions to problems in their private lives in female employees Comfortable Work Environment an easier and faster way. Full-Time 1,06 We have a special helpline in place through which we can notify any technical and administrative problems and find solutions for The Renewal Program Part-Time 0,90 them. We resolve all technical and administrative issues in the Our purpose with the “Renewal Program” was to provide guidance Senior Management 0,99 shortest time possible through this “Employee Help Desk”. to our employees for a healthy lifestyle and make them feel Mid-Level Manager 1,01 There are gym, hairdresser and dry-cleaning services as well as a special in every area of their daily lives. Professionals 1,07 resident doctor at our plazas. We initiated many practices with the program that would have General 1,06 We organize various activities to reinforce the motivation of our both spiritual and physical benefits for our employees and renew employees by using the Motivation Budget, 150TRY/employee them. Benefits Provided to Employees per year. Additionally, employees with a term of service of 7 years and more can • Private healthcare insurance covering spouse and children take a “Renewal Leave”. With this leave, they can take a break from • Individual Pension System with company contribution professional life for up to 3 months to focus on their hobbies, families • Private life insurance *Benefits provided to employees working under a fixed-term employment contract. and development. »52 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT AND REPRESENTATION Annual Focus Meetings: Every year between January and March, function-based communication meetings or an Infoday takes place, IN TOTAL IN TOTAL 78 7,294 Participation of Employees in Decision Making Mechanisms during which the entire Group comes together at the same time. Tuesday Market: This is a platform where experts come together Group company employees are also invited to this large meeting, for warm-hearted conversations and we can enjoy ourselves while where the company’s targets for that year, vision and focus areas learning new things during business hours. The sessions take place of the departments are shared with employees. The meeting is at Turkcell’s Tepebaşı Plaza and can be viewed online via Pikcell at followed by dinner and entertainment activities. all plazas. Night Market: This is a platform by which we can have discussions INTERNAL COMMUNICATION AND EMPLOYEE SOCIAL with customer representatives and dealership employees to gather their insight on the questions posed by Customer Experience ENGAGEMENT EFFORTS Social Clubs: At Turkcell, we have numerous social clubs. We GROUPS MEMBERS Management teams regarding customer orientation. encourage our employees to take part in these groups. Members of social clubs can communicate with other members by means The main sharing environment of the clubs is Inside, Turkcell’s Your Turn to Talk: This is a platform where we openly discuss of social sharing within the club. Some of the more popular clubs intranet. There are also clubs that come together outside the important matters concerning the company. Our employees freely include Mothers & Fathers, Bloggers, Fan Clubs, Animal Lovers, virtual environment and organize activities. There are 78 social express their opinions in a forum environment. Discussions are Motorcycling and Cinema. groups and 7,294 group members in total on Inside, thanks to the held at the request of marketing teams. Their frequency may vary groups created by our employees. depending on the requests received. »53 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT TSAG: Working for the entire Turkcell Group, the Turkcell Social Mobilim (“My Mobile”): This is a mobile platform by which our Activity Group (TSAG) is a team of volunteers from different employees can take action when they are outside the company departments, which organizes various social activities for premises. By using the “Mobilim” application installed in their employees and their friends and families on a weekly basis. phones, employees can do several things from entering leave days and approving transactions, to accessing an employee’s Activities organized by TSAG include domestic and international phone number and applying for the social activities organized by trips, parties, photography and acting courses, TSAG Children’s Club TSAG. activities for the employees’ children, sports tournaments, concerts and shows, trekking and camping trips, cinema/singing/dancing/film The “Mobilim” application is used by all Turkcell Group company contests, sports and hobby courses etc. TSAG organizes more than employees. 500 social activities participated in by more than 30,000 people in a single year. All activities held by TSAG are announced through a special e-mail to Turkcell Group. Applications are collected via a link provided from Inside. EVERY MONTH 3,500 30,000 75,000 EMPLOYEES VISITS TRANSACTIONS AS UNIQUE USER »54 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT That Deserves An Award: Achievements that make a difference Employee Engagement Evaluation Surveys Turkcell Engagement Score are always rewarded at Turkcell. During the year, employees can nominate themselves or their colleagues for an award in 1. The Employee Engagement Evaluation Survey: TURKCELL ENGAGEMENT SCORE categories such as Innovation, Customer Satisfaction, Income This is a survey that measures the engagement and satisfaction and Savings. 100 levels of our employees regarding their achievement of The award committee, which meets at regular intervals, successful business outcomes. As a result of the evaluations, 90 evaluates the applications objectively. Applicants who are found engagement scores are obtained at company, function and 82 80 to be deserving of an award are called on to the stage to be department levels. The employee engagement evaluation survey 80 75 congratulated by the senior management team at the awards is administered every two years. All full-time employees of 70 ceremonies held every quarter. Cash rewards of up to 50,000 Turkcell take the survey. Employees hired within the 3 months TRY are presented to the winners. 60 preceding the evaluation period, part-time employees and Inside: Around 12,000 people use our intranet, which has now interns are excluded. 50 become a social network for the entire Turkcell Group. Our 40 2. First-Line Manager Evaluation Survey: employees have their own wall and profile, just like social networks. They can view the content of the groups they follow 30 This is a survey by which our employees evaluate their firstor internal corporate news on their wall. They can comment line managers in order to support the development of Turkcell 20 on or like the posts on their wall and share them with different managers and raise their level of awareness. The employees 10 groups. systematically share their feedback about their first-line manager. Individual first-line manager scores are obtained as a 0 This platform also allows the employees to create their own 2009 2010 2011 result of employee evaluations. First-line manager evaluation groups. Our employees can collaborate or share content in surveys are administered every year. these groups. This project was first started with Turkcell and *Turkcell engagement evaluation survey is administered every two years. The most then extended to all other Group companies. This also helped to recent survey was held in 2012. 3. The Pulse Check Survey: strengthen the communication between the employees of Group **Turkcell Group information companies. This survey measures the engagement and satisfaction levels of employees by company, function or department on a voluntary The level of satisfaction with internal communication activities is basis in the years when the employee engagement survey is not measured with surveys sent to participants. administered at Turkcell. Administration steps of the pulse check survey are the same as the employee engagement evaluation survey. »55 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT In 2013, we took OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) Accordingly, pursuant to the main responsibilities under Act No. 6331: an important OHS Management • Risk assessment efforts have been completed for 43 buildings. organizational step While we had made several investments and efforts for the health • In all 10 of the workplaces with more than 50 employees, by establishing and safety of our employees, the first organizational step taken in OHS Boards meeting the legal criteria were created, employee the Turkcell Group this area was demonstrated in the Network Operations in 2012. representatives were assigned, and monthly board meetings Occupational Health The Turkcell Group Occupational Health and Safety Unit was are held with approved books. Employer representatives on the established in April 2013, marking an important organizational step. boards at Turkcell workplaces are at the level of director, vice and Safety Unit. president and Anatolian regional manager. As the Turkcell OHS Unit, we aim at ensuring that employees in the Turkcell ecosystem work in a healthy and safe environment OHS Boards in accordance with the criteria specified in Act No. 6331. Turkcell An OHS Board is established at every workplace with more than 50 İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş has a total of 43 buildings and 27 SGKemployees working under the same employer registration number. registered workplaces. The number of its workplaces with more Consisting of experts and representatives from every function than 50 employees, as clearly defined in the law, is 10. As stated in in the workplace organization, the Board meets regularly, takes the systems of SGK (Social Security Institution) and the Ministry decisions and implements them, ensuring a healthy and safe working of Labor and Social Security, all of the workplaces are classified as environment with a pluralistic approach. There are 13 OHS Boards at “low-hazard”. Turkcell Group that serve this purpose. Board members: • Employer representative; they are employed under an employment contract, act on behalf of the employer and take part in the management of the workplace and business. Employer representatives are accountable towards employees similar to the employer. The employer representatives in the boards of Turkcell are Board Leaders and selected from among Directors. • Employee representative; the number of employee representatives in the board varies according to the number of employees at the workplace, in accordance with the law. At Turkcell, employee representatives are selected from among the staff members who can observe and determine the hazards and risks in every department and communicate them to the board, in line with the nature of the business conducted at that workplace. »56 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT IN 2013 44,500 TOTAL OHS TRAINING HOURS 99% • Administrative affairs representative; a staff member from administrative affairs is included in the boards at Turkcell for SUCCESS RATE 99% of the 244 people targeted to receive first-aid training completed this training by the end of 2013, while the rate of each workplace to also act as the board secretary. IN BASIC completion for the safe/defensive driving techniques training • Occupational safety specialist; a person with a specialist’s OHS TRAININGS planned for 1,200 people was 42% at the end of 2013. In 2012certificate in occupational safety, authorized by the Ministry to 2013, 385 people received training on working at heights. For work in the area of occupational health and safety. Occupational Health and Safety, 44,500 hours of training were provided in total in 2013. At Turkcell Group, we organize these meetings on a monthly basis irrespective of the hazard class, and record all resolutions and actions in the Board Book with the wet signature of all board members. OHS Trainings 99% of the Turkcell Group employees successfully completed colleagues working in positions of a hazardous nature (working at As part of our obligation of information, we created an OHS the Basic OHS Training, which is required by the Act to be at least heights, safe driving etc.), renewing them as required. page in the Turkcell Inside internal communication portal 8 hours per employee at low-hazard workplaces. In addition to and published the relevant legislation and procedures for our The “OHS Volunteers” at Turkcell Group (referred to as “support staff” the legal requirements concerning training, as Turkcell we also employees.. We also published Turkcell’s OHS policy on our web in the legislation) have started to obtain their (first aid) certificates in plan and implement advanced OHS trainings. At the same time, site (www.turkcell.com.tr) for all visitors. the relevant areas. OHS board members have received training in the we continue organizing separate professional trainings for our areas related to their responsibilities and have been certified. »57 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Occupational Accidents, Improvement Efforts and Labor Loss and risks at Turkcell and created the necessary procedures. We The breakdown of occupational accidents at Turkcell Group in 2013 equipped base towers with vertical lifelines, creating a safer is as follows: When an occupational accident occurs on the premises and/or working environment for Turkcell and the employees in the outside the workplace, the relevant officers of the institution * There were 8 minor and 2 major incidents and 1 near-miss in ecosystem. In 2013, we provided 382 NOR employees with a investigate the accident. This is important in terms of identifying 2013. 13-piece personal protective equipment set and gave training the actions to be taken following occupational accidents, on their use. In 2012, we trained 385 employees about working * The Accident Frequency Rate, which shows the frequency of investigating the causes of accidents, supporting the legal process at heights and provided guidance to our solution partners in occupational accidents occurring at Turkcell Group in 2013 by and providing data for the statistical studies conducted to prevent their training efforts for their own employees. the total length of service, is 1. accidents. b) Employees driving a vehicle in the field: We developed and * The Accident Severity Rate, which shows the lost workdays When an accident happens, the OHS Specialist investigates published a driving procedure. We also introduced a driving due to accidents occurring at Turkcell Group in 2013 by the the causes and occurrence of the accident, condition of the assessment requirement during recruitment. 1,200 people total length of service, was 0.005. 51 workdays were lost. victims, and the location and time of the accident. The results who have been allocated a vehicle or use a vehicle in the pool of this investigation are recorded in the “Occupational Accident No data for occupational disease was reported. system have been identified as the target population for safe Investigation Form”. This aids the legal process to be applied for driving training. There were no administrative fines applied for non-compliance the occupational accident. The events leading to the accident are with legislation. interpreted in order to prevent reoccurrence of the causes of the c) Office employees: Risk evaluation works have been completed accident as determined from the accident report. at all Turkcell offices. We created a hazard and risk map Occupational Health and Safety at Management Solution for each workplace, and undertook risk elimination works Partners (MSP) Labor loss (including diseases), environmental pollution and cases according to their level of precedence. of disability and death resulting from accidents are recorded by We take measures for occupational safety in the sites covered by the OHS Officer for assessment on a monthly basis. These records the Turkcell network. allow us to explore trends and their causes and to take necessary measures. The results of the statistical studies are discussed at • We completed the erection of warning signs in the sites of “Management Review Meetings” and provide input for targets. the Turkcell network in line with OHS requirements. In new sites, they are established during the installation stage. Regarding occupational accidents, the general risk areas of the company have been identified and categorized, and associated • We install vertical lifelines for safe working in the tower sites preventive measures and actions have been developed. Within within the Turkcell network. In new sites, they are mounted this framework, there are 3 main risk groups at Turkcell as far as during the installation stage. occupational health and safety is concerned: • Efforts are ongoing for the preparation of site-specific a) Network Employees: Set up, maintenance, repair and operational risk analysis documents and the taking of all relocation of base stations and towers in particular involve necessary measures. hazard and a high risk due to the nature of the works • The supply of personal protective equipment and trainings performed. The height at which the work is performed, for their use has been completed as planned. We evaluate the electrical works etc. involves a serious risk for the employees requirements at the beginning of each year. concerned. Within this framework, we identified these hazards »58 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT MONTHLY INTERACTION 12.7 4.5 3.5 MILLION MILLION MILLION 5.2 MILLION WITH OUR TIMES VIA TIMES VIA TIMES TIMES VIA CUSTOMERS DIGITAL CALL FACE TO VOICE RESPONSE OUR CUSTOMERS CHANNELS CENTERS FACE SYSTEM At Turkcell, our first priority is our customers. We observe and This allows us to measure the overall satisfaction of our establish facts in order to better understand our customers and customers, determine how easy or difficult it is for them to respond to their needs. Increasing customer satisfaction is one receive the service they need, and understand the enthusiasm of the core values of every Turkcell employee and all of our and motivation of our employees in this process. Our customers employees act with this understanding in mind. using the services of call centers are requested to reply to this survey within 24 hours of being serviced by the voice response We work to achieve customer satisfaction as a priority through system. implementing improvement processes, engagement-enhancing actions, efficient time management, quality product service and Customer satisfaction rates by year* value-added campaigns. We also place importance on the safety of customer information, closely follow up their complaints and 2012 2013 provide fast response. We always prefer to have interactive and positive communication with our customers. Call centers 3.91 3.9 Turkcell Communication Centers 3.66 3.71 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Voice-response system 3.57 We set up systematic channels in order to listen to our customers and receive their feedback. We measure the Website 3.69 3.72 satisfaction of our customers via the Service Booster system *Scoring is out of 5 points. within 2 hours for the customers receiving service through faceto-face channels, and within half an hour for customers serviced by the voice response system. »59 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT TURKCELL VIDEO CALL CENTER The Turkcell Video Call Center is our operation providing free services to our hearing-impaired customers, where sign language can be used when necessary. Making a video call to 532 is all that is needed to connect to the Video Call Center. The 7th Sense Customer Insight Center As part of the “Customer 2.0” action, our marketing teams provided one-to-one service and sold products at customer contact Customer experience is essential for us. The 7 Sense Customer th points. This program, named “Out of Office Because I am with My Insight Center is a research center managed directly by the Customer”, was selected as the training of the year by marketing Department of Customer Strategies and Market Insight. At this employees in 2012. center, we aim at helping our employees understand the customer experience better, deepening our relations with customers and CUSTOMER INFORMATION understanding what our customers express and do not express about their experience with the service provided to them. The promotion and advertising content of all products and services offered during the year is prepared carefully in accordance with The 7th Sense Insight Center operates at international standards the principles laid out by the Advertising Self-Regulatory Board, and conducts numerous focus group and user experience tests to Competition Authority, and Information and Communication gain insight. We use eye tracking devices during communication Technologies Authority in order to inform consumers in a transparent tests in particular. and accurate way. Customer 2.0 Accordingly, we exercise maximum care to include any important information which constitutes an exception to the main promise Launched with the purpose of offering a unique customer that affects the consumer’s decision to buy, to ensure that the main experience, our Customer 2.0 program continued in 2013. We promise and its exception are not contradictory, to avoid forbidden provided development solutions to increase the awareness and claims in commercials, to use the correct wording and avoid knowledge of Turkcell Group managers and our employees as misleading statements in commercials, and to abide by the provisions Turkcell Ambassadors. In 2012, 1,750 people came together with of the “Communique on the Methods and Principles of Using Subtitles our customers at Turkcell Communication Centers (TIMs) and the and Footnotes in Commercial Advertorials and Advertisements”. Call Center to share their improvement ideas. »60 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT CUSTOMER CONFIDENTIALITY AND INFORMATION SECURITY CUSTOMER COMPLAINTS Customers can also communicate their complaints through the online complaint system in the website, via e-mail and by written As an indication of the importance that we place on information Handling complaints is one of the prioritized areas in our notice in the case of public institutions. security, we are the first company in the sector to be certified customer satisfaction policy. There are various channels through in information security. Our company has held the certificate which our customers can access us instantly. We respond to our Regardless of the channel by which the complaint is forwarded, of information security standard ISO 27001 since 2008, and customers’ requests, complaints and demands after verifying Turkcell responds to complaints in the following ways: has many information-sharing practices in place to support the their identity and meeting the information security requirements 1. The customer makes a complaint by calling the call center or training and awareness level of our employees in information from every platform available to our customers. The channels through another channel. Without classifying the complaint security including e-learning, internal LCD panels, a portal for currently available for both corporate and individual customers so received, the front office opens a general “complaint Turkcell employees, classroom-based training etc. to contact our Company are listed below: ticket” based on the customer’s statement. If the “complaint At Turkcell, information is classified to be protected. We • 532 call center ticket” is of a nature which can be resolved easily, the record and keep all personal information of our subscribers in complaint is handled by the front office. • Turkcell Communication Centers (TIMs) accordance with the laws and regulations of the Republic of 2. If the complaint cannot be resolved at the first level and Turkey. Relevant units of the company regularly review the • E-mails via turkcell.com.tr requires further investigation, the “complaint ticket” is authorizations to access critical information, and authorization • Turkcell’s social media accounts classified according to the root cause behind it and forwarded updates are handled carefully. In addition, records which must be to the back office. The back office takes the necessary actions kept for the operations conducted at Turkcell pursuant to the law • For corporate subscribers, customer requests and complaints regarding the complaint and informs the customer from the (contracts, minutes etc.) are kept by the relevant department by are received through the Corporate Customer Representative. beginning to the end of the solution process about the status taking physical and logically necessary security measures. of his/her complaint. »61 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT OUR SUPPLIERS ETHICAL RULES AND LEGAL REQUIREMENTS FOR The ethical rules including Turkcell’s principles of working SUPPLIERS with suppliers can be found at turkcell.com.tr. The printed TÜRKER ÇİFTÇİ version of the rules is also shared with suppliers and it is CEO, Enerlab Enerji ve İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. In line with developing and changing global conditions, we ensured that they place the necessary importance on the not only always offer the best and highest-quality service, The leading communications company of subject. Applicable rules are published on a continual basis Turkey, Turkcell always remains one step ahead but also plan and conduct our activities based on social in the supplier portal (www.tedarikci.turkcell.com.tr) which of its competitors and successfully integrates responsibility, environmental consciousness and respect for all novelties in the sector. It also encourages its enables us to work in closer cooperation with our suppliers employee rights. As part of mutual responsibility, we also suppliers to always find and offer the best and and is used effectively in accessing Turkcell. the newest. As Enerlab, we have managed to expect our suppliers to have this awareness and operate by be an ever-innovative and pioneering company improving their environment. For the purpose of managing our relations with business that safeguards corporate values in order to partners in accordance with laws, rules and regulations meet the high-level expectations of Turkcell. In order to standardize relations with our suppliers, set And this has enabled us to achieve a continuous and maintaining a “win-win” relationship for the benefit of a framework for them and make them transparent, we growth trend by always staying one step ahead stakeholders and the country, we put forward compliance published the Turkcell Group Ethical Rules for Procurement. of similar companies in the sector. with the rules described under the following topics. 92% »62 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT LOCAL SUPPLIERS CONSTITUTE OF OUR SUPPLIER PORTFOLIO We give priority to SELECTION OF SUPPLIERS These financial statements are subjected to financial analyses and the current financial status of the supplier is projected. At suppliers that hold As part of our expectations from our suppliers and the the end of this analysis, the respective purchasing manager and quality management purchasing policy designed for them, it is compulsory for our officers are informed about potential risks and the status of the suppliers to comply with legislation in general and the Turkcell and information Group Ethical Rules for Procurement. supplier. After the references and technical competencies of the supplier are evaluated, a decision is made whether to work with security certificates, At Turkcell, we choose our suppliers based on principles such the supplier or not. are sensitive about as quality-price balance, past performance, market conditions Standard contracts as required by the work in question are ecological balance, and references, as well as mutual trust. In Turkcell’s supplier signed with all suppliers that successfully pass the preliminary selection, other criteria are also considered and priority is given and act with a sense of to suppliers that hold quality management and information assessment and with whom the company plans to work. Of these contracts, the Framework Contract and the Confidentiality social responsibility. security certificates, are sensitive about ecological balance, and Agreement include the preconditions of the cooperation between act with a sense of social responsibility. the supplier and Turkcell. Additional Agreements that include In the supplier selection process, we first make a preliminary job-specific provisions are then signed and enter into force. assessment of the supplier candidates for inclusion in the Article 11 of the Framework Contract signed by all existing and portfolio. Accordingly, we assess the supplier on the basis of potential suppliers of Turkcell has been drafted to include Human financial and tax matters, technical competency and references. Rights provisions. In addition to all other conditions, suppliers We ask for the financial statements of the last 2 years, which must undertake that they shall meet the requirements of Turkcell provide input for the analyses that will be made in order to Group Ethical Rules for Procurement. understand the sustainability of the services provided by that supplier for Turkcell. »63 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT AUDITING AND DEVELOPMENT OF SUPPLIERS MANAGEMENT SOLUTION PARTNER (MSP) DEVELOPMENT SUPPLIER PORTAL PROGRAM We inspect the suppliers in our portfolio by means of a Supplier The Supplier Portal is a website designed to be the first and Management System. We periodically perform supplier The MSP Development Program was created to support MSPs in preferred access channel for Turkcell’s existing or potential evaluations and audits. In these evaluations and audits, by their efforts for establishing an internal training and development suppliers to contact Turkcell’s procurement team. supporting the implementation of Turkcell’s purchasing policies, system, increase the competence, work quality and engagement of we aim at applying standard principles in supplier management, the personnel, improve their compliance with Turkcell’s operational increasing transparency in internal and external communication, standards and share Turkcell’s expertise and technological experience. creating a supplier quality management process and developing For this purpose, the following activities were performed for MSPs new supplier management strategies. through the Turkcell Academy Development Program in 2012: Approved suppliers are classified according to various criteria • Classroom-based specialist trainings were organized in 8 such as annual purchasing volume and defined supplier risk, categories with the participation of 500 MSP staff members; which is determined by product replacement cost, market position, product and service provided, and the effect of their • Basic training was provided in 13 categories; product on the service provided to our customers. They are • All BMP personnel received “MSP orientation training”, inspected and audited periodically based on this classification. which provided an introduction to mobile communication The purpose of the site is to receive the applications technologies; Any noncompliance detected as a result of the evaluation and of supplier candidates and enable suppliers to access audit is communicated to the supplier in the specified reporting • Videos were prepared in 15 different operational areas; important documentation which they may need, and format. The supplier is asked to prepare an action plan for the • 1,131 MSP employees took the Competency Examination correction of such cases of noncompliance and those actions are in 10 different categories. Administered through traditional share their innovative ideas such as new processes/ followed up within the planned schedule. methods in previous years, the exam was given in the TAG* products and projects directly with Turkcell environment this year, resulting in significant progress in terms Procurement Team. At the end of evaluations and audits, development actions and of measurement, assessment and monitoring of improvement. areas of improvement for the next period are identified and Examination analysis reports provided input for the 2013 followed up based on the supplier’s score. SUPPLIER FINANCING ACCEPTANCE OF regional and central training programs. Suppliers are blacklisted and followed up if Turkcell makes the SUPPLIERS’ SUGGESTIONS In 2013, we contributed to the development of 2,090 MSP Launched in 2013, the AND COMPLAINTS decision not to work with them due to reasons such as breach employees with 50 different TAG trainings and 20 different Supplier Financing practice of information security, refusal to be audited by Turkcell, giving allows our suppliers to collect Communication with classroom-based trainings. We administered the MSP competency suppliers is maintained inaccurate and misleading information, withholding information, their receivables before the examinations in 8 categories with the participation of 1,452 people. due date by using the eFirm through the Turkcell Supplier risking business and human lives and demonstrating unethical Portal or the e-mail address Our efforts are ongoing for the creation of common purchasing portal. This contributes to behavior. tedarikciportal@turkcell. pools for Turkcell and all MSPs to reduce costs and for the the financial sustainability of com.tr. Suppliers can access our suppliers. Thanks to this Turkcell for any matter implementation of programs that prove to be advantageous in one opportunity to collect their and communicate their *TAG: Turkcell Academy Development Program. This is a training system which can region to be carried out in other regions as well. payments before the due date, suggestions, requests and be accessed remotely, where users can log in with their password, watch the training our suppliers can easily meet questions over the portal In particular, with our purchasing preferences we aim at ensuring videos assigned to them and take exams. their urgent financial needs. called the “Supplier’s Voice”. that a minimum of 10% of network-related purchases are made from local SMEs. »64 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT the Electromagnetic Field Intensity from Electronic Communication My Child is Safe PRODUCT Devices According to International Standards” numbered 27912, AND SERVICE This service allows individual issued by the Information and Communication Technologies subscribers to limit the calls RESPONSIBILITY Authority on 21.04.2011. Then we file an application with the made to and from their children’s Information and Communication Technologies Authority. We phones. Parents can also make initiate the site installation work after obtaining a “Certificate of 10 free location inquiries for their Safety” from ICTA. children and use the “Find me in an In every region where If the system is activated within 120 days following the certificate earthquake” service free of charge. date, we measure the Electromagnetic Field Intensity value and This service enables parents to we offer our services, submit it to the Authority. We perform the installations by taking provide safer communication for we work to ensure that into consideration the limit values specified in the applicable their children and control the the services associated regulations for the environment and for a single device. access of undesirable people. with information If no discrepancy is found between the installed system and the measurement values and technical documents given to the technologies are Authority at the unannounced field inspections performed by accessible and available SET-UP AND INSPECTION OF BASE STATIONS the Information and Communication Technologies Authority, to our customers When preparing the investment plan, we consider the urgency of the system continues to provide service. Otherwise, ICTA has the system revised or dismantled pursuant to the applicable and users in line 2G and 3G network requirements and complaints from subscribers. regulations. with their current We determine the content of the plan and identify the investment plan sites that have priority according to the investment analyses. and future needs. In It is through the virtual environment and digital maps that we Base stations and biodiversity the design, planning obtain information about the geographical structure of the regions We ensure full compliance with the regulations on environmental and utilization of our where the cells included in the business plan are located. We and human health during the installation and maintenance of base evaluate the parameters (frequency, neighborhood relations and stations. There is no established proof as to any adverse effects products and services, traffic reports) about the existing cells in the region where planning of base stations on biodiversity. We regularly follow the scientific we take the potential will be done. studies published on this subject. effects on human Where required, we also consider the data collected from field tests PRODUCT AND SERVICE RESPONSIBILITY PRACTICES health and safety and during the evaluation. Before site work is initiated, we do preplanning by using several programs in the light of the information. the environment into Based on the available information and site survey results, we Blocking Calls and SMS consideration, and decide on the location of the station to be set up. We created a service by which individual subscribers can limit conduct our efforts incoming calls and SMS messages. With this service, subscribers We prepare site files by taking into consideration the Safety can choose to block numbers or to not answer calls when they accordingly. distance calculation specified in the “Regulations on the wish. Identification, Control and Inspection of Exposure Limit Values for »65 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT OUR CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY RIGHT OF ACCESS TO TELECOMMUNICATION PRODUCTS Urgent SMS Earthquake Service We undertake many AND SERVICES GSM standards do not allow SMS messages to be sent to 3-digit The “Find Me in an Earthquake” infrastructure works so Providing Mobile Communication Infrastructure and Service telephone numbers. People sometimes have to send SMS messages service is an application that For Those Areas Without Mobile Coverage to numbers such as 112 and 155 for emergency services. One shares the location information of that every segment of example is the Van earthquake. subscribers with their predefined The purpose of the project which is held by Ministry of Transport, society can benefit from Maritime Affairs and Communication is to bring GSM service At the time, when our costumers suddenly grabbed their contacts in earthquakes with a magnitude of 5 and higher. We our products and services to villages with a population between 1-500 and no GSM telephones to contact their friends and relatives, the voice-grade provide general information about infrastructure (where there are no signals of any GSM operator), channels became fully engaged while SMS channels remained equally. We also support free. Many people trapped under the debris or in other difficult earthquakes with the Earthquake reaching a population-based coverage rate of 100% in Turkey. Information Service. Similarly, we disadvantaged groups and With this project, we aim at providing equal communication situations could not make calls, and tried in vain to send an send informational messages to the contribute to the national rights for rural and urban populations, eliminating the digital gap SMS message to 112. We developed the Urgent SMS service to service subscribers via SMS on a and supporting rural development programs. automate this process. Once an SMS message is received by service economy through corporate numbers such as 112 and 155, the location of the sender is inquired monthly basis, informing them about By the end of the project, GSM services will be made available to what to do in an earthquake. “Find Me projects. We increase our and the content of the SMS message, together with the location in an Earthquake” and “Earthquake nearly 300,000 citizens living in 1,799 villages with a population information, is sent to the nearest Emergency Aid Center. The social impact by involving of 1-500 people in 74 provinces. service has been operational for one year. As of today, 310,000 Information” services are free services the relevant stakeholders We entitled as Universal Service responsible for this project on SMS messages have been forwarded to the relevant institutions. developed as a social responsibility project in cooperation with the in all of our efforts at the 17 January 2013 with a tender, which was held by Ministry of Disaster and Emergency Service Kandilli Observatory. Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications and Turkcell highest level. We place officially initiated this project upon the agreement signed We support our customers and ensure that they keep in touch with importance on cooperation between Turkcell and the General Directorate of Communication their friends and relatives during natural disasters (earthquakes, floods, tornados). As part of this application, we prioritize the with non-governmental on 20 February 2013. calls of our customers from the region of disaster, give them free organizations and develop packages which they can use for 1 month, ask them if they need permanent and sustainable anything by sending SMS messages or calling them, contact their friends and relatives if they cannot reach them, activate lines partnerships. which have been deactivated due to unpaid bills, or postpone the deactivation of lines for which bills are overdue. »66 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT DİRENÇ ÇELİK GNCTRKCLL Rate Representative I am working as a GNCTRKCLL rate representative. I listen to the problems, complaints and suggestions of young people about their rates, bring this information to the GNCTRKCLL team and develop projects accordingly. It is quite enjoyable. First of all, we develop projects for ourselves; as young people, we first question ourselves in everything that we do. As representatives, we are also in the target audience and this enables us to understand the problems of young people much more easily and have a clearer view of their wishes. From the moment I became a representative, I took very important steps in my professional life, worked in many projects that allowed me to improve myself, and witnessed the realization CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY THROUGH THE DEVELOPMENT Representatives: With GNCTRKCLL, we started the of my own projects. At Turkcell, as representatives we are given OF PRODUCTS, SERVICES AND APPLICATIONS GNCTRKCLL Representation System in 2012 to better follow unlimited freedom in our work; the needs and expectations of young people and enable them everybody creates projects in GNCTRKCLL their own field and each of us to have a voice. As a result of the elections held over social has the opportunity to work in Launched 8 years ago to become the brand of young people, media, where more than 2,000 young people were nominated the field of their choice. What GNCTRKCLL is advancing on its journey by setting itself higher and 203,496 voted, we identified Rate, Technology, Career, Event is more, I had the opportunity targets each day with 6 million members, representatives who and Shopping representatives. GNCTRKCLL representatives to meet many business contacts before I became fully engaged in have a voice in management, “Gencavers” who provide services to listened to the demands of GNCTRKCLL members in their area my professional life. I was able to young people in “their own language”, advantageous rates, brand of expertise, developed projects accordingly and had their say in work in many departments and In 2013, thanks to collaborations and entertaining events. the decisions concerning GNCTRKCLL. meet and collaborate with many agencies in person. In addition our GNCTRKCLL As of Today, GNCTRKCLL subscribers have won 15 million tickets in Career and personal development benefits: MediaCat to the things that we learnt from the “Buy One Ticket, Get One Free” campaign, enough to take the our professional life, being in representation system, and Digitalage magazines, published by Kapital Yayınları and front of a camera was one of the entire population of the Netherlands to the movies, and saved more dedicated to the subjects of marketing, advertising, campaigns, most enjoyable and unforgettable we involved young than 260 million TRY in the advantageous campaigns of their favorite the digital world and social media, offered special discounts for highlights of this year. people in our decision brands. GNCTRKCLL members. We also offered discounts on various processes. foreign language courses. »67 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT SMART WOMEN’S CLUB Through our Smart Women’s Club we helped household to save money, we also took in consideration the most important issues to these women, family and home safety. With purchases of Nar prepaid card and invoiced packages we enabled club members to benefit from Ergo Insurance’s home insurance and home support services. We enabled savings with kitchen and beauty categories by collaborations with brands and reached to 1.8 million beneficiary numbers. We listened these women, pin pointed their needs and wants and designed new product and services in line with these findings to leverage their life quality. “You are valuable to us” motto has driven us to organize events in 2013, in the scope of special days such as Mother’s Day and International Women’s Day. TURKCELL PENSIONERS CLUB With the Turkcell Pensioners Club, we aimed at offering a group of solutions together to make retirees feel special, from brand collaborations suited to their specific needs and advantageous rates, to extra user-friendly devices and improved experience with customer services. • Turkcell “Pensioners Advantage Rate” • Turkcell Pensioners Club members instantly connect to a customer representative when they call the Turkcell Call Center 532. • With the widescreen Turkcell MaxiPlus5, using a phone has never been easier. »68 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT We mobilize our TURKCELL FARMER UNION Agricultural Information Package: Supporting the farmer from planting to harvest technology and Agriculture and agricultural labor has a significant impact on provide special Turkey’s economy. And there are nearly 3.4 million farmers. Our With the agricultural information package, we send daily SMS goal with the Farmer Union program is to keep them updated on messages to farmers to inform them about countryand cityagricultural agricultural productivity, product quality, environmental impact specific agricultural developments and news. consultancy services and weather conditions in order to help them with economic and Free services in the package: environmental sustainability. to increase the • Regional announcements Our Farmer Union program currently has 1.3 million members. As productivity of 3.4 part of the program, we first tried to access farmers via mobile • Recent agricultural developments million farmers. phone messages. However, considering those farmers who are not • Up-to-date news from the Ministry of Agriculture and adequately literate, we have visited 5,000 village coffeehouses Chambers of Agriculture and directly contacted more than 100,000 people to promote the • County-specific 3-day agricultural weather conditions program since the beginning of the year. • Highest and lowest temperatures We mobilize our technology to increase the productivity of • Weather events (sunny, partly cloudy, showers etc.) 3.4 million farmers. With the Turkcell Farmer Union, we offer • Humidity solutions, which are easily accessible for farmers and increase their productivity, contributing to the financial well-being of farmers • Wind direction and speed and the development of Turkish agriculture. • Frost information »69 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT TURKCELL AGROMED IS A FIRST IN THE WORLD 20 10 REDUCTION % INCREASE % IN FARMERS’ IN THEIR COSTS YIELD Product Information Service Turkcell AgroMed: Personalized agriculture consultancy Subscribers are provided with the following information in the period leading up to harvest: Product-specific information and news Marking a global first, Turkcell AgroMed offers special solutions for each farmer’s field and product. All farmers subscribing to the • Product-specific growing program We send daily SMS messages that contain customized information Turkcell AgroMed service and registering their field and product • Fieldand product-specific fertilization program and news on 5 main topics (Field Crops, Fruit Growing, Vegetable can follow the transitional periods and physical condition of their Growing, Animal Husbandry and Organic Farming) and 52 sub• County-based five-day weather forecasts products. categories according to the farmer’s area of work. By using this • Region-based early warnings against diseases and pests package, producers can choose as many products as they want For this project, we leverage the expertise of dedicated agricultural engineers and Turkcell’s technological infrastructure. • 8099 Agricultural Helpline to, and follow the agricultural news and growing suggestions These teams ensure that any problems that may arise during • Soil and product analysis discounts at Ag-Pür laboratories about their crops. For example: Cattle Breeding, Sheep Breeding, production are solved, the use of correct, modern production • Market information about agricultural products Goat Breeding, etc. under the Animal Husbandry heading. The methods is supported, and the producer is informed with a information provided by the package includes: personalized program throughout the production season. • Market house prices • Regional buying-selling prices • Regionand product-specific incentives and support from The service is supported by the call center, dealership network • Pest-control methods and trainings and field visits by agricultural engineers when necessary, in the Ministry of Agriculture • Proper irrigation and spraying methods addition to the SMS channel. Turkcell AgroMed amounts to a • Husbandry methods to increase meat and milk yield 20% reduction in the farmers’ costs and a 10% increase in yield. • Trainings on animal health management »70 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT PEOPLE WITHOUT BOUNDARIES At Turkcell, we believe that every segment of society should have equality of opportunity for the economic and social development of our country, and we take concrete steps to achieve this. For this vision, in addition to the employment of people with disabilities and our social contribution projects, we also aim at minimizing the communication problems experienced by citizens with disabilities with our mobile communication technologies, which we continuously improve, and our affordable voice/SMS/data rates. Voice, SMS and data rates for subscribers with disabilities: We have very advantageous discounted Support Packages categorized according to the needs of people with disabilities. The purpose of these very affordable rates designed for the specific needs of people with different types of disabilities is to ensure easy communication. Voice-invoice and voice-contract: Visually-impaired Turkcell subscribers are called after the date on which their invoice is issued, and notified about their invoice amount, last payment date and With this service, our visually-impaired subscribers can call 8020 invoice details on a free-of-charge basis. They can also listen to from their cell phones or install the “Dream Partner” iOS and every e-mail sent to them on their computer. Visually-impaired Android application on their smart phones to listen. subscribers can also listen to the customer contract which they are asked to sign by calling the Call Center or on www.turkcell.com.tr Dream Partner offers an audible version of Goals in the Pocket and learn about its content. Service for visually impaired subscribers to instantly hear the goals of the soccer club their fan of, track their matches. Video call center for the hearing-impaired: Developed by Turkcell to offer services through using sign language, Video Customer Some unique audible services take part in Dream Partner as well. Services are provided free of charge for hearing-impaired Turkcell In 2013 famous Turkish writer Yaşar Kemal’s latest book “Çıplak subscribers. Calls can be initiated by reaching Turkcell Customer Deniz, Çıplak Ada” currently after being released from Yapı Kredi Services from a 3G phone. Publishing House, was recorded by actor Yetkin Dikiciler and meet with its visually impaired subscribers by Turkcell Dream Partner. “Play at the Tone” announcement service for the hearingimpaired: Hearing-impaired customers can define a “Play at the • Since its launch in May 2012, the “Dream Partner” service has Tone” announcement message on their phone free of charge and been utilized by nearly 45,000 individual users in total. have their callers listen to this message: “The person you have called • As of 2013, more than 350,000 calls are made, corresponding to is hearing-impaired. Please use the SMS or MMS service to contact 2 million minutes. them”. Subscribers can use the service just by texting ISITME and sending it to 1040. • There are more than 2,500 connections to this service and its services to visually impaired subscribers such as national and around contents are listened 7,500 minute long on daily bases. “Turkcell Dream Partner” service: In collaboration with Young the world news, daily columns, dozens of audible books storring world Guru Academy, Turkcell Dream Partner offers free of charge classics and trainings. • The active user number of Dream Partner is about 6,250 people. »71 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT BURCU SÜTLÜOĞLU Sales Representative, Turkcell Store I knew sign language; I had learnt it from my husband since his parents were hearing-impaired. What gave me the idea for my project was the visit of a hearing-impaired customer about 4 years ago at the Turkcell Suadiye Flagship store where I work. Serhat Bey was desperately trying to express himself to my colleagues when I approached him and used sign language to communicate with him. I could see from his face that he was not only thrilled because I had solved his problem, but he had also seen once again that becoming a Turkcell subscriber was the right choice for him. His happiness as he left our store gave me this idea. After Serhat Bey, our store was incredibly busy for some time with the visits of our hearing-impaired customers (relatives of Serhat Bey, friends, acquaintances), which gave my idea more clarity and enabled me to turn it into a project. We arranged a meeting with the President of the Federation of the Hearing Impaired, with whom I had discussed the subject in detail previously, and initiated the project immediately afterwards. Trainings were organized, special services were provided to our hearing-impaired customers and a video commercial was filmed. I won the friendship and affection of so many people. My mother-in-law and I had roles in the commercial. Thanks to this project, I won the CXO success award, which I am very proud of. Fingers Do the Talk: “Disability-friendly merchandising”, which “Where Am I” Voice Service: Visually-impaired subscribers can we initiated in cooperation with the Federation of the Hearing call 8081 to listen to information about their location (address, SERVICES Impaired and marks first in the sector, enabled us to create a the nearest spots and their telephone numbers, geographical PROVIDED IN SIGN 127 program to serve our customers with disabilities in stores and location data, telephone numbers of the police and emergency LANGUAGE AT give them information about products and services. For this healthcare services). program, we translated more than 200 Turkcell products and Eyes That See: Turkcell assumes the 1-year communication services and more than 20 subscription processes into sign costs of subscribers who become eligible to receive a device language. Across Turkey, 6 Turkcell stores and 127 Turkcell in the “Eyes That See” project of the Ministry of Transport, Communication Centers (TIMs) provide services in sign language Maritime Affairs and Communication. It is only necessary to to our hearing impaired customers. TURKCELL text GORENGOZ and send it to 5554 via SMS by using the cell phones provided by the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs COMMUNICATION and Communication CENTERS »72 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 100 SOCIAL INVESTMENT PROJECTS and ambition, and these girls grew up to be successful Snowdrop 14 girls… SNOWDROPS: Since 2000, more than 100,000 scholarships have been made Exactly 14 years ago, we started the “Snowdrops” Project available and many girls completed their education thanks to the for the purpose of offering equality of opportunity to young Snowdrops Project. The project was greatly supported by Sezen girls who cannot attend school due to economic difficulties. Aksu and Ayşe Kulin, important figures of Turkey’s artistic and Snowdrops are the flowers that bloom before the snow melts THOUSAND in Eastern Anatolia, and are known as harbingers of spring. Project “Snowdrops” also proved to be a harbinger of “spring” literary circles. Aksu and Kulin also called for support for the education of girls to make the project more visible. YEARS SCHOLARSHIPS for young girls who had to leave school despite their enthusiasm »73 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT the first time when the National Geographic Channel broadcast For detailed the documentary of a social responsibility project from Turkey. information: Thanks to this documentary, the entire world witnessed what the http://www.turkcell. Snowdrop girls could achieve when they had the opportunity. com.tr/en/aboutus/ In time, the Snowdrops Project attracted the attention of many corporate-socialother organizations including the World Communication Awards, responsibility/ PRnews and Golden Drum, and won nearly 20 national and education/snowdrops international awards. Sezen Aksu donated the income from her album “Snowdrops” and Every year, thousands of young girls are given scholarships and the concert tickets, and Ayşe Kulin donated the income of her book opportunity to pursue their dreams. Thousands of girls completed “Snowdrops”, helping nearly 1,000 Snowdrop girls continue their their education, realizing a dream. Today, they maintain the same education. success in their professional life. The success of the project was recognized globally. In March 2010, In 2013, 2,000 Snowdrops graduated from high school and the Snowdrops Project was introduced as an “exemplary” project 280 completed their university education, starting in life as during the panel discussion held at the UN Headquarters under the professionals. 800 Snowdrops won the university entrance exam, scope of the Beijing +15 event organized by the United Nations. proving their ambition once more. In 2011, the largest documentary channel of the world, National Thanks to the Snowdrops Project, we have witnessed, and will Geographic turned the Snowdrops Project into a documentary. continue to witness, that girls can become greatly successful and Snowdrop girls and their families were interviewed for the grow up as individuals who are useful to society, if they are given documentary in Istanbul, Kars, Erzurum and Mardin. This was equality of opportunity. »74 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT WOMEN EMPOWERMENT IN ECONOMY: Reduction (TISVA) and Grameen Trust under the leadership of Nobel Laureate Mohammad Yunus. As part of this collaboration, We believe that women’s participation in the economy would we launched the Women Empowerment in Economy project in lead to a positive transformation both in their own individual life cooperation with the Turkish Foundation for Waste Reduction and in the social life. By this means, women can contribute to the and with support from the Ministry of Family and Social Policies. family budget and open new horizons for their own life. Confident With the program, we aim at supporting women’s participation in women entrepreneurs who can stand on their own feet can get us the economy by leveraging Turkcell’s product range, supply chain Support Us to one step closer to our dream of “Strong Women, Strong Turkey”. and power in communications and technology. Empower Women, We are very enthusiastic about all kinds of projects that would Launched in September 2012, the project has enabled 68 the Family and the bring out the power in women. Accordingly, we became the thousand women entrepreneurs to create a better future for main sponsor of the “Turkish Grameen Microfinance Program” Economy! undertaken in 2003 to offer micro-financing to women who want themselves and their children by relying on Turkcell’s technology support. to start their own business by the Turkish Foundation for Waste »75 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT With “Women Empowerment in Economy”, we mobilized all of of their own choice or contribute to the “Entrepreneur Funding our resources for the empowerment of women. The strength and Pool”. enthusiasm that we took from Turkey and women entrepreneurs encouraged us to take new steps for the program. We planned trainings for equality of opportunity in access to information… We set up a crowdfunding system for support… To support the personal development of women Launched by Turkcell, the website www.ekonomiyekadingucu.com entrepreneurs, we organized a training every month in a was developed to bring together the volunteers who were willing different city. Trainings offered in technology, marketing, to provide micro-loans to women entrepreneurs. This is a platform sales and personal development in collaboration with Özyeğin It is very important for us to create social benefits and offer by which individual people can give loans or make donations to University supported the development of 500 women. In equality of opportunity by making our technology available women entrepreneurs through the crowdfunding system, which is addition to the face-to-face trainings organized in 11 cities, everywhere in Turkey. Our superior communication and implemented for the first time in Turkey, by using mobile or online we continued to support the personal and professional technology infrastructure was our biggest strength in this tools in order to help more women benefit from micro-loans and development of women entrepreneurs by sending learning project, by which we wanted to contribute to women’s participate in economic production by developing an innovative contents to their mobile phones via Turkcell’s Mobile Learning economic, social and cultural development. business model. Supporters can directly aid a woman entrepreneur infrastructure. »76 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT We developed systems for technological literacy Moneycard, we turned the system into an exemplary model We created a virtual store for women with our marketing which was more environmentally-friendly, technologically support. With our technology, we improved the micro-loan collection advanced and time-saving. Today, women entrepreneurs can process for the women entrepreneurs in the “Women We created an e-commerce platform named “Women’s Handiwork” follow up their loan process easily with a single card thanks to Empowerment in Economy” project and the personnel of in the website www.ekonomiyekadingucu.com in order for women the NFC Cep-T Moneycard. Produced by our own technology, the Turkish Foundation for Waste Reduction in charge of with limited means to sell the products which they produce the Cep-T Moneycards provided to women entrepreneurs both extending loans and collecting repayments. Building on the with the support of trainings and micro-loans. Thanks to this have credit loading functionality and enable defining their existing system, in which micro-loans were given by hand and infrastructure, women now have a virtual marketplace of their credit and identity. Today, this card also allows 68,000 women collections with POS devices resulted in paper use, we gave own. For the empowerment of women and the economy as well entrepreneurs receiving micro-loans to use basic financial the women entrepreneur’s prepaid cards with contactless NFC as the development of Turkey, it is vital that each and every services and make simple mobile transactions on a 24/7 basis. functionality. And with mobile phones and the NFC Cep-T product in the marketplace finds a buyer. In this platform, women entrepreneurs can post free advertisements for their products via the internet or SMS. »77 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT 100 In the beginning of the launch we made an initial donation of 400 thousand TRY with the purpose of opening a micro-loan branch 4 in Van since there was none there. In September 2013 the women entrepreneurs of Van, who we were able to contact through the newly opened Van branch of TISVA, received their micro-loans, which they needed to set up or grow their business, during the opening of the branch. THOUSAND The success of the project, initiated with a donation of 400,000 TRY and with the aim of reaching 100,000 women entrepreneurs YEARS FEMALE in 4 years, was found worthy of several awards in 2013. The Women Empowerment in Economy project was given two ENTREPRENEURS awards in 2013 at IPRA Golden Globe Awards, one of the most »78 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT prestigious organizations in public relations. The project both won the first place in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” category and the Grand IPRA Award among the other 29 award categories. The Women Empowerment in Economy project was also awarded in the “Social Responsibility” category of “Mobile Excellence Awards” (MEA), considered to be one of the most important competitions in mobile communications in the USA. In addition to these awards, the Women Empowerment in Economy Project also attracted attention in the international arena among exemplary works of women. Turkcell was the owner of one of the best four exemplary projects introduced to the world during the international meeting held in March 2013, where the SecretaryGeneral of the United Nations Ban Ki-moon was the guest of honor. Being the first Turkish technology company to sign the Women’s Empowerment Principles, Turkcell was represented in the international sessions. The gifts which were prepared by women receiving microloans under the Women Empowerment in Economy project were presented to the Secretary-General. Ban Ki-Moon expressed his appreciation for the pioneering “women-oriented” projects of Turkcell and said “thank you” in Turkish. HURİYE UNUTMAZ Women Empowerment in Economy I have brought up three children; now I want to grow my business. I am making this dream come true thanks to the micro-loan that I am using under the scope of the “Women Empowerment in Economy” project launched by Turkcell and TISVA. I could have never imagined that I would be the first woman coppersmith in Tokat, but it happened. With the help of my husband, I improved my craftsmanship and in time learned to stand on my own feet. I also set an example for the women around me. I participated in a discussion on “Entrepreneurship” upon the invitation of Gaziantep University. Now, my only dream is to grow my workshop and create employment opportunities for women like me. For detailed information: http://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/corporate-socialresponsibility/entrepreneurship/women-empowerment-in-economy »79 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT DEVELOPERS OF THE FUTURE In September 2013, we launched the “Developers of the Future” project for the purpose of bringing together those people who felt an interest in software development in the mobile and digital world, one of the most important areas of our day. Our aim for the next 5 years is to help 50,000 mobile application developers receive technical training and develop applications, commercialize the applications so developed, and finally, grow qualified human resources for both Turkcell and our ecosystem. University students, individual software developers, professional software developers working at different organizations, in other words, anyone who is currently working in application development and has goals in this area will be able to take part in the Thanks to the “Developers of the Future” project, trainees will project. have the opportunity to develop applications and software with Android, iOS and Windows Phone. This project differs from the Software economy is important to us, and we want to help Turkey similar projects around the world in having the most commonly get a share from this pie. With this perspective in mind and working used mobile operating systems of the market under a single on the question “How can we create value for the ecosystem?” we initiative. set ourselves the target of helping people, particularly young people, who are interested in mobile software achieve competency in this To further encourage the software developers who are area. Since we know that there are young people in Turkey who successful in the project, leading figures from the sector enthusiastically work in this field and produce successful works, just provide mentorship to them. Also, developers signing up to like the rest of the world, it is a dream for us to transform these ideas the project portal will be able to contact their project mentors and works into achievements of global scale. and receive their feedback. Mentors will not only work in a closer relationship with the developers but they will also guide While preparing the training documents in “Developers of the them during actual events or organizations. The feedback Future”, we worked under the supervision of active expert mobile of participants regarding the project will ensure that the application developers who were graduates of education faculties. “Developers of the Future” ecosystem constantly develops and All documents were subjected to a scrupulous production and quality remains up-to-date. control inspection. Naturally, we update the trainings continuously as technology develops, and add new content every day. »80 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT To the participants who successfully complete the entire developers and interested people as part of the project, which people and opening Turkcell’s APIs to developers. training and develop software programs, we plan to offer offers training, development and mentorship opportunities. 2013 Turkcell Technology Summit was one of the effective internship and employment opportunities in the large In 2013, we visited 9 universities and contacted nearly 1,000 platforms that we used to bring software developers ecosystem of our business partners and corporate customers. people, describing the project at times and holding trainings together. During the Summit, we had a 2-day program named Software developers and entrepreneurs who want to develop for application development at other times. We hosted 300 of “Developers of the Future”, in which many valuable experts a business partnership with us in the individual or corporate the participants as guests in our trainings. In addition to these met the participants from different regions of Turkey in a field will have the opportunity to benefit from the various activities, we organized 12 events to create different channels total of 28 sessions of trainings/seminars/panel discussions, support mechanisms of Turkcell thanks to the Turkcell of interaction with developers. We promoted the “Developers and we had the opportunity to contribute to nearly 2,500 Partnership interaction. of the Future” project by supporting events such as Hackthe people with different themes. We plan to make use of “Developers of the Future” is open to anyone who wants to Hackathon, Hackathonist, Devfest, GETEK’13 and Bilfest’13. effective platforms like this on a wider scale in different be a part of the mobile software ecosystem. Even developers At these events, we offered a rich content of activities with areas of Turkey in the near future. who are yet at the beginner’s level can be involved in the different actions such as the opportunity to consult project project. Many national events were organized to interact with mentors, application development contests designed for young »81 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT TURKEY’S MONEY-BOX FOR VAN of their right to communication. Turkcell helped to save lives and associations and charitable individuals donated houses. Popular connect Van to life and the world. artists volunteered to support the project. Immediately after the earthquake, Turkcell Volunteers delivered 6 With full support from Turkey, more teachers had a home of trucks of aid materials collected with efforts of the entire Turkcell their own family, and personally distributed them to villages. Yet all the time we had this question on our mind: “What else can we do?” When As part of the project, a Teachers’ Campus and Students’ we united our minds, hearts and love for our people, we came up Dormitory were built in Van, and 100 Industrial Vocational High The entire population of Turkey was mobilized to give a helping with the “Turkey’s Money-Box for Van” project. School students were given scholarships. In time, the money hand to Van following the earthquakes that occurred in the city collected in Turkey’s Money-Box reached nearly 9.5 million TRY. on 23 October and 9 November 2011. Turkcell started a national campaign to give the city a new hope. And the first steps of the giant project called “Turkey’s Money-Box Thanks to the donations made by individuals and organizations, At Turkcell, we also banded together from the first moment for Van” were taken in cooperation with the Turkish Education new houses were added to the Teachers’ Campus. For the when we heard of the earthquake, which distressed Foundation (TEV) and with the support of the Ministry of National “Turkey’s Money-Box for Van” project, 350,000 donation SMS every citizen. We made our very best efforts to fulfill our Education. were sent from all over Turkey, 1,500 money transfers were responsibility immediately after the earthquakes. made and 35 charitable individuals and organizations donated Turkcell made the initial donation of 5 million TRY to Turkey’s houses. Since its design allowed growth, the capacity of the We used our technology, base stations and communication Money-Box and then contributions flooded in from all over the Teachers’ Campus increased from the initial 100 teachers to 192 infrastructure to save lives. We took every measure to ensure country. The number of SMS sent from Turkey and the Turkish teachers thanks to the continuing donations. that our customers surviving the earthquake were not deprived Republic of Northern Cyprus grew at an incredible rate. Companies, »82 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Located on an area of 10,000 square meters, the Campus the Teachers’ Campus was provided by Turkcell Superonline. The Turkey’s Money-Box for Van won the “UN Special Award” consists of permanent, steel construction dwellings with 2+1 Teachers’ Campus was opened officially on 30 September 2013. Being an exemplary model of Public-Private Sector-NGO apartments and serves as a living center complete with social At the start of the new educational year, 132 students were safely collaboration and a participation-based, transparent and and recreational areas. The technological infrastructure of placed in the youth-friendly, earthquake-proof, steel-construction accountable charity model, the “Turkey’s Money-Box for Van” dormitory, established on an area of 1,500 square meters. project was given the “UN Special Award” by the United Nations SEVAL SELÇUK at IPRA Golden World 2012 Awards. Turkish Language and Literature Teacher Contribution to employment Living on the Teachers’ Campus in Van The United Nations Development Program (UNDP) introduced In collaboration with the Ministry of National Education (MEB), the “Turkey’s Money-Box for Van” project as an exemplary Turkcell’s Teachers’ Campus was a real surprise for me. Actually, I had heard Türksat and Turkcell Global Bilgi, a MEB Communication Center project to the world. about the campaign from commercials and several programs but I had never imagined that I would be a part of that campus. We were exhausted from (MEBIM 147) was established in Erciş, Van after the earthquake UNDP held a meeting with the topic of “Flexibility and Innovation constantly being cold and hurrying to a safe place at each quake; we were in order to answer the education-related questions of students, almost numb. One day we received a letter at school. They were talking Demonstrated by Organizations during Disasters”. At the teachers and parents for the ultimate purpose of offering equality about the campus. It was in a village called Kalecik. I had been appointed a event held at the UN Headquarters in New York, Turkcell’s short time before, and so I thought I did not stand a chance. Just when I had of opportunity in education. Turkcell created employment infrastructure-related efforts during the Van earthquake and the forgotten about it, a list came to the school and I learned that several of opportunities for 100 people with MEBIM 147, which helped to my friends and I could begin living in an apartment on the campus. Finally a transparent charity campaign “Turkey’s Money-Box for Van”, solve the unemployment problem after the earthquake in Van home of my own! I felt safe. The authorities from the Ministry of National launched in cooperation with the Turkish Education Foundation Education, Governor’s Office and Turkcell did everything possible to help us and became the second largest center of employment in the area. (TEV) and with the support of the Ministry of National Education, put our lives in order on the campus. MEBIM 147 provides services in all areas related to the duties and were described as exemplary works to the world. That winter, I was finally in my own house after the earthquake. It was responsibilities of the Ministry of National Education. 50% of the like a dream house with colorful shutters. I had to sell my white goods to a center personnel is made up of people with disabilities. Of the second-hand appliance dealer after the earthquake. Now I had new ones to replace them. Unlimited internet use for two years was the perfect gift. I employees, 66% are men and 34% are women, and their mean age For detailed information: was warm and able to take a shower any time I wanted. When spring came, is 26. 95% of the employees are survivors of the earthquake. http://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/corporate-socialI was in total tranquility with my book and coffee opposite the view of the responsibility/education/turkeys-money-box-for-van lake. »83 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT We support Olympic Performance projects in Swimming and Athletics on the international level in collaboration with the Ministry of Youth and Sports. From the first day, our aim was to bring success to the Turkish sports world and reach the target of 200,000 licensed sportspeople. As of today, we have made a total investment of 28 million TRY, making the greatest contribution to amateur sports. We not only provided financial support but also tried to be involved in every stage of the process by means of different sponsorship models. We were actively involved in the project, from project management to selection and development of sportspeople and In the fields where we would rely on Turkcell’s power in CORPORATE SUPPORT PROJECTS corporate development consultancy. technology, we made all of our technologies and expertise Contribution to Sports Since the launch of our project, we undertook activities in different available for the development of the project and undertook areas with a 360-degree approach. We aimed at increasing the infrastructure works. Turkcell Olympic Performance Projects in Athletics and Swimming number of competitions for youth setups in order to increase the Our goal is to create a solid background for these two sports Our pioneering efforts are ongoing to help sports develop in number of licensed sportspeople. We initiated works to bring branches through federations that bear all the characteristics Turkey and win the admiration of national and international international sports education systems to Turkey, focusing on the of a corporate institution and strive for sustainable success in a communities for Turkish sportsmen and sportswomen and Turkish first time when future sportspeople become acquainted with sports. disciplined and systematic manner, bringing the Turkish sports and National Teams. With successful projects initiated in 2013, we We planned trainings with specialists from federations for the sportspeople to the next level. Increasing the number of licensed underline the importance of supporting not only professional but development and education of families and trainers, who play a sportspeople with our Athletics and Swimming Performance also amateur sports activities. To make success permanent in our major role in the bringing up of future sportspeople. projects and bringing up successful national athletes and swimmers projects embracing amateur sports, we plan to implement a “New for 2016 and 2020 Summer Olympic Games is one of our greatest Period, New System” approach. In order to make our professional sportspeople even more goals. successful, we took the first steps to open Olympic Performance Centers through international partnerships. »84 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT Football-Basketball ticket technology attracted quite an attention outside Turkey thanks THE “VOICE-SEERS” FOOTBALL LEAGUE AND B1 NATIONAL FOOTBALL TEAM SPONSORSHIP to the FIFA U20 World Cup. In 2002, we were the “Official Communications Sponsor” of the As the main sponsor of the Visually-Impaired Football National Football Team and since 2005 we have been the Main Sponsor. In 2013 in addition to sponsorship, we carried out Turkey’s first fan Visually-Impaired Sports Team and “Voice-Seers League”. survey and we organized Official Fantasy Football Game of Turkish Federation, we supported In addition to sponsorship, we also provide support with our visually impaired football after On the path to the 2016 Football Association. Paralympic Games, we technology and bring the outcome of our joint efforts with the cycling. In cooperation with the Turkish Football Federation announced our sponsorship for Football Federation to the stadium, making fans’ lives easier. Thanks We also continue to support basketball, the second most popular the B1 (totally blind) National and Turkish Sports Federation to these efforts, football fans can receive their tickets with a single sports in Turkey after football. In 2002 we became the “Official for the Visually Impaired, we Football Team on 3 December SMS sent to their mobile phones and enter the stadiums easily by Communications Sponsor” of the national Basketball Team, inspiring started to support the National 2013, International Day of People with Disabilities. scanning the SMS ticket at the stadium gate. and encouraging younger generations, and since 2006 we have been their Main Sponsor. We also became the Main Sponsor of the 2010 First used in Turkey as a pilot trial for the Turkey-Estonia game World Basketball Championship, where our National Basketball CYCLING FOR THE VISUALLY-IMPAIRED on 11 September 2012 and Turkey-Romania game on 12 October, Team achieved a great success and won the second place, and we generalizing the use of the Turkcell Mobile Ticket technology to In cooperation with the Visually-Impaired Sports Federation, we continue to extend our support for the National Team. started Cycling for the Visually Impaired as a Paralympic branch, cover all sports games is also one of our goals. marking a first in Turkey. As part of the project, we support 50 We sponsored the FIFA U20 World Cup in 2013, and made the Smart sportspeople from Tokat, Denizli, Konya, Kayseri and İzmir, who are Ticket available to football fans for the first time in FIFA’s history for members of our Visually-Impaired Cycling team. the games hosted in Turkey between 21 June and 13 July. The mobile »85 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR SOCIAL IMPACT EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERISM 120 Turkcell employees volunteered to read out books for the audio-book project designed for visually-impaired young people. ONUR TAŞYİYEN Turkcell Volunteers, which employees can support monetarily or Support was provided for the creation of a Turkcell Audio Library. Corporate Sales Operations, actively take part in by working on projects, has been operational Turkcell Global Bilgi As part of the project, books recorded with real human voices were since 2008. Today, with nearly 1,200 regular contributors, Turkcell included in the Turkcell “Dream Partner” service. At Turkcell, volunteering to take Volunteers relies on donations for its budget. part in social responsibility projects At Turkcell Volunteers, we work in cooperation with nonor to support them makes you governmental organizations to identify those individuals or feel good, not only in professional circles but also on a social level. projects that need assistance, and organize events at the company It felt so great to be a part of to enable Turkcell employees to support these projects personally. the mobile school project team. All projects are shared with our colleagues via e-mail before they Witnessing the living conditions are undertaken. Applications are collected from those who want to of the people trying to survive there was a real experience, and take an active part. People who have never participated before are it was wonderful to be a part given priority when the applications are evaluated. of this educational step, which could considerably improve these As Turkcell Volunteers, Employee Volunteerism Activities in 2013 conditions for the next generations. we reached 50,000 In 2013, we initiated the “Toy Hospital” project, through which we This is a project for which I can say “I would do it a thousand times children who were in repaired hundreds of toys collected at the toy repair stands set Mobile Kindergarten in the Fields for Children of Seasonal over”. Giving people hope for the future and seeing the smiles in the Workers need. up simultaneously at five different plazas, and gave them away as eyes of little children was priceless. gifts to the children of the Tohum Autism Foundation. Turkcell Volunteers, initiated the Mobile Kindergarten project, When everything was finished and designed for the seasonal workers staying in Adana. Hundreds we set out to return home, I was We undertook the renovation of a school in Mardin’s Derik county. proud of what we had done. We visited the school and donated supplies with the participation of children living in the tent city in Tabaklar Village of Karataş, of several colleagues from different regions. Both the volunteers Adana started their education thanks to the teachers appointed by and the children had an unforgettable experience. the County Directorate of National Education. A library was also created in the Mobile Kindergarten for Children. While hundreds With the “Children to the Streets” project, we prepared and of preschool children from the tent city attended the Mobile distributed leaflets to remind all of our volunteers of forgotten Kindergarten, we also gave away school supplies to 500 students children’s games. in the region. »87 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT At Turkcell, it is one of our business priorities to fulfill our Accordingly, we work to develop environmental-friendly services we place importance on controlled waste disposal. We work to environmental responsibilities. Aiming to lead not only in and reduce the environmental impact, which results from our reduce our carbon footprint with the environmentally-friendly technology but also in raising environmental consciousness, activities. We increase the use of renewable energy resources solutions offered to our customers and used in our business Turkcell considers its responsibility towards the environment every year and focus on process optimization based on energy processes, and we strive to save paper. and its areas of impact as a part of all business processes, and efficiency. Our efforts are ongoing to increase awareness about conducts its operations according to these priorities. reducing waste production and sorting waste at the source, and »88 TURKCELL KURUMSAL SORUMLULUK RAPORU 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT OUR ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND INVESTMENTS 11,600,000 IN 2013 TRY ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENT • We value the environment because we value future • We are cautious about utilizing natural resources in the most OUR ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS generations. efficient way and preserving the ecological balance. We conduct all of our activities in accordance with our • With a sense of social responsibility, we adopt, support • We invest in sustainable environmentalist practices and environmental policy. Within the scope of our environmental and implement environmentalist policies. alternative energy sources. impact, energy efficiency is the area we can achieve highest • We lead together with our employees, dealerships, level of improvements. Therefore, energy efficient solutions • By leveraging our technological competencies, we add value business partners and suppliers to increase the weight the most among our environmentally-friendly to the environment and our customers with innovative environmental consciousness of society. implementations. The investment made in 2013 by using these products and services. solutions reached 11.6 million TRY*, together with capacity • We take the necessary measures in our main locations • Working in cooperation with the stakeholders, nonincreases and newly set up sites. of activity, such as base stations, data centers and office governmental organizations and local administrations buildings, and at every stage of our business to avoid One of our Group companies, Turkcell Superonline makes within our ecosystem, we regularly share our efforts for causing harm to the environment. a significant contribution to energy savings thanks to the environmental protection with the public through our technological solutions deployed in its fiber network. • In our internal operations, we support practices, which sustainability report. encourage the conservation of resources. *Turkcell Group data for 2013. »89 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT With this technology, launched in June 2012 with 87 devices, we held a total of 70,896 videoconferences in one year. The total duration of these conferences was 73,454 hours. OUR ENVIRONMENTALLYFRIENDLY PRACTICES We also use the telePresence service in our recruitment processes. In the first 6 At Turkcell, we support the increased use of environmentallyOur field employees and managers can make conference calls months of 2013, we managed friendly practices by means of both our business processes and using their mobile devices. In addition to communication with the recruitment process the products and services we offer to our customers, and make Turkcell and Group companies, we also give all of our employees of more than 100 people sure we use natural resources efficiently. the opportunity to contact other business partners through from Istanbul and various video calls or video conferencing. regions of Turkey by using TELEPRESENCE* APPLICATION: Within the first 6 months following the launch of telePresence, we videoconferencing solutions. We have “telePresence” technology in place on the desktops of not only started to present new services and marketing campaigns The telePresence system our employees and in the meeting rooms of offices located in in a faster way, but we also reduced our carbon footprint thanks to available in our meeting 25 different cities and in five countries. There are 250 devices the decreased amount of air and road travel. We also saved time rooms enabled us to eliminate in total installed Group-wide, including personal, room-type and money in our internal meetings. For instance, we eliminated the need to travel for the solutions and virtual meeting room solutions. Our employees can the three-hour trip between our Istanbul offices, saving nearly 70 recruitment interviews of use this system in the meeting room of their offices, in manager’s hours a day. Travel requirements to Group companies were also candidates, avoiding the rooms or on their desktop computers or even mobile devices. reduced by 40%. Travel expenses, which normally increase by 30% time and costs that would be each year, remained the same as in 2012. associated with those trips. *Videoconferencing system »90 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 71,000 MONTHLY PAPER SAVINGS CORRESPONDING TO TRANSACTIONS ELIMINATION OF PAPER WORK IN PROCESS: PRINTER REPLACEMENT PROJECT As of May 2013, documents are no longer requested from Launched in September 2012, the Printer Replacement Project individual and corporate customers who want to switch from was initiated to overcome the difficulties caused by using more AVOIDING 3 a postpaid to a prepaid plan. With this action, we saved the than one printer model in too many locations. At Turkcell, the paper, which would have been consumed for a monthly average difficulties in the operational management of too many different of 71,000 transactions. Efforts are also ongoing to eliminate printers resulted in issues concerning the security of printed document requirements for transactions including subscriptiondocuments, printing costs, loss of efficiency and user experience. based device campaigns, rate changes and SIM card changes. Thanks to the Turkcell Printer Replacement Project, we achieved There are also ongoing pilot works regarding chip ID cards, which cost savings of up to 30% and reduced the number of printers the government plans to issue for all citizens. With this ID, we hope to eliminate the need for an ID copy from all transactions. by nearly 25%. We readjusted toner purchases and switched MILLION to costing per page at a rate of 100%. We also eliminated the printer problems encountered by employees. PRINTS IN With the Printer Replacement Project, we saved 3 million prints 1.5 YEARS in 1.5 years and prevented the risks arising from the printing of important documents on printers. »91 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT At Turkcell, we save 6 000 WE SAVE NEARLY 29 tons of paper in just 1 month by issuing e-invoices for individual customers, saving 493 trees. This means preserving , 5,916 trees a year. TREES FROM BEING CUT DOWN EVERY YEAR WITH E-INVOICES. E-INVOICE: • The air-conditioning and energy infrastructure in our data center system rooms have been replaced with more efficient, At Turkcell, we launched the “Corporate E-Invoice Campaign” in up-to-date technology and designs. 2013 for the purpose of encouraging our corporate customers to also use e-invoices. 59,500 corporate lines switched to the • We prefer environmentally-friendly products in our corporate e-invoice in just 1 month thanks to this campaign. purchases. Accordingly, we choose environmentally-friendly furniture, taps with sensors, recycled cardboard cups, pencils, Legally binding and equivalent to the printed versions with notebooks and paper. wet signature, electronic invoices can be stored digitally and eliminate problems such as delays and losses, offering a fast and HYDROGEN ENERGY UTILIZATION PROJECT reliable alternative for corporate customers. In 2012, we started a project for the use of hydrogen energy SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING PRACTICES in communication units in collaboration with the International Center of Hydrogen Energy Technologies (ICHET) of the United At the Procurement Department of Turkcell, we pay attention to Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO). purchase supplies and equipment which are made of recyclable When hydrogen fuel cells are materials or that can be recycled at the end of their life. As part Hosted in Turkey by Turkcell and supported by the European used for power generation, of our Green Purchase principles: Commission under the scope of “Fuel Cell and Hydrogen no gas or toxic substance is Platform” works, the FITUP project is conducted in 19 other released into the environment • The equipment purchased for our network is configured to be locations in Europe, including Switzerland, Italy and the other than water vapor. energy-efficient, and we have self-powering base stations in Netherlands. At Turkcell, we first began the tests for the use of Therefore, they are a cleaner, our network. hydrogen energy generated by water in communication units in more environmentally-friendly Turkcell E-Invoice Bursa. Tests are still ongoing. alternative than batteries. »92 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT 1,000,000,000 WITH M2M SOLUTIONS YEARLY FUEL SAVINGS UP TO TRY ENERGY SAVINGS WITH M2M APPLICATIONS Mobile communication makes it possible to significantly reduce • The energy bills of corporate customers were reduced by up the release of carbon dioxide and energy costs in different sectors to 30% thanks to the Smart Reactive Management Service. of the economy. It even creates the possibility for more savings. • With smart energy and water meters, we helped to achieve a These savings are achieved by using the virtual alternatives of 10-15% reduction in electricity and water loss/theft. travel, products, services and processes thanks to the smart applications made available to a large extent by machine to • Vehicle tracking, guidance and on-the-road communication machine (M2M) communication. The potential of smart mobile systems resulted in a 15-20% fuel savings. applications is observed particularly in smart transportation and logistics with smart grids and meters. Below is a summary of the benefits achieved in the use of natural resources with the products and services offered to our customers in 2013 as part of M2M applications: • More than 450,000 vehicles were transformed into Smart Vehicles with Turkcell’s M2M infrastructure, which resulted in annual fuel savings of nearly 1 billion TRY for Turkey. »93 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT By integrating our technology with our processes, we implement effective energy management and low carbon emission practices, and work in an environmentally-friendly manner to utilize resources at a high efficiency rate. While planning our products, OUR ENERGY services and investments, we take energy-environment interaction EFFICIENCY into consideration. EFFORTS With this perspective, we installed hybrid communication units, which allows using wind turbine power and network electricity alternately, and set up solar and wind power-operated communication units at 24 locations where network electricity was not available. In addition to these units, we achieved energy savings of 58.3 million kWh in 2013 thanks to other efficiency efforts in our network. This meant energy savings equivalent to the annual power consumption of 21,477 residences. In the communication units operating on network electricity, we reduce our annual energy consumption by nearly 58 million kWh. And this means energy savings equivalent to the annual power consumption of 21,336 residences. We did not limit our efficiency efforts to infrastructure; we also worked to achieve more energy savings in the electrical and mechanical systems of our buildings. These efforts resulted in energy savings of 5 million kWh, equivalent to the annual power ENERGY consumption of 1,850 residences, in 2013. free cooling equipment was 743,094 kWh, and in 2013, we SAVINGS IN ENERGY SAVINGS FOR THE NETWORK OPERATIONS achieved annual energy savings of 1,383,716 kWh thanks to the free cooling systems newly included in the netwok 2013 DEPARTMENT • The annual energy savings resulting from a total of 9,230 units 58.3 • As of the end of 2010, we increased the efficiency of our of site-mounted free cooling equipment used in Turkcell’s rectifier systems. With an increase in efficiency of 92-96% in network was 5,948,626 kWh. rectifier systems, we reduced energy consumption by 7% in the • In 2013, replacing older systems with inverter air-conditioners power system. We achieved energy savings of 6,586,566 kWh resulted in annual energy savings of nearly 3,727,000 kWh. in 2013 with the 7,230 highly-efficient rectifier units located in Turkcell’s network • The annual energy savings resulting from a total of 14,076 units MILLION kWh • In 2012, the annual savings resulting from the newly-mounted of site-mounted air-conditioning equipment used in Turkcell’s network was 33,756,000 kWh. »94 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENERGY SAVINGS FOR DATA CENTERS Year Total Renewable Power Generation at Locations Without Network Data centers are an integral part of our business and we work to Electricity reduce the amount of energy consumed by them. We aim at increasing (kWh) the number of data centers where energy savings is a priority. At data centers, we focus our energy efficiency efforts in two areas: 2013 252,288 1. Application of architecture and technologies to reduce energy 2012 273,312 consumption (virtualization) 2011 252,288 2. Energy savings through the shutdown of service infrastructures RENEWABLE ENERGY INITIATIVES which are not commercially profitable 2010 252,288 Thanks to the 15-year experience of Turkish engineers, we offer We are aware that our responsibility toward the ecological environment starts with reducing the energy used in business 2009 220,752 security, a high level of quality, and business continuity at global processes. Accordingly, we continue to invest in alternative standards (TIER 3) with data centers of our own design, including the energy and work to reduce energy consumption by leveraging cabinets. We set up environmentally-friendly systems with a PUE state-of-the-art technologies. Wind turbines operating on network electricity generate a daily (Power Usage Effectiveness) value of 1.4, which is lower than the average of 2.14 kWh of power per turbine. This means that global average (1.7). As of 2013, 24 sites in Turkcell’s network operate with renewable energy; there is no powerline in those sites. The annual we achieved total energy savings of 145,284 kWh in 2012 and Reduction of the total energy consumption is one of our most renewable electricity generation of these sites which use solar 130,443 kWh in 2013. important priorities. As of 2012, energy consumption was reduced and wind power is shown by year. by 40% at Turkcell data centers. The rate of energy consumption reduction was 18% in 2013. »95 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT EFFICIENT ENERGY USE IN TURKCELL OFFICE BUILDINGS Efficient energy use at office buildings is one of our focus areas. • We replaced 5% of the pumps and engines completing their • We replaced 35 low-efficiency split air-conditioners with We have a 360-degree approach in planning; we implement life-cycle with frequency-controlled devices that reduce inverter air-conditioners. This reduced the amount of energy efficiency-increasing technologies, prevent heat loss, prefer energy consumption. This resulted in savings of 0.2 million consumed by air-conditioners at the offices by 20%. We efficient office equipment, replace the existing equipment kWh. prefer inverter air-conditioners in new purchases. inventory and raise the awareness of all related parties. Our • We reduced our energy consumption by nearly 10% by • In 2013, we switched to natural gas in the service buildings efforts during 2012-2013 in this area are summarized: switching to free-cooling in our Zonguldak, Malatya, Van and in İzmir, Diyarbakır and Erzurum, achieving energy savings of • As of 2011, we switched to LED lighting for less power Kayseri buildings. 30%. consumption in our lighting systems. In 2012-2013, we • We increased the set value of the air-conditioning units • We reduced the fuel consumption of boilers by 15% by using replaced the lighting system of an entire building with an LED in system rooms as of 2012. Accordingly, we increased the an efficiency device that controls the burner with a special system, achieving energy savings of 0.4 million kWh. temperature of the system room by 2 degrees each year, microprocessor. reducing the amount of energy used for cooling. This resulted in annual energy savings of 1.5 million kWh. »96 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ENERGY USE IN OFFICE BUILDINGS AND FIELDS We are growing every year, both in terms of area and the Power consumption figures of our offices are shown in the table. Total electricity consumption figures of our base stations are systems that we use (GSM switchboard rooms and data centers). given by year. 72% of their electricity consumption is met by In 2013, we opened the Technology Plaza and Van Plaza. The natural gas power plants, and the remaining 28% is met by total area of the two buildings is 23,000 m2. This means an ELECTRICITY FUEL (Lt.) NATURAL GAS renewable energy systems. (Gj) (m3) increase of 15% in our total area in m2 in 2013. In line with this growth, we foresee an increase in our electricity and natural gas 2011 112,305,803 402,971 445,867 YEARS TOTAL CONSUMPTION (GJ) consumption, and take the necessary measures for savings. 2012 118,344,312 296,644 530,116 2013 437,037,037.04 2013 125,897,241 267,194 470,180 2012 418,554,973.19 2011 375,131,095.01 2010 316,159,198.80 2009 276,382,266.84 »97 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT WATER AND WASTE MANAGEMENT WATER MANAGEMENT At our office buildings, water is used in closed-circuit heating and cooling systems; the water supplied by the Administration of Water and Sewage Services is used for cleaning purposes. The waste water leaving the buildings is directly discharged into the sewage system. At our office buildings, we undertake the following improvement activities to reduce water consumption and recover water. Efforts for saving water • Each year, we save an average of 4,000-5,000 m3 of water. • At Turkcell office buildings, we saved 10,000 m3 of water in 2012-2013. • We started using aerators in the taps at Turkcell Office buildings, reducing water consumption by nearly 30%. • At the Turkcell Tepebaşı building, we collect rainwater to use for watering and car washing systems. This enables us to recover 10% of the rainwater. We plan to implement this on a more widespread basis in 2014. Water consumption figures of our offices are shown in the table below. WASTE MANAGEMENT institution or the municipality for recycling. Dead batteries are collected in waste battery boxes and delivered to local As part of our environmental responsibility, we conduct Water Consumption WATER m3 administrations for recycling. effective waste management; we undertake various efforts to create environmental awareness in our employees and business In cafeterias, there are systems to collect oils and solid waste; 2011 66,606 partners. vehicles of the municipality collect waste oil quarterly. Cleaning 2012 46,667 materials are also collected in an environmentally-friendly At Turkcell plazas, there are waste sorting boxes to collect manner and delivered to the relevant institution for appropriate 2013 62,118 paper, plastic and household waste separately. Each type of disposal. waste is collected separately and then delivered to the relevant »98 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » OUR ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Waste Amounts Management of Hazardous Waste The waste amounts of Turkcell offices are given in the table below. Management of scrap equipment, which requires recycling is an important priority for Turkcell. Very large amounts of equipment Waste Amounts by Locations are scrapped every year because of our large GSM network, the necessity of keeping up with technological developments and Wastes Waste Paper (Kg) Wet Garbage (m3) Waste Oil (Lt) the renewal rate of the network. These include electronic waste, accumulator waste, cable waste and supplies waste, each of Offices/Years 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 which requires a different expertise and recycling process. Maltepe Plaza 17,350 23,280 2.8 3.6 770 984 Unless properly processed, the components and heavy metals found in these materials can cause harm to the environment at Kartal Plaza 10,050 11,520 1.3 1.3 1,490 1,272 dangerous levels. Keeping in mind that 10 grams of lead (found in significant amounts in waste accumulators) makes 200,000 Tepebaşı Plaza 5,530 3,792 62.4 50.0 288 353 liters of water unusable and contaminates 25 tons of soil, one Davutpaşa Plaza 8,200 11,280 3.8 5.8 98 90 can easily grasp the seriousness of the matter. Being aware of our environmental responsibility, we consider it an essential duty Adana Plaza 2,000 2,400 19.2 23.4 640 768 of ours to share this awareness with all of our business partners and all other parties which we come into contact with. Ankara Plaza 830 1,176 2.6 3.5 2,000 2,400 We optimize and manage the scrapping and sales processes, Antalya Plaza 750 720 19.0 36.0 288 710 store our hazardous wastes in ADR-compliant storerooms, and require the companies that handle them to hold the required Bursa Plaza 1,500 2,100 1.2 1.5 0 0 licenses and have the necessary competency. Accordingly, for Trabzon Plaza 2,400 2,400 7.5 8.4 36 86 waste disposal, we cooperate with companies that meet the requirements of the “Regulations on Controlling Waste Batteries İzmir Plaza 8,000 9,900 5.0 6.6 480 288 and Accumulators” dated 31.08.2004 and numbered 25569. Diyarbakır Plaza 1,200 1,080 3.0 4.8 250 672 Since Turkcell systems use dry accumulators, there were no leakage incidents in 2012-2013. Samsun Plaza 350 480 6.0 7.2 60 122 Levent Plaza 4,650 5,810 7.5 10.6 0 0 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. was subjected to no penal Maltepe Teknoloji 4,733 1.4 sanctions due to incompliance with environmental laws and regulations. »99 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » ANNEXES 2012 in the Loyalty Program in the category of ‘The Best Use of ANNEXES • We have won ‘The Most Admired Companies in Turkey’ award, Technology’. We also won the jury’s special award in ‘The Best Loyalty Program’ category with Turkcell Platinum. organized by Capital Magazine, for 12 years. • We were awarded by the Global Telecoms Business magazine • We won awards in the categories of ‘The Most Admired in the category of ‘Innovation in Credit Management’ with the Company of the Year’ and ‘The Company Providing the Most ‘Fraud and Credit Risk Management Project’. 1. OUR AWARDS Employment Opportunities’ in the 11th Kariyer.net Respect for People Awards. • In Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity, we won the 2013 Bronze Lion award in the category of ‘Best Use of Digital Media’ • We were found worthy of ‘Turkcell’s Best Product’ award with with the Turkcell ‘Captcha’ application. • We won first place with ‘Customer 2.0’ in the ‘Contribution TıklaKonuş service in GSMA Global Mobile Awards. to Corporate Strategy’ category and with the ‘leadership • In the Golden Compass Public Relations Awards Ceremony, Global • We won the ‘Continuity in Customer Satisfaction Award’ for development program’ in the ‘Leadership Development’ Bilgi was given the Special Award. maintaining the first place in the Turkey Customer Satisfaction category in Corporate University Xchange Excellence and Index for 6 years, as well as the first place in ‘Post-paid’ and • We won two first places and one third place in the Regional Finals Innovation Awards (CorpU). ‘Pre-paid’ categories in the 20th National Quality Awards of ContactCenterWorld Top Ranking Performers. We had the first • We were awarded with the Black Statue, the most prestigious organized by the Turkish Society of Quality. place in the categories of ‘Best Outsourcing Partnership’ and ‘Best award of KalDer’s National Quality Awards, for having kept the Self-Service Technology Application’, and the third place in the • We received an award for the value created by Turkcell in first place in customer satisfaction for 7 years. We were also ‘Best Telesales’ category. University-Industry Collaborations in the Branding category found worthy of awards for ‘continuity in customer satisfaction’ of Corporate University Exchange Awards for Excellence and • As Turkcell iletişim Hizmetleri, we were awarded in the category and ‘sectoral first place in 2012’. Innovation. of Building an Employer Brand at the Peryön People Management • In Global Telecom Business Awards, we received the ‘real timeAwards. • We were awarded by Investor Relations Global Rankings (IRGR) charging project’ award in cooperation with Ericsson and the in the category of ‘The Most Developed Online Annual Report’. • We were chosen Operator of the Year at the MMA Smarties ‘Holistic Risk Management Project’ award with Neural Tech. Awards. • Turkcell Academy was found worthy of an award by the • As NRW Invest Turkcell Europe, we were given ‘The Most American Society for Training and Development (ASTD) in • At Ipra Golden World Awards, we won the United Nation’s ‘UN Successful Expansion Investment’ award by the 2013 IR the “On-site Learning and Development” category for the Special Award’ with ‘Turkey’s Money-Box for Van’. Magazine Awards. ‘Customer 2.0 Development Program’ and the ‘Excellence in • With Dream Partner service, we were found worthy of an award • We received two awards in Mobile Excellence Awards: in Application’ award in the ‘Organizational Learning’ category. at the Awards Night organized by the Federation of the Hearing the ‘Humanitarian’ category with the mobile communication • Olympic W Committee’s (IOC) ‘Social Responsibility in Sports’ Impaired. infrastructure provided for Syrian refugees and in the ‘Social award was given to the joint project of the General Directorate Awareness’ category with the Women Empowerment in • At Brandon Hall Excellence in Technology Awards, Turkcell Mobile of Sports and Turkcell, ‘Runners to the Future’. Economy project. Learning was awarded in the Best Advanced in Mobile Learning • We received an award from Gartner for ‘The Best CRM Technology category. We became the first Turkish company to • We received two awards in IPRA Golden Globe Awards for the (Customer Relations Management) Application’. be awarded in both organization and Excellence in Technology Women Empowerment in Economy project. This project won categories. first place in the “Corporate Social Responsibility” category. • Loyalty Awards ranked the Turkcell Farmer’s Package first »100 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » ANNEXES We sustain our 2. OUR CORPORATE STAKEHOLDERS • TUBISAD (Informatics Industry Association) support to national Our Corporate stakeholders in 2013 are as follows: • TUSIAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association) and international • Society of Information Security • TUTED (All Telecommunications and Businessmen’s NGOs by maintaining Association) • DEIK (Foreign Economic Relations Board) our relations with • Internet Improvement Board • YASAD (Software Industrialists Association) our corporate • ISO (Istanbul Chamber of Industry) • YASED (International Investors Association) stakeholders. • ATC (American Turkish Council) • ITO (Istanbul Chamber of Commerce) • GSMA (GSM Association) • MOBISAD (Mobile Communication Systems and Tools Businessmen’s Association) • Internet Society • MOBILSIAD (Mobile Service Provider Businessmen’s • ITU (International Telecommunication Union) Association) • MMA (Mobile Marketing Association) • TBD (Informatics Association of Turkey) • TABA (Turkish-American Business Association) • TBV (Informatics Foundation of Turkey) • TEDER (Association for Consumer Rights in Telecommunication and Energy Services and Sectoral Research) • TELKODER (Turkish Competitive Telco Operators Association) • TESID (Turkish Association for Electronics Industrialists) • TOBB (Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) »101 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » ANNEXES »102 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI AND GLOBAL The 2012-2013 Sustainability Report of Turkcell İletişim Hizmetleri A.Ş. was prepared in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Sustainability COMPACT INDEX Reporting Principles and UN Global Compact Communication on Progress standards. The table below is an integrated indicator index table that brings together the indicators of these two standards. GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. GC Statement Fully Message from the CEO 4 of Continued Support 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Message from the CEO, Sustainability Approach, Risk Man4, 13-14, 15, 16 agement, Business Continuity Management System 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully Cover Page 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully Products and Services 8 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Fully About Turkcell, Shareholding Structure 6, 11 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully About Turkcell 6 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either Fully About Turkcell 6 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully Shareholding Structure 11 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customFully About Turkcell, Turkcell in Numbers 6, 7 ers/beneficiaries). 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully About Turkcell, Turkcell in Numbers, Operational and Financial 6, 7, 23 Information 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. Fully There was no significant change regarding size, structure and ownership during the reporting period. 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Our Awards 99 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. Fully Cover Page »103 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully About the Report 3 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully biennial 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Fully Inside Back Cover 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully About the Report 3 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint Fully About the Report 3 ventures, suppliers). See GRI Boundary Protocol for further guidance. 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report (see completeness Fully About the Report 3 principle for explanation of scope). 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Fully About the Report 3 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and Fully About the Report 3 techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, Fully About the Report 3 and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g.,mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ periods, nature of business, measurement methods). 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measureFully About the Report 3 ment methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. Fully GRI and GC Index 102-109 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Fully The report was not subjected to an external audit. 4.1 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest Fully Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors 10 governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. Fully Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors 10 4.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of Fully Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors 10 members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to Fully Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors, Investor 10,12, 52 the highest governance body. Relations, Participation of Employees in Decision Making Mechanisms »104 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior Fully Compensation of the Board and Assessment of Management, 10, 46, 50-51 managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s Employee Development, Compensation and Benefits Manageperformance (including social and environmental performance). ment 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are Fully Business Ethics and Ethical Principles, Ethics Committee and 18, 19 avoided. Its Work, Compliance and Fair Competition, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Prevention of Conflicts of Interest 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of Fully Compensation of the Board and Assessment of Management, 10, 42-44 the highest governance body and its committees, including any consideration of gender http://www.turkcell.com.tr/en/aboutus/investor-relations/ and other indicators of diversity. corporate-governance/corporate-governance-guidelines, Focus on Women in “Equality of Opportunity” 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Fully Our Vision, Values, Strategic Priorities, Business Ethics and 9, 18-19 relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their Ethical Principles implementation. 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identifiFully Structure and Formation of the Board of Directors, Compen10, 13-14, 19 cation and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including sation of the Board and Assessment of Management, Our relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed Sustainability Approach, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly Fully Compensation of the Board and Assessment of Management 10 with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by Fully Risk Management, Business Continuity Management System 15, 16 the organization. 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other Fully Our Sustainability Approach, Quality Management, Business 13-14, 17, 16, initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Continuity Management System, Focus on Women in “Equali42-44 ty of Opportunity” 4.13 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/internationFully Our Corporate Stakeholders 100 al advocacy organizations in which the organization: * Has positions in governance bodies; * Participates in projects or committees; * Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or * Views membership as strategic. 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully Stakeholder Engagement 20-21 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully Stakeholder Engagement 20-21 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and Fully Stakeholder Engagement 20-21 by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how Fully Stakeholder Engagement, Corporate Profile, Our Economic 20-21, 5-19, 22the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its Impact, Our Social Impact, Our Environmental Impact 38, 39-85, 86-98 reporting. »105 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status Economic Management Approach Fully About Turkcell, Our Economic Impact, Our Contribution to 6, 22-38, 65-85 Society EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, Fully Operational and Financial Information 23 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities GC 7 Partially M2M Solutions, Our Environmental Investments, Environmen38, 88, 89, 94 due to climate change. tal-Friendly Practices, Renewable Energy Initiatives EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Fully Operational and Financial Information, Compensation and 23, 50-51 Benefits Management EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Fully Shareholding Structure, Operational and Financial Informa11, 23, 29-30 tion, R&D Efforts EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage GC 1 Partially Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, http://te61, 50-51 at significant locations of operation. darikci.turkcell.com.tr/TR/Sayfalar/Etik-Kurallar.aspx (available in Turkish), Compensation and benefits management EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant Fully Selection of Suppliers, Management Solution Partner Devel62, 63 locations of operation. opment Program EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local GC 6 Fully Recruitment Process 45 community at significant locations of operation. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily Fully Sustainability Approach, Innovation and R&D Efforts, R&D 13-14, 28-37, 38, for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Efforts, M2M Solutions, Right of Access to Telecommunication 65, 79-80 Products and Services, Developers of the Future EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent Fully Sustainability Approach, Comprehensive Approach in Creating 13-14, 24-25, of impacts. Employment, Partnership and Contribution to New Business 26-27, 38, 29-30, Ideas, M2M Solutions, R&D Efforts, Women Empowerment in 74-78, 79-80 Economy, Developers of the Future »106 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status Environmental Management Approach GC EnviFully Our Environmental Impact, Set-up and Inspection of Base 86-98, 64 ronmental Stations Commitment EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. GC 8 Fully Our Energy Efficiency Efforts, Efficient Energy Use in Turkcell 93 office buildings EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. GC 8 Fully Our Energy Efficiency Efforts, Efficient Energy Use in Turkcell 93 office buildings EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. GC 8, GC 9 Fully Our Environmental-Friendly Practices, Our Energy Efficiency 89-92, 93, 94 Efforts, Renewable Energy Initiatives EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, GC 8, GC 9 Fully Our Environmental-Friendly Practices, Our Energy Efficiency 89-92, 93, 94 and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Efforts, Renewable Energy Initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. GC 8, GC 9 Partially Our Environmental-Friendly Practices, Our Energy Efficiency 89-92, 93, 94 Efforts, Renewable Energy Initiatives EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. GC 8 Fully Water Management 97 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. GC 8 Fully Water Management 97 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. GC 8, GC 9 Fully Efforts for Saving Water 97 EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in GC 8 Fully Set-up and Inspection of Base Stations 64 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. GC 8 Partially Set-up and Inspection of Base Stations, Environmental Policy 64, 88 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. GC 7, GC 8, Fully Environmental-Friendly Practices, Our Energy Efficiency 88, 93, 94 GC 9 Efforts, Renewable Energy Initiatives EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. GC 8 Fully Water Management 97 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. GC 8 Fully Waste Management 97 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. GC 8 Fully Management of Hazardous Waste 98 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of GC 7, GC 8, Fully Our Environmental Impact 86 impact mitigation. GC 9 EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for GC 8 Fully Environmental Compliance 98 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. GC 7, GC 8, Partially Our Environmental Investments 88 GC 9 »107 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status Labour Practices and Decent Work Management Approach Fully Human Resources Management, Focus on Women in “Equality 40-57 of Opportunity”, Recruitment Process, Employee Development, Compensation and Benefits Management, Employee Engagement and Representation, Occupational Health and Safety LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by Fully Our People in Numbers 41 gender. LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, GC 6 Fully Recruitment Process 45 gender, and region. LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Fully Compensation and Benefits Management 50-51 employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. GC 1, GC 3 Fully Compensation and Benefits Management 50-51 LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health GC 1 Fully OHS Management / OHS Rules 55-56 and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of GC 1 Partially Occupational Accidents, Improvement Efforts and Labor Loss 57 work-related fatalities by region and by gender. LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist GC 1 Fully OHS Management, OHS Training, Occupational Health and 55-57 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Safety at Management Solution Partners (MSP) LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. Partially Employee Trainings 48-50 LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employFully Focus on Women in “Equality of Opportunity”, Career Devel42-44, 47, 48-50, ability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. opment, Employee Trainings, Compensation and Benefits Man50-54, 85 agement, Internal Communication and Employee Engagement Efforts, Employee Volunteerism LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, Fully Performance and Talent Management, Career Development 46, 47 by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category GC 1, GC 6 Fully Our People in Numbers 41 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by signifiGC 1, GC 6 Fully Compensation and Benefits Management 50-51 cant locations of operation. LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. Fully Our People in Numbers 41 »108 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status Human Rights Management Approach Fully Business Ethics and Ethical Principles, Occupational Health 18, 55-57, 61 and Safety, Our Suppliers HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that GC 1, GC 2, GC Fully Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, Selection 61, 62 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human 3, GC 4, GC 5, of Suppliers rights screening. GC 6 HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners that have GC 1, GC 2, GC Partially Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, Selection 61, 62 undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. 3, GC 4, GC 5, of Suppliers GC 6 HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. GC 1, GC 2, GC Fully Ethics Committee and Its Work 18 3, GC 4, GC 5, GC 6 HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of GC 1, GC 2, Partially Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, Selection 61-63 association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions GC 3 of Suppliers, Auditing and Development of Suppliers taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of GC 1, GC 2, Partially Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, Selection 61-63 child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. GC 5 of Suppliers, Auditing and Development of Suppliers HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of GC 1, GC 2, Partially Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers, Selection 61-63 forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of GC 4 of Suppliers, Auditing and Development of Suppliers forced or compulsory labor. HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights Partially Quality Management, Customer Information, Customer Con17, 59, 60, 64 reviews and/or impact assessments. fidentiality and Information Security, Product and Service Responsibility Practices, Set-up and Inspection of Base Stations »109 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX GRI G3.1 Indicators Related GC Reporting Related Part in the Report Page Number Indicators Status Society Management Approach Fully Business Ethics and Ethical Principles, Ethics Committee and 18-19, 58-60, Its Work, Compliance and Fair Competition, Anti-Bribery 65-85 and Anti-Corruption, Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Our Customers, Our Contribution to Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessFully Sustainability Approach, Stakeholder Engagement, Our Con13-14, 20-21, ments, and development programs. tribution to Society / Social Investment Projects, Corporate 65-85 Support Projects, Employee Volunteerism SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. GC 10 Fully Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Prevention of Conflicts of 19 Interest SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and proceGC 10 Partially Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Prevention of Conflicts of 19 dures. Interest SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. GC 10 Partially Business Ethics and Ethical Principles, Ethics Committee and 18-19, 61-63 Its Work, Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption, Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, Ethical Rules and Legal Requirements for Suppliers SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. Fully Set-up and Inspection of Base Stations 64 SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential Fully Set-up and Inspection of Base Stations 64 or actual negative impacts on local communities. Product Responsibility Management Approach PR Fully Product and Service Responsibility, Our Customers 64, 58-60 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed GC 1 Fully Product and Service Responsibility Practices, Set-up and 64, 64, 61, 98 for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject Inspection of Base Stations, Ethical Rules and Legal Requireto such procedures. ments for Suppliers, Management of Hazardous Waste PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of signifGC 8 Fully Customer Information, http://www.turkcell.com.tr/tr/gi59 icant products and services subject to such information requirements. zlilik-ve-guvenlik (Privacy and Security Rules, available in Turkish) PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customFully Customer Satisfaction, Customer Complaints 58, 60 er satisfaction. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Fully Customer Information, Customer Complaints 59 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. »110 TURKCELL SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-2013 » TURKCELL İLETİŞİM HİZMETLERİ A.Ş. Turkcell Tepebaşı Plaza Meşrutiyet Cad. No. 71 Beyoğlu, Taksim, İstanbul 0 212 313 10 00 www.turkcell.com.tr Contributors to the Preparation of the Report Content and Reporting Consultant: Mikado Sustainable Development Consulting www.mikadoconsulting.com Visual and Page Layout Implementation: MYRA www.myra.com.tr Your feedback on the report is important to us. For your opinions and suggestions: info-kurumsalsorumluluklar@turkcell.com.tr Turkcell Sustainability Report (“the Report”) was prepared solely for informative purposes and does not create a basis for any kind of investment decisions. This report has been originally prepared and published in Turkish. Even though its translation into English has been realized with utmost care and attention for precision, the Turkish version prevails as the original. All contents and information in this Report are prepared using the information and sources deemed to be accurate and reliable in the time the Report was written. None of the information and content in this Report can be interpreted as a statement, warranty and/or commitment; nor is it guaranteed that the information and content in this Report is complete and constant. All rights reserved.
