Communication on progress (COP) for Scania CV AB From the core values to global management systems and the way Scania conducts its business, Scania is committed to upholding the ten principles of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact relating to human rights, labour, the environment and anticorruption. This Communication on Progress (COP) is Scania’s annual disclosure to stakeholders about the company’s efforts to implement the principles of the UN Global Compact. Scania joined the UNGC in 2012. Scania has two channels to report sustainability information. To highlight how central sustainability is becoming to the business, in 2013 Scania produced its first Integrated Annual Report. More detailed information is provided in Scania’s on-line Sustainability Report available at www.scania.com/sustainability, which applies the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework 3.1. The report is written in accordance with Application Level C, and is self-declared. Where applicable, the table on the following pages indicates where to find information about how Scania works with the respective principles of the UN Global Compact and also includes a link to a statement by Mr. Martin Lundstedt, Scania’s President and CEO expressing continued support for the Global Compact. UN Global Compact principle Reference Human rights CEO statement Committed for the long haul Integrating sustainability Committed to high principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and Human rights respect the protection of internationally Supply chain proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not Human rights complicit in human rights abuses. Supply chain Labour CEO statement Committed for the long haul Integrating sustainability Committed to high principles Labour practices Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the Labour practices freedom of association and the effective Employee relations recognition of the right to collective Human rights bargaining; Supply chain Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of Human rights forced and compulsory labour; Supply chain Principle 5 the effective abolition of child Human rights labour; and Supply chain Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination Human rights in respect of employment and occupation. Supply chain Battle of the numbers Doing things right Environment CEO statement Committed for the long haul Integrating sustainability Committed to high principles Integrating sustainability Towards sustainable transport Environmental management Featured stories Principle 7 Businesses should support a Precautionary principle precautionary approach to environmental Environmental policy challenges; Product lifecycle approach Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote Our role in sustainable transport greater environmental responsibility; Vehicle innovation Environmental management Transport A low-carbon vision Principle 9 encourage the development Our role in sustainable transport and diffusion of environmentally friendly A low-carbon vision technologies. Vehicle innovation Sustainable logistics Sustainable mobility Climatic wind tunnel Anti-corruption CEO statement Committed for the long haul Integrating sustainability Committed to high principles Integrating sustainability Principle 10 Businesses should work Anti-corruption against all forms of corruption, including Governance for accountability extortion and bribery. Doing things right
