2013 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 03 Outstanding results 05 Company profile AXTEL profile 06 Corporate governance 08 Executive team 12 Risk management 13 Business ethics 14 Human rights 16 AXTEL services 17 AXTEL technology 19 Quality management system 20 AXTEL sustainability AXTEL sustainability 21 Stakeholders 24 Customer satisfaction 30 AXTEL Foundation 31 Social perspective Social perspective 34 Training 40 Integral and occupational safety 41 Environmental perspective Environmental perspective 43 Energy and air emissions 45 Water 47 Waste management and disposal 47 Financial perspective Financial perspective 50 Outstanding results 51 AXTEL Business Model 53 Markets served 54 Financial statements 56 Memory parameters 102 Material topics 103 GRI index 104 Verification 109 GRI letter 110 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE LETTER FROM THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 1.1 During 2013 we achieved positive results stemming from a recapitalization plan started in 2012 and successfully carried out in 2013. The improvement in our capital structure was translated into greater flexibility in channeling the necessary investments to continue carrying out our key strategic initiatives and improving our financial results. Among the key actions we carried out stand out the operational efficiency initiatives and the recapitalization plan through non-strategic asset divestment and exchange of debt bonds, achieving a net debt reduction of more than USD 300 million which enables us to continue investing in the execution of our business strategy. Likewise, our approach is achieving a greater market share in ICT solutions in offerings for enterprises and government and the deployment of the direct optical fiber network in homes or businesses for the high value mass market, were the spearhead to improve the results in the year. During 2013 we developed a new generation of products and services to satisfy our clients’ needs. In the consumption market, we launched AXTEL Pay TV Service on the optical fiber coverage. We also expanded the coverage of our (FTTx) fiber network into new cities, which has enabled us to offer triple play services, that is, Internet, television and telephone, in eight of the main cities in México. During 2013 we were also able to consolidate more than 65 thousand points for WiFi X-tremo access in the cities with FTTx coverage, which offers our clients Internet coverage outside of their homes. The aforementioned, together with the existing service offering enabled us to increase our subscriber database for broadband in almost 50 percent, besides achieving 61 thousand clients for Pay TV Service in only 11 months after being launched. On the other hand, in the business and government segments we continue aligning our IT convergence strategy with communications, becoming evident in the launch of new products and services such as Integral Business Safety, Private Cloud Collaboration and AXTEL Track. Likewise, AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 3 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE in 2013 we focused on strengthening our infrastructure to On the other hand, at AXTEL Foundation our actions provide ICT services where the end of the expansion and have been focused on supporting education projects, strengthening of the Monterrey Data Center outstands and entrepreneurship, support to youths in a social risk the creation, through an alliance, of a new Data Center situation, strengthening the family and community strategically located in the State of México. participation. We constantly work to maintain our operation under a For the third consecutive year we reassured our frame of actions integrated toward sustainability. Our commitment with the United Nations Global Compact, social accountability and corporate governance practices through which we are committed to meeting its 10 principles enabled us to be included in the Mexican Stock Exchange related with human rights, fight against corruption, labor Sustainability Index (Sustainable IPC). We also received regulations and environment. the distinction as Socially Responsible Enterprise granted by CEMEFI for the sixth consecutive year, and the ESR With the previous activities and our effort to continuously Distinction from Value Chain for the fourth year, through improve the AXTEL experience, our company enjoys which we support a group of PyMES suppliers in their social financial health today and a clear and better focused accountability process. strategic vision, which enables us to maintain our development and continue being a profitable company. We continue working to maintain high standards as employers. For this reason we continue with the activities We reaffirm our commitment with our clients, shareholders in the Integral Collaborator Agenda, through which we and stakeholders. We thank our collaborator’s effort, thanks promote activities focused on health, education and family to whom it is possible to be successful in our company and integration areas for our 6 thousand 791 collaborators. we are committed to continue working under a philosophy At the same time, we continue implementing our energy focused on the long term permanence of our business. savings campaigns and recycling, electronic invoicing and the good environmental practices which led us to obtain the Environmental Quality certification, granted by PROFEPA, organization part of SEMARNAT. Tomás Milmo Santos Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer 4 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT OUTSTANDING RESULTS IN 2013 01 Company Profile COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL profile 2.1 / 2.4 / 2.5 / 2.8 / 4.8 We are the second largest operator for fixed telephony and long distance in México. AXTEL is the Mexican telecommunications enterprise We offer integral communication services such as high with the fastest Internet service in México, supplier of the speed broadband, pay TV Service, data transmission and most advanced pay TV service in Latin America and one implementation of virtual private networks, Internet page of the leading companies in Information Technology and hosting, data centers, managed security, services for other Communication (ICT) solutions in the corporate, financial, telecommunications operators and voice services, among and governmental sectors. others. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 7 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Corporate governance We are a public enterprise listed Corporate governance 2.3 / 2.6 / 4.1 / 4.2 / 4.3 / 4.4 / 4.5 / 4.6 / 4.7 / 4.9 / 4.10 / LA13 in the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) since 2005, operating under The strategy in our business is led by a group of board the “AXTEL CPO” symbol. For the members who manage the operation and growth of AXTEL on sound principles and values. second consecutive year we were part of Sustainable IPC at BMV Our corporate governance reports on the principles of accountability, equality, openness, and transparency, with for the January 2014 2015 period, the purpose of improving performance at AXTEL and thanks to the results achieved ensuring sustainability in the future. in 2013. Managing, identification and mitigation of potential risks to which the Company is exposed and supervising compliance Our culture and values distinguish us: “ of the current laws, including the Securities Market Law (LMV) are among the main functions of the Board of “ Mission Directors. Improve communication to enhance life. This Board is led by our Chairman and Chief Executive “ “ Vision Officer. It currently comprises 10 owner board members Innovating communication experiences that bring people and 9 alternate directors, out of which two are women, not closer to what they care the most for. exceeding a maximum of 21 owner members in accordance to the provisions of the Securities Market Law and the Values Company Bylaws. The board members are designated by the shareholders in the Ordinary General Stockholders’ Meeting and their retribution is determined by the Commitment Stockholders of the Company. By the end of 2013, the total Honoring promises. compensation paid to the executives and Board members was approximately $95 million MXN. Honesty Respecting truthfulness. In compliance with the applicable legislation and the Company Bylaws, the Board members remain in office Service 30 days after their resignation or until the Board member Excellence and attitude in doing something designated as replacement is in office. for others. The information of the executive officers of the Board of Directors of AXTEL* is the following: Communication Improving the quality of our dialogue at every moment. Innovation Making new ideas into a reality: transforming life. If you wish to learn more about the values, please go to * The business address for each officer, director, and alternate directors is located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km. 3.33 L-1, Col. Unidad San Pedro, San Pedro Garza García, www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad N.L., México, CP 66215. 8 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Tomás Alberto Milmo Santos Santos Boesch Founder member and Chief Executive Officer at AXTEL. Member Has been Director since April 2013, was alternate director for Alberto of the Board of directors since 1994 and Chairman of the Board Santos de Hoyos (†) since June 2005. Has been Chief Executive of Directors since 2003. He is member of the Board of Directors Officer at Empresas Santos since 2000. He is shareholder and at CEMEX, at Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores director at Grupo Tres Vidas Acapulco S.A. Likewise he is Director at de Monterrey and in Promotora Ambiental, S.A.B. de C.V. He Grupo Maseca, Interpuerto de Monterrey, Santos y de la Garza Evia is Chairman of the Board of Tec Salud and Alianza Educativa Foundation, Nuevo Amanecer Institute, UDIA A.C. and En Nuestras Ciudadana por Nuevo León. He holds a degree in Business Manos. He has a Degree in International Studies from Universidad Economics from Stanford University. de Monterrey and has international studies in Cushing Academy. Thomas Lorenzo Lorenzo H. Milmo Zambrano Zambrano Treviño He has been a Director at the Company since July 22, 1994 and was Has been a Director at AXTEL since October 1997. He is Chairman Chairman of the Board of Directors since 1997 through 2003. He was of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of CEMEX, co-founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors at Grupo Javer, one of the main global companies in the construction materials S.A. de C.V., one of the largest housing development companies industry. Likewise, he is a member of the Board of Directors of IBM; in México, and Incasa, S.A. de C.V., one of the largest aggregate and serves as part of the Board of Museo de Arte Contemporáneo producers in México. He was Chairman of the Board of Directors de Monterrey (MARCO) and was Chairman of the Board of Sistema and CEO at Carbonífera de San Patricio S.A. de C.V. and Carbón Tecnológico de Monterrey from 1997 through 2012. He holds a Industrial, S.A. de C.V. Likewise, he was Director of CEMEX until B.S. in Mechanical Engineering from Instituto Tecnológico y de 1996. Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and has a Master’s in Business Administration from Stanford University. Patricio Alberto Jiménez Barrera Garza Santos Was Chief Financial Officer at AXTEL from 1998 through 2009. Has Has been Director at AXTEL since October 2003. He is founder, been a Director at AXTEL since November 2005. Prior to Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive of working in AXTEL he held several finance-related positions, Promotora Ambiental S.A. de C.V., and likewise member of the including investment banker at Invermexico Casa de Bolsa, Board of Directors at Maquinaria Diesel S.A. de C.V. (MADISA), treasurer at Grupo CYDSA, and again investment banker at Banca Desarrollos Delta S.A de C.V. and SUPERA. He is Chairman of the Serfín, S.A., where he was Director of International Banking and Foundation Mundo Sustentable; served as Chairman of the Advisory Treasury. Currently he is member of the Board of Directors of Board of Parque Ecológico Chipinque. He holds a degree in Business Sociedad Financiera de Crédito Popular Nacional and of Operadora Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Servicios Mega, and Chief Executive Officer at Abstrix, S.A. de de Monterrey and a graduate degree in Political Sciences from C.V. He is a CPA and holds a degree from Instituto Tecnológico y de Southern Methodist University. Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Héctor Lawrence Medina Aguiar1 H. Guffey1 Has been a Director at AXTEL since October 2003 and is member Has been member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. He was Executive March 2001. He is member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Vice-President of Finance and Legal at CEMEX through February Committee. Likewise, he is Administrative Director at Blackstone 2010, when he retired. Before he worked at Grupo ALFA. He was Group International. Before joining Blackstone he worked in the Chairman of the Directive Board of Universidad Regiomontana until Acquisitions Group at Trammell Crow Ventures, the main investment April 2012 and was member of the Surveillance Board at Instituto arm at Trammell Crow Company. He is Member of Cineworld Group Tecnológico de Monterrey until 2011. He is member of the Board of PLC, Deutsche Telekom and TDC. Graduated from Rice University. Directors of different public and private enterprises. He graduated from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey as Chemical Engineer. He also holds a Master’s in Management from the University of Bradford Management Centre in England and a M.S. degree from Escuela de Organización Industrial in Spain. Fernando A. González Olivieri Is member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since April 2010. Bernardo Since he started his career in CEMEX in 1989, he has held different Senior positions, including Corporate Vice-President of Strategic Guerra Treviño1 Planning; President of CEMEX Venezuela; President of CEMEX Asia; President of CEMEX South America and the Caribbean; President of He is member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since 2006 and CEMEX Europe, Middle East, Africa, Asia, and Australia; Executive Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. He is a Vice-President for Planning and Development and Executive founder partner of Morales y Guerra Capital Asesores (MG Capital), Vice-President for Planning and Finance. He is currently serving and member of the Board of Directors of Promotora Ambiental as Executive Vice-President of Finance and Administration. He and Banco Ahorro FAMSA. He received a degree in Industrial received his degree and Master’s in Administration from Instituto Engineering and Systems from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Superiores de Monterrey. Thomas Francisco Javier Westermann2 Garza Zambrano He is Alternate Director for Laurence H. Guffrey since April 2013. He Has been Alternate Director for Lorenzo Zambrano Treviño since is Analyst at Davidson Kempner Capital Management. Has worked June 2005. Has held the position as President of the America region in Blackstone, J.P. Morgan, The Boston Consulting Group and Booz for CEMEX, as well as President for CEMEX México, CEMEX & Co. Hs a Master’s in Administrative Sciences and Engineering Panama, and Venezolana de Cementos (Vencemos, S.A.); and has from Stanford University and a B.S in Engineering and Applied also been Vice-President at CEMEX Trading and President in charge Mathematics from the Technical University in Denmark. of CEMEX operations in the United States. He is President at Grupo XIGNUX, ASUR, Grupo CYDSA, GP Construcciones, Universidad de Monterrey, among others. He holds a degree in Business Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores Alicia de Monterrey and has a Master’s in Business Administration from Cornell University Johnson Graduate School of Management. Santos Boesch Has been Alternate Director for Alberto Santos Boesch since April 2013. Holds a degree in International Relations from UDEM. Has also carried out studies in Marketing in the University of California (UCLA) Is member of the Board in Grupo Sonoma and different social organizations. David Balbina Garza Santos Milmo Santos Has been Alternate Director for Alberto Garza Santos since She is Alternate Director for Thomas Milmo Zambrano since November 2005. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors and April 2007. She holds a degree in Graphic Design from the Chief Executive of Maquinaria Diesel, S.A. de C.V., a company Instituto de Arte y Restauración de Florencia, Italia She also which distributes Caterpillar, Ingersoll Rand and other construction has studies at Escuela de Diseño Chamberlayne in Boston, equipment. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors of United States She has lead several activities as entrepreneur. Comercial Essex, S.A. de C.V., which is the most important distributor in México of Exxon Mobile lubricants. He is part of the Board of Administration of Desarrollos Delta, S.A. de C.V., a real estate developer in the residential market, offices and resorts, and is also a member of the Board of Directors of Promotora Ambiental, S.A. de C.V., leading company in México in waste Management. He is member of the Advisory Board of the School of Business Management at Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. He holds a degree in Business Management from that institute. Mauricio Andrés Morales Sada2 Velázquez Romero Has been Alternate Director for Bernardo Guerra Treviño since He is the Executive Director for Entrepreneurial Market and April 2006. He is President and founder member of MG Capital, an Government. He is Alternate Director at AXTEL since March independent investment management since 1995. From 1984 to 1995 2007. He has been Executive Director since 2004, responsible he held different Senior positions in banks and brokerage houses for the Process Transformation and Information Technology, in México. He received the degree for Mechanical Engineer and Mass Market, as well as Business Market in different periods. Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores Before joining AXTEL, he worked in the financial sector, de Monterrey, and is currently member of the Executive Committee risk management, credit, financing, correspondent banking, of the Business Development Program in the same institution. international treasury, and foreign exchange. He was also COO at Banca Serfín New York Agency. He holds a degree in Economics from Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México in México City. Ramiro G. Alberto Villarreal Morales de Villasante Herbert He is Alternate Director for Fernando A. Gonzalez Olivieri since He has been Executive Director of Strategic Relations and April 2011 and was previously Alternate Director for Héctor Medina is Alternate Director of AXTEL since March 2007. Prior to Aguiar since April 2006. He is Chief Legal Officer at CEMEX since his current position, he was Vice-President of Negotiations, 1987. He also serves as Secretary of the Board of Directors of CEMEX Alliances and Institutional Relations. Previously he held since 1995. From 1985 thru 1987 he held the position of Assistant different positions in Xignux including the Direction at General Director of Grupo Financiero Banpaís (now part of Banco Multilec. He is Member of the Board at Concresa S.A de Mercantil del Norte S.A.). He received his degree in Law from C.V. and Productora de Terrasos S.A. de C.V. Has a degree Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León and a Master’s in Finance in Marketing from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios from University of Wisconsin. Superiores de Monterrey and a Master’s in Public Accounting, Administration and Total Quality. 1 Independent Board Member 2 Alternate Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Executive team Executive team 2.3 Among the key obligations and duties of the Board recommending the Internal and External Auditing areas of Directors we find establishing and managing the the actions to be carried out in regards to the significant business strategy; the approval of policies, guidelines and financial matters of the company. representative operations; assigning the Chief Executive Officer; policies for loans and collaterals; the guidelines in In order to avoid conflict of interest in the highest regards to controls and internal auditing; the accounting governance body at AXTEL we adhere to the Securities policies; the financial statements; submitting reports to the Market Act (LMV) meeting the required percentage of General Stockholders Meeting; among others. independent directors. Likewise the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, the Internal Auditor and External In the selection of our Board Members, their expertise, Auditor ensure that, in case of conflict of interests, the capability and professional prestige are considered and corresponding Director will refrain from participating in the their development is assessed at least once a year. Board corresponding voting. Members, as well as the Audit Committee and Corporate Practices Committee are organized in order to comply with Communication of the executives with the Board of the Stock Market Law (LMV). Directors is established through this Committee, or through the Investors Relations area, which receives the comments The Auditing and Corporate Practices Committee reports and/or recommendations that our stakeholders wish to directly to the Board of Directors and is formed by three make to the members of the Board. The e-mail to send independent directors. Its main functions are overseeing the comments is: ir@axtel.com.mx administrative and financial execution at AXTEL Likewise, 12 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Risk management Risk management 1.2 / 4.11 / SO2 The appropriate risk management is a key aspect in exposure to these kinds of risks. Each risk was reviewed 100 ensuring permanence of our business in the future. The percent, without detecting corruption cases. Internal Audit area, reporting to AXTEL General Director, is the body responsible for monitoring the Internal Control Both risk maps serve as the foundation to determine the System through which the financial and non-financial Audit Plan for the corresponding period, which focuses on processes of the business are evaluated. ensuring: A Risk Analysis was carried out, based on the Business • Operational efficiency and continuity. Strategy, in order to identify the processes that impact • Reliability and integrity in operational and financial directly the goals established. There were 17 relevant risks information of the company. identified in 19 processes reviewed in 100 percent, without • Safeguarding the company assets. detecting important failures which impact compliance of the • Compliance of existing laws and regulations. Strategic Objectives of the Enterprise. • Detection of important failures in internal control and timely information for its correction. Additionally, we have a corruption risk map, which considers those business units which have the greatest Main focus for 2013 Desired Results Status Focus on processes and risk Efficiency and effectiveness in alignment of Alignment of risk analysis with corporate levels according to strategic the risk analysis with the strategic initiatives strategy, generating actions and control initiatives in the company. of the business to provide greater value to the implementation to this end. results obtained. Increasing process and key activity Focus and risk mitigation regarding Increasing new product efficiency and ensure efficiency in regards to new product new projects and products. ROI and its profitability. service, investment, and profitability. Increase in dissemination of Maintaining optimum trust levels in company Active collaborator participation through anonymous denouncing lines. collaborators. different denouncing lines. A reform which regulates fair competition to Thanks to the Reform, content of national Laws and regulations. broadcast national and local open television and local open TV content was released content without generating cost for AXTEL. for all AXTEL clients. CFE not offering telecommunications service Dispute at the Communications to Federal Government, since this entity is Department, Federal Telecommunications Regulations. Carrier of Carriers and not final service Institute (IFT) and Congress, so there is supplier. fair competition generated. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 13 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Business ethics Business ethics 4.6 / HR2 / HR4 / SO3 / SO4 Our commitment with ethical behavior and transparency, together with the Honor and Justice Committee comprised and anti-corruption is permanent. In AXTEL we reject by the Legal Director, Human Resources Director, and Audit corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Director. PMNU 10. The key objectives of the Transparency Mailbox are: In 2013 we continued reinforcing communication and • Receiving, maintaining and treating the denounces knowledge of AXTEL Ethics Code among collaborators received in the company in regards to accounting, and suppliers. The topics addressed by the AXTEL Code of internal control, violations to the Ethics Code, asset Ethics* are: behavior at work; communication; conflict of robbery or abuse, inappropriate use of privileged interests; personnel hiring; honesty, loyalty and integrity; information, bribery, policy non-compliance, among confidential information; safety in the job; relationship with them the Non-Gift, Anti-corruption and Suppliers, and clients, community, government and suppliers; promotion activities that may be assumed fraudulent. and sales; and environmental accountability. • Providing the complainant total certainty regarding treatment and confidentiality of his/her report through The effort to train our collaborators in the Ethics and Good the Transparency Mailbox. Practices course through AXTEL Virtual University started • Protecting any revenge or retaliation action to people who since 2012 and its content comprised topics related with our report any irregularity in good faith. Anti-corruption Policy, No-Gift Policy, and Transparency Mailbox Policy. Since the beginning of these programs, 7 thousand 236 collaborators have registered to the Ethics course, while one thousand 138 have gone through the Good Practices course. By the end of 2013, one thousand 244 people are in the process of finishing Ethics, while 240 the Good Practices course. Likewise, all the new incoming collaborators receive training on these subjects and regarding Human Rights compliance. All our collaborators have the knowledge and must adhere to our Anti-corruption and No Gift Policies and the Transparency Mailbox. The AXTEL Transparency Mailbox is the ethical management tool which enables us to receive denounces from our stakeholders regarding actions or situations which go against the organizational values or AXTEL Ethics Code. The Internal Audit Direction is the body responsible for receiving, giving follow-up and appropriate solution to the reports made, which can be given anonymously or personally. These denounces are treated confidentially, in all cases. When these cause controversy, they are reviewed *To learn about the complete content of the document to inquire www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad 14 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Business ethics The contact lines to receive complaints During 2013 we received 127 complaints, 25 of which were founded and 102 were unfounded as faults against the Ethics 24/7/365 a year* are: Code, nevertheless they were processed and follow-up given to 100 percent of them. Out of the founded complaints such as faults to the Ethics Code, 22 percent were solved by the end of 2013, and 3 percent are in the process of being solved. Toll-free number: 01 800 087 0909 Out of the complaints received, none was related to corruption actions. Corrective actions were taken in the E-mail: rest of the founded complaints. During 2013 there were no complaints received due to discrimination incidents. HR4 transparenciaaxtel@axtel.com.mx In our corporate offices with the * Through the telephone line and e-mail. Audit Director and/or Manager of For our clients and suppliers we also have the Transparency Mailbox available through our Web Page: Corporate Governance www.axtel.mx/Sustentabilidad/Gobierno Corporativo/Buzón de Transparencia Complaints received in 2013 PERSONAL CONFLICT OF RELATIONS INTERESTS POLICY COMPLIANCE 2% 2% 2%OTHER 6% 8% ASSET 108 PRESERVATION 19 18% 62% EMPLOYEE CLIENT INAPPROPRIATE BEHAVIOR INAPPROPRIATE BEHAVIOR AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 15 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Human rights During 2013, 100 percent of our suppliers received an the workers in this category pass the course and, in order additional letter of commitment for social accountability to achieve this, there will be training actions implemented where AXTEL encourages them to meet the current together with the security companies providing service. guidelines, laws and standards in environmental matters, human rights, work safety and health, anti-corruption, Likewise, we meet the current legislation in our country in social accountability, and quality. During this period, there human rights matters, the Federal Labor Law and respect were no corruption practices or behaviors observed with freedom of association and effective recognition of the suppliers. right to collective bargaining PMNU 3. Ensuring its compliance, we have a collective work agreement and Internal Work Regulations establishing Human rights respect to human rights and freedom of association and HR3 / HR5 / HR6 / HR7 / HR8 collective bargaining according to the ILO Declaration and regulations established by the Federal Labor Law. The In AXTEL we adhered to the Collective Labor Agreement is reviewed every two years United Nations Global Compact and a document validation is carried out by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare. Likewise, there is a permanent since 2011, thus we promote education program taught in regards to union matters for and respect the 10 principles the union delegates of the organization, which is supported by the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare and the promoted in human rights, work National Union Federation. standards, environment and fight against corruption. In order to learn about our Human Rights Policy and the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact in detail please go to: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad We also have a Human Rights Policy where we declare our position of respect and protection for human rights proclaimed internationally PMNU 1, ensuring we are not an accomplice in human rights abuse PMNU PMNU 2, and we protect individuals in all their expressions, rejecting forced labor PMNU 4, child labor PMNU 5, discrimination activities PMNU 6 , abusive behavior, coercion and threat, ensuring its compliance with tools such as AXTEL Ethics Code, Diversity and Inclusion Policy, Personnel Hiring and Selection Policy and our Transparency Mailbox. Besides we have a permanent inspection program with external contractors where we verify age, documents and protection equipment for those working inside and outside our facilities. During 2013, through AXTEL University, we trained 22 percent of our security personnel in topics related to human rights. Our commitment for 2014 is to have 60 percent of 16 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL services AXTEL services 2.2 / 2.7 / SO7 With a portfolio of more than 30 integral communication TELCO services in AXTEL we serve the business, financial, and In the telephony product line: AXTEL Plans, Intelligent government sectors, wholesale and consumption enabling Line, 800 Service; in Packages: AXTEL X-tremo, Universal us to cover the demand of more than 700 thousand Access, X-tremo Entertainment with AXTEL TV. clients in the entire country. Our markets are divided into Consumption Market and Corporate and Government Value Added Services Market. We have the following product lines: AXTEL Conmigo, Expert for PC/Mac, Mass Security, AXTEL Membership, The consumption portfolio comprises the TELCO business Pyme Support, Specialized Support, WiFi X-tremo, WiFi at lines (Telecommunications) and Value Added Services. The Home, Connected Home & Business, Back-up, AXTEL Store. products offered in 2013 were: Business Process of the Consumption Market In 2013 we restructured our service offering for our IT business portfolio being distributed into TELCO products In the Global Infrastructure product line: Data Center; in (Telecommunications) and IT (Information Technology), Complete Safety: AXTEL Track; and in Total Collaboration: integrating the already existing products. Contact Center, Immediate Contact Center, Private Cloud Collaboration TELCO In the Networks product line: International VPN (VPN PIP International) and International Private Line (Global Link). 1 You may see the complete list of products and services in the web page: www.axtel.mx AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 17 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL services Business Process in Corporate and Government Market Our world class network comprises different access Performance in our company is carried out in an industry technologies such as optical fiber, fixed wireless access, having national competitors which have a large percentage point-to-point and point to multi-point links, offering of market share. Under this condition and in our compliance solutions that are customized to our clients’ needs. of the law, AXTEL has not been subject to sanctions or legal actions due to unfair competition and monopoly and/or The AXTEL offering includes broadband service, practices against free competition. By the end of 2013 we pay television, the most advanced solutions for data have an open procedure regarding legal actions carried out transmission and implementation of virtual private to competitor enterprises due to unfair competition behavior networks, web hosting, data centers, managed security, and/or monopoly practices and a procedure solved in favor services for other telecommunications operators and voice of AXTEL. services, among others. Through AXTEL X-tremo we offer the most advanced and fastest broadband service in the country, with a 200 MBPS speed. 18 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL technology AXTEL technology residential clients and small businesses. It is not cell telephony. It uses a 50 MHz spectrum within the 3.4 GHz band at a national level and having a minimum impact on the environment. In AXTEL we have the most advanced technology resources WiMAX in the market to provide the best We deliver higher speed data links through it using the IP protocol in a native way. communication solutions. We offer the best communication Point to multi-point radio solution according to our With a Broad geographical scope, low maintenance costs and minimum impact on clients’ needs. the environment, the Point to multi-point radio technology is used to provide voice and data services. It has the 60 MHz spectrum, with The access technologies used are: optical fiber cable, fixed coverage at a national level, within the 10.5 GHz wireless access, point to point radio, point to multi-point band. radio, and copper technology. The access technologies include: Point to point radio Offering complete transmission services for AXTEL digital network voice, data and Internet, with great clarity Through this network we integrate local and total call security. It enables covering telephony, long distance, Internet, and value the high capacity and broad coverage service added services. requirements. AXTEL has 100 MHz spectrum within the 23 GHz band and 128 MHz spectrum within the 15 GHz band. Optical fiber It offers high capability transportation, quality and reliability in voice and data digital WiFi metro transmission, as well as direct web connection, Enables accessing Internet through a broad with solutions through optical fiber cable. number of WiFi Hotspots located in different places in the city (shopping malls, restaurants, airports, schools, universities, hospitals, hotels, Fiber to the home or business (FTTx) etc.) to browse in Internet and use the other Enables the delivery of very high capability services available in the cloud. It uses optical symmetrical services for homes and businesses. fiber and the AXTEL IP network as transportation means. AXTEL TV Thanks to its last generation IPTV technology (Internet Protocol TV) enables providing a Intelligent network Provides us the possibility to offer versatile and differentiated service in México, having unique reliable voice services, customized according functionalities and providing unsurpassable to the client’s needs, some of them are: image quality. automatization and customization of entering calls, customer service, contact centers, probing Fixed wireless access and surveys, 800 and 900 numbers, among Enables providing local telephony services, long others. distance, Internet, and value added services to AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 19 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Quality management system Quality management system disciplinary team that seeks and executes solutions to detected problems. The table is a vehicle for the continuous improvement culture in AXTEL, where the internal work During 2013 there were 18 team suggests and carries out improvements. It started with six tables to redesign the pre-selling and service delivery improvement projects with processes, and continued with tables with topics related to the participation of 222 network operations and maintenance. collaborators from different The goal for 2014 is to continue training the AXTEL areas in the organization. collaborators in the improvement tools and maintain the participation as consultants in the tables of the Executive Additionally, as part of the institutional improvement Direction of Corporate and Government Markets, Executive program, the internal Black Belt leaders trained around 70 Direction for Technology and Operations, and Executive AXTEL collaborators in the cities of Monterrey and México Direction for the Consumption Market, in order to continue City, replicating the problem solving method, either at a fostering self-execution of projects which achieve fast Green Belt level and/or self-execution projects. improvements through coordination, discipline and structure in daily work. The Improvement Tables concept was incorporated during this year, being defined as an internal and multi20 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 02 AXTEL Sustainability COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL sustainability 2.10 The AXTEL Sustainability Model is the framework that aforementioned always protecting the well-being of our governs the actions under which we coordinate our collaborators, carrying out social investments for the socially accountable performance. We operate under benefit of the communities where we operate, and work ethical premises of responsibility and quality, innovation continuously respecting the environment. in information and communication technologies. The Sustainability Model Environment Occupational well being Ethics, responsibility and quality Social investments Innovation in information technologies and communication These set of actions, aligned to the business strategy, amongst other things, to comply with the current enabled us to enter in the Sustainable Price and Quotation legislation in the places where we operate; protecting Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Sustainable IPC), human rights for all individuals; ensuring the labor being part of the group of 29 public enterprises in México rights for our collaborators; working within an ethical that obtained this rating since February 2013 through framework; rejecting bribery and corruption; reducing January 2014. This assessment is carried out annually by environmental impact of our operations; contributing to EIRIS and Anáhuac University. social sustainability of the communities; and searching for continuous improvement in our processes and services. Also in 2013, for the sixth consecutive year, we obtained the Recognition as Socially Responsible Enterprise, granted by Centro Mexicano para la Filantropía Mexican Center for Philanthropy (CEMEFI), as well as the fourth ESR Value In order to learn in detail the complete Sustainability Policy document go to: Chain Recognition, reaffirming our commitment to operate www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad and perform within the frame of a sustainable business. Through our Sustainability Policy we are committed, 22 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Certifications and recognitions Sustainability statement received in 2013 Global Sustainability Strategy We seek to contribute to a more sustainable future with ESR 2013 Recognition, Mexican Center for Philanthropy our work and environmental practices, introducing in (CEMEFI). an honest, ethical and responsible manner, innovating solutions that provide society with access to information ESR 2013 Recognition, Value Chain, Mexican Center for and communication technologies. Philanthropy (CEMEFI) Cisco Gold Star Recognition, Excellence in Customer Economic Strategy Satisfaction Our commitment is to honestly manage our technologic, economic, and financial resources, to operate efficiently Certification as Authorized Technology Provider for Video under a strict risk control and following the legislation and Telepresence (Telepresence Video Master Authorized enabling a successful and sustainable growth of the company. Technology Provider -ATP-) Cisco. Certification as Cisco Gold Partner. Social Strategy We promote sustainable development in our community, Certification as Cisco Managed Services Channel Partner carrying out actions that benefit our collaborators and (MSCP). our external communities, providing them the tools that allow them to have access to better education and health ISO 9001:2008 opportunities and a dignified living. ISO 20000-1:2011 Environmental Strategy ISO 27001:2005 We seek to reduce the negative impact of our operating practices in the environment, reviewing our procedures, Certification TIER III Certification of Design Documents, developing new technologies, and improving our methods, Uptime Institute. to preserve resources and establish a harmonious relationship with nature. Certification Level 3 S-WCQA Safety World Class Quality Assurance Data Center, International Computer Room Experts Association (ICREA). Google Award in Digital Marketing. Certificate for Environmental Quality, PROFEPA/SEMARNAT. Recognition as Leader Enterprise in Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Workshop/SEMARNAT Forbes Magazine, 25 most sustainable enterprises. Mundo Ejecutivo Magazine, 45 enterprises with greatest sustainability in México. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 23 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders Stakeholders 4.12 / 4.13 / 4.14 / 4.15 / 4.16 / 4.17 / EC6 / SO5 The different stakeholders with whom we relate are greatly In May 2013, a Corporate Reputation Committee was created, relevant for our company. We have identified 41 groups of entities, integrated by those responsible for serving relevant stakeholders who organizations or individuals with which we are related. Based on this are related with the company and whose objective is learning and identification, we have grouped them into 10 large blocks. responding to their expectations as best as possible. The committee meets twice a month to review the stakeholders’ requirements and We maintain continuous communication with each one and establish defining the strategies for their follow-up and review. initiatives focused on their expectations and needs in order to serve them. STAKEHOLDERS COLLABORATORS SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS Comprised by stockholders, or owners of enterprise equity; debtors or debt investors of the company; analysts, whose work Individuals who perform work for AXTEL, is facilitating the information between the organization and the as well as individuals who work as part-time employees. investors; as well as regulators, rating agencies, and the rest of entities involved with public enterprises. CONTACT FREQUENCY CONTACT FREQUENCY Intranet Permanent Web Page Permanent E-mail messages Daily AXTEL Integrated Report Annual AXTEL meetings with General Annual Board meetings Quarterly Director Electronic Newsletter Bi-monthly Results Conferences Quarterly CURRENT Transparency mailbox Permanent Annual Shareholders Meeting Annual COMMUNICATION Corporate Social Network Permanent MECHANISM Printed and brochures Permanent E-mail Permanent Organizational atmosphere survey Annual Forum presentations Recurring Web Page Permanent Results Quarterly Report Quarterly Annual Integrated Report Annual Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent News in media Permanent News in media Quarterly Press releases By event Investors Contact Mailbox Permanent Safety and Hygiene Commissions Monthly Results Recognition Training and professional development Profitable and sustainable growth, Live / work Balance Information transparency Flexible work schedules Accountability. EXPECTATIONS Occupational Health and wellness Competitive salaries and benefits Access to high executive levels Safe working conditions Accountability on decisions and results Innovation (accountability) Communication Organizational atmosphere survey Strategic Planning 360° Annual Assessment Communication campaigns Objective alignment Constant communication with investors Seniority recognition Volunteer Program Internal audit Annual Integrated Report INITIATIVES Health, education and entertainment programs Risk identification Personal safety prevention campaigns Family Day Corporate Governance Structure AXTEL Meeting Results based incentive Ethics Code Objectives alignment Commercial Agreements for collaborators Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee 24 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Individuals or groups that use AXTEL services in a recurring or Organizations or individuals with whom AXTEL maintains trade eventual manner to cover their communication needs, relations to exchange goods and services that support the entertainment and information technologies. execution of our administrative and operational processes. Contact FREQUENCY Contact FREQUENCY Media news Permanent Suppliers’ Extranet Permanent Advertising Permanent E-mails Bi-monthly Annual Integrated Report Annual Press releases By event E-mails Bi-monthly Message and inserts in invoices Monthly Leaflets Monthly Face-to-face meetings Monthly CURRENT Contact Center (telemarketing, COMMUNICATION service and National Center for Permanent Training workshops Monthly MECHANISM Repair) Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Web Page Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent SMS Monthly Annual Integrated Report Annual News in media Permanent Facebook, Twitter, You Tube, Digital Daily Press Releases Per event media (Google) Service quality and Reliability. Timely communication and attention Truthful and timely information of product and service Development offerings Sharing sustainable business practices Innovation EXPECTATIONS Policy compliance Legality Knowledge of AXTEL and its products Compliance of current legislation Price according to product value Care for the Environment Support and counseling Care for the Environment Introduction of higher value added services (AXTEL X-tremo 200Mb, AXTEL TV, Business Security, Collaboration Total Business, launch of Public WiFi) Customer approach making the satisfaction model evolve Communication through media Implementation of Environmental Leadership Workshop (PROFEPA) Portal redesign Communication deployment, service and sales Implementation of Social Accountability Workshop (CEMEFI) Via Social Networks INITIATIVES PC&MAC Expert post-sales and specialized support Engagement in No-Gift and Anti-corruption campaign. specialized services. Data Center and service personnel Certification Volunteer Programs Certification of Contact Centers Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee E Business and digital Marketing Optical Fiber Network (FTTX) Development Electronic Invoicing Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 25 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders GOVERNMENT AND ORGANIZATIONS STAKEHOLDERS REGULATORY ENTITIES AND GROUPS Civil society organizations with which the enterprise is related Government entities with which AXTEL interacts for the with the purpose of exchanging services, knowledge and/ correct execution and provision of its services, always or mutual support (or for one of them), for the benefit of the respecting the legal framework existing in México. enterprise, the members of the organizations or both parties. Contact FREQUENCY Contact FREQUENCY Face-to-face meetings Permanent Volunteer work Per event Portability and long distance AXTEL Foundation Permanent Monthly Committees AXTEL Foundation E-mail Permanent Spokespeople and Representatives Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Transparency mailbox Annual Permanent Annual Integrated Report Annual Integrated Report Annual News in media Permanent CURRENT COMMUNICATION News in media Permanent Campaigns Per event MECHANISM Press Releases Per event 01 800 AXTEL Foundation Permanent Web Page Permanent Invitation for co-investment Annual projects Portability dealer microsite Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Web Page Permanent Reunions Per event Press Releases Per event Compliance of Laws, Regulations, and Applicable Alliances and support Standards Feedback Investment EXPECTATIONS Contribution in social and economic development Job creation Job creation Social coverage Education promotion Analysis of proposals for laws and regulation projects Collaboration with authorities Annual invitation for co-investment in social projects. Compliance with current legislation Participation in volunteer work Participation in intermediate organizations Participation in non-government organizations INITIATIVES Constant dialogue Social welfare campaigns Job creation Participation in mixed representation social programs Investment (Government PS-Community) Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee 26 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS COMPETITORS MEDIA Telecommunications Dealers and Information Technology enterprises who offer same or similar services as AXTEL with Enterprises specialized in spreading news through one or several whom there is constant communication in order to achieve a media (printed, electronic, etc.). competitive development in the Telecommunications Industry. Contact FREQUENCY Contact FREQUENCY Committees Permanent Press Releases Per event Web Page Permanent One-on-one Interviews Per event Spokespeople and representatives Permanent Spokespeople and representatives Permanent CURRENT Breakfasts Quarterly COMMUNICATION Press Releases Per event Annual Integrated Report Annual MECHANISM Sector meetings and events Per event Web Page Permanent Annual Integrated Report Annual Transparency mailbox Permanent News in media Permanent Social networks and applications Permanent E-mail Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Fair competition and legally following Compliance of agreements and standards Truthful and timely information Participation in committees and industry chambers Transparency EXPECTATIONS Exchange of opinions regarding industry aspects and topics Accountability Respect to Legality Compliance of current legislation Acting ethically Participation in sector forums and industry chambers Constant dialogue Constant and expedite communication Procurement of timely information INITIATIVES Collaboration in joint opinions in legislation proposals Implementation of program for media relationship Facilitation in dialogue amongst competitors Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 27 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders STAKEHOLDERS COMMUNITIES UNIONS Groups of individuals who live in areas where Groups of Collaborators who are organized through a collective the company is established who maintain a good relationship agreement and who work full time in the company. as neighbors with the organization and its collaborators. Contact FREQUENCY Contact FREQUENCY Spokespeople and representatives Per event Spokespeople and representatives Per event Annual Integrated Report Annual Annual Integrated Report Annual CURRENT Web Page Permanent Web Page Permanent COMMUNICATION Social Networks and applications Permanent Social Networks and applications Permanent MECHANISM Transparency mailbox Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Journal notes Per event Journal notes Per event E-mail Per event E-mail Per event Events and sector meetings Bi-annually Care for the environment Investment in social development projects Compliance of current legislation Job creation Improvement in working conditions EXPECTATIONS Mutually beneficial relations Compliance of collective work agreement Effective communication channels Safe working conditions Respect to habits and culture Better productivity for the company Compliance of current legislation Mixed commissions for Safety and Hygiene Collective labor Agreement Volunteer Program Compliance of current Legislation Annual invitation for co-investment in social projects Participation in sector meetings INITIATIVES Participation in sector meetings Permanently open communication channel Open communication channel Sector meetings Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee Periodic training Better work safety and health conditions Integration of Corporate Reputation Committee Suppliers We are members of different Chambers and Associations The suppliers are a very important stakeholder in AXTEL with the purpose of exchanging information, experiences Thanks to them we have the ability to serve satisfactorily and actively participating in the business community. In the different markets where we operate. Thus, we seek to 2013 we continue subscribed to: carry out our trade interactions, as much as possible, with local suppliers in the places where we operate, promoting • National Chamber for Telecommunication Industry via their economic development and also in the communities Cable CANITEC. where they are established. • National Chamber for Electronic Telecommunications Industry and Information Technology, CANIETI. As part of the commitment to involve our suppliers in • Mexican Chamber of Industry, CONCAMIN. socially accountable practices, we invited a group of • Business Coordinating Council, CCE. 15 micro, small and medium size enterprises to attend • Telecom Council of Silicon. the Environmental Leadership Program, organized by • TM Forum. PROFEPA, the Environment and Natural Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT) and the Environmental Protection Institute in N.L. (IPA). 28 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Stakeholders There were also 10 PyMES suppliers invited to participate Community for the first time in this invitation to obtain the Recognition as Socially Responsible Enterprise in 2014 awarded by In the Social Accountability area, we carried out different CEMEFI. As part of this process, there were four training activities together with the volunteer collaborators who workshops taught during 2013. joined us in supporting the neighboring communities. Some of these activities were: • Gathering products at a national level in order to support Proportion of budget allocated in 2013 the contingency created by hurricanes Ingrid and Manuel. 16.5 tons were gathered which were delivered in by supplier category Guerrero, Sinaloa, Michoacán, Zacatecas, San Luis Potosí, and Nuevo León. • Signature of the agreement with Sistema para el 17% Desarrollo Integral de la Familia (DIF) Integral Family Development System in Hermosillo to participate in the FOREIGN Networks and Alliances Program. This agreement has the purpose of developing social practices for the benefit of the most vulnerable population in this location. • Thanks to the collaboration agreement between DIF Hermosillo and AXTEL, a group of AXTEL volunteers participated in a reforesting campaign in one of the vulnerable neighborhoods in the city. • A group of 28 AXTEL volunteers went to different communities in Nuevo León in order to deliver one thousand 200 kilos of goods, which were distributed amongst 362 grocery packages for the same number of 62% families. • A blanket gathering campaign was carried out called naTIonal “Cobertón AXTEL 2013” (AXTEL Blanket 2013) in which there were one thousand 148 blankets donated by our collaborators in the cities of Monterrey, Hermosillo and Mexicali, as well as the collaborators in the North Region from Network Maintenance and Infrastructure. With this, 900 families in the state of Nuevo León received support. Other events In 2013 we participated as sponsors in the events AngelHack Monterrey Primavera 2013 and ITT Expo 2013. The first one is the largest hackatón competition in the world which gathers programmers and international entrepreneurs with the objective of promoting their ideas and projects. ITT Expo 2013 is the most important international exhibition in regards to information technology and telecommunications. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 29 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction PR5 On the other hand, through an external supplier service we applied customer and user surveys bi-annually, with the purpose of assessing the satisfaction of the services we In AXTEL we maintain interaction with our clients through provide. different mechanisms which enable us to be in touch with them, receive their concerns, complaints, service failures, For this study, the participation of 9 thousand 826 clients technical or administrative problems, or provide their was considered who assessed the following aspects: preopinion regarding attention and services provided. These selling and selling process, installation process, use of tools are available through the Customized Service Modules, products and services, customer service, failure repairs, Customer Service Centers, Web page, surveys and service invoicing and collection. Out of the clients interviewed, calls. In 2013 we served a total of 4 million 967 thousand 788 81 percent correspond to the consumption market, and 19 interactions with our clients. percent to the business market. Interaction with customers Customer satisfaction index during 2013 PHONE chat e-mail social network WE SERVED 4,967,788 interactions during 2013 30 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 03 AXTEL Foundation COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL Foundation SO1 Volunteer work During 2013 AXTEL Foundation invested 6 million 754 Through the volunteer work program, 15 elementary thousand 757 MXN in social projects. schools and two secondary schools were supported in 13 AXTEL cities. These activities were carried out under the This allocation was carried out through the seventh edition Impulsa program, which tries to develop the students’ of the Contest Co-investment on Social Projects, which entrepreneurial spirit in public schools, located in lowsupported 26 winning projects in 15 different cities. resources neighborhoods, motivating them to continue their education and planting in them the seed for the pursuit of The projects supported had the purpose to provide attention excellence. to 12-17 old youths, in risk of social exclusion in the urbanmarginal zones of the cities where AXTEL is present. In 2013 a total of 261 AXTEL volunteers participated providing one thousand 690 hours of service to benefit In AXTEL we have a high interest in having a positive 4 thousand 166 students. The cities where this program impact in these youths who are now almost 10 percent of the was implemented were Monterrey, Ciudad de México, population in our country. Facing a reality where teenager Guadalajara, Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, Cuernavaca, psycho-social vulnerability is increased by early dropping Hermosillo, Mexicali, Puebla, Toluca, Morelia, Saltillo and out of school and early incorporation into labor through Querétaro. marginal works, we consider important to strengthen the actions focused on facilitating the inclusion of this social group. COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Sumarse Network • Cleaning, painting and cutting works. • Follow-up to committees working in these topics: reading; It is an institution integrated by 27 Mexican enterprises infrastructure improvement; civil protection and school in which AXTEL is part, and together with the Social safety; physical activity promotion; recreation, physical Development Secretariat in Nuevo León, promotes and cultural activities; discouragement to violence strengthening the civic characteristics and reconstruction of practices; establishing school consumption; care for the social fabric in the metropolitan area in Monterrey. environment and cleaning of the surrounding area. • Carrying out events for the promotion of values and activities fostering students’ health and wellness. Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por • Promotion of sports activities. Nuevo León As part of the activities in this Alliance, the initiative Young Power was launched in 2013, led by AXTEL Foundation. This model of community participation has the purpose Young Power is an initiative searching to generate synergy of involving the neighbors and the school community to and focusing on different social actors in order to serve improve the educational quality of the students in Nuevo youths living in high social risk developments in Nuevo León. León. In 2011, AXTEL adopted Technical Secondary No. 43 Young Power works empowering youths and providing them “Adalberto Viesca Sada” located in the municipality of the tools so they become change agents, creating a culture Apodaca, Nuevo León, which has 826 students, and since of wellness and promoting values to achieve their Integral 2013 “Elementary School Primero de Mayo” in Santa development. The action lines are: fostering education, Catarina, Nuevo León. With the support of volunteer promotion of social behaviors, strengthening of the family, collaborators, the following activities were carried out: individual development, and organization and community participation. • Delivery of 460 books donated by AXTEL collaborators. • Plant a Tree reforesting campaign. 04SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE 34 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Collaborators Social perspective 2.8 / EC5 / EC7 / LA1 / LA2 / LA4 / LA13 In AXTEL we strive to offer an appealing work offering for the 6 thousand 791 collaborators which are part of our team, in the 39 cities in México where we operate. We offer a safe working environment, with equality and quality of life, for which we make available continuous training programs, health and safety in the job: NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY GENDER AND REGION REGION MEN WOMEN TOTAL México, Center, South 1,407 296 1,703 West 968 461 1,429 North 2.497 1,162 3,659 TOTAL 4,872 1,919 6,791 Collaborators by 9% type of agreement part time LA1 91% FULL TIME AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 35 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Collaborators NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY AGE, GENDER, AND REGION REGION MEXICO, CENTER, SOUTH WEST NORTH AGES MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN MEN WOMEN TOTAL 18 30 545 114 637 356 1,012 671 3,335 31 40 594 152 243 89 1,063 404 2,545 41 50 229 28 84 15 368 79 803 50 + 39 2 4 1 54 8 108 TOTAL 1,407 296 968 461 2,497 1,162 6,791 Distribution of collaborators by gender and organizational category TITLE MEN WOMEN TOTAL Executive Directors 8 0 8 Directors 32 2 34 Managers 123 11 134 Employees Staff 2,366 858 3,224 Contact Center Executives 1,083 1,048 2,131 Installers 1,260 0 1,260 TOTAL 4,872 1,919 6,791 Our executive Executives by geographical region team, comprised by Executive MEN WOMEN TOTAL Directors, Executives native of the cities where AXTEL is present 147 11 158 Directors and Managers, 98.3 Executives native of the cities where AXTEL is not 13 2 15 present percent are national, while Executives native from other countries 3 0 3 1.7 percent are TOTAL 163 13 176 foreign. 36 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Collaborators 18.48 percent of the AXTEL collaborators are covered by carried out every two years and the document is deposited a collective labor agreement. Unionized collaborators are at the government agency of the Federal Conciliation and subscribed to a Collective Work Agreement that is reviewed Arbitration Board. annually by the National Union Federation. The renewal is Number of employees per type of employment, agreement, and region REGION UNIONIZED NON-UNIONIZED FULL TIME FULL TIME PART-TIME TOTAL México, Center, South 556 1,143 4 1,703 West 316 705 408 1,429 North 388 3,047 224 3,659 TOTAL 1,260 4,895 636 6,791 Note: in AXTEL no temporary employees are hired. We have policies and procedures that enable us to carry to gender, race, religion, age, or social condition. Likewise, out a search process for candidates for vacant positions, we promote work opportunities inside the company, before selection and recruitment according to the professional its publication to external audiences. competencies without distinction of characteristics related Employee turnover by age and gender LA1 Total employees who left their job in 2013: 1,831 MEN WOMEN Note: during 2013 no new hires were made. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 37 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Collaborators The annual turnover percentage in 2013 was 28.06 percent, considering a base of 6,667 collaborators. Competitiveness percentage of AXTEL daily salary average vs. daily salary of the area In AXTEL we handle salaries by competitiveness, which are measured based on the Telecommunications Sector GEOGRAPHICAL ZONE DAILY SALARY DIFFERENCE enterprise market. According to the amounts published ZONE by the Ministry of Labor, AXTEL salaries for operational A $67.29 373% positions range between 373 percent and 394 percent on the base of national minimum salaries. B $63.77 394% A pilot program was launched since 2012 for home working, Integral collaborator agenda which continued operating during 2013. This program is operating in the sourcing area, where collaborators work As part of the personal development plan for our from home two days during the week. collaborators and their families, we have the Integral Collaborator Agenda, program offering alternatives for The benefits derived from this program are: training and events in the health, education, family, • Commute time savings, in average 1.6 hours a day. community and work development areas. • More time for effective work and productivity while decreasing distractions. • Permanent attention in chat, telephone, and mail. • Gas average savings of $643.50 MSN per month per employee. Cars stopped traveling through 6 thousand 427 Km during 2013. • Better quality of life, since the collaborators under this scheme increase an average of two hours of time dedicated to their families. • Flexibility to work anywhere with WiFi access for operation continuity. • 100 percent utilization of work tools. Another program we have implemented with favorable results is training and employment for collaborators with disabilities in a joint project with the Technology University of Santa Catarina, in the state of Nuevo León. The Enterprise at School project, as it has been called, is operating since 2011 and it is a project which is 100 percent inclusive having the Center of Contact privilege employment for individuals with disabilities who meet the profile for this professional function. During 2013, 20 percent of the collaborators in this Contact Center are individuals with disability graduated from this program. 38 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Integral collaborator agenda Integral Collaborator Agenda NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS ACTION TOTAL ACTIVITIES PARTICIPANTS English placement exams 45 3 Educational Education with curricular value in 33 3 universities Relative Relative visits to AXTEL facilities 660 19 Health actions 2,314 2,314 Health Information presentations 206 3 Agreements with other organizations offering benefits for AXTEL collaborators NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS TYPE OF AGREEMENT NUMBER OF AGREEMENTS BENEFITED Health 14 6,791 Educational 46 6,791 Entertaining 24 6,791 Commercial 24 6,791 WITHIN the Integral Cultural events, recreational and family sharing Collaborator Agenda, Number of cities Total there are events EVENT participants attending considered where 4º AXTEL Family Day 39 13,647 collaborators are invited, together with their Family Visits 19 660 families, to attend cultural Educational Fair 4 996 activities, recreational, Health Fair 3 2,792 educational and family sharing events. During 2013 Child Talent Contest 5 12 we had the presence of 18 thousand 107 people AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 39 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Training Health events for Collaborators and their families Medical Campaign 2012 2013 Vaccination 938 1,056 Information and prevention 2,950 2,314 Family health 346 360 Miscellaneous medical services 439 450 Women Health programs 262 350 Conferences 250 250 Nutrition campaigns 497 530 Training LA8 / LA10 / LA12 Our collaborators receive constant training and education in vacant positions. 3 percent of our collaborators were with the purpose of potentializing their professional assessed during 2013 for this purpose. Additionally, there performance, while we ensure operational efficiency in our were 360 evaluations carried out for 171 executives. company. During 2013, 59 percent of our collaborators received some Likewise, we carry out performance assessments to key kind of training. personnel in order to evaluate possibilities for promotion Average number of hours of formation per year per employee, divided by category NUMBER OF FORMATION OF CATEGORY AVERAGE HOURS COLLABORATORS TRAINING PER CATEGORY Directors 10 17 1.7 Managers 41 140 3.4 Middle Management 756 5,397 7.1 Analysts 2,742 43,186 15.7 Assistants 83 2,055 24.7 Unionized 414 43,886 106 TOTAL 4,046 94,681 --40 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Integral and Occupational Safety AXTEL TRAINING 2013 Number of Average hours Number of courses Hours of MODALITY collaborators training per taught total training trained employee* Virtual 3,248 577 15,483 4.7 Face-to-face 1,732 128 79,198 45.72 *The average number of training hours per employee is calculated taking as a basis the number of collaborators trained. The eleventh class of the program From Supervisor to This generation comprises 38 collaborators from Monterrey Coach, focused on middle management graduated in 2013, and Guadalajara, having in total 340 coaches in our with the purpose of developing leadership and coaching company. skills that ease the achievement of team objectives, as well as achieving a transformation in the way to manage personnel. Integral and occupational safety LA7 In the area of Industrial Safety, the accident record was presentations taught at a national level and more than 720 4.04 percent lower than the industry of professional recommendations issued in the different work centers at and technical services providers average, according to AXTEL. the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS), which represents an improvement of 13.15 percent regarding The requirements to obtain the Certification as Safe 2012. Nevertheless, the accident severity increased in Enterprise from the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare 16.98 percent in regards to the same period in 2012, but were met during the year, process in which we will remained in 40.09 percent lower than the national average continue working during 2014. registered at STPS. This was the result of the 232 safety Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number of fatal victims by region in 2013 MEXICO CENTER WEST NORTH TOTAL SOUTH Days lost 1,667 935 785 3,387 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 0 Number of professional 0 0 0 0 diseases Number of work accidents 58 41 40 139 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 41 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Integral and Occupational Safety Absenteeism rates, professional diseases, days lost and number of fatalities 2011 2012 2013 Days lost 2,563 2,480 3,397 Number of fatalities 0 0 0 Number of professional diseases 0 0 0 Number of work accidents 113 133 139 Labor accident rate and lost days 2011 2012 2013 Average of personnel exposed to risk during the year 6,034 7,120 7,263 Average lost days due to accident 22.68 18.65 24.43 Average accidents per person 0.044 0.02 0.01913 The indices for the calculation of accidents, severity and accident rates are calculated on the formula according to the Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare (STPS) and the National Legislation which meets the ILO recommendations (International Labor Organization). AXTEL showed an increase in days lost and accidents during 2013, due to the incorporation of a new process as well as the increase in headcount, while introducing FTTx technology in five additional cities, which implied greater work in the field and proximity to electrical energy. 05 Environmental Perspective COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Initiatives 2013 Environmental perspective 5.1 / EN26 / SO1 At AXTEL we work so that processes and procedures in Environmental Leadership for Suppliers our operations do not generate a negative impact to the We invited 15 suppliers to participate in the Environmental environment. We recognize the importance of caring Leadership Workshop taught by personnel from Federal and preserving the resources that the Planet provides us, Direction for Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA) thus we constantly seek innovation in our procedures and by the Environmental Protection Institute in Nuevo and technologies we use in our operations so these are León, (IPA). harmless to the environment PMNU9. There were nine workshops taught at the Monterrey We have policies which enable us to ensure the correct corporate facilities, with the purpose of supporting them in execution of our actions: The Environmental Policy, Waste the development of environmental initiatives appropriate to Management and Disposal Policy; and Energy Savings their business operation. Policy. Shared Vehicle Program The Environmental Policy is aligned to the Sustainability A pilot program started at the Monterrey corporate building Policy and has the guidelines to be followed to reduce in 2013, promoting the vehicle sharing culture with work and prevent the environmental impact of our activities, peers to avoid CO2 emissions, gas savings, and parking inside and outside of the company, while we establish a spaces. This program will start the implementation of harmonious relationship with nature. the Car Pool program in 2014, another program with the objective to ease and promote the shared vehicle use among Initiatives 2013 members of the same company. During the year we started different initiatives focused Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund (FAMM) on contributing with the environment and promoting a We participate in the creation of this fund, initiative which greater environmental responsibility PMNU8, either through is an example of how we support preventive methods optimization in our operations, or participating in external in regards to environmental problems PMNU7. This projects. Some of the most relevant were: Environmental project created during 2013 with the participation of four Quality Certification, Environmental Leadership for universities, 23 enterprises, 16 civil organizations, and 16 Suppliers, Shared Vehicle Program, Clean Transportation, government institutions, focuses on protecting the water Paperless program, Monterrey Metropolitan Water Fund sources that supply more than 4 million people who live in (FAMM). this city. Environmental Quality Certification FAMM is part of the Latin American Water Funds, created In 2012 we launched the process for the certification as in June 2011 by The Nature Conservancy (TNC), FEMSA Environmental Quality Certification granted by the Federal Foundation, the Inter-American Development Bank (BID) Direction for Environmental Protection Agency (PROFEPA) and The Nature Conservancy Environment (FMAM-GEF), regulating agency in the Environment and Natural to create and strengthen Latin America Water Funds. Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT), which granted us the Certification for the Monterrey Corporate building and for A Water Fund is a mechanism that enables paying for the Santa Fe building in México City. environmental services (water infiltration, soil retention, *To learn the complete content of the Environmental Policy, please go to: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad 44 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Energy and Air Emissions weather regulation, and bio-diversity) provided by nature and reinvesting in preservation efforts. Resources are obtained through this alliance to finance the preservation and restoring project of the San Juan River Basin. The Fund will focus on four objectives: flood mitigation, improving infiltration, developing a water culture, and working with government in order to take resources to the basin. Energy and air emissions EN3 / EN4 / EN5 / EN7 / EN16 / EN17 / EN18 / EN29 Amount of energy In 2013 we carried out change in the infrastructure and saved due to energy network operation process, as well as technology change in the radio basis resulting in space optimization, in use of consumption land, and generating reductions in energy consumption and reduction initiatives waste generation. and increasing energy efficiency. The average energy consumption per month was 5 thousand 570 Kw per radio base. With the new process, consumption was reduced to one thousand 236 Kw per radio base. This generated savings of 377 thousand 058 Kw per month, Total amount of equivalent to annual savings of 4 million 524 thousand 696 Kw, without discharging 11 thousand 311 tons of CO2. energy saved by process redesign 1,357 Gigajoules Indirect energy consumption Energy direct consumption (GIGAJOULES) SOURCE 2011 2012 2013 SOURCE 2011 2012 2013 Kilowatts 70,351,873 102,638,752 101,729,438 Gasoline 11,928,503 11,045,681 8,961,564 Gigajoules 253,266 369,499 366,225 Diesel 2,301,673 193,605 1,202,671 Gas 259,927 77,227 102,224 Electrical power consumption during 2013 was reduced in Total fuel consumption 2013 in Gigajoules: .88 percent. The goal for 2014 is to decrease .50 percent in consumption at a national level. 10,266,460 Base of calculation: total direct energy consumption = direct acquired primary energy + direct produced primary energy direct sold primary energy. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 45 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Energy and Air Emissions Gas consumption decreased in 18.86 percent in 2013. The An example of these initiatives was the adherence to goal for 2014 is achieving a decrease of 10 percent in the the Clean Transportation Program promoted by the total annual consumption. Environmental and Natural Resources Secretariat, the Communications and Transportation Secretariat and the In 2013 indirect energy consumption was generated due General Direction of Air Quality Management, which has to business traveling (278,925.46 Gj) and due to employee the objective to increase efficiency in the use of utilitarian commute (3,301,587.30 Gj) data we started to monitor vehicles, enabling the reduction of greenhouse gas with the purpose of creating initiatives to reduce its emissions and use fuels responsibly. consumption. Tons of CO2 discharged SOURCE 2011 2012 2013 GOAL FOR 2014 Electrical energy 46,003 67,331 66,520 .50% Fuels 13,199 12,484 12,152 10% Domestic waste 628 572 467 10% Out of the total fuels used, 10 thousand 242 tons of CO2 correspond to gas used in transportation with logistic purposes. Direct and indirect greenhouse Other greenhouse gas emissions 2013 gas emissions 2013 in weight (tons) in weight (tons) Electricity 66,250 Employee commute 12,754 Diesel, gas, and gasoline 12,152 Traveling 945 TOTAL 78,673 TOTAL 13,699 Paperless program We continue with the Paperless Program or digital Invoicing. In 2013, 3.6 tons of paper were not used, avoiding cutting 64.8 trees and preventing the discharge of 4.99 tons of CO2 into the environment. Besides, 36 m3 of water were saved, avoiding generation of 3.6 m3 of waste and the utilization of 43.2 gigajoules of electrical energy. Thanks to the alliance with XEROX started in 2012, during 2013, 4.32 tons of paper were not used in our offices, preventing cutting of 78 trees, emission of 9.41 tons of CO2, and the use of 43.2 m3 of water that would have been used in manufacturing paper. 46 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Water Waste Management and Disposal Water EN8 / EN9 Water consumption is mainly to be used in administrative facilities in toilets, gardens, and Water consumption (cubic meters) air conditioning. The main sources come from municipal GOAL FOR supply and in some cases where this service is not available 2011 2012 2013 2014 water comes from authorized underground sources. Water 495,893 225,679 267,831 10% Water consumption during 2013 showed an increase of 15.73 percent thus the goal for 2014 is reducing consumption in 10 percent. Water Consumption by Sources annual amount m3 SOURCE 2012 2013 Underground water sources* 34,000 34,000 Municipal water supply 191,679 233,831 TOTAL 225,679 267,831 * Water extracted of an underground source does not risk bio diversity in the region, or the total volume mass of water. Waste management and disposal EN1 / EN22 / EN24 / EN27 / EN30 Some of the waste generated by the operations in our Additionally, we have procedures established according to company are aluminum, cardboard, steel, iron, electronic the Mexican Official Standards (NOM) and Environment devices, optical fiber and diesel, thus we have the Waste and Natural Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT) due to Management and Disposal Policy, where punctual accumulation of ink cartridges and printer toner, batteries procedures are established for waste treatment and a and obsolete computer equipment generated in our guideline is provided to identify the waste generated administrative offices. periodically in our company. The amount invested in 2013 in the correct disposal of Hazardous and non-hazardous waste was of 1 million 086 thousand 468 MXN: AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 47 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Waste Management and Disposal Materials used by weight and volume Amount of materials consumed in 2013 TYPE MATERIALS DIVISION TYPE AMOUNT (TONS) Plastic 100 Raw material 4,570 Direct materials employees (Tons): 4,580 Optical fiber 1,248 Auxiliary material 57 Cardboard 10 Semi-finished products or parts 40 Gasoline 4,239,940 Non renewable materials Gas 54,395 employees (liters): 4,949,839 Diesel 655,504 Hazardous waste generated by operation in 2013 8% 220 TONS HAZARDOUS WASTE Total weight of waste based on treatment method in 2013 TYPE OF TREATMENT TONS Reutilization 58.48 Recycling 258.82 Landfill 2,316 Onsite storage 5.85 92% Destruction 1.16 2,419 TONS NONHAZARDOUS WASTE 48 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Waste Management and Disposal In 2013, 220 tons of hazardous waste were transported to authorized landfills in the municipality of Mina, Nuevo León, and 1.6 tons to be destroyed to Aguascalientes, Aguascalientes. Hazardous waste transported for Materials sent to recycling (tons) appropriate confinement TYPE OF WASTE TONS MATERIAL 2010 2011 2012 2013 Optical fiber 5.20 Aluminum 1.62 0.20 0.854 2.94 Batteries 0.20 Toner cartridges 0.54 0.92 1.25 1.16 Electronic 214.14 Paper 29.57 20.36 30.30 39.53 Diesel 0.325 PET plastic 1.08 1.34 1.61 4.5 Paint 0.046 Gasoline 0.058 Domestic waste and greenhouse gas emission generated (tons) Thinner 0.01 GOAL SOURCE 2011 2012 2013 FOR White spirits 0.014 2014 Oils 0.067 Waste 3.109 2,833 2,316 10% Toner cartridges 1.16 CO2 discharged 628 572 467 10% There was an 18.24 percent decrease in generation of domestic waste during 2013, thus the goal for 2014 is reducing in 10 percent this type of waste at a national level. 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Business highlights Financial Perspective EC1 / EC8 / EC9 The improvement in our capital structure and the optical fiber network directly in homes and businesses for the organizational approach implemented by the end of 2012 and high value mass market, were the spearhead to improve results beginning of 2013 enabled us to continue carrying out our in the year. business strategy during the year. During 2013 we achieved positive results stemming from a recapitalization plan The results in 2013 reflect the operations and financial developed during 2012 and successfully carried out in January improvement in AXTEL. Currently the company has a sound 2013. capital structure, with a clear and defined strategy and we are taking the necessary actions to restore a profitable and AXTEL financial strategy is based on a) prudent management sustained growth through time. Due to the aforementioned, of debt, b) an extended maturity profile, according to the together with the favorable expectations in the application investment requirements and repaying periods in our industry of the telecommunications reform, we see the future with and, c) flexible management of liquidity and working capital, optimism and feel confident that we will continue creating due to the cyclical investments and collections mainly in value importantly for our shareholders. corporate and government client projects. Our financial strategy will continue based on a prudent Our approach on achieving a larger ICT solution share in risk management, with the main purpose of guaranteeing offerings for corporate and government, and the deployment of continuity in the execution of the business strategy. Business highlights Results (million MXN) 2013 2012 2011 Revenues 10,286 10,190 10,829 Operating Income (Loss) 2,687 (535) 46 Net Income (Loss) 2,408 (709) (2,070) Financial Situation (million MXN) Total assets 19,883 20,500 22,092 Total liabilities 12,355 15,412 16,290 Stakeholders’ Equity 7,528 5,088 5,802 Operating Cash flow (million MXN) Adjusted EBITDA 2,872 2,738 3,569 Measures EBITDA / Income 27.9% 26.9% 33.0% Operating (Loss) Profit/ Income 26.1% -5.2% 0.4% Net Profit (Loss) / Income 23.4% -7.0% -19.1% Interest Coverage 3.3% 2.6% 3.6 Liabilities / Equity 1.64 3.03 2.81 Total Personnel 6,791 6,541 8,024 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 51 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Business Highlights 2013 Economic performance reported according to Mexican Financial Reporting Standards (thousands MXN) EC1 CONCEPT 2013 2012 2011 Earnings 10,286,494 10,189,732 10,829,405 Generated Earning due to Interests 16,229 21,976 22,340 Economic Value Other Earnings 3,033,104 -199,987 -419,450 13,335,827 10,011,712 10,432,295 Operating Costs -2,984,573 -2,854,785 -2,799,269 Outsourcing -398,487 -425,474 -427,855 Social Benefits (Payroll and Derivatives) -1,759,615 -1,956,608 -2,020,598 Distributed Economic Value Taxes paid -75,380 -68,028 -25,245 Payment to funding sources -756,135 -1,038,946 -969,724 Investments in the community (Donations) -10,510 -14,702 -22,068 -5,984,700 -6,358,543 -6.264,759 Retained Economic VEG + VED 7,351,127 3,653,169 4,167,536 Value Financial Statements (ER) Cash flow (FE) Consolidated Expenses (GC) Information from 2012 has been prepared under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Information from 2010 and previous years has been prepared under the Mexican Financial Reporting Standards (NIF). 52 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE AXTEL Business Model AXTEL Business Model AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 53 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Markets served Markets served 2.2 / 2.7 Corporate and government market Government • Standardization of offerings in products such as: IP We had an increase in earnings for the second consecutive Multiservices, Corporate LAN to LAN, Integral Corporate year in 2013, increasing 15 percent in this market. Safety, Corporate and Government Invoicing by Second (local and long distance). Corporate • Redefinition of products-to-be-cancelled portfolio, some We continued working to serve the medium, large and due to low profitability or a finished life cycle such as: corporate enterprises, through the development of integral electronic invoicing, Frame Relay and solutions specialized in vertical segments of the Financial • Probusiness and Pyme Plus. Sector, Contact Centers and Carriers, aligned on the defined • Improvement in the information support and decision strategy of two lines of business. making systems for the sales force and field service. • Successful continuity of Consulting Sales methodology. Among the main changes carried out in our systems and/or • Redefining segments by blocks, to focus the service levels structures to improve performance during 2013 are: according to the client’s size and potential. • Adjustment in the variable compensation scheme to boost sales volume. EARNINGS (MILLION MXN) SEGMENT 2012 2013 Corporate 4,536 4,492 Government 1,971 2,271 TOTAL 6,508 6,763 CUSTOMERS SEGMENT 2012 2013 Corporate 10,112 8,083 Government 328 470 TOTAL 10,440 8,553 54 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Markets served Consumption Market In the Consumption Market we maintain our strategy and • Expert PC&Mac and Specialized Support X-tremo attention focused on residential, micro-business, and small support users in solving needs related to their computer businesses, developing offerings and products that may equipment and Internet service. serve the unique needs in these client groups. • AXTEL Membership, are service packages for emergency services, medical discounts and life insurance providing The markets served with integrated services of local voice, benefits for the entire family. LD and Internet include 39 of the main metropolitan areas in México, and in them we find approximately 50 percent of Among the main goals established for 2014 we have: the population in México. • Enlarging coverage with FTTx technology to more cities Currently, we have deployed optical fiber infrastructure and will continue with the penetration efforts in current to homes (FTTx) in nine of these large cities, offering coverage areas. integrated services of telephony, broadband up to 200 Mbps • Increasing WiFi X-tremo access points to ease our users’ and Pay TV. This FTTx network currently covers more than connectivity away from their home. 1.3 million homes and businesses. • Maximizing the use of Wireless infrastructures with telephony and Internet services. We offer multiple telephony services, Internet and Pay TV • Consolidation of our sales and customer service channels as part of our portfolio. The services which offer a value on line, adapting to the trends in the interaction habits of added and enable us to provide a differentiated offering the market. include: • Carrying out improvement actions resulting from the new Customer Satisfaction Model, to redesign the • AXTEL Conmigo, service that enables the client to take customer relationship experience. his fixed line wherever he goes. • WiFi X-tremo offers connectivity to broadband Internet in a large number of public sites in the main cities in México. EARNINGS (MILLION MXN) SEGMENT 2012 2013 Residential 2,820 2,615 Micro 586 643 Small 276 266 TOTAL 3,682 3,523 CUSTOMERS SEGMENT 2012 2013 Residential 637,068 561,607 Micro 64,327 69,697 Small 14,285 13,562 TOTAL 715,680 644,866 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 55 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Operation Results of the Company. Results of Operation for years ended 1,860 million, from Ps. 1,998 million in 2012, a decrease of Ps. 138 million, or 7%, explained by 6% and 8% reductions in December 31, 2013 and 2012 dedicated Internet and virtual private networks respectively. Revenues. Integrated Services and Equipment Sales. Revenues totals Ps. 1,884 million for year 2013, compared For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, with Ps. 1,494 million during 2012, representing a Ps. 390 total revenues reached Ps. 10,286 million, compared with million or 26% increase. This is mainly explained by a Ps.10,190 million for the year ended 2012, an increase of Ps. 40% increase in integrated services to the enterprise and 97 million, or 1%. government segments. Axtel’s revenues derive from the following services: International Traffic. The revenue for completion of international traffic added Local Services. up Ps. 764 million in the twelve month period ended on Revenue from local services for the twelve month period December 31 2013, a 17% increase compared to the same concluded on December 31, 2013 added up Ps. 3,208 million, period for 2012, explained by a 32% increases in prices, due compared with Ps. 3,619 million pesos recorded for the same to a change in volume mix towards more mobile minutes period of the previous year, a reduction of Ps. 411 million traffic. Despite an increase in revenues, contribution margin or 11% explained by Ps. 250, Ps. 60 and Ps. 100 million for this business decreased in 2013 compared with 2012 due reductions in monthly rents, measured services and fixedto lower margins. to-mobile revenues, respectively. Other Services. Long Distance Services. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013 For the twelve month period concluded on December 31, revenue from other services added up Ps. 387 million 2013, revenue for long distance totaled Ps. 1,140 million compared to a very similar Ps. 388 million recorded on the compared to Ps. 1,236 million recorded for the same period same period in 2012. of 2012, a decrease of Ps. 97 million or 8%, due to decreases of 6% and 23% in national and international long distance Operating Metrics respectively. RGUs and Customers. Internet & Video. As of December 31, 2013, RGUs (Revenue Generating Units) For year 2013, revenues for Internet and video services added up one million 504 thousand, which represents an amounted Ps. 1,043 million, a 31% increase compared with increment of 1% with respect to December 31, 2012. During year 2012, mainly due to a 19% increase in internet to the 2013, RGUs net additions totaled 13 thousand compared mass market and the new pay-tv service which started in to 16 thousand during the previous year, attributable to a January 2013. greater number of wireless Internet disconnections during the first months of 2013. As of December 31, 2013, customers Data and Networks. totaled 640 thousand, a decrease of 69 thousand or 10% For the period of twelve months concluded on December compared to the same date in 2012. 31, 2013, revenue for networks and data services reached Ps. 56 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Voice RGUs (Lines in Service). compensated with increases in revenues and contribution As of December 31, 2013, the lines in service added up margin of internet and video and integrated services. 936 thousand, which represents a decrease of 61 thousand lines compared to December 31, 2012. During 2013, gross Operating Expenses. additional lines reached 207 thousand compared to 242 For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, thousand during 2012. Disconnections during 2013 and 2012 the operating expenses totaled Ps. 4,430 million from Ps. reached 269 thousand and 284 thousand respectively. As of 4,597 million for the same period in 2012, a 4% decrease December 31, 2013, residential lines represented 62% of total due to reductions in personnel and maintenance expenses, lines in service. partially mitigated by increase in rents due to the lease expense of the towers sold in January 2013. Personnel Broadband RGUs (Broadband Subscribers). expenses represented 40% of the total expenses for the Broadband subscribers reached 506 thousand as of twelve month period ended December 31, 2013. December 31, 2013. During this year, broadband subscribers increased 13 thousand compared to 57 thousand the Adjusted EBITDA. previous year. As of December 31, 2013, WiMAX subscribers The adjusted EBITDA, defined as gross profit plus expenses reached 347 thousand, compared to 377 thousand a year for net interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, and ago, while Axtel X-tremo, or FTTH, subscribers reached adjusted for extraordinary non-recurrent income and 148 thousand compared to 100 thousand a year ago. The expenses reached Ps. 2,872 million, compared to Ps. 2,738 slower pace in broadband additions is mainly due to the million for the same period in 2012. As a percentage of acceleration in WiMAX disconnections during the first half revenues, the margin was of 27.9% for 2013, 105 basis points of 2013 that could not be totally compensated with additions more than the margin for 2012. of FTTH subscribers. Broadband penetration reached 54% at the end of 2013, compared to 49% a year ago. Depreciation and Amortization. The depreciation and amortization for the twelve month Video RGUs (Video Subscribers). period ended on December 31, 2013 was of Ps. 3,219 million, As of December 31, 2013, video subscribers reached compared to Ps. 3,073 million for the same period in 2012, an 61 thousand, compared to 1 thousand a year ago; this increase of Ps. 145 million. demonstrates the acceptance of the new pay-tv service, Axtel TV, offered through our fiber or FTTH network. Operating income (loss). For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, Cost of Revenues and Expenses the operating income reached Ps. 2,687 million, compared to an operating loss of Ps. 535 million in 2012, a Ps. 3,222 million variation mainly due to the gain related to the Cost of Revenues. telecommunication towers sale in January 2013. During the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, the cost of revenues reached Ps. 2,985 million, an increase of Ps. 130 million with respect to 2012, explained by increases Comprehensive Financial Result in costs related to international traffic service. The comprehensive financing gain was of Ps. 737 million in Gross Profit. 2013, compared to a cost of Ps. 347 million in 2012 mainly Gross profit is defined as revenues minus cost of sales. due to the gain resulting from the debt exchange concluded For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, on January 2013 and a 16% reduction in interest expense in the gross profit reached Ps. 7,302 million, from Ps. 7,335 2013. million recorded in 2012, a decrease of Ps. 33 million. This was mainly due to decreases in the gross profit of local, long distance and data services due to lower revenues, partially AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 57 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Taxes conditions and the Company’s financial requirements. The Company will continue to focus on investments in In 2013 the income tax was of Ps. 1,018 million, compared fixed assets and working capital management, including with a benefit of Ps. 173 million last year. This tax was the collection of accounts receivable and management of mainly due to gains from the telecommunication towers sale accounts payable. in January 2013. Assets Net Income (Loss) As of December 31, 2013, total assets amount Ps. 19,883 The Company reported a net income of Ps. 2,408 million million compared to Ps. 20,500 million as of December 31, in the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, compared 2012, a decrease of Ps. 618 million. with a net loss of Ps. 709 million in 2012. This income is explained by the changes outlined above, including gains Cash and Equivalents. from the tower sale and debt exchange. As of December 31, 2013, we had cash and equivalents of Ps. 1,292 million compared to Ps. 608 million as of December 31, Capital Investments 2012, an increase of Ps. 684 million or 113%. For the twelve month period ended December 31, 2013, Accounts Receivable. capital investments totaled Ps. 2,118 million, compared to As of December 31, 2013, the accounts receivable were Ps. 2,016 million in the year 2012. This variation reflects Ps. 2,982 million compared with Ps. 2,407 million as of the Company’s corporate strategy to focus exclusively on December 31, 2012, an increase of Ps. 575 million or 24%. projects of greater value for customers, principally the deployment of fiber and cloud-based ICT products. Property, Systems and Equipment, net. As of December 31, 2013, property, systems and equipment, Financial Position, Liquidity and net, reached Ps. 13,187 million compared with Ps. 13,998 million as of December 31, 2012, a decrease of Ps. 811 million. Capital Resources as of December The property, systems and equipment, without discounting 31, 2013, compared to the financial the accumulated depreciation, was Ps. 38,148 million and Ps. 35,653 million as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, position as of December 31, 2012. respectively. Historically the Company has relied primarily on vendor financing, the proceeds of the sale of securities, internal Liabilities cash from operations, funds obtained from the issuance As of December 31, 2013, total liabilities reached Ps. 12,355 of debt in international markets, and the proceeds from million compared to Ps. 15,412 million as of December 31, bank debt to fund our operations, capital expenditures and 2012, a decrease of Ps. 3,057 million, mainly due to the debt working capital requirements. Additionally, and subject exchanges concluded in January 2013 and December 2013. to (i) market conditions, (ii) our liquidity position and (iii) contractual obligations, from time to time, the Company might acquire senior secured and unsecured notes in Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses. the open market or in privately negotiated transactions. As of December 31, 2013, the accounts payable and accrued Although we believe that we would be able to meet our debt expenses were Ps. 2,741 million compared with Ps. 2,404 service obligations and fund our operating requirements million as of December 31, 2012, an increase of Ps. 337 in the future with cash flow from operations, the Company million, or 14%. may seek additional financing with commercial banks or in the capital markets from time to time depending on market 58 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Debt. million as of December 31, 2012, an increase of Ps. 2,439 As of December 31, 2013, total debt , total debt reached Ps. million or 48%. The capital stock was Ps. 6,628 million as of 7,864 million, a decrease of Ps. 3,602 million in comparison December 31, 2013 compared to Ps. 6,626 as of December 31, with the same date in 2012, explained by (i) a Ps. 2,663 2012, a slight increase mainly due to the conversion of some million net reduction related to the January and December of the Company’s Senior Secured Convertible Notes due 2013 exchanges of the senior notes due 2017 and 2019, (ii) 2020. a Ps. 1,058 million decrease in bank debt related to the prepayment of the syndicated bank facility, (iii) an increase Cash flow of Ps. 5 million in leases and financial obligations, (iv) a Ps. 138 million decrease in notes issuance and deferred As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, net cash flows derived financing costs, and (v) a Ps. 39 million non-cash increase from operating activities were Ps. 2,559 million and Ps. 2,204 caused by the 0.5% depreciation of the Mexican peso. million respectively. As of December 31, 2013, the net debt to adjusted EBITDA As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 net cash flows (used in) ratio and the interest coverage ratio of the Company were generated by the company in investing activities were Ps. 2.3x and 3.3x, respectively. Likewise, as of December 31, 1,050 million and Ps. (2,031) million respectively. These 2012, the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio and interest amounts reflect investments in property, systems and coverage ratio were 4.0x and 2.6x respectively. equipment of Ps. (2,118) million and Ps. (2,016) million pesos for 2013 and 2012 respectively. Stockholders’ Equity As of December 31, 2013 and 2012 net cash flows (used in) As of December 31, 2013, the stockholders’ equity of the generated by financing activities were Ps. (2,934) million and Company totaled Ps. 7,528 million compared with Ps. 5,088 Ps. (1,003) million respectively. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 59 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Independent Auditors’ Report Independent Auditors’ Report (Translation from Spanish Language Original) To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V, and subsidiaries (the Company), which comprise the internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2013 and accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates 2012 and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, consolidated financial statements. 2013 and 2012 and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Opinion Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and for such internal control material respects, the consolidated financial position of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of V, and subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 and the consolidated consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, results of their operations and consolidated cash flows for the years ended whether due to fraud or error. December 31, 2013 and 2012, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Auditors’ responsibility Emphasis paragraphs Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: with International Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain As mentioned in notes 23 (b) and 23 (c), the Company has contingencies reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements related to interconnection rates with mobile operators and with long are free from material misstatement. distance terminating calls with one of its main suppliers. As of December 31, 2013, the difference between the amounts paid by the Company and An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts billed by the mobile operators and one of its main suppliers the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The amounted to approximately $2,169 and $1,240 million of pesos, respectively, procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of before value added tax. As of the date of this report, Company Management the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, and legal counsel consider that they have sufficient elements for a favorable whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we outcome in the trials related to these contingencies. consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for KPMG Cardenas Dosal KPMG Cardenas Dosal Oficinas en el Parque Torre II Blvd. Díaz Ordaz 140 Pte. Pisos 16 y 17 Col. Santa María, 64650 Monterrey, N.L. Teléfono: +01 (81) 8122 1818 C.P.C. Leandro Castillo Parada Fax: +01 (81) 8333 0532 February 28, 2014 www.kpmg.com.mx Monterrey, N.L. México 60 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Thousands of pesos) NOTE 2013 2012 ASSETS Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 7 Ps 1,292,263 597,201 Restricted cash 7 10,709 Accounts receivable 8 2,981,732 2,406,764 Refundable taxes 57,219 91,069 Prepaid expenses 65,578 52,188 Inventories 9 106,313 105,471 Financial instruments 7 142,200 88,419 Assets classified as held for sale 10 460,462 Other accounts receivable 103,699 Other current assets 13 130,492 141,439 Total current assets 4,879,496 3,953,722 Long-term accounts receivable 333,751 15,470 Property, systems and equipment 10 13,187,187 13,997,994 Intangible assets 11 223,792 288,622 Deferred income taxes 19 1,101,937 2,081,718 Investments in associates 12 11,640 9,647 Other assets 13 144,849 153,158 Total assets Ps 19,882,652 20,500,331 LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities Ps 2,741,308 2,404,471 Accrued interest 278,807 276,043 Taxes payable 285,987 135,703 Current maturities of long-term debt 14 308,945 411,969 Current portion of provisions 17 281,808 Deferred revenue 18 583,915 631,298 Derivative financial instruments 7 46,532 Other current liabilities 15 100,473 106,702 Total current liabilities 4,299,435 4,294,526 Long-term debt 14 7,555,374 11,054,645 Derivative financial instruments 7 116,658 Other liabilities 328,297 9,534 Employee benefits 16 21,330 19,452 Deferred revenue 18 33,900 33,900 Total liabilities 12,354,994 15,412,057 Stockholders’ equity: Common stock 20 6,627,890 6,625,536 Additional paid-in capital 20 644,710 644,710 Reserve for repurchase of own shares 20 162,334 162,334 Retained earnings (deficit) 92,724 (2,314,955) Accumulated other comprehensive income 20 (29,351) Total stockholders’ equity 7,527,658 5,088,274 Commitments and contingencies 23 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity Ps 19,882,652 20,500,331 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 61 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Thousands of pesos) NOTE 2013 2012 Telephone services and related revenues 21 Ps 10,286,494 10,189,732 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of revenues and services (2,984,573) (2,854,785) Selling and administrative expenses (4,429,798) (4,596,598) Depreciation and amortization (3,218,539) (3,073,240) Gain on sale of communications towers 10 3,111,948 Other expenses 22 (78,844) (199,987) Operating income (loss) 2,686,688 (534,878) Interest expense 10 (882,454) (1,057,513) Interest income 16,229 21,967 Foreign exchange gain, net 39,682 797,630 Result from the exchange of debt, net 2 1,568,983 Change in the fair value of financial instruments, net 7 (5,303) (109,197) Net finance costs 737,137 (347,113) Equity in earnings of associated company 12 1,992 (20) Income (loss) before income taxes 3,425,817 (882,011) Income taxes: Current 19 (50,817) (53,022) Deferred 19 (967,321) 226,164 Total income tax (expense) benefit (1,018,138) 173,142 Net income (loss) Ps 2,407,679 (708,869) Other comprehensive income items: Valuation effects of cash flow hedges, net of income tax 20 29,351 (5,043) Comprehensive income (loss) Ps 2,437,030 (713,912) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 8,770,179,989 8,769,353,223 Basic income (loss) per share Ps 0.27 (0.08) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 62 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Thousands of pesos) 2013 2012 Cash flows from operating activities: Net income (loss) for the period Ps 2,407,679 (708,869) Adjustments for: Income tax 1,018,138 (173,142) Foreign exchange gain, net (39,682) (797,630) Depreciation 3,167,254 3,021,210 Amortization 51,285 52,030 Impairment loss recognized on trade receivables 199,524 201,473 Gain on sale of property, system and equipment (1,716) (429) Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 25,773 21,408 Gain on sale of communications towers (3,111,948) Share of losses of equity-accounted investees (1,992) 20 Interest expense 882,454 1,057,513 Amortization of premium on bond issuance (2,090) (6,236) Result from the exchange of debt, net (1,568,983) Fair value gain on financial instruments 5,303 109,197 3,030,999 2,776,545 Movements in working capital: Increase in accounts receivable (645,708) (482,751) (Increase) decrease in inventories (842) 47,284 Increase (decrease) in accounts payable 297,793 (132,263) (Decrease) increase in deferred revenue (47,383) 63,420 Cash generated from operating activities 2,634,859 2,272,235 Taxes paid (75,380) (68,028) Net cash from operating activities 2,559,479 2,204,207 Cash flows from investing activities: Acquisition and construction of property, systems and equipment (2,118,210) (2,016,223) Sale of property, systems and equipment 3,164,046 Other assets 4,205 (15,075) Net cash generated from (used in) investing activities 1,050,041 (2,031,298) Cash flows from financing activities: Interest paid (756,135) (1,038,846) Exchange of debt (1,326,887) Proceeds of notes 442,014 Proceeds of bank loans 261,862 Payments of bank loans (1,042,116) Other long terms loans, net (173,375) (333,027) Proceeds from issuance of capital stock 384 (Payments) proceeds of derivative financial instruments (77,982) 107,044 Net cash flow used in financing activities (2,934,097) (1,002,967) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 675,423 (830,058) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 597,201 1,372,896 Effects of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held 19,639 54,363 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year Ps 1,292,263 597,201 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 63 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Thousands pesos) Accumulated Additional Reserves for Retained other Total paid-in repurchase of earnings comprehensive stockholders’ Capital Stock capital own shares (Deficit) income equity Balances as of January 1, 2012 Ps 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 (1,606,086) (24,308) 5,802,186 Comprehensive loss (note 20c) (708,869) (5,043) (713,912) Balances as of December 31, 2012 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 (2,214,955) (29,351) 5,088,274 Increase of capital stock (note 20a) 2,354 2,354 Comprehensive income (note 20c) 2,407,679 29,351 2,437,030 Balances as of December 31, 2013 Ps 6,627,890 644,710 162,334 92,724 7,527,658 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 64 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements At December 31, 2013 and 2012 (Thousands of pesos) (1) Reporting entity On January 31, 2013, the Company completed the sale of 883 Axtel, S.A.B. de C.V. (“AXTEL”) is a Mexican corporation sites to MATC Digital Telecommunications, S. de R.L. de C.V. engaged in operating and/or exploiting a public (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower Corporation, in telecommunication network to provide voice, sound, data, the amount of U.S.$ 249 million. This transaction resulted in text, and image conducting services, and local, domestic a gain of Ps.3,111,948 which is presented as operating income and international long-distance calls and pay-tv services. in the accompanying condensed consolidated statement of A concession is required to provide these services and comprehensive income. Additionally, the Company agreed carry out the related activities, (see notes 5 (j) and 11). In to lease certain spaces at these locations in terms ranging June 1996, the Company obtained a concession from the from 6 to 15 years, depending on the type of technology Mexican Federal Government to install, operate and exploit installed at each site, for a net yearly cost of approximately public telecommunication networks for an initial period U.S.$ 20 million. of thirty years. The corporate domicile of the Company located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km 3.33 L-1, Colonia Unidad San Simultaneously, the Company completed the exchange Pedro, 66215 San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico. of U.S.$ 142 and U.S.$ 355 million of unsecured notes due Axtel’s primary activities are carried out through different in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 249 and U.S.$ operating entities which are its direct or indirect subsidiaries 22 million dollars secured bond and a convertible bond, (collectively with Axtel referred to herein as the “Company”). respectively, both with initial interest rate of 7% which will be increase to 8% in the first anniversary date and to 9% in the second anniversary date, and due in 2020, plus a (2) Significant events cash payment of U.S. $83 million to participating holders. During December 31, 2013, the Company completed the Holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their exchange of U.S.$ 82.5 million and U.S.$ 32.8 million of Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs of CPOs at unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for any time after 120th calendar day following the issue date U.S.$ 110 million of secured bonds due in 2020 with the and prior to the close of business on the fourth business day same conditions and interest rates described in the January immediately preceding the maturity date for the convertible 2013 exchange mentioned in the following paragraphs. notes, or at the election of the Company such conversion This transaction resulted in a gain of Ps. 30,658 which is may be settled in cash. This transaction resulted in a gain presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of of Ps.1,538,325 which is presented in other income in the comprehensive income. In addition, on December 13 and accompanying condensed consolidated statements of 26, 2013, the Company closed an offering of additional 2020 comprehensive income. Notes for Ps. 26 million and Ps.10 million, additional bonds were issued at a price of 93.75% of their principal value. Additionally, the Company performed the full payment of the remaining balance of the syndicated loan, interest and According to the unanimous resolutions adopted by the related derivative transactions, amounting approximately shareholders of Axtel Capital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Axtel U.S.$ 88 million. Capital) and Avantel, S. de RL de C.V. (Avantel), on February 15, 2013 the merger of Axtel Capital (as the merger company), with Avantel (as the merging company), the merger became effective as of February 27, 2013 and has no impact on operations at the consolidated level. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 65 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements (3) Consolidation of financial statements The consolidated financial statements include those of Axtel, and those of the entities over which it exercises control on the financial and operating policies. The subsidiaries included in the consolidated interim financial statements are presented as follows: SUBSIDIARY ACTIVITY % EQUITY INTEREST Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (“Icosa”) Administrative services 100% Servicios AXTEL, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios AXTEL”) Administrative services 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Infraestructura S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel Infraestructura”) Telecommunication services 100% Telecom Network, Inc (“Telecom”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Networks, S.A. de C.V. (“Avantel Network”) Telecommunication services 100% AXTEL Capital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (AXTEL Capital) Administrative services 100% The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the subsidiaries. Intercompany balances, investments and transactions were eliminated in the consolidation process. (4) Basis of preparation d) Presentation of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income a) Statement of compliance The Company has elected to analyze expenses recognized in This consolidated financial statements has been prepared profit and loss based on functions, as the Company believes in accordance with the International Financial Reporting that in this way the information presented is reliable and Standards (IFRS). more relevant. This consolidated financial statements was authorized for issue by the Company’s Director of Administration and (5) Significant accounting policies Human Resources on February 28, 2014. The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated b) Basis of measurement financial statements. The information presented in the consolidated financial a) Cash and cash equivalents statements has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except for certain financial instruments. The historical cost Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term is generally based on the fair value of the consideration investments, highly liquid, readily convertible into cash granted in exchange of the related assets. and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value, including overnight repurchase agreements and certificates c) Functional and presentation currency of deposit with an initial term of less than three months. These consolidated financial statements are presented in b) Restricted cash Mexican pesos, which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial information presented in pesos or “Ps.”, are to The Company restricted cash as of December 31, 2012, Mexican pesos; likewise, references to dollars or U.S. $, or presented in the consolidated statements of financial USD are to dollars of the United States of America. 66 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements position, amounted to Ps.10,709, derived from various classified in any of the previously mentioned categories financial instrument contracts mentioned in note 7 and the and do qualify as held-to-maturity investments. Availablesyndicated loan mentioned in note 14. for-sale financial assets are recognized initially at their fair value plus any costs directly attributable to the transaction. c) Financial assets After initial measurement, available-for sale financial assets are valued at their fair value and the unrealized gains Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes or losses are recognized as a separate item in the other a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument. comprehensive income in the stockholders’ equity within other comprehensive income. When the available-for-sale Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and financial assets are sold, all previous fair value adjustments the net amount is reported in the statement of financial recognized directly in the other comprehensive income in position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the stockholders’ equity are reclassified to the consolidated the recognized amounts and the intention is to settle them statements of comprehensive income. on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. Receivables Trade accounts receivable and other accounts receivable Financial assets are initially measured at fair value. with fixed or determinable payments that are not traded on Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the an active market are classified as “Receivables”. Receivables acquisition or issue of financial assets (other than financial are valued at amortized cost using the effective interest assets at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or rate method, less any impairment losses. Interest income is deducted from the fair value of the financial assets, as recognized applying the effective interest rate method. appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets at fair value Effective interest method through profit or loss are recognized immediately in profit or The effective interest method is a method of calculating loss. the amortized cost of a debt instrument and allocating interest income or financial cost over the relevant period. Financial assets are classified within the following specific The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts categories: “financial assets at fair value with changes estimated future cash receipts or payments (including all through profit or loss,” “investments held to maturity”, fees and basis points paid or received that form an integral “assets available for sale” “loans and accounts payable.” The part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other classification depends on the nature and purpose thereof premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the debt and is determined upon initial recognition. instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount. Financial assets valued at fair value through profit or loss Write-off of financial assets Financial assets are classified as at fair value through The Company writes off a financial asset solely where the profit or loss if they are acquired to be sold in a short contractual rights over the financial asset cash flows expire term. Derivative financial instruments are classified at fair or substantially transfers the risks and benefits inherent to value through profit or loss, unless they are designated as the ownership of the financial asset. hedging instruments. Financial assets classified at fair value through profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value, and d) Impairment of financial instruments subsequently changes in fair value are recognized in income or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive The Company assesses at each financial reporting date income. whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. A financial asset or Available-for-sale financial assets a group of financial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative only if, there is objective evidence of impairment as a result financial assets that are designated as such or that are not of one or more events that occurred after the initial AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 67 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements the estimated future cash flows that can be reliably recognition of the asset and that had a negative impact on estimated. Evidence of impairment may include indications statement of comprehensive income, is reclassified from that the debtor or a group of debtors are experiencing comprehensive income or loss in stockholders’ equity to significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. For interest or principal payments, the probability that they will equity instruments classified as available-for-sale, if there enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganization and when is a significant or prolonged decline in their fair value to observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease below acquisition cost, impairment is recognized directly in the estimated future cash flows. in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income but subsequent reversals of impairment are not recognized Financial assets carried at amortized cost in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. If there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the Reversals of impairment losses on debt instruments amount of the loss is measured as the difference between are reversed through the consolidated statement of the book value of the asset and the present value of comprehensive income; if the increase in fair value of the expected future cash flows (excluding expected future instrument can be objectively related to an event occurring credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The present after the impairment loss was recognized. value of expected future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The e) Derivative financial instruments carrying amount of the asset is then reduced through a provision and the amount of the loss is recognized in the Hedging instruments consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The The Company recognizes all derivative financial loans and the related provisions are written off when there instruments as financial assets and/or liabilities, which is no realistic possibility of future recovery and all of the are stated at fair value. At the inception of the hedge collateral guarantees have been realized or transferred to relationship, the Company documents the relationship the Company. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, estimated impairment loss increases or decreases due to along with its risk management objectives and its strategy an event that occurs after the impairment was recognized, for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, the previously recognized impairment loss is increased at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the or reduced by adjusting the provision account. If a future Company documents whether the hedging instrument write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to the is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or consolidated interim statement of comprehensive income. cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged If there is objective evidence of impairment in financial risk. This documentation includes the identification of the assets that are individually significant, or collectively for derivative financial instrument, the item or transaction financial assets that are not individually significant, or if being hedged, the nature of the risk to be reduced, and the the Company determines there to be no objective evidence manner in which its effectiveness to diminish fluctuations in of impairment for an individually assessed financial asset, fair value of the primary position or cash flows attributable whether significant or not, the asset is included in a group to the hedged risk will be assessed. The expectation is that of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics the hedge will be highly effective in offsetting changes in and they are collectively evaluated for impairment. Assets fair values or cash flows, which are continually assessed to that are assessed individually for impairment and for which determine whether they are actually effective throughout an impairment loss is or continues to be recognized are not the reporting periods to which they have been assigned. included in the collective evaluation of impairment. Hedges that meet the criteria are recorded as explained in the following paragraphs: Available-for-sale financial instruments If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the difference Cash flow hedges between its cost (net of any principal payment and For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash flow amortization) and its current fair value, less any impairment hedges and the effective portion of changes in fair value are loss previously recognized in the consolidated interim 68 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements recorded as a separate component in stockholders’ equity g) Inventories and cost of sales within other comprehensive income and are recorded to the consolidated interim statement of comprehensive income Inventories are stated at the lower of historical cost or net at the settlement date, as part of the sales, cost of sales realizable value. Cost of sales include expenses related to and financial expenses, as the case may be. The ineffective the termination of customers’ cellular and long-distance portion of changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges is calls in other carriers’ networks, as well as expenses related recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive to billing, payment processing, operator services and our income of the period. leasing of private circuit links. If the hedging instrument matures or is sold, terminated Net realizable value is the sales price estimated in the or exercised without replacement or continuous financing, ordinary course of operations, less applicable sales or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any cumulative expenses. gain or loss recognized directly within other comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity from the effective date of the hedge, remains separated from equity until the forecasted h) Investments in associates and joint transaction occurs when it is recognized in income. When ventures and other equity investments a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss recognized in stockholders’ Investments in associates are those in which significant equity is immediately carried to profit and loss. Derivatives influence is exercised on their administrative, financial and designated as hedges that are effective hedging instruments operating policies. are classified based on the classification of the underlying. The derivative instrument is divided into a short-term Such investments are initially valued at acquisition cost, and portion and a long-term portion only if a reliable assignation subsequently, using the equity method, the result thereof is can be performed. recognized on profit and loss. Embedded derivatives Other equity investments in which the Company does This type of derivatives is valued at fair value and changes not exercise significant influence the investees’ capital in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statement of stock are recorded at cost as their fair value is not reliably comprehensive income. determinable. f) Fair value of financial instruments i) Property, systems and equipment The fair value of financial instruments that are traded Property, systems and equipment, including capital leases, in active markets at each reporting date is determined and their significant components are initially recorded at by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price acquisition cost and are presented net of the accumulated quotations (bid price for long positions and ask price for depreciation and associated impairment losses. short positions), without any deduction for transaction costs. For financial instruments that are not traded on an Depreciation is calculated using the straight line method active market, the fair value is determined using appropriate based on the value of the assets and their estimated useful valuation techniques. These techniques may include using life, which is periodically reviewed by the Company’s recent arm’s-length market transactions; reference to the management. current fair value of another financial instrument that is substantially the same; discounted cash flow analysis or Depreciation other valuation models. The estimated useful lives of the Company’s assets property, systems and equipment are as follows: AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 69 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements temporary investment of funds from specific loans to be USEFUL LIVES used in qualifying assets are deducted from costs for loans Building 25 years subject to capitalization. All other borrowing costs are Computer and electronic equipment 3 years recognized in profits and losses during the period in which they were incurred. Transportation equipment 4 years Furniture and fixtures 10 years j) Intangibles assets Network equipment 6 to 28 years Leasehold improvements 5 to 14 years The amounts expensed for intangible assets are capitalized when the future economic benefits derived from such investments, can be reliably measured. According to their Leasehold improvements are amortized over the useful life nature, intangible assets are classified with determinable of the improvement or the related contract term, whichever and indefinite lives. Intangible assets with determinable is shorter. lives are amortized using the straight line method during the period in which the economic benefits are expected Subsequent costs to be obtained. Intangible assets with an indefinite life are The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, not amortized, as it is not feasible to determine the period systems and equipment is recognized in the carrying in which such benefits will be materialized; however, they amount of the item if it is probable that the future are subject to annual impairment tests. The price paid in economic benefits embodied within the component a business combination assigned to intangible assets is will flow to the Company, and its cost can be measured determined according to their fair value using the purchase reliably. Maintenance and minor repairs, including the method of accounting. Research and development expenses cost of replacing minor items not constituting substantial for new products are recognized in results as incurred. improvements are expensed as incurred and charged mainly to selling and administrative expenses. Telephone concession rights are included in intangible assets and amortized over a period of 20 to 30 years (the Decommissioning and remediation obligations initial term of the concession rights). The Company recognizes a provision for the present value associated with the Company’s decommissioning and Intangible assets also include infrastructure costs paid to remediation obligations to remove its telecommunication Telmex / Telnor. towers and capitalized the associated cost as a component of the related asset. Adjustments to such obligations resulting As a consequence of the acquisition of Avantel, the from changes in the expected cash flows are added to, or Company identified and recognized the following intangible deducted from, the cost of the related asset in the current assets: trade name, customer relationships and concession period, except to the extent that the amount deducted from rights (see note 11). At December 31, 2013 and 2012, the values the cost of the asset shall not exceed its carrying amount. of the trade name and of customer relationships were totally If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of amortized. the asset, the excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss. k) Impairment of non-financial assets Borrowing costs The Company reviews carrying amounts of its tangible and Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, intangible assets in order to determine whether there are construction of production of qualifying assets, which indicators of impairment. If there is an indicator, the asset constitute assets that require a substantial period until recoverable amount is calculated in order to determine, if they are ready for use, are added to the cost of such assets applicable, the impairment loss. The Company undertakes during the construction stage and until commencing their impairment tests considering asset groups that constitute a operations and/or exploitation. Yields obtained from the cash-generating unit (CGU). Intangible assets with indefinite 70 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements useful lives are subject to impairment tests at least every recognized at their fair value and, for loans and financial year, and when there is an indicator of impairment. debt, fair value includes directly attributable transaction costs. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less its disposal cost and value in use. In assessing value in Financial liabilities include accounts payable to suppliers use, estimated future prices of different products are and other accounts payable, debt and derivative financial used to determine estimated cash flows, discount rates instruments. and perpetuity growth. Estimated future cash flows are discounted to their fair value using a pre-tax discount rate Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net that reflects market conditions and the risks specific to each amount is shown in the consolidated interim statement of asset for which estimated future cash flows have not been financial position if, and only if, (i) there is currently a legally adjusted. enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts; and (ii) the intention is to settle them on a net basis or to realize the If the recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated to be less asset and settle the liability simultaneously. than its carrying amount, the unit’s carrying amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are Subsequent recognition of financial liabilities depends on recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive their classification, as follows: income. Financial liabilities at fair value with changes to When an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the profit or loss CGU’s carrying amount increases its estimated revised Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or value, such that the increased carrying amount does loss include financial liabilities for trading purposes, and not exceed the carrying amount that would have been financial liabilities measured upon initial recognition at fair determined if an impairment loss for such CGU had not value through profit or loss. been recognized in prior years. This category includes derivative financial instruments l) Non-current assets held for sale traded by the Company and that have not been designated as hedging instruments in hedging relationships. Non-recurrent assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use Separate embedded derivatives are also classified for trading are classified as held for sale. This means that the asset is purposes, except they are designated as effective hedging available for immediate sale and is sale is highly probable. instruments. A non-current asset classified as held for sale is measured at the lower of its fair value less cost to sell and its carrying Profits or losses on liabilities held for trading purposes are amount. Any impairment loss for write-down of the asset to recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive fair value less costs to sell is recognized in the statement of income. comprehensive income. The Company has not designated any financial liability m) Financial liabilities upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. The derivative financial instruments that cannot be designated as hedges are recognized at fair value with Initial recognition and measurement changes in profit and loss. Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and financial debt, or derivatives designated as hedging instruments in effective Financial debt and interest bearing loans hedges, as the case may be. The Company determines After their initial recognition, loans and borrowings that the classification of its financial liabilities at the time of bear interest are subsequently measured at their amortized their initial recognition. All financial liabilities are initially cost using the effective interest rate method. Gains and AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 71 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements losses are recognized in profit and loss at the time they are o) Provisions derecognized, as well as through the effective interest rate amortization process. Provisions are recognized when the Company has a present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it The amortized cost is computed by taking into consideration is probable that Company settles an obligation, and a reliable any discount or premium on acquisition and the fees estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. and costs that are integral part of the effective interest rate. Effective interest rate amortization is included as The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimates part interest expense in the consolidated statement of to settle the present obligation at the end of the period, comprehensive income. bearing into account the risks and uncertainties inherent thereto. When a provision is assessed using estimated A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is cash flows to settle the present obligation, its book value met, cancelled or expires. represents the present value of such cash flows (when the effect in the time value of money is significant). n) Leases p) Employee benefits Leases are classified as financial leases when under the terms of the lease, the risks and benefits of the property are substantially transferred to the lessee. All other leases are Short-term employee benefits classified as operating leases. Employee remuneration liabilities are recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on services rendered according to the salaries and wages that The Company as a lessee the entity expects to pay at the date of the consolidated Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as statement of financial position, including related assets of the Company at their fair value at the inception of contributions payable by the Company. Absences paid for the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum vacations and vacation premiums are recognized in the lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is consolidated statement of comprehensive income in so far included in the consolidated statement of financial position as the employees render the services that allow them to as a finance lease obligation. enjoy such vacations. Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses Seniority premiums granted to employees and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a In accordance with Mexican labor law, the Company constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the provides seniority premium benefits to its employees under liability. Finance expenses are recognized immediately certain circumstances. These benefits consist of a one-time in profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to payment equivalent to 12 days wages for each year of service qualifying assets, in which case they are capitalized in (at the employee’s most recent salary, but not to exceed accordance with the Company’s general policy on borrowing twice the legal minimum wage), payable to all employees costs. Contingent rentals are recognized as expenses in the with 15 or more years of service, as well as to certain periods in which they are incurred. employees terminated involuntarily prior to the vesting of their seniority premium benefit. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where Costs associated with these benefits are provided for based another systematic basis is more representative of the time on actuarial computations using the projected unit credit pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are method. consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. Termination benefits The Company provides statutorily mandated termination benefits to its employees terminated under certain 72 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements circumstances. Such benefits consist of a one-time payment Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary of three months wages plus 20 days wages for each year of differences related to with investments in subsidiaries, service payable upon involuntary termination without just except where the Company is able to control the reversal cause. of the temporary difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable Termination benefits are recognized when the Company future. decides to dismiss an employee or when such employee accepts an offer of termination benefits. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the q) Statutory employee profit sharing extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be In conformity with Mexican labor law, the Company recovered. must distribute the equivalent of 10% of its annual taxable income as employee statutory profit sharing. This amount is Current and deferred tax for the year are recognized in profit recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive or loss, except where they are related to items recognized income. in the “Other comprehensive income” line item in the stockholders’ equity, in which case the current and deferred taxes are recognized in the stockholders’ equity. r) Income taxes Current income taxes s) Revenue recognition The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for The Company’s revenues are recognized when earned, as the year, which for companies in Mexico is comprised follows: of the regular income tax (ISR) and the business flat tax (IETU). Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the • Telephony Services – Customers are charged a flat consolidated statement of comprehensive income because monthly fee for basic service, a per-call fee for local calls, of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible a per-minute usage fee for calls completed on a cellular in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. line and domestic and international long distance calls, The Company’s liability for current tax is calculated using and a monthly fee for value-added services. tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by • Activation – At the moment of installing the service the end of the reporting period. when the customer has a contract with indefinite life; otherwise is recognized over the average contract life. Deferred income taxes • Equipment – At the moment of selling the equipment The recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects and when the customer acquires the property of the the tax consequences that the Company expects at the end equipment and assumed all risks. of the period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its • Integrated services – At the moment when the client assets and liabilities. receives the service. Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences between the book and tax values of assets and liabilities, t) Earnings per share including tax loss benefits. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized if temporary differences arise from Net earnings per share result from dividing the net earnings goodwill or from the initial recognition (other than in a for the year by the weighted average of outstanding shares business combination) of other assets and liabilities in during the fiscal year. To determine the weighted average a transaction that affects neither taxable profit nor the of the outstanding shares, the shares repurchased by the accounting profit. Company are excluded. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 73 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements u) Segments indicators and long-term growth expectations of markets where the Company operates. Management evaluates the Company’s operations as two revenue streams (Mass Market and Business Market), c) Allowance for doubtful accounts The Company uses however it is not possible to attribute direct or indirect costs estimates to determine the allowance for doubtful to the individual streams other than selling expenses and accounts. The factors that the Company considers to as a result has determined that it has only one operating estimate doubtful accounts are mainly the customer’s segment. financial situation risk, unsecured accounts, and considerable delays in collection according to the credit limits established. (6) Critical accounting judgments and d) Contingencies The Company is subject to contingent key uncertainty sources in estimates transactions or events on which it uses professional judgment in the development of estimates of occurrence In applying accounting policies, the Company’s probability. The factors considered in these estimates are management use judgments, estimates and assumptions on the current legal situation as of the date of the estimate, certain amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated and the external legal advisors’ opinion. financial statements. Actual results may differ from such estimates. e) Decommission and remediation provision The Company recognizes a provision for the present value associated Underlying estimates and assumptions are reviewed with the Company’s decommissioning and remediation regularly. obligations to remove its telecommunication towers and capitalizes the associated cost as a component of the Information about judgments made in applying accounting related asset. policies that have the most significant effects on the amounts in the consolidated financial statements is f) Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are recognized included in the following notes: for the tax loss carry forwards to the extent management believes it is recoverable through the generation of future a) Useful lives of property, systems, and equipment The taxable income to which it can be applied. Company reviews the estimated useful life of property, systems and equipment at the end of each annual period. g) Financial instruments recognized at fair value In The degree of uncertainty related to the estimated cases where fair value of financial assets and liabilities useful lives is related to the changes in market and the recorded in the consolidated financial statement do use of assets for production volumes and technological not arise from active markets, their fair values are development. determined using assessment techniques, including the discounted cash flows model. Where possible, the data b) Impairment of non-financial assets When testing these models are supplied with are taken from observable assets for impairment, the Company requires estimating markets, otherwise a degree of discretionary judgment the value in use assigned to property, systems and is required to determine fair values. These judgments equipment, and cash generating units. The calculation of include data such as liquidity risk, credit risk and value in use requires the Company to determine future volatility. Changes in the assumptions related to these cash flows generated by cash generating units and an factors may affect the amounts of fair values advised for appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value financial instruments. thereof. The Company uses cash inflow projections using estimated market conditions, determination of h) Leases Lases are classified as finance leases whenever future prices of products and volumes of production and the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks sale. Similarly, for discount rate and perpetuity growth and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases purposes, the Company uses market risk premium are classified as operating leases. 74 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements (7) Financial instruments Categories of financial instruments 2013 2012 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Ps 1,292,263 597,201 Restricted cash 10,709 Accounts receivables 2,981,732 2,406,764 Fair value through profit or loss 142,200 88,419 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 116,658 46,532 Long-term debt 7,864,319 11,466,614 Accounts payable and accrued liabilities 2,741,308 2,404,471 a) Financial risk management objectives by the Company’s management on a continuous basis. The Company does not enter into or trade financial instruments, The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed, through including derivative financial instruments, for speculative their normal business operations and transactions, primarily purposes. to market risk (including interest rate risk, price risk and currency rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. b) Market and interest rate risk The Company seeks to minimize the effects of these risks The Company undertakes transactions denominated in by using derivative financial instruments to hedge risk foreign currencies; consequently, exposures to exchange exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed by rate fluctuations arise. Monetary assets and liabilities the Company’s policies approved by the board of directors. denominated in dollars as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, Compliance with policies and exposure limits is reviewed are as follows: (Thousands of US dollars) 2013 2012 Current assets 68,719 62,082 Current liabilities (106,615) (124,903) Non-current liabilities (574,480) (817,765) Foreign currency liabilities, net (612,376) (880,586) The U.S. dollar exchange rates as of December 31, 2013 and payments in US dollars. The risk is managed by the 2012 were Ps. 13.07 and Ps. 13.01, respectively. As of February Company by maintaining an appropriate mix between 28, 2014, the exchange rate was Ps. 13.29. fixed and floating rate borrowings, and by the use of cross currency interest rate swap contracts (CCS) and currency The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of swap contracts (CS). Hedging activities are evaluated changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest regularly to align with exchange rate and interest rate views rates, because it borrows funds at both fixed and floating and defined risk appetite, ensuring the most cost-effective interest rates and has contracted principal and interest hedging strategies are applied. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 75 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The Company’s exposures to interest rates on financial US $62,117,156. As of December 31, 2012 US$ 53.3 million assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity (equivalent to Ps. 693 million) and Ps. 365 million have been risk management section of this note. utilized, of which approximately Ps. 246 million remains unutilized. The Company decided to hedge an increase The Company enters into a variety of derivative financial in interest rates and exchange rate risks (devaluation of instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk the peso versus the U.S. dollar) associated with the entire and interest rate risk, including: portion of principal and interest of the syndicated loan by entering into Cross Currency Swaps (CCS) with Credit Suisse US$ 100 Million Syndicated loan Cross Currency and Banorte – IXE. The CCSs has been designated as a cash Swaps (CCS) flow hedge for accounting purposes. During November 2011, the Company closed a syndicated As mentioned in note 2, at January 31, 2013 the Company loan of up to the equivalent of US $ 100 million. This loan paid in full the remaining balance of the syndicated loan, is divided in two tranches, one in pesos amounting to interest and related derivative transactions. Ps. 512,373,031 and the other in US dollar amounting to Fair Value Liability Counterparty Notional Amount Terms 2013 2012 Ps464 Pays fixed rate in pesos Credit Suisse US$34.5 of 11.63% and receives Ps (40,299) LIBOR + 400 Ps128 Pays fixed rate in pesos Ixe US$10 of 11.11% and receives Ps (6,233) LIBOR + 400 For the year ended December 31, 2012, the change in the c) Market and interest rate sensitivity fair value of the CCSs amounted to an unrealized loss of Ps. 41,165. This loss was recognized within other comprehensive analysis income in the stockholders equity, net of deferred taxes of Ps. 12,350. Exchange rate sensitivity analysis In February 2012, the Company entered into a CS derivative The Company is exposed to currency fluctuations between to hedge the exchange rate associated with US$100 million the Mexican peso and the US dollar. of the US$275 million senior notes, for the period between February and August 2015. In May of 2012, the Company The following table details the Company’s sensitivity canceled the derivative instruments disclosed in the analysis to a 10% increase and decrease in the peso against previous paragraphs, recognizing Ps.16,802 as a gain within the US dollar. The 10% increase or decrease is the sensitivity the statement of comprehensive income. scenario that represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign exchange rates. During January and March of 2012, the Company entered The sensitivity analysis includes only outstanding foreign into a CS derivative to hedge the exchange rate associated currency denominated monetary items and adjusts their with US$200 million of the US$300 million senior notes, for translation at the end of the period for a 10% change in the period between March and September of 2015. In June the exchange rates. A positive number below indicates an of 2012, the Company canceled the derivative instruments increase in profit or equity where the peso strengthens 10% disclosed in the previous paragraphs, recognizing Ps.79,206 against the US dollar. as a loss within the statement of comprehensive income. 76 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements If the Peso strengthens 10% against the US dollar, the profit Holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their for the year ended December 31, 2013 and equity would Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs or CPOs at increase by Ps. 738,036. any time after 120th calendar day following the issue date and prior to the close of business on the fourth business If the Peso weakens 10% against the US dollar, profit for the day immediately preceding the maturity date for the year ended December 31, 2013 and equity would decrease by convertible notes, or at the election of the Company such Ps. 811,840. conversion may be settled in cash. The number of ADSs to be delivered in settlement conversion will be determined by d) Embedded derivatives the Company at the conversion rate, which shall initially be of 5.9277 ADSs per Ps.100 principal amount of convertible As mentioned in note 2, on January 31, 2013, the Company Dollar-indexed Notes, representing an initial conversion completed the exchange of U.S.$142 and U.S.$335 million price of approximately Ps. 16.87 per ADS. The number of of unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for CPOs to be delivered in settlement of conversion will be U.S.$249 and U.S.$22 million dollars secured bond and a determined by the conversion rate, which shall initially be convertible bond, respectively, both with initial interest of 41.4938 ADSs per Ps. 100 principal amount of convertible rate initial of 7% which will be increased to 8% in the first Dollar-indexed Notes, representing an initial conversion of anniversary date and to 9% in the second anniversary date, approximately Ps. 2.41 per CPO. and due in 2020, plus a cash payment of U.S.$ 83 million to participating holders. The following summarize the accounting for the convertible notes and the embedded derivative arising from the conversion option (thousands of US $): 2013 CONVERTIBLE NOTES LIABILITY Face value U.S.$ 22,189 Options converted (154) 22,035 Fair value of conversion option recognized as a derivative financial instrument (9,738) Accreted interest 1,275 Carrying amount of convertible notes at December 31, 2013 U.S.$ 13,572 2013 CONVERTIBLE NOTES DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENT Fair value of conversion option at issuance date U.S.$ 9,738 Gain in change of fair value for the period (817) Fair value of conversion option at December 31, 2013 U.S.$ 8,921 e) Other price risks (equity price risk) value of the Axtel’s CPOs. The premium paid was equivalent to the market value of the notional plus transaction costs. During July, August and September 2009, the Company The strike price established was 0.000001 pesos per acquired call options denominated “Zero Strike Calls” that option. This instrument is redeemable only in cash and have a notional of 26,096,700 CPOs of Axtel’s shares. During can be redeemed by the Company at any time (considered the months of June and July of 2010, the Company acquired to be American options), for a six month period and are additional Zero Strike Calls for 4,288,000 CPOs of Axtel, on extendable. The terms and fair value of the Zero Strike Calls the same conditions, holding 30,384,700 CPOs as of January is included in the following table: 1, 2011. The underlying of these instruments is the market AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 77 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Fair value Asset (Liability) Counterparty Notional amount Terms 2013 2012 Bank of America 30,384,700 CPOs Receives in cash the market Ps 142,200 Ps 88,419 Merrill Lynch value of the notional amount For the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 the Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, change in the fair value of the Zero Strike Calls resulted spread across diverse industries and geographical areas in an unrealized gain (loss) of Ps.53,781 and (Ps.46,793), throughout Mexico. Ongoing credit evaluation is performed respectively, recognized in the financial cost, net. on the financial condition of accounts receivable. f) Equity price risk sensitivity analysis Apart from companies A, B and C, the largest customers of the Company, the Company does not have significant credit The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based risk exposure to any single counterparty or any group of on the exposure to the equity price risk associated with the counterparties having similar characteristics. The Company market value of the Axtel’s CPOs at the end of the reporting defines counterparties as having similar characteristics if period. The 10% increase or decrease is the sensitivity they are related entities. Concentration of credit risk related scenario that represents management’s assessment of the to Company A, B and C should not exceed 20% of gross reasonably possible change in the Axtel’s share price. monetary assets at any time during the year. Concentration of credit risk to any other counterparty should not exceed If the Company’s share price had been 10% higher: 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year. • profit and equity for the year ended December 31, 2013 Company A represented 10%, and 15% of the Company’s and 2012 would increase by Ps. 14,220 and Ps. 8,842, accounts receivable as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with respectively. Company A for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 0% and 3%, respectively. If the Company’s share price had been 10% lower: Company B represented 9%, and 0% of the Company’s • profit and equity for the year ended December 31, 2013 accounts receivable as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, and 2012 would decrease by Ps.12,927 and Ps. 8,038, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with respectively. Company B for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were 3% and 0%, respectively. g) Credit risk management Company C represented 8%, and 0% of the Company’s Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will accounts receivable as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with loss to the Company. The Company has adopted a policy Company C for the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties and were 2% and 0%, respectively. obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial The Company’s exposure and the credit ratings of its instruments is limited because the counterparties are banks counterparties are continuously monitored. Credit exposure with high credit-ratings assigned by international creditis controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and rating agencies. approved by the Company, annually. 78 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The Company does not hold any collateral or other credit established an appropriate liquidity risk management enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its framework for the management of the Company’s short-, financial assets. mediumand long-term funding and liquidity management requirements. The Company manages liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and h) Liquidity risk management reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously monitoring actual and forecasted cash flows. Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its The following tables detail the Company’s remaining financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to liabilities (debt) with agreed repayment periods. The tables managing liquidity is to ensure as far as possible, that it have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities of financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which the when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, Company can be required to pay. To the extent that interest without incurring unacceptable losses or risk damage to the flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount is derived Company’s reputation. from interest rates at the end of the reporting period. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest date on which Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management the Company may be required to pay. rests with the Company’s board of directors, which has Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5+ years DECEMBER 31, 2013 Variable interest rate instruments Ps 29,050 13,571 11,755 4,940 Fixed interest rate instruments 713,615 752,371 761,727 1,341,575 611,927 7,634,415 Capacity lease 179,171 Ps 921,836 765,942 773,482 1,346,515 611,927 7,634,415 Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5+ years DECEMBER 31, 2012 Variable interest rate instruments Ps 181,921 408,763 373,370 6,466 15 Fixed interest rate instruments 949,927 890,272 873,577 849,231 4,424,371 7,522,440 Capacity lease 179,171 179,171 Ps 1,311,019 1,478,206 1,246,947 855,697 4,424,386 7,522,440 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 79 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The amounts included above for variable interest rate instruments for both non-derivative financial assets and liabilities is subject to change if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rates determined at the end of the reporting period. i) Fair value of financial instruments Except as detailed in the following table, the Company’s management considers that the carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements approximate their fair values: December 31, 2013 December 31, 2012 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Financial liabilities held at amortized cost: U.S. $275 million Senior Unsecured Notes 659,029 598,069 3,577,778 1,842,555 U.S. $490 million Senior Unsecured Notes 1,330,272 1,063,819 6,374,949 3,378,723 U.S. $394.6 million Senior Secured Notes 5,160,680 4,889,744 U.S. $22.2 million Senior Secured Convertible Notes 177,481 177,481 Syndicated loan 1,057,925 964,663 Other long-term financing 407,965 400,139 251,179 225,166 Capacity lease 168,554 172,397 318,984 327,442 Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates the purposes of measuring fair value and include other adjustments to arrive at fair value as applicable (i.e. for counterparty credit risk). The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities are determined as follows: • The fair values of other financial assets and financial liabilities (excluding those described above) are • The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities determined in accordance with generally accepted pricing with standard terms and conditions and traded on active models based on discounted cash flow analysis. liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices. j) Fair value measurements recognized in the • The fair values of derivative instruments are calculated consolidated statement of financial position using quoted prices. Where such prices are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the The following table provides an analysis of financial applicable yield curve for the duration of the instruments instruments that are measured subsequent to initial or option pricing models as best applicable. Foreign recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based on currency forward contracts are measured using quoted the degree to which the fair value is observable. forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value of quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical future cash flows estimated and discounted based on the assets or liabilities. 80 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements • Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. December 31, 2013 LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS Zero Strike Calls 142,200 142,200 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Derivative financial liabilities 116,658 116,658 December 31, 2012 LEVEL 1 LEVEL 2 LEVEL 3 TOTAL FINANCIAL ASSETS Zero Strike Calls 88,419 88,419 FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Derivative financial liabilities 46,532 46,532 (8) Accounts receivable Accounts receivable consist of the following: 2013 2012 Trade accounts receivable Ps 5,388,862 4,614,301 Less allowance for doubtful accounts 2,407,130 2,207,537 Trade accounts receivable, net Ps 2,981,732 2,406,764 Given their short-term nature the carrying value of trade accounts receivable approximates its fair value as of December 31, 2013 and 2012. Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts. 2013 2012 Opening balance Ps 2,207,537 2,007,078 Allowance for the year 199,524 201,473 Effect of exchange rate 69 (1,014) Balances at period end Ps 2,407,130 2,207,537 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 81 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Aging of impaired trade receivables: 2013 2012 30 60 days Ps 35,418 60 90 days 22,130 31,282 90 120 days 26,054 42,719 120 + days 2,358,946 2,098,118 Total Ps 2,407,130 2,207,537 Aging of past due but not impaired 2013 2012 Current Ps 1,206,468 1,112,877 1 30 days 139,769 203,513 30 60 days 201,352 65,596 60 90 days 22,322 31,980 90 + days 518,901 419,299 Total Ps 2,142,812 1,833,265 (9) Inventories Inventories consist of the following: 2013 2012 Routers Ps 10,322 17,209 Installation material 19,043 19,836 Network spare parts 10,835 13,622 Tools 8,890 10,864 Telephones and call identification devices 6,417 13,734 Other 50,806 30,206 Total inventories Ps 106,313 105,471 82 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements (10) Property, systems and equipment Property, systems and equipment are as follows: Computer Furniture Land and and electronic Transportation and Network Leasehold Construction Building equipment equipment Fixtures equipment improvements in progress TOTAL Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 430,990 3,040,278 378,071 215,919 27,424,110 417,957 2,536,711 34,444,036 Additions 247 2,814 2 572,753 1,481,933 2,057,749 Transfer of completed projects in progress 235,402 25,095 5,178 2,411,698 7,190 (2,684,563) Transfer to assets held for sale (817,077) (817,077) Disposals (26) (10,569) (21,307) (31,902) Balance as of December 31, 2012 430,990 3,275,901 395,411 221,099 29,570,177 425,147 1,334,081 35,652,806 Additions 579 24,301 143 682,033 1,659,608 2,366,664 Transfer of completed projects in progress 105,617 988 19,903 2,004,020 4,465 (2,134,993) Reclassification of transfer to assets held for sale 240,451 240,451 Disposals (32,987) (76) (78,787) (111,850) Balance as of December 31, 2013 Ps 430,990 3,382,097 387,713 241,069 32,417,894 429,612 858,696 38,148,071 Computer Furniture DEPRECIATION AND Land and and electronic Transportation and Network Leasehold Construction IMPAIRMENT Building equipment equipment Fixtures equipment improvements in progress TOTAL Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 107,512 1,129,025 221,955 149,454 17,153,898 259,169 19,021,013 Depreciation of the year 14,286 101,517 76,790 14,063 2,776,095 38,459 3,021,210 Assets held for sale (356,615) (356,615) Disposals (9,588) (21,208) (30,796) Balance as of December 31, 2012 121,798 1,230,542 289,157 163,517 19,552,170 297,628 21,654,812 Depreciation of the year 14,286 128,810 64,089 14,752 2,914,961 30,356 3,167,254 Disposals (31,752) (14,385) (46,137) Reclassification of transfer to assets held for sale 184,955 184,955 Balance as of December 31, 2013 Ps 136,084 1,359,352 321,494 178,269 22,637,701 327,984 24,960,884 Property, systems and equipment, net at December 31, 2012 Ps 309,192 2,045,359 106,254 57,582 10,018,007 127,519 1,334,081 13,997,994 Property, systems and equipment, net at December 31, 2013 Ps 294,906 2,022,745 66,219 62,800 9,780,193 101,628 858,696 13,187,187 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 83 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Construction in progress mainly includes network in qualifying assets. Amounts were capitalized based on a equipment, and capitalization period is approximately six capitalization rate of 9.28% and 8.57%, respectively. months. For the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 interest During the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 the expenses are comprised as follows: Company capitalized Ps. 34,461 and Ps. 61,399, respectively of borrowing costs in relation to Ps. 492,996 and Ps. 716,915 2013 2012 Interest expense Ps (916,915) (1,118,912) Amount capitalized 34,461 61,399 Net amount in consolidated statements of comprehensive income Ps (882,454) (1,057,513) As of December 31, 2013, certain financial leases amounting sites to MATC Digital Telecommunications, S. de R.L. de C.V. to approximately Ps. 23 million were guaranteed with the (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower Corporation, in equipment acquired with those leases. the amount of U.S.$ 249 million. This transaction resulted in a gain of Ps. 3,111,948 which is presented as operating The depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, income in the accompanying condensed consolidated 2013 and 2012, amounts to Ps. 3,167,254 and Ps. 3,021,210, statement of comprehensive income. Additionally, the respectively. Company agreed to lease certain spaces at these locations in terms ranging from 6 to 15 years, depending on the type Non-current assets held for sale of technology installed at each site, for a net yearly cost of approximately U.S.$ 20 million. At December 31, 2012, some of the communication towers of the Company were presented as assets held for sale due to a formal plan to sell these assets. Assets held for sale (11) Intangible assets amounted to Ps. 460,462 less liabilities (decommissioning Intangible assets with defined useful lives consist of the and remediation obligations) of Ps. 281,808. following: On January 31, 2013, the Company completed the sale of 883 Telephone Telephone concession Telmex / Telnor World Trade concession rights infrastructure Center concession Rights rights AXTEL Avantel costs rights of use Others TOTAL Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 864,939 Additions 14,161 14,161 Balances as of December 31, 2012 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 87,330 879,100 Disposals (14,161) (14,161) Balances as of December 31, 2013 Ps 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 864,939 Telephone Telephone concession Telmex / Telnor World Trade concession rights infrastructure Center concession Rights DEPRECIATION 84 ANDINTEGRATED REPORT / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL rights AXTEL Avantel costs rights of use Others TOTAL IMPAIRMENT Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 366,624 50,088 30,418 9,338 14,451 68,525 539,444 Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 864,939 Additions 14,161 14,161 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL Balances as of December 31, 2012 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 87,330 879,100 PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Disposals Financial Statements (14,161) (14,161) Balances as of December 31, 2013 Ps 571,520 110,193 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 864,939 Telephone Telephone concession Telmex / Telnor World Trade concession rights infrastructure Center concession Rights DEPRECIATION AND rights AXTEL Avantel costs rights of use Others TOTAL IMPAIRMENT Balance as of January 1, 2012 Ps 366,624 50,088 30,418 9,338 14,451 68,525 539,444 Amortization 30,307 10,018 4,080 1,672 2,886 2,071 51,034 Balances as of December 31, 2012 Ps 396,931 60,106 34,498 11,010 17,337 70,596 590,478 Amortization 30,307 10,018 4,080 1,672 2,886 1,706 50,669 Balances as of December 31, 2013 Ps 427,238 70,124 38,578 12,682 20,223 72,302 641,147 Intangible assets, net at December 31, 2012 Ps 174,589 50,087 24,484 10,035 12,693 16,734 288,622 Intangible assets, net at December 31, 2013 Ps 144,282 40,069 20,404 8,363 9,807 867 223,792 Concessions rights of the Company services, operator services, paging and messaging services, data services, video, audio and video conferencing, except The main concessions of the Company are as follows: television networks, music or continuous service digital audio services, and credit or debit phone cards. • Concession to offer local and long distance telephony services, for a period of thirty years. To maintain this In November 2006, SCT granted the Company, as part of the concession the Company needs to comply with certain concession of Axtel, a new permission to provide SMS (short conditions. It can be renewed for another period of thirty messaging system) to its customers. years; • On September 15, 1995 Avantel obtained a concession In September 15, 2009, SCT granted the Company to offer local and long distance telephony services, for a concession to install, operate and exploit a public a period of thirty years. To maintain this concession the telecommunications network to provide satellite television Company needs to comply with certain conditions. It can and audio services. be renewed for another period of thirty years; Intangible assets arising from the acquisition of • Concessions of different frequencies of radio spectrum Avantel for 20 years and renewable for additional periods of 20 years, as long as Axtel complies with all of its obligations, Derived from the acquisition of Avantel in 2006, the and with all conditions imposed by the law and with any Company recorded certain intangible assets such as: trade other condition that Secretaria de Comunicaciones y name “Avantel”, customer relationships and telephone Transporte (SCT) imposes. concession rights, whose value were determined by using an independent external expert appraiser at the acquisition Concessions allow the Company to provide basic local date and accounted for in accordance to previous GAAP. telephone service, domestic long distance telephony, The trade name and customer relationships are amortized purchase or lease network capacity for the generation, over a three-year period; meanwhile the concession is transmission or reception of data, signals, writings, amortized over the remaining term of the concession on a images, voice, sounds and other information of any kind, straight-line basis. At December 31, 2013 the values of the the purchase and leasing network capacity from other trade name “Avantel” and of customer relationships were countries, including digital circuits income, value added totally amortized. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 85 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements (12) Investments in associates and joint annual reports with the SCT, including identifying main stockholders of the Company, (ii) reporting any increase ventures and other equity investments in common stock, (iii) providing continuous services with certain technical specifications, (iv) to present a code As of December 31, 2013, the investment in shares of of marketing strategies, (v) to register rates of service, associated company through Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. is (vi) to provide a bond and (vii) fulfilling the program of represented by a non-controlling 50% interest in the equity investments presented when the Company requested the shares of Conectividad Inalámbrica 7GHZ, S. de R.L., concession. amounting to Ps. 11,640. The operation of this company consists of providing radio communication services in During 2011 the Company recognized an impairment Mexico under the concession granted by the SCT. Such regarding its investments in Opanga Networks and Eden concession places certain performance conditions Rock Communications for Ps. 17,798 and Ps. 16,735, and commitments to this company, such as (i) filing respectively. Ownership Investment amount 2013 2012 2013 2012 Conectividad Inalámbrica 7GHZ, S. de R.L. 50% 50% 11,640 9,647 Opanga Networks 19.8% 19.8% 17,798 17,798 Eden Rock Communications 10.5% 10.5% 16,735 16,735 46,173 44,180 Less impairment (34,533) (34,533) Total investments 11,640 9,647 2013 2012 CONECTIVIDAD INALÁMBRICA 7GHZ, S. DE R.L Total assets Ps 23,279 20,791 Total liabilities 1,497 Net assets 23,279 19,294 11,640 9,647 Share of net assets of associates Net income (loss) for the period 3,984 (40) Share of loss of associates accounting by the equity method Ps 1,992 (20) (13) Other assets Other assets consist of the following: 2013 2012 Long-term prepaid expenses Ps 208,307 170,633 Account receivable Telmex (see note 24(b)) 47,395 Guarantee deposits 45,634 47,631 Advances to suppliers 10,314 10,419 Other 11,086 18,519 Other assets 275,341 294,597 Current portion of other assets 130,492 141,439 Other long-term assets Ps 144,849 153,158 86 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements (14) Long-term debt Long-term debt as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 consist of the following: 2013 2012 U.S. $275 in aggregate principal amount of 7 5/8 % Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2017. Interest is payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of each year. During January and 2013, the Company completed Ps 659,029 3,577,778 the exchange of U.S.$ 224.6 and U.S.$ 167.4 million of unsecured notes maturing in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 358.6 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars on an insured bond and a convertible bond. U.S.$ 490 in aggregate principal amount of 9% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019. Interest is payable semiannually on March and September of each year. In January 2013, the Company completed the exchange 1,330,272 6,374,949 of U.S.$ 224.6 and U.S.$167.4 million of unsecured notes maturing in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 358.6 and U.S.$ 22 million dollars on an insured bond and a convertible bond. Senior Secured Notes in a principal amount of U.S.$394.6 million dollars with initial interest of 7% will be increased to 9% and maturing in 2020. Interest is payable semi-annually in February and August of each 5,160,680 year. Senior Secured Convertible Notes U.S. dollar-indexed principal amount of U.S.$22.2 million dollars with initial interest of 7% will be increased to 9% and maturing in 2020. Interest is payable semi-annually in February 177,481 and August of each year. Discount on note caused by Senior Secured Notes payable in the amount of U.S. $ 36 million at an initial (28,994) interest rate of 7% will increase to 9% due 2020. Premium on Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate principal of U.S.$490 million with an interest rate of 7,444 42,096 9%, due in 2019. Syndicated loan totaling U.S. $100 million with variable interest rate from LIBOR + 3.0% to LIBOR + 4.5% and from TIIE + 3.0% to TIIE + 4.5% according to the leverage of the Company. Interest payments are made 1,057,925 quarterly. As of December 31, 2012 U.S.$53.3 million and Ps. 364.7 million have been utilized. Capacity lease agreement with Teléfonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. of approximately Ps. 800,000 payable 168,554 318,984 monthly and expiring in 2011. Renewed in 2011 of approximately Ps. 484,000 payable monthly. Other long-term financing with several credit institutions with interest rates fluctuating between 3.60% and 7.20% for those denominated in dollars and TIIE (Mexican average interbank rate) plus 1.5 and 3 percentage 407,965 251,179 points for those denominated in pesos. Debt issuance and deferred financing costs (18,112) 156,297 Total long-term debt 7,864,319 11,466,614 Less current maturities 308,945 411,969 Long-term debt, excluding current maturities Ps 7,555,374 11,054,645 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 87 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Annual installments of long-term debt are as follows: any time after 120th calendar day following the issue date and prior to the close of business on the fourth business day immediately preceding the maturity date for the convertible YEAR Amount notes, or at the election of the Company such conversion may be settled in cash. This transaction resulted in a gain 2015 Ps 112,179 of Ps.1,538,325 which is presented in other income in the 2016 104,655 accompanying condensed consolidated statements of 2017 707,988 comprehensive income. 2018 1,781 2019 and thereafter 6,628,771 Additionally, the Company performed the full payment of the remaining balance of the syndicated loan, interest and Ps 7,555,374 related derivative transactions, amounting approximately U.S.$ 88 million. Note issuance and deferred financing costs directly attributable to the issuance of the Company’s borrowings are On November 17, 2011, the Company closed a syndicated amortized based on the effective interest rate over the term loan with Banco Nacional de Mexico, SA, a member of of the related borrowing. Grupo Financiero Banamex; Banco Mercantil del Norte SA, Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Banorte; For the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012, the interest Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch; ING Bank NV, expense was Ps. 916,915 and Ps. 1,118,912 respectively. (see Dublin Branch and Standard Bank Plc. The total amount note 10). is U.S. $ 100 million with a four year period, two year grace period of principal and made up of a funded amount and a During December 31, 2013, the Company completed the committed short term revolving facility. The loan is secured exchange of U.S.$ 82.5 million and U.S.$ 32.8 million of by the accounts receivable of certain corporate customers unsecured notes due in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for of the Company. As of December 31, 2012 US$ 53.3 million U.S.$ 110 million of secured bonds due in 2020 with the and Ps. 365 million have been funded, while the revolving same conditions and interest rates described in the January facility has not been disbursed. The operation contemplates 2013 exchange mentioned in the following paragraphs, a variable rate from LIBOR+3.0% to LIBOR+4.5% in dollars this transaction resulted in a gain of Ps. 30,658 which is and a TIIE+3.0% to TIIE+4.5% in pesos, according to the presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of leverage of the Company. Interest payments are on a comprehensive income. In addition, on December 13 and quarterly basis and the purpose of the loan is to strengthen 26, 2013, the Company closed an offering of additional 2020 liquidity, capital investments, debt repayment and other Notes for U.S$ 26 million and U.S$ 10 million, additional corporate general purposes. bonds were issued at a price of 93.75% of their principal value. Certain debt agreements establish affirmative and negative covenants, the most significant of which refer to limitations on dividend payments and the compliance with certain At January 31, 2013, the Company completed the exchange financial ratios. As of December 31, 2013 and February 28, of U.S.$ 142 and U.S.$ 355 million of unsecured notes due 2014, the Company was in compliance with all covenants in 2017 and 2019, respectively, for U.S.$ 249 and U.S.$ contained in its debt agreements. 22 million dollars secured bond and a convertible bond, respectively, both with initial interest rate of 7% which will be increase to 8% in the first anniversary date and to 9% (15) Other current liabilities in the second anniversary date, and due in 2020, plus a As of December 31, 2013 and 2012, other accounts payable cash payment of U.S.$ 83 million to participating holders. consist of the following: Holders of the convertible notes may elect to convert their Convertible Dollar-Indexed Notes Into ADSs of CPOs at 88 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements 2013 2012 Guarantee deposit Ps 10,314 10,261 Payroll and other liabilities (1) 90,159 96,441 Ps 100,473 106,702 (1) Payroll and other liabilities mainly include christmas bonus, vacation premium and other benefits. (16) Employee benefits The cost, obligations and other elements of the Company’s seniority premium liability for reasons other than restructuring have been determined based on computations prepared by independent actuaries at, December 31, 2013 and 2012. The components of the net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: 2013 2012 Net period cost: Current service cost Ps 2,906 3,527 Interest cost 1,179 1,403 Actuarial gain (7,593) Amortization of net actuarial loss (453) Net period cost (benefit) Ps 4,085 (3,116) The actuarial present value of benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2013 and 2012 are follows: 2013 2012 Initial balance Ps 19,452 21,935 Benefits paid (2,207) (343) Current service cost and interest cost 4,085 4,930 Actuarial gain (7,070) Net projected liability Ps 21,330 19,452 The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its seniority premium benefits is as follows: 2013 2012 Total present value of obligations Ps 20,484 18,131 Amendments to plan 267 Actuarial (gains) losses 846 1,054 Liability recognized for defined benefit obligation Ps 21,330 19,452 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 89 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the net periodic cost are the following: 2013 2012 Discount rate used to reflect the present value of obligations 6.5% 6.5% Rate of increase in the minimum wage 3.5% 3.5% Real rate of increase in future salary levels 4% 4% Average seniority of employees 7.2 years 7.1 years (17) Provisions The Company’s provisions as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: 2013 2012 Decommissioning and remediation obligations Ps 281,808 Total Ps 281,808 Current portion of provisions Ps 281,808 Changes in the balance of provisions recorded for the following periods are as follows: DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION OBLIGATIONS 2013 2012 Initial balance Ps 281,808 253,129 Cancellation (281,808) Unwinding of discount and effect of changes in the discount rate 28,679 Ending balance Ps 281,808 The Company conducted an analysis of the obligation R.L. de C.V. (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American Tower associated with the retirement of property, systems and Corporation, in the amount of U.S.$ 249 million, due the equipment, mainly identifying sites built on leased land on above the Company canceled the provision of the obligation which it has a legal obligation or assumed the retirement associated whit the retirement of the sites. thereof. As mentioned in note 2, the Company completed the sale of 883 sites to MATC Digital Telecommunications, S. de 90 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Restructuring provision 2013 2012 Initial balance Ps 59,855 Additional provisions recognized Payments (59,855) Ending balance Ps In order to implement its strategic plans, the Company has restructured certain of its operations. The cost of restructuring, which consists of compensation and employee severance payments, is included in the statement of comprehensive income as component of operating income. (18) Transactions and balances with related parties The transactions with related parties during the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 are as follows: 2013 2012 Banamex Telecommunication service revenues Ps 584,759 514,287 Commission and administrative services 8,253 14,176 Interest expense 21,202 28,795 Other related parties: Rent expense Ps 37,281 39,914 Installation service expense 46,177 32,027 Other 5,211 5,950 The balances with related parties as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, included in accounts payable are as follows: Accounts payable short-term: 2013 2012 GEN Industrial, S.A. de C.V. (2) Ps 58 73 Instalaciones y Desconexiones Especializadas, S.A. de C.V. (2) 991 Total Ps 58 1,064 The balances with related parties as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, included in deferred revenues are as follows: 2013 2012 Deferred revenues short-term: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 457,478 434,693 Deferred revenues long-term: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 33,900 33,900 (1) Derived from transactions related to master services agreement signed between the Company and Banamex in November 2006. Under this contract, the Company provides telecommunications services (including, local, long distance and other services) to Banamex and its affiliates located in Mexico. (2) Mainly rents and other administrative services. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 91 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The benefits and aggregate compensation paid to executive officers and senior management of the Company during the year ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 were as follows: 2013 2012 Short-term employee benefits paid Ps 94,584 108,185 (19) Income tax (IT) and Flat Rate Tax as of January 1, 2014. Upon enactment of a new IT Law, the IETU Law and the IT Law in effect as of December 31, 2013 (IETU) were repealed On December 11, 2013, a decree was published in the Official The income tax (expense) benefit is as follows: Gazette whereby several tax provisions were amended, supplemented, and repealed. This decree became effective 2013 2012 Current income tax Ps (50,817) (53,022) Deferred income tax Ps (967,321) 226,164 Income tax (expense) benefit Ps (1,018,138) 173,142 Given that the IETU Law was repealed, as of December the rate would be 29%, and for 2015 and thereafter, 28%. 31, 2013, the Company wrote off its deferred IETU assets The new IT law imposes an IT rate of 30% for 2014 and generated by subsidiaries Avantel, S. de R.L., Avantel, S.A. thereafter. Asociación en Participación, Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. e Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. recording a The IETU rate for 2013 and 2012 was 17.5%. charge to operations in 2013 in the amount of Ps 190,720. Furthermore, the Company determined its deferred income Income tax (expense) benefit attributable to income (loss) taxes (IT) as of December 31, 2013, recognizing deferred from continuing operations before income taxes, differed income tax assets in the amount of Ps 38,159, recording a from the amounts computed by applying the Mexican credit to operations in fiscal year 2013. statutory rates of 30% IT to income (loss) before income taxes, as a result of the items shown below. According to the IT Law in effect as of December 31, 2013, the IT rate for fiscal years 2013 and 2012 was 30%; for 2014, 92 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements 2013 2012 Statutory income tax rate 30% 30% Difference between book and tax inflationary effects 3% 9% Change in valuation allowance (2%) (4%) Non-deductible expenses (2%) (8%) Changes in tax rates (1%) 4% IETU effect (11%) Changes in laws (7%) Recognition of initial deferred IT on subsidiaries 8% Recognition of the tax effect of tax losses not previously recognized 1% Effective tax rate 30% 20% The deferred income taxes are as follows: 2013 2012 Income tax Ps 1,101,937 1,890,998 Business flat tax 190,720 Deferred income taxes Ps 1,101,937 2,081,718 The main differences that gave rise to the deferred income tax assets as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are presented below: 2013 2012 Deferred tax assets: Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 824,229 599,839 Allowance for doubtful accounts 522,188 438,602 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 26,073 Accrued liabilities and other provisions 547,230 246,221 Premium on bond issuance 2,233 12,629 Property, systems and equipment 661,615 Total deferred tax assets 1,895,880 1,984,979 Deferred tax liabilities: Telephone concession rights Ps 52,698 55,628 Property, systems and equipment 69,526 Long-term debt 549,342 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 41,898 Intangible and other assets 80,479 38,353 Total deferred tax liabilities 793,943 93,981 Deferred tax assets, net Ps 1,101,937 1,890,998 AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 93 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements The subsidiaries Avantel, S. de R.L., Avantel, S.A. Asociación en Participación, Servicios Axtel, S.A. de C.V. and Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V., were IETU payers. The main differences that generated the deferred IETU asset as of December 31, 2012 in these subsidiaries are detailed below: 2012 Deferred tax assets: Accounts payable Ps 345,534 Deferred revenues 87,308 Provisions 30,278 Other 17,917 Total deferred tax assets 481,037 Deferred tax liability: Accounts receivable Ps 271,628 Telephone concession rights 9,854 Property, systems and equipment 7,219 Other 1,616 Total deferred tax liability 290,317 Net deferred tax assets 190,720 The roll forward for the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2013 and 2012 are presented below: Effects on Effects on stockholders’ 2012 profit and loss equity 2013 Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 599,839 224,390 824,229 Allowance for doubtful accounts 438,602 83,586 522,188 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 26,073 (13,613) (12,460) Accrued liabilities and other provisions 246,221 301,009 547,230 Premium on bond issuance 12,629 (10,396) 2,233 Deferred IETU 190,720 (190,720) Property, systems and equipment 661,615 (731,141) (69,526) Telephone concession rights (55,628) 2,930 (52,698) Long-term debt (549,342) (549,342) Fair value of derivative financial instruments (41,898) (41,898) Intangible and other assets (38,353) (42,126) (80,479) Ps 2,081,718 (967,321) (12,460) 1,101,937 Effects on Effects on stockholders’ 2011 profit and loss equity 2012 Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 700,066 (100,227) 599,839 Allowance for doubtful accounts 345,348 93,254 438,602 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (37,459) 61,370 2,162 26,073 Accrued liabilities and other provisions 166,688 79,533 246,221 Premium on bond issuance 14,500 (1,871) 12,629 Deferred IETU 122,060 68,660 190,720 Property, systems and equipment 637,900 23,715 661,615 94Telephone / AXTEL 2013concession rights REPORT ANNUAL INTEGRATED (63,215) 7,587 (55,628) Intangible and other assets (32,496) (5,857) (38,353) Deferred IETU 190,720 (190,720) Property, systems and equipment 661,615 (731,141) (69,526) Telephone concession rights (55,628) 2,930 (52,698) Long-term debt COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL (549,342) ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL (549,342) Fair value of derivativeSUSTAINABILITY PROFILE financial instruments FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE (41,898) PERSPECTIVE (41,898) Intangible and other assets (38,353) (42,126) Financial (80,479) Statements Ps 2,081,718 (967,321) (12,460) 1,101,937 Effects on Effects on stockholders’ 2011 profit and loss equity 2012 Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 700,066 (100,227) 599,839 Allowance for doubtful accounts 345,348 93,254 438,602 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (37,459) 61,370 2,162 26,073 Accrued liabilities and other provisions 166,688 79,533 246,221 Premium on bond issuance 14,500 (1,871) 12,629 Deferred IETU 122,060 68,660 190,720 Property, systems and equipment 637,900 23,715 661,615 Telephone concession rights (63,215) 7,587 (55,628) Intangible and other assets (32,496) (5,857) (38,353) Ps 1,853,392 226,164 2,162 2,081,718 As of December 31, 2013, the tax loss carry forwards and the refundable tax on assets expire as follows: Tax loss carry YEAR forwards Tax on assets 2014 Ps 30,284 9,326 2015 7,579 2016 25,168 10,426 2017 36,347 2018 383,254 2020 182,114 2021 1,848,781 2022 561,618 2023 554,996 Ps 3,586,215 63,678 At December 31, 2013, the valuation allowance of deferred a) Capital stock structure tax assets is Ps 515,264, of which Ps 251,635 relate to tax loss carry forwards, Ps 199,951 to estimating doubtful accounts As of December 31, 2013, the common stock of the Company and Ps 63,678 to tax recoverable asset. is Ps 6,627,890. The Company has 8,776,192,202 shares issued and outstanding. Company’s shares are divided in (20) Stockholders’ equity two Series: Series A and B; both Series have two type of classes, Class “I” and Class “II”, with no par value. Of the The main characteristics of stockholders’ equity are total shares, 97,750,656 are series A and 8,678,441,546 series described below: B. At December 31, 2013 the Company has issued only Class “I”. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 95 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Shares Amount 2013 2012 2013 2012 Authorized and issued capital: Series A Ps 97,750,656 96,636,627 73,396 73,012 Series B 8,678,441,546 8,672,716,596 6,554,494 6,552,524 In connection with the issuance of the convertible bond into represented the shares issued by Tel Holding and any shares shares held on January 31, 2013, and in accordance with the issued by stockholders that elected to issue and pay for resolutions adopted by the Extraordinary General Meeting additional Series B Shares in exercise of their preferential of Shareholders on January 25, 2013, the Company issued right granted by the Mexican General Corporation Law. 972,814,143 Series B shares Class “I” that will be kept in the treasury of the Company, to be subsequently subscribed by On December 22, 2006 pursuant to the Subscription the conversion of convertible bonds. During the last quarter Agreement, the Company received notice from Tel Holding of 2013 the conversion option was exercised for a total of confirming that it acquired 533,976,744 Series B Shares 5,724,950 Series B shares representing an increase of Ps (represented by 76,282,392 CPOs) from the Mexican Stock 1,970 in the capital stock of the Company. Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, or ‘‘BMV’’) and confirming its intention to issue and pay for 246,453,963 During April 2013 a contribution of capital stock for Ps 384, new Series B Shares (represented by 35,207,709 CPOs). The representing 1,114,029 Series “A”, was received. new Series B Shares were subscribed and paid for by Tel Holding through the CPOs Trust on January 4, 2007. During July 2008 the Company began a program to repurchase own shares which was approved at an ordinary b) Stockholders’ equity restrictions shareholder meeting held on April 23, 2008 for up to Ps 440 million. As of December 31, 2008 the Company had Stockholders’ contributions, restated for inflation as repurchased 26,096,700 CPO’s (182,676,900 shares). During provided in the tax law, totaling Ps 8,989,419 may be July, August and September 2009, the CPOs purchased refunded to stockholders tax-free. through the repurchase program was resold in the market. No dividends may be paid while the Company has a deficit. The acquisition of Avantel also included a Series B Shares Additionally, certain of the Company’s debt agreements Subscription Agreement (‘‘Subscription Agreement’’) with mentioned in note 14 establish limitations on dividend Tel Holding, an indirect subsidiary of Citigroup, Inc., for payments. an amount equivalent to up to 10% of Axtel’s common stock. For this to come into effect, the Company obtained stockholder approval (i) to increase capital by issuing Series c) Comprehensive income (loss) income B Shares in a number that was sufficient for Tel Holding to issue and pay Series B Shares (in the form of CPOs) The balance of other comprehensive income items and its representing up to a 10% equity share in Axtel; and (ii) for activity as of December 31, 2013 and 2012, is as follows: the subscription and payment of the Series B Shares that 96 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements 2013 2012 Net income (loss) Ps 2,407,679 (708,869) Valuation of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments 41,811 (7,205) Effect of income tax (12,460) 2,162 Valuation of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments, net 29,351 (5,043) Net comprehensive income (loss) 2,437,030 (713,912) (21) Telephone services and related revenues Revenues consist of the following: 2013 2012 Local calling services Ps 3,208,170 3,619,022 Long distance services 1,139,591 1,236,414 Internet and video 1,043,393 798,656 Data and network 1,860,070 1,997,886 Integrated services and equipment sales 1,884,132 1,493,812 International traffic 763,991 655,328 Other services 387,147 388,614 Ps 10,286,494 10,819,732 (22) Other expenses, net Other expenses consists of the following: 2013 2012 Restructuring cost Ps (30,552) (190,984) Other, net (48,292) (9,003) Ps (78,844) (199,987) (23) Commitments and contingencies disagreements between the Company and the following mobile carriers: Radiomovil Dipsa, S.A. de C.V. (“Telcel”), As of December 31, 2013, the Company has the following Iusacell PCS, S.A. de C.V. and others (“Grupo Iusacell”), commitments and contingencies: Pegaso PCS, S.A. de C.V. and others (“Grupo Telefonica”) and Operadora Unefon, S.A. de C.V. (“Unefon”). (a) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers – Years 2005 to 2007. On the second quarter of the year With respect to Telcel, the Supreme Court of Justice 2007, and the first quarter of the year 2008, the Federal (Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nación) (“SCJN”) Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de decided to deny the amparo trials filed by the Company Telecomunicaciones) (“Cofetel”) ruled interconnection and Telcel, and therefore confirming the ruling issued in AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 97 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements the past by Cofetel by means of which it determined the interconnection tariffs applicable between Axtel and interconnection tariffs for the years 2005 to 2007. The Telcel, and consequently, the interconnection tariffs are result of this amparo trial, do not creates an economic not yet definitely defined, due to the fact that these new contingency for the Company due to the fact that during rulings might be, once again, challenged by the parties the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, the Company paid the involved. interconnection tariffs set forth by the Cofetel in the above mentioned disagreements. With respect to Grupo Telefonica, the Cofetel determined on October 20th, 2010, the interconnection With respect to Grupo Iusacell, Grupo Telefonica tariffs for Axtel and Grupo Telefonica applicable to the and Unefon, the Company filed an administrative period between 2008 and 2011, which consider the same review proceeding, which was resolved on June 19, amounts set forth by the SCT in the ruling issued on 2013 by the Cofetel and by means of which it revoked September 1, 2008, that is, $0.5465 pesos per real minute its previous rulings and determined tariffs only for for 2008, $0.5060 pesos for 2009, $0.4705 pesos for 2010, years 2005 to 2007, therefore annulling the tariffs set and $0.4179 pesos for 2011. forth for the period 2008 to 2010. Such tariffs are being contested in an amparo trial. In the new resolutions, This ruling was challenged via amparo trial by Grupo Cofetel determined a weighted average tariff, as it had Telefonica, and its currently on its first stage. Final ruling initially done so with Telcel, which can be applied to on this matter is expected on the year 2014. Grupo Iusacell, Grupo Telefónica and Unefon if the interconnection rate were not applied and their services With respect to Grupo Iusacell and Unefon, the Cofetel were being sold at a price below such rate. determined the interconnection tariffs for the years of 2008 to 2010 on the second quarter of the year 2009, The result of the above mentioned proceedings do such determination being challenged by the Company not create an economic contingency to the Company via an administrative review proceeding, which is in due to the fact that for years 2005, 2006 and 2007, it the process of being solved by the IFT. As a result, the paid the interconnection tariffs order by Cofetel in the interconnection tariffs are not yet definitely defined, due aforementioned resolutions. to the fact that these new rulings might be, once again, challenged by the parties involved. (b) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers – Years 2008 to 2011. With respect to Telcel, the Company As a consequence of the rulings issued by the SCT on filed an interconnection disagreement early on the year September 2008, the Company recognized since August 2008, such proceeding being decided in first instance 2008, the interconnection tariff of: $0.5465 pesos, by the SCT, on the first day of September, 2008, which $0.5060 pesos, $0.4705 y $0.4179 per real minute for as mentioned before, arose from a proceeding filed Telcel, and of $0.6032 pesos for the other mobile carriers. by Axtel. In such ruling, the SCT set the cost based interconnection tariffs of $0.5465 pesos, $0.5060 pesos, The tariffs that the Company was paying prior to the $0.4705 and $0.4179 pesos for the years 2008, 2009, 2010 rulings, was of $1.3216 pesos per real minute to Telcel, and 2011, respectively. and $1.21 pesos per rounded minute to the other mobile carriers. As of December 31, 2013, the difference between Telcel challenged the resolution issued by the SCT the amounts paid by the Company according to these via amparo trial, and on February, 2012, the SCJN tariffs, and the amounts billed by the mobile carriers, ruled that the SCT had to standing to decide on the amounted to approximately Ps. 2,169 million not administrative review proceeding filed by Axtel, and including value added tax. that the Cofetel is the authority that should determine such interconnection tariffs, therefore the Federal After evaluating the actual status of the foregoing Telecommunications Institute (Instituto Federal de proceedings, and taking into consideration the Telecomunicaciones) (“IFT”) will have to set forth the information available and the information provided by 98 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements the legal advisors, the Company’s Management consider resolution, the Cofetel approved a reduction in the rates that there are enough elements to maintain the actual for termination of long distance calls applicable to those accounting treatment, and that at the end of the legal cities where Telmex does not have interconnection proceedings, the interests of the Company will prevail. access points. These rates were reduced from Ps. 0.75 per minute to US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 per (c) Interconnection Disagreements – Telmex – Years minute, depending on the place where the Company 2009 to 2013. In March 2009, the Cofetel resolved an delivers the long distance traffic. Based on this interconnection disagreement proceeding existing resolution, the Company paid approximately Ps. 20 between the Company (Axtel) and Teléfonos de México, million in excess. Telmex challenged the resolution S.A.B. de C.V. (“Telmex”) related to the rates applicable before the Federal Court of Tax and Administrative for the termination of long distance calls from the Justice, and such proceeding is in an initial stage. Company to Telmex with respect to year 2009. In such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a On May 2011, the Cofetel issued a ruling resolving an reduction in the rates for termination of long distance interconnection disagreement proceeding between calls applicable to those cities where Telmex does not Telmex and the Company, related to the tariff have interconnection access points. These rates were applicable to the termination of long distance calls reduced from Ps. 0.75 per minute to US$0.0105 or from the Company to Telmex, for the year 2011. In US$0.0080 per minute (depending on the place where such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a the Company delivers the long distance call). reduction of the tariffs applicable for the termination of long distance calls. The above mentioned tariffs were reduced from US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 Until June 2010 Telmex billed the Company for the per minute, to Ps.0.04530 and Ps.0.03951 per minute, termination of long distance calls, applying the rates that depending on the place in which the Company is to were applicable prior to the aforementioned resolutions, deliver the long distance traffic. Telmex challenged this and after such date, Telmex has billed the resultant ruling before the SCT, but the request was dismissed amounts, applying the new interconnection rates. As of by such authority. Nowadays, Telmex challenged December 31, 2013, the difference between the amounts such dismissal, before the Federal Court of Tax and paid by the Company to Telmex according to the new Administrative Justice, and such proceeding is in an rates, and the amounts billed by Telmex, amount to initial stage. approximately to Ps. 1,240 million, not including value added tax. Finally, in July 2013, Cofetel ruled on an administrative review proceeding between Telmex and the Company in Telmex filed for the annulment of the proceeding with connection with the tariffs applicable to the termination the Federal Court of Tax and Administrative Justice of long distance calls from the Company to Telmex for (Tribunal Federal de Justicia Fiscal y Administrativa) the years 2012, 2013 and 2014. In such administrative requesting the annulment of Cofetel’s administrative resolution, Cofetel determined for year 2012, tariffs per resolution. The Company (Axtel and Avantel) have minute that go from $0.02831 to $0.01007, depending a contingency in case that the Federal Tax and if it is a regional or national node; for year 2013, tariffs Administrative Court rules against the Company, and as that that go from $0.02780 to $0.00968, depending if it a result, establishes rates different to those set forth by is a regional or national node; and for year 2014, tariffs Cofetel. that that go from $0.02838 to $0.00968, depending if it is a regional or national node. Telmex challenged this In January 2010, the Cofetel resolved an interconnection resolution in an amparo trial which is currently in the disagreement proceeding existing between the Company evidence stage. (Avantel) and Telmex related to the rates for the termination of long distance calls from the Company to As of December 31, 2013, the Company believes that the Telmex with respect to year 2009. In such administrative rates determined by the Cofetel in its resolutions will prevail, and therefore it has recognized the cost, based on the rates approved by Cofetel. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 99 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements As of December 31, 2009, there was a letter of credit After evaluating the arguments presented by the parties for US $ 34 million issued by Banamex in favor of involved in the trials, and taking into consideration Telmex for the purpose of guaranteeing the Company’s the arguments presented by our legal advisors, the obligations, which were acquired through several Company’s Management considers that at the end of the interconnection agreements. The amounts under the legal proceedings, the Company’s interests shall prevail. letter of credit were drawn by Telmex in the month of January 2010, claiming that Avantel had debts with such (e) The Company is involved in a number of lawsuits and company. As of December 31, 2013, Avantel has been claims arising in the normal course of business. It is able to recover the entire amount mentioned above, expected that the final outcome of these matters will through compensation with regard to certain charges for not have significant adverse effects on the Company’s services rendered by Telmex to Avantel on a monthly financial position and results of operations. basis. (f) In compliance with commitments made in the (d) Tecnocom. The company Tecnocom Telefonía y Redes acquisition of concession rights, the Company has de Mexico, S.A. De C.V. (“Tecnocom”), and the Company granted surety bonds to the Federal Treasury and to the executed on May 30, 2011 a Services Agreement, Department of Communications and Transportation under which Tecnocom breached the obligations amounting to Ps 5,699 and to other service providers therein assumed, reason for which the Company amounting to Ps 1,121,748. executed a letter of credit for US$1,300,898. Due to the aforementioned, Tecnocom commenced a mercantile (g) The concessions granted by the Department of ordinary trial against the Company before the Fifth Communications and Transportation (SCT) establish Concurrent Court located in Monterrey, N.L., claiming certain obligations to the Company, including, but the payment of the amounts agreed to be paid under the not limited to: (i) filing annual reports with the SCT, Services Agreement, for the provision of the services, including identifying main stockholders of the as well as interests and judicial costs and expenses. Company, (ii) reporting any increase in common This trial is in the stage of evidence. In addition to stock, (iii) providing continuous services with certain the aforementioned, Tecnocom commenced another technical specifications, (iv) filing monthly reports mercantile ordinary trial before the Thirteenth District about disruptions, (v) filing the services’ tariff, and (vi) Court in Civil Matters located in Mexico City, by means providing a bond. of which Tecnocom claims from the Company, the declaration that the requirements for the withdrawal of (h) The Company leases some equipment and facilities the aforementioned Letter of Credit were not met, and under operating leases. Some of these leases have from the bank that issued the letter of credit, they claim renewal clauses. Lease expense for year ended the payment or reimbursement of the letter. Under those December 31, 2013 and 2012 amounted to Ps 866,695 and claims, the Company promoted a motion requesting a Ps 641,977, respectively. joinder of the trials, due to the fact that Tecnocom filed two different trials before different courts, both of which The annual payments under these leases as of December 31, arise from the same cause and involve the same parties. 2013 are as follows: 100 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Financial Statements Leases contracts in: PESOS (THOUSANDS) DOLLARS (THOUSANDS) 2014 Ps 65,242 29,843 2015 50,919 27,854 2016 41,135 23,659 2017 30,126 22,480 2018 19,304 20,521 2019 and thereafter 59,183 157,613 Ps 265,909 281,970 (24) Recently Issued Accounting on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortized cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. Standards All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair values at the end of subsequent The following standards become effective in subsequent accounting periods periods and management is in the process of assessing their possible impact on its consolidated financial position and The most significant effect of IFRS 9 regarding the results of operations. classification and measurement of financial liabilities relates to the accounting for changes in fair value of a financial Standards and amendments to be adopted in 2015 liability (designated as at fair value through profit or loss) attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability. IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” issued in November 2009 Specifically, under IFRS 9, for financial liabilities that are and amended in October 2010 introduces new requirements designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount for the classification and measurement of financial assets of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is and financial liabilities and for derecognition. attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is recognized in other comprehensive income, unless the The standard requires all recognized financial assets that are recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit within the scope of IAS 39 to be subsequently measured at risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge amortized cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair that are held within a business model whose objective is to value attributable to a financial liability’s credit risk are not collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Previously, under cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest IAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss was recognized in profit or loss. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 101 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE Memory Parameters 2.9 / 3.1 / 3.2 / 3.3 / 3.4 / 3.5 / 3.6 / 3.7 / 3.8 / 3.9 / 3.10 / 3.11 / 3.13 We submit, as every year, the AXTEL Integrated Report for 2013. This document is our third sustainability report which, for the second time, is integrated with our annual financial performance, giving continuity to the results published in the AXTEL Integrated Report for 2012. The information expressed corresponds to the period from Cristina M. Cuéllar García January to December 2013 and is presented under the Guide of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) in application level Social Responsibility B+. It comprises indicators from all operations at AXTEL ccuellar@axtel.com.mx which include the corporate offices in Monterrey and the Tel. 52 81 8114 1244 administrative and operations centers around the Country, excluding operations from the suppliers, shareholders, clients, and/or trade partners. Adrián de los Santos Escobedo The document was verified by the enterprise Redes Sociales Head of Investor’s relations LT, which validated the information through documents adelossantos@axtel.com.mx and interviews ensuring that the information submitted Tel. 52 81 8114 1128 was truthful and meets the guidelines of the GRI G3.1 Guide. During 2013 there were no significant changes in size, structure and ownership of our company, and the information is expressed under the same methods and Julio Salinas Lombard scope as the previous reports. Head of Media relations Materiality of the information was determined according to jusalinas@axtel.com.mx internal analysis exercises in regards to relevant information Tel. 52 81 8114 1144 for our business, as well as in dialogues with collaborators and stakeholders. The numerical data, indicators and calculations are obtained from our internal information systems, as well as controls and registration from our operations. For more information regarding the information submitted, or to receive more comments regarding our 2013AXTEL Integrated Report please contact: 102 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE MATERIAL TOPICS 3.5 At AXTEL we carried out a process for materiality analysis Once this information was available, an analysis was carried to determine the indicators to be reported in 2013. out to determine what type of information was available through our Systems, in such a way that the data reported Some of the actions carried out were: may be reliable, valid, and with annual follow-up. • Meetings with different areas in the company. • Consultation with different national enterprises in order Among the material aspects for each Perspective reported to take their best practices as reference. we found: • Benchmark of industry reports at a national and international level. • Recommendations and protocols of the GRI Guidelines. • Communication with stakeholders through our different communication forms. • Internal Documents. MATERIAL TOPICS FOR AXTEL The ethical behavior of AXTEL personnel is relevant for the sustainability of the company, thus there have been No-Gift and Anti-corruption policies established, as well as a communication program of the Ethics Code. Another material topic is the incorporation of its Board of Directors and Corporate governance the corporate governing policies under which they meet and make decisions. Likewise, the risks to which the business is exposed are analyzed, in order to determine the actions to mitigate them. Since our business is centered in customer service, this aspect is a priority in our operation. We Customer service have different forms of contact with our customers and users, which are taken into consideration to improve service quality. For AXTEL its human resource is very important, thus offering and maintaining optimum safety and hygienic conditions is a priority as well as offering the collaborators campaigns focused on care for their health and prevention of diseases. Labor We maintain personnel indicators by region and gender, which enables us to map and plan the activities and training provided for their development. AXTEL, being a service enterprise, pays special attention to its carbon dioxide emissions, since it has a vehicle fleet at a national level which is used in the process of installing the company products and services. Environment Another material aspect is waste generation, since, due to the operation of the company, it continuously generates waste requiring special handling (aluminum, carton, steel, iron) as well as hazardous waste (electronics, optical fiber, diesel). Maintaining healthy financial statements, through an appropriate management and carrying out periodic audits is a priority for AXTEL. Finance During year 2013 we achieved positive results stemming from a recapitalization plan developed during 2012 and successfully carried out in January 2013. The noticeable improvement in our capital structure was translated into a greater flexibility in channeling the necessary investments to continue carrying our key strategic initiatives and being able to improve our financial results. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 103 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE GRI INDEX AXTEL REPORT 2013 LEVEL B+ 3.12 SUBSCOPE INDICATOR PAGE TOPIC 1.1 Statement from top responsible individual in making decisions for the organizations. 03 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 13 2.1 Name of the organization. 07 2.2 Main services. 17, 54 Strategy and analysis 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 08, 12 2.4 Location of headquarters of the organization. 07 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 07 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal form. 08 2.7 Markets served. 17, 54 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 07, 35 Significant changes in the size, structure and ownership of the organization during the period 2.9 102 covered. 2.10 Awards and distinctions received. 22 3.1 Reporting period. 102 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 102 3.3 Reporting cycle. 102 3.4 Contact point for report matters. 102 Memory parameters 3.5 Process for defining report content. 24, 103 PROFILE 3.6 Report coverage. 102 3.7 Limitations on report scope or coverage. 102 3.8 Base in including information in case of joint ventures. 102 3.9 Data measuring techniques and bases for calculations. 102 3.10 Description of re-statement of information provided in earlier reports. 102 3.11 Significant changes from previous periods in scope, coverage or assessment methods of the report. 102 3.12 Table indicating location of report basic contents. 104 3.13 Current policy and practice regarding report external verification. 102 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 08 4.2 Position of chairman of highest governance body. 08 4.3 Number of independent members in highest governance body. 08 Stockholders and employee mechanisms to communicate recommendations or indications to 4.4 08 highest governance body. Government 4.5 Linkage between retribution of members in highest governance body, top directors and executives. 08 4.6 Implemented procedures to prevent conflict of interest in highest governance body. 08, 14 4.7 Procedure to determine training and experience of highest governance body. 08 Mission, vision, and internal values, code of conduct and principles relevant for economic, social, 4.8 07 environmental performance and implementation status. Highest governance body procedures in overseeing identification and management of economic, 4.9 08 environmental and social performance. 104 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE SUBSCOPE INDICATOR PAGE TOPIC 4.10 Performance evaluation procedures of highest governance body. 08 Government 4.11 Description of how the organization has adopted a precautionary principle. 13 4.12 Principles or social, environmental and economic programs developed externally. 24 4.13 Main services. 24 4.14 Stakeholders relation the organization has included, 24 Stakeholders participation 4.15 Base for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the organization is engaged. 24 PROFILE Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 4.16 24, 30 stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the 4.17 24, 30 organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Management focus The section that addresses performance indicators in sustainability is organized in the following 5.1 44 performance dimensions: economic, environmental and social. indicators Economic EC1 Economic value generated and distributed. 52 performance ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE Range in relation between standard initial wage and local minimum wage in places where significant Market presence EC5 35 operations are performed. Policy, practices and proportion of expense corresponding to local suppliers in places where 25, 28, EC6 significant operations are performed. 29 Local hiring procedures and proportion of top directors native from the local community in areas EC7 36 where significant operations are performed. Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided mainly for the benefit Indirect ec8 of the community through commercial, pro bono, or in kind commitments. 51 environmental Understanding and description of significant indirect economic impact, including the scope of such ec9 51 impact impact. la1 (P) Breakdown of workers by type of employment, by contract, and by region. 35 37 Employment la2 Total number of employees and average turnover, broken down by age group, gender, and region. 37, 38 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Social benefits for full-time employees, not offered to temporary workers or part-time workers. Training and In AXTEL there are no differences in the benefits granted to full-time employees and those working la3 part-time. Some of these benefits are life insurance, major medical expense insurance, grocery education bonus savings fund, paternity and maternity leave, 100 percent vacation payment and 30 days Christmas Bonus per year. la4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement. 35 Company / Minimum pre-notification Period(s) regarding organizational changes. employee relations la5 The minimum time for pre-notification regarding organizational changes is 12 weeks, and is established in the collective labor agreement of our unionized collaborators. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 105 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE SUB. SCOPE INDICATOR PAGE TOPIC Total percentage of employees represented in health and safety joined committees managementemployees. Health and safety at the job LA6 75 percent of the unionized collaborators are represented in health and safety committees. Rates for absenteeism, professional diseases, lost days and number of fatalities LA7 41 related with work by region. Programs on education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control applied LA8 40 to the workers, their families or members of the community related to severe diseases. Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. la9 We have Hygiene and Safety Regulations; Internal Work Regulations and Safety Policy. Likewise 100 percent of the operational collaborators have their personal protection equipment and there are periodic inspections carried out in matters related with workers’ safety and health. la10 16 Education Average number of hours of formation per year per employee, divided by category. (P) 39 41 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance assessments and professional la12 40 development. Diversity Composition of corporate governance and staff bodies by gender, age group, minorities and other la13 diversity indicators. 8, and equal (P) 12, 36 opportunities Partial report, the age of the board members has not been included. Percentage of key distributors or contractors that have been subject to analysis in regards to human 14, 15, hr2 (P) Supply rights, and measures adopted as a consequence. 16 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE practices Total number of hours formation of employees regarding policies and procedures related hr3 (p) to human rights aspects relevant for their activities, including the percentage 16 of employees trained. Human rights / No hr4 Total number of discrimination incidents and the corrective actions taken. 15 discrimination Company activities where the right to freedom of association and invoke the collective agreements Freed of may run important risks. hr5 All our collaborators have the right of association and invoke the collective agreements if they so 16 association desire. In 2013 there was no activity that placed this right under risk. Child hr6 Activities identified that involve a potential risk for child exploitation incidents. 16 exploitation Forced hr7 Operations identified as a significant risk for being the origin of forced or non-voluntary. 16 labor Security Percentage of security personnel trained in policies or procedures of the organization in human hr8 16 practices rights aspects. 106 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE SUBSCOPE INDICATOR PAGE TOPIC Community Nature and scope and effectiveness programs and practices to assess and manage impact of SO1 32, 44 the operations in the communities, including entrance, operation, and exit from the company. Percentage and total number of business units analyzed with regards to risks related SO2 13 with corruption. Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures in the organization. 14 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents. SO4 As mentioned on page 15 of this report, there were no corruption incidents. Political public SO5 Position in public policies and participation in their development and lobbying activities. 24 Valor Total value of financial support or in-kind to political parties or related institutions, per country. SO6 In 2013 there was no financial support or in-kind given to political parties or related institutions. Unfair Total number of actions due to causes related with monopolistic practices and against fair SO7 17 competition competition. Monetary value of sanctions and significant fines and total number of non-monetary Regulation sanctions derived from non-compliance of laws and regulations. SO8 Compliance SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE In 2013 there were no sanctions or significant fines due to this concept . Safety and Health pr5 Customer satisfaction practices including the results of the customer satisfaction studies. 30 client Legal compliance programs or adherence to standards and voluntary codes mentioned in marketing communications, included in advertising, other promotional activities and sponsorships. Marketing communication pr6 In AXTEL we carry out our own marketing communication according to what is established in the Federal Consumer Protection Law and the Industrial Property Law, which we review and apply permanently. Total number of incidents resulting from non-compliance of regulations regarding marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, distributed based on the type of pr7 result of such incidents. In 2013 there were no fines registered due to non-compliance to the regulations on these concepts. Customer Total number of complaints dully supported in regards to privacy and customer information leaks. pr8 privacy In 2013 there were no complaints or reports due to privacy violations or personal information leaks from our clients. Cost of significant fines due to non-compliance of standards in regards to supply and use of Regulation organization products and services. pr9 compliance In 2013 there were no fines for this concept. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 107 COMPANY AXTEL AXTEL SOCIAL ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCIAL PROFILE SUSTAINABILITY FOUNDATION PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE PERSPECTIVE SUBSCOPE INDICATOR PAGE TOPIC Materials EN1 Materials used by weight and volume. 47 EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 45 EN4 Direct energy consumption broken down by indirect sources. 45 Energy EN5 Total energy savings due to preservation and improvements in efficiency. 45 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved with such initiatives. 45 EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 47 Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 47 EN16 Total emissions, direct and indirect, of greenhouse gas emissions, in weight. 46 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Emissions, EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 45 en18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 45 discharged waste en22 Total weight of waste managed, according to type and treatment method. 47 en24 Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated that are considered hazardous. 47 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact Products en26 44 mitigation. and services Percentage of products sold, and its packaging material recovered at the end of its useful life, en27 47 by product category. Cost of significant sanctions and number of non-monetary sanctions due to non-compliance of Regulation environmental regulations. en28 compliance During 2013, AXTEL did not receive any significant fine or monetary or non-monetary sanction from the authorities related with non-compliance of the current environmental regulations or legislation. Transportation Significant environmental impacts in transportation of product and other goods and materials as en29 45, 46 well as personnel of the organization. General en30 Deployment of the type of environmental expenses and investments. 47 (P) All indicators are reported in full manner, except those having the letter (P) = partial, next to the code. 108 / AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Independent Reviewing Report for AXTEL Annual Integrated Report for 2013 Scope of our work AXTEL Annual Integrated Report for 2013, in subjects Annual Integrated Report for 2013 has been performed. related to sustainable performance, has been prepared Our work comprised the review of the content of the report in regards to the coverage of sustainable performance indicators, according to the materiality Standards regarding the ﬁndings and opportunity areas disclosed of our review, we would like to provide the following Sociales took the ethical principles of independence of ISAE 3000 and the guide for External Assurance of the Sustainability Memories in GRI as reference. Compact, Sustainable IPC among others. Procure the processes necessary to migrate to − − improvements in value chain management. − − Development of interviews with personnel involved − Comparison of 2013 report vis-a-vis 2012 report in Mariana Mar nez Valerio Redes Sociales en LT S.A. de C.V increase of indicators reported. T. (55) 54 46 74 84 / contacto@redsociales.com Conclusions Statement of independence, competency and accountability of Redes Sociales There is no evidence that the content of the indicators The Redes Sociales collaborators have the necessary knowledge about reviewed in this report, as well as the processes and thus they may issue a professional opinion regarding the reports of the not be considered as an audit report, thus there is no responsibility The review process shows that the current Report assumed regarding the systems and management processes and internal content are the sole responsibility of AXTEL. AXTEL 2013 ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 109 CORPORATIVE OFFICES Bulevard Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Col. Unidad San Pedro San Pedro Garza García, N.L. C.P. 66215 www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad
