20 13 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT CODE Economics Environment Society Governance TABLE OF CONTENTS PROFILE OF THE GROUPE 4 Interview with Maurice Lévy 6 Publicis Groupe: who are we? 7 Key figures 8 The Publicis Groupe networks 10 The Groupe’s clients 12 Publicis Groupe’s commitment to CSR 13 Methodological framework 14 Our stakeholders SOCIAL 18 1. Recruiting and retaining people 19 2. Listening to our teams 20 3. Encouraging mobility 21 4. Developing professional skills 24 5. Fostering diversity, fighting discrimination 27 6. Health and safety in the workplace: improving the quality of life at work 28 7. Promoting work-life balance 29 8. Facilitating social dialogue 29 9. Remuneration policy 29 10. Protecting human rights 30 Our teams: key figures SOCIETY 34 1. Understanding communities’ needs, the better to support their causes Society 42 2. Cultivating relationships with schools and universities 44 3. Fostering relationships with professional organizations and institutions ECONOMICS/GOVERNANCE COD E 50 1. Raising teams’ awareness of ethical principles Economics Governance 50 2. Earning the loyalty of our clients 51 3. Working with our suppliers 53 4. Ethics: the new challenges posed by digital 54 5. Shared Services Centers (Re:Sources) 54 6. Shareholder and investor relations 54 7. Media relations 55 8. Compliance ENVIRONMENT 58 1. Harnessing our initiatives to the drive for ongoing progress 59 2. Curbing our consumption and emissions Environment 61 3. Pursuing a collaborative approach on an international scale 62 Environment: key figures ANNEXES 64 Auditor’s report 66 Summary correspondence table 3 INTERVIEW WITH MAURICE LÉVY Despite the difficult environment, Publicis had a very good year in 2013. Did this performance have any impact on the Groupe’s CSR policy? Our economic performance is the direct result of the work put in by our people throughout the world. I’d like to thank them and congratulate them on their success and for their good work. Our business is, and will continue for a very long time to be based on intelligence and imagination, whence the need for staff to be well integrated in the company, but also to understand it. This is also why we need to implement a policy conducive to professional fulfillment. All these aspects must work as a whole. The fact that close to half this CSR report is devoted to social aspects bears witness to the fact that our top priorities are our people – women and men, their training and their careers. The fact that investors are increasingly interested in CSR is another strong signal, especially for an international group … Absolutely! According to recent statistics, 20% of US investors take CSR into consideration when making an investment decision. That may not be a lot, but it’s a big improvement on 15 years ago. The bigger funds are showing the way forward, and Paris Europlace recently put forward ten proposals for responsible Maurice Lévy finance in Europe. CSR isn’t a fashion, nor is it just a matter of concern for a handful of people or experts, CSR is everyone’s responsibility. It’s more and more CHAIRMAN OF THE MANAGEMENT BOARD OF PUBLICIS GROUPE important to our clients and that spurs us on. It’s a driving force in that we have to know how to challenge ourselves and strive to constantly improve. In your view, what does it take to be successful? Trust is something that takes time to build up, crisis or no crisis. I’d even be tempted to say that crises can generate trust. It’s not about promising that everything will go smoothly, it’s about managing this corporate project. To my mind, there are four prerequisites: the necessary ethics, without which there can be no trust, the need to progress through innovation for the benefit of society (because companies accelerate the roll-out of innovations), the need to work together which has become absolutely essential in the digital age, and the need to perform well, which is the only way a company can guarantee its future. When we talk about trust we’re also talking about transparency … Yes, indeed. Since Publicis was established, we have always abided by the notion of transparency in our dealings with our clients. Now we are faced with another dimension, born out of the development of social networks and other websites. We must now be more transparent than ever before, even in areas involving confidentiality or our competitors. This is something we are examining collectively. On governance issues, Publicis has played a pioneering role in France insofar as, long before any legal obligation existed, we invited our AGM to adopt the Say On Pay principle regarding the remuneration of our senior executives and officers. Nor should we forget that we have achieved gender parity at the highest level, with our Supervisory Board chaired by Élisabeth Badinter and seven of the fourteen Directors being women. 4 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Does this gender parity exist throughout the group, at all Are Publicis’ investments in digital compatible with levels? corporate social responsibility? More than half of our employees are women. Though women Yes, in many ways. Digital now accounts for 40% of our account for close to 40% of the management committees in our revenue, and this is a good illustration of the Groupe’s future. agencies and 32% of the networks’ management committees, we Our acquisitions in recent years have been oriented in this need to take gender parity a step further. Our internal network direction. More importantly, the society we live in is being VivaWomen! is an example of the type of initiative that will take transformed by digital technology. It’s not just a matter of new us forward. It was founded in 2011 and now has branches in 16 tools and applications. This development is deep, radical and cities. Like the Égalité network (LGBT), other endeavors aim at irreversible. Today’s society is different because individuals are encouraging and drawing advantages from our diversity. The now empowered by information and shared knowledge. New principle of non-discrimination is one of the Groupe’s values, technologies have enabled individual and group expression that one that has been clearly spelt out and that is regularly restated have led to forms of networking that defy traditional hierarchical in our code of ethics. Staff diversity is an outstanding source of structures. And I am very pleased that Publicis Groupe is at the wealth and creativity, and one that we cultivate. very heart of these technical innovations. This will give us the competitive edge that we bring to our clients, and it’s with them How do you manage to apply a common CSR policy in all and thanks to them that we have pursued this development. the countries in which you operate? The Groupe sets the framework and the main thrusts, we give the policy its momentum. Each network then has considerable independence in choosing and implementing its areas of focus, and that’s the way it should be because our agencies are different too. In terms of diversity, their areas of focus are usually quite local or highly targeted, depending on their business lines and recruitment needs. The same rationale applies to our commitments to community issues, as evidenced by pro bono campaigns and volunteer work carried out by our staff worldwide (over 360 pro bono campaigns in 2013 and over 750 volunteer initiatives). In my view, that’s a good performance and I’d like to thank our people for their involvement in these projects. Given the Groupe’s business, expectations run high in both social and society issues... … and this is where we are most legitimate too, and where we are most eager to move ahead. That said, we are also continuing our efforts in environmental issues, in line with the roadmap we set ourselves, namely to reduce our consumption of paper and energy, limit travelling, and manage our waste that much better. We are working actively on these issues with our staff and our Green Teams (volunteers) on all five continents. I should add that this is the fifth calculation of our greenhouse gas emissions, encompassing the entire Groupe thanks to enhanced traceability of our impact. This improvement is reflected in the figures, but also in concrete examples and good practices. This report is itself an illustration, even though we have a long way to go in numerous areas. 5 PUBLICIS GROUPE WHO ARE WE? Founded in 1926 by Marcel Bleustein-Blanchet, Publicis Groupe has grown from a small creative agency to the world’s third largest communications group. With operations in 108 different countries, the group now has 62,553 employees. Publicis Groupe is acknowledged as a pioneer in digital and interactive communications The Human Digital Agency and a is leader in fast growing markets. IQ, EQ and TQ– the combination of insight, emotion and technology. There’s a sweet spot at the intersection of digital intelligence and In 1987, Maurice Lévy succeeded Marcel emotion, and that’s where you’ll find Publicis Groupe: the Human Bleustein-Blanchet and became Chairman Digital Agency. of the Management Board of Publicis Groupe, thus becoming the second Chairman since 1926. Viva la Difference! The Groupe’s vision for the future is to continue providing comprehensive and creative solutions to our clients, using all forms of digital technology and innovation. To help our clients take up The Groupe is one of the world’s leading the challenges of the ever-changing world of advertising and communications groups offering a full range communications, the Groupe’s signature Viva la Difference! is emblematic of its philosophy and the importance it attaches to of services and skills: digital services diversity. This signature uses several languages: the Latin languages (DigitasLBi, Razorfish, VivaKi, Rosetta), (Viva), French (la) and English (Difference). advertising (Leo Burnett, Publicis Worldwide, Saatchi & Saatchi, BBH), public relations, corporate communications and events Awards for creativity • Since 2004, Publicis Groupe has been ranked No. 1 for Creative (MSLGROUP), media buying and strategy Performance by the Gunn Report. (Starcom MediaVest Group and ZenithOptimedia), • In 2013, the Groupe’s agencies received over 30 international awards for Network or Agency of the Year. healthcare communications with Publicis • Publicis Groupe won 174 Lions at the 60th Cannes international Healthcare Communications Group (PHCG) advertising festival. and the production platforms with Prodigious. Main rankings Publicis Groupe is: • the third largest communications group worldwide (AdAge 2013) and one of the leading groups in the world’s Top 15 advertising markets (except Japan); • a leader and pioneer in digital and interactive communications (38.4% of revenue in 2013); • one of the leading players in the media market, with ZenithOptimedia and Starcom MediaVest Group (No. 1 media network in the world, and 2nd in terms of global media business); • the No. 3 network in the world (RECMA 2013); • the world leader in healthcare communications (PHCG) for the 4th consecutive year (AdAge 2013). 6 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance KEY FIGURES The Groupe employs 62,553 people full-time throughout the world. Breakdown by activity and function Europe North 31.6% America 33.3% Account Asia-Paciﬁc Others planning and Africa & Middle East 22.6% 9% management 3.6% 19 % Administration Latin America and management 8.9% 15% 16% Creative Breakdown by gender 21% Media and research 20% Production and specialized activities 46.6% 53.4% Breakdown by sector Figures for 20131 Distribution Others Revenue 6,953 M€ 4% 4% Consumer goods 33% Revenue from digital 38.4% Luxury/Energy/Leisure 6% Operating margin 1 ,145 M€ Operating margin rate 16.5% Finance Net income 816 M€ 11% Other expenses 1 ,396 M€ Depreciation and amortization Automobile expense 120 M€ 13% TMT Health 16% New business 4.5 Bn US$ 13% 1 2013 figures: see the 2013 Registration Document, Chap. 4, Consolidated financial statements. 7 THE PUBLICIS GROUPE NETWORKS ADVERTISING 8 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance DIGITAL TECHNOLOGY MEDIA SPECIALIZED 9 THE GROUPE’S CLIENTS 10 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance 11 PUBLICIS GROUPE’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY The Groupe has articulated of decree No. 2012-557 dated April 24, 2012 relative to the arits Corporate Social Responsibility ticle 225 of the Grenelle II Law, and with decree No. 2010-788 dated approach around four main areas: July 10, 2010, relating to the obligation on companies to exercise • Social issues (our people and teams); complete transparency on social and environmental matters. The • Society/Communities (our work report spans the full year, from January 1 to December 31, 2013. in civil society, where our agencies and networks operate); Elisabeth Ardaillon-Poirier • Governance/Economic issues (the operSenior Vice President, Corporate Communication & CSR ating challenges and ethical principles); • Environment (our direct and indirect impacts). This CSR report is intended to give an account of what we have achieved and where we can still progress in the various areas under consideration. The Groupe’s agencies have continued to improve the way they factor CSR issues and challenges into their day-to-day activities. This is in evidence in our statistics, but also in concrete examples and a number of good practices. 2013 is our fifth year of CSR reporting, the second year we have been audited and the first year after our base year. The Groupe set itself an initial three-year cycle (2009/2010/2011) to fine-tune its indicators for the entire group, though this scope was sometimes Methodological framework: readjusted for certain indicators. 2012 is thus the base year in a CSR reporting is based on a complex new three-year cycle, and 2013 is right in the middle of this new articulation of two converging internal cycle. In line with our in-house objectives, the Groupe’s CSR data flows: report encompasses all its entities (precisely 97% if certain • Firstly, quantitative data are collected in exclusions are taken into account) and the scope of auditing accordance with the rules and procedures has been expanded. governing financial reporting, via the financial data system covering 850 entiBack in 2009, Publicis Groupe opted to monitor the indicators ties2, using a dedicated module (HFM based on definitions set forth in version GRI 3 of the Global ReCSRGRI). These data are processed under the responsibility of porting Initiative (www.globalreporting.org). This year, we have the Chief Financial Officers of the networks. applied the GRI 4 set ’in accordance’ with the Guidelines Core option. The Groupe also signed up to the United Nations Global • Secondly, qualitative data collected via a new, dedicated in-house Compact back in 2003 (www.unglobalcompact.org). We have also tool (NORMA) that can be accessed by all the agencies. These data drawn inspiration from the guidelines of ISO 26000 to enhance are processed under the responsibility of the Heads of Human our CSR reporting (www.iso.org), and this led us to analyze more Resources in the networks. NORMA, which was deployed in closely how stakeholders are included in all the Groupe’s activities. 2013, interfaces with the quantitative module for the purposes of consistency and to check relevance. In 2013, we continued to roll out our CSR policy throughout the Groupe while incorporating it quite naturally into our corporate Upstream, the Shared Services Centers (Re:Sources) teams are strategy. Our CSR reporting methods are in compliance with the closely involved throughout the process, especially during the framework established by French law, notably with the application preparatory period prior to data collection. 2 Entities: by “entities” we mean the Groupe’s agencies, each of which bears the name of the network to which it belongs, located in different parts of a same city; entities also include the Shared Services Centers (SSCs) often located apart from the agencies. 12 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance The in-house CSR Guidelines handbook defines the different Major highlights of the 2013 report: levels of data collection and validation, as well as the contents of • The quality of the data and information collected has been the various indicators used for the current period. This document improving constantly (particularly in the section on our has been circulated to the members of a cross-business project environmental impact which is difficult to measure given the team associated with the CSR reporting process (over 100 key nature of our businesses), and greater detail is provided now people from the different networks), as well as to the CEOs of that we have improved qualitative information collected via the entities audited. our new, in-house tool (NORMA). This testifies to the greater involvement of our agencies and the broader adoption of CSR All the quantitative and qualitative data are consolidated by the in its different dimensions. Groupe CSR Department, which coordinates the entire process. The scope of the indicators covered by the non-financial report• The external audit and control process contributes to a better ing process is determined on the basis of our activities. The goal appropriation of the challenges of corporate social responsibilis to ensure that the indicators used are of a tangible or material ity in the agencies. This is the second year we have called on nature, in order to illustrate the actual impact of our activities external auditors and, as the number of agencies audited has and how this is evolving over time. increased, this has raised the bar as to what we demand and expect of ourselves. These same demands and expectations are The Groupe CSR Department works in conjunction with an also shared by our clients. internal CSR Steering Committee made up of representatives of the main corporate functions. This committee articulates and Eve Magnant structures the Groupe’s CSR endeavors, ensuring this process is Vice President, Corporate Social Responsibility Director well integrated into operations while overseeing consistency of the process upstream and downstream. The CSR Department also works with a number of thematic cross-business project teams within the Groupe, its networks and agencies. Finally, as part of its on-going mission, Internal Control ensures that the agencies apply and improve the CSR reporting process. Scope: The 2013 CSR report covers 100% of the Groupe, i.e. approximately 97% of staff given the inevitable exclusions. This is because, while all agencies are controlled de facto, agencies acquired during the period under consideration are not taken into account, nor are the agencies that are not financially consolidated. In the course of the audit conducted by SGS, on-site verifications were carried out in 41 agencies (in the USA, the UK, France, Brazil and China) which, between them, accounted for over 25% of total headcount. Note to readers This scope is a vast improvement on 2012 (when six large agencies In addition to this CSR report, extensive and detailed were audited, representing less than 10% of headcount). Random information concerning the group, its organization checks were carried out regarding quantitative and qualitative and operations can be found in the 2013 Registration indicators, and the final consolidation phase was also audited. Document. To avoid undue repetition, readers are referred to this Registration Document where The auditors ran checks at two levels: firstly, regarding the conapplicable, as well as to the 2013 Annual Report, tents of the above-mentioned article 225 which is included in which provides detailed information on the activities Chapter 1.4 of Publicis Groupe’s 2013 Registration Document, of each of the networks. These documents are also and, secondly, the actual contents of this CSR report which is more available to the public at www.publicisgroupe.com complete insofar as it aligns with GRI 4. The SGS auditors’ final report can be found at the end of this document. 13 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Publicis Groupe’s stakeholders are all those, whether groups or individuals, whose interests may be affected by the Groupe’s decisions or who have a stake in its business activities. Dialogue and engagement with our stakeholders are an essential component of CSR reporting and part of the pursuit of ongoing progress. The Groupe has a great variety of stakeholders, as the diagram below indicates: Employees Schools and universities Clients Oversight authorities, Shareholders, self-regulation bodies investors Government, administrations, Partners public authorities Professional, economic and social organizations Suppliers Consumers/citizens, representative organizations Media NGOs, institutions and foundations As a decentralized company, it is very difficult to report all the Our objectives: exchanges that take place at local level as each agency or entity • To ensure that all employees and their contributions to the company receive has its own sphere of influence. The CSR report will give readers due respect, to ensure that non-discrimination is scrupulously applied, an understanding of how Publicis Groupe operates and interacts and to foster the human diversity that is one of the group’s great assets; with the vast majority of its stakeholders based on the issues that • To ensure that all employees are given the opportunity to fulfill themselves unite them and their various expectations (some of these issues and flourish in their jobs through suitable training and by monitoring have been included for a number of years in our Code of Conduct their career paths with a view to improving their employability; (Principles and Values)). • To be attentive to working conditions, particularly the work-life balance, as our service activities can be very demanding and enthralling. OUR RESPONSIBILITIES To our clients TO STAKEHOLDERS To provide the best service offering in terms of creativity and To our employees strategy, and the most suitable offering from the technological To attract and retain men and women with a variety of profiles, point of view. people who are enthusiastic and talented in their field, by giving Our objectives: them opportunities to progress within the Groupe. • To help develop our clients’ brands, products or services through efficient and relevant communications, taking care to assess the results of our work; 14 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance • To ensure that all information shared with our teams remains confiOur objective is to support certain undertakings we deem relevant dential and to be worthy of our clients’ trust, as the only foundation for by making our business skills available to them (pro bono campaigns, mutual benefit within a clearly defined contractual framework; volunteering, voluntary work, etc.), as appropriate in the local cultural • To propose communication campaigns that abide by the more obvious context. principles of respect, loyalty (honesty), truth and accountability; • To enable our clients to benefit from the very latest technological breakTo citizens/consumers, representative organizations throughs and new opportunities as they emerge. To issue communication and messages that are clear, precise and respectful (this issue is at the very heart of our business). To our shareholders and investors Our objectives: To optimize the group’s performance in order to repay their • To conduct our business to a very high standard, and to be constantly trust in us. attuned to citizens/consumers; Our objectives: • To ensure we work honestly, fairly and responsibly in a manner that is • To rigorously manage the firm to a level of profitability that will enable respectful of consumers in all their diversity. the Groupe to grow and expand; • To provide them with regular and accurate communications reflectTo trade and inter-branch organizations, ing the reality of the Groupe’s business and performance, in order to economic and social organizations uphold our credibility in the eyes of our shareholders and the financial To exchange views with other professionals on the main trends community; in our society. • To ensure all shareholders are treated equally. Our objective is to take part in different working groups in order to share opinions and work with other sectors of activity and stakeholders To our partners on issues of benefit to all (at national and international levels). To cooperate on good terms and ensure we complement one another in managing our joint projects. To government, administrations Our objectives: and public authorities • To leverage our partners’ strengths as well as our own strengths and To behave as a responsible economic and social player and to skills so as to devise and provide the best possible solutions for our raise the awareness of public authorities with regard to our clients; businesses. • To respect one another in the course of our projects and elsewhere. Our objective is to be in full compliance with rules and regulations at all times, and to partake in constructive dialogue. To our suppliers To work together to achieve the highest standards of quality and To oversight authorities and self-regulation bodies performance, and to abide by our commitments. To constantly work in conjunction with these authorities and Our objectives: bodies regarding the main issues in our sector in order to im• To establish relations based on trust in order to attain the highest levels of prove best practices. quality, service, performance and price, within a well-defined contractual Our objective is to share best practices with a view to facilitating framework that ensures both sides are treated equally; exchanges with all stakeholders, in order to achieve progress in our • To foster true diversity in order to produce a competitive and effective offering business activities. for our clients, while being attentive to the basic principles governing each party’s rights and obligations. To schools and universities To help students and teachers discover our businesses (in the To the media throes of rapid change) and to set up projects together. To communicate regularly and clearly about the activities of the Our objective is to establish lasting relationships and to keep abreast Groupe and its subsidiaries. of educational developments to ensure that our future employees receive Our objective is to regularly inform the media about what we do and the right training for the markets in which we operate. the initiatives we take. To NGOs, institutions and foundations To actively contribute to and support causes of public interest, often at the initiative of parties from civil society, and, when possible, to give them our backing. 15 CHAPTER 1 SOCIAL “ We want diversity, fairness and well-being to really go hand in hand with creativity and quality. For Publicis Groupe, with operations in 108 countries, this is a challenge we face on a daily basis. ” 16 Recruiting and retaining people • Listening to our teams • Encouraging mobility • Developing professional skills • Fostering diversity, fighting discrimination • Health and safety in our workplace: improving the quality of life at work • Promoting work-life balance • Facilitating social dialogue • Protecting human rights • Our teams: key figures 17 in digital activities and high-growth markets, areas where staff turnover is structurally higher. Acquisitions aside, 301 employees were recruited this year (after 880 in 2012), with certain agen62,553 cies freezing recruitment in several countries as a result of the employees prevailing crisis. A further 159 people left the group, with necessary reorganizations taking place in a number of European countries in 2013, especially in the south of Europe, in order to 9% increase adjust our structures and headcount to the economic situation of the countries in question. in headcount over 2012 (internal and external growth including the integration of LBi) The work contracts of the Groupe’s employees are drawn up on the basis of the local legal and regulatory context as applicable to permanent contracts, temporary contracts and service contracts with independent providers (freelancers). 1 RECRUITING AND RETAINING PEOPLE “ The dynamics of our business are based on the diversity The Groupe’s headcount is a good indicator of business development. It rose 9% through a combination of internal and external of our teams and their ability growth (integration of LBi). The Groupe’s 62,553 employees are to continually come up mainly permanent staff. with new ideas. Our agencies regularly take on trainees during the summer months, and also welcome students on internships during the ” year, whether as a compulsory part of their curriculum (apprenticeships included) or as the final part of their studies. The average In all the Groupe’s agencies, the employees, and particularly the duration of these internships is three months. managers, are local people first and foremost (nationals of that country, when they are not from the local town or local culture). A good understanding of the market is an essential part of customer satisfaction and the success of our agencies. “ToWhat are the challenges for us? encourage creative emulation Giving pride of place to the recruitment of local people also furthers regional development in the field of employment. Nevertheless, we are also very much in favor of cultural diverand develop professional sity within our teams, so as to benefit continually from mutual enrichment. s s eemployee’s. skills p oyee s ” The absenteeism 4 rate was 2% in 2013 (as in 2012), in line with the norm for the Groupe’s business activities. With 30.5% turnover 3 in 2013 (compared to 29.3% in 2012), the rate is still high due to the very nature of our business, but also due to the accelerated rollout of our strategy to develop 3 4 Staff turnover is defined as the aggregate number of departures during the The absenteeism rate is equal to the total number of days lost, due to abyear divided by the annual average number of employees, expressed as a persence for reasons other than paid leave or maternity/paternity leave, divided centage. N.B. By virtue of their activities, some entities have a turnover rate by the total number of days worked in the year, expressed as a percentage. that is no reflection on the way they operate. As a result, a certain number of entities have been factored out of the calculation. 18 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance In their own words 58% of staff « In 2013, MSLGROUP were asked to complete a satisfaction survey launched its internal survey called “Engage!”… » 69% of employees Sophie Martin-Chantepie, Chief Talent Officer, took part in an annual performance review MSLGROUP In 2013, MSLGROUP launched its internal 2 LISTENING TO OUR TEAMS engagement survey called Engage! Over 3,000 employees were interviewed. How did you proceed? Our goal was to engage in constructive dialogue with Employee satisfaction surveys our staff. The survey was designed taking into account 58% of our employees were asked to take part this year, in the the particularities of each agency and the cultural form of either a people survey or a climate survey. This is the best sensitivities of each region. We also measured our way to keep abreast of people’s expectations, all the more so that employees’ level of engagement by comparison with expectations change rapidly in a naturally lively professional the best companies in the sector, the leading firms environment. The networks organize surveys of this type every and other countries. year (or every two years). While the principle of consulting staff is universally agreed upon, the practical organization and An engagement survey is a strategic tool periodicity vary from one agency to another and are left to the that provides a better understanding networks to decide. A number of agencies also conduct very local of our employees’ expectations. surveys. However, because of the different periodicities from one How did management use these insights? network to another, surveys are very different to compare from Before the budget discussions, the findings of the one year to the next (see the 2012 CSR report: A conversation survey were shared by the regional Head of HR with… Leo Burnett). with the agency CEO and HR Manager to ensure that all levels were involved. Clear objectives were Among the positives noted this year, employees have really taken set and priorities established to reinforce employee the values of their agency and the philosophy of their network engagement, preserve our strengths and set goals for the next edition of this internal survey. to heart, and have demonstrated a strong sense of belonging. The vast majority said they were satisfied with the missions What was the most positive feedback assigned to them (our business boasts a very high proportion and what areas merit greater attention? of real enthusiasts!). However, their perception of their career development was slightly behind somewhat, probably as a The MSLGROUP’s employees actively participated in result of working intensely on several projects in quick succesthe survey, with a participation rate of 75% and an engagement score of 71%, i.e. fractionally above the sion, which is not conducive to long-term projection. Likewise, industry norm of 70%*. Our employees praised the perceived in-house recognition was weak. entrepreneurial spirit at MSLGROUP and enabled us to identify a few areas for improvement. For instance, Annual performance reviews thanks to the findings of the survey, many new talent In 2013, 69% of all employees had an annual performance management initiatives have been implemented at the review.This percentage is consistent with the Groupe’s staff start of 2014. “Engage!” is a on-going commitment turnover rate and the fact that a number of large agencies that to listen to our employees and act upon their feedback. have only recently joined the group do not conduct performance reviews as frequently. *Source: MERCER. 19 These reviews are an opportunity to take time out, an opportuIn their own words nity for an employee and his/her immediate superior to review the year gone by and the work accomplished, but also to discuss the year to come. This special moment is essential in our con« The frequency and model stantly changing businesses and activities. of annual reviews need to be adapted to the digital business. » The goal is clear and is inscribed in our Code of Ethics (Janus), i.e. to ensure that all employees are granted an annual perforNigel Adams, mance review. Chief Talent & Administrative Officer, Rosetta The annual performance review is an ideal opportunity to talk about career development. 3 ENCOURAGING MOBILITY How do you address this issue in the digital Lion Talent: the new, Groupe-wide internal mobility portal sector where change happens so fast? Internal mobility is still difficult to measure but is becoming a The speed of career expansion options in our major challenge in terms of career development. This is because industry is tremendous specifically for Rosetta there are more and more opportunities as the Groupe expands. The annual performance cycle is being stressed to In addition to the fact that our businesses are changing very become much more focused on skills development rapidly, our employees’ needs are also undergoing change. They and career path options not always directly resulting want to evolve, they want a change of job, country or region of in promotion. For 2014 we will be trying out a model the world, they want responsibilities and they want to explore much more focused on performance enablement, simplifying process steps and an increasing touch emerging businesses and activities. points throughout the year. It is no longer enough to review performance semi or biannually, but must To meet these expectations, the Groupe set up an internal be an ongoing feedback dialogue including coaching mobility portal called Lion Talent in 2013. This portal was deand refinements to enhance performance and results signed with the help of the Human Resources Directors of all throughout the year. the networks, and regularly posts the various positions vacant throughout the Groupe to ensure this information is readily What do employees expect of the review available to all employees. They can then discuss vacancies process? Are there any trends emerging? with their immediate superior. A tool like this on a global scale The explosion of instantaneous feedback through is something quite novel in the world of advertising and comsocial media is increasing employee expectation munications. Lion Talent is a landmark in the management of of feedback to be much more real-time and event human resources. It also reinforces the sense of belonging to a driven than calendar driven. Real time coaching and large group, capable of offering a wide array of opportunities feedback provides the best response to enhanced in terms of employment and mobility. This tool completes the expectations. Diverse talent profiles are demanding recruitment system specific to each network, based on the para flexible approach to assess performance with ticularities of its businesses. relevant, realistic objectives that meet personal, team and agency objectives. Increasingly employees are demanding the performance review process be paired with: recognition for success, developmental focus, and visibility to career path options. These requirements suggest a holistic approach to enable performance that expands the traditional performance review approach. Rosetta will be partnering with DigitasLBi to explore options for enhancing annual review by responding to talent market trends. 20 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance On ZenithOptimedia’s “Live my Life” program, In their own words From India to Romania with Soumak… « The “Live my Life” program, a unique experience within “ TheasZenithOptimedia Romania team welcomed me though I were a member of the family. It was fascinating to compare the media landscapes the Groupe… » of India and Romania, and I was able to question my hosts and their friends about the various challenges, Severine Charbon, their dreams and their ambitions, Global Chief Talent & Transformation Officer, ZenithOptimedia all of which I used in my research project. The team even arranged a surprise birthday party for me! This was an experience I will never forget. Internal mobility has numerous advantages. ” How does the “Live my Life” program help meet employees’ expectations in this field? From Vietnam to France with Tri… One of our promise here at ZenithOptimedia is about “giving our people space to grow and discover with unique experiences to enrich their lives”. The program “ Each day was a new learning experience. It opened my eyes to the possibility of combining is now in its 3rd year. In this time, 323 people have traditional print and digital, each serving the other. had a life enriching adventure visiting someone I still can’t believe how incredibly beneficial from another market and actually ‘living their life’ for this program was! It was also an opportunity two weeks. They go to work with them and stay in to meet people I’d never have met otherwise. their home, ensuring they get to fully immerse in the ” culture. In recent years we’ve noticed that increasingly, top talent want more than just a great place to work with a solid training and development program. They want to be offered a diversity of exciting ‘real life’ opportunities and support in developing a career path that enables them to experience different cultures 4 DEVELOPING PROFESSIONAL SKILLS and new ways of doing things. What are the main advantages for the participants Promoting the professional development of our staff helps with and for the agencies? personal fulfillment, boosts their employability and increases This program broadens our people’s horizons, stimulate customer satisfaction. Whatever their line of business, training their curiosity and encourages them to think about plays a key part in the development of our employees. In 2013, their career in a new way. Not only are they gaining 57% of the workforce received training and over 3,600 courses an understanding of another market’s challenges and were given worldwide.The figure of 57% remained unchanged strengths, they are able to bring their skills to that by comparison with 2012, thus confirming our investment in market and share them – and bring best practice training despite the substantial turnover of staff. to their home market. Because we are the ROI agency, we are also asking Classroom-based or face-to-face training is losing ground to eeach participant to contribute to ZO market learning training sessions, the latter being shorter, more flexible intelligence, by doing a consumer research project and increasingly widespread in numerous countries. This year, while they are abroad. Their ‘freshness’ to the market the Groupe organized 100,450 days of training (117,640 days in generates really interesting insights, and the global 2012) and 174,000 hours of e-learning (71,040 hours in 2012). consolidation of all these insights are fantastic This increase in the volume of e-learning was due to the higher knowledge for our clients, and our pitches. This means that along with giving our people a great number of training systems and improved traceability, even experience we are creating a real ‘open’ community though training is still difficult to trace. Not all Groupe agenof talent, developing our business and strengthening cies are equipped with monitoring tools and the array of tools communication between markets. changes very quickly. It follows that the number of hours of So far, 75% of the Live my Life participants have been training arrived at in 2013 is probably smaller than the volume promoted in the year of their trip, and a number of them of training actually delivered. have applied for permanent international transfers. 21 In their own words 57% of the workforce received training in 2013 (comparable to 2012) « Training to stay at the cutting edge of digital, that’s a challenge! » 174,000 hours of e-learning Alicia Shankland, Chief Human Resources Officer, 100,450 days Razorfish & DigitasLBi Training is vital in our digital businesses. How do we keep our teams at the forefront? Rich and varied training programs We do our utmost to keep our people continuously To satisfy the needs of their different employees, the networks trained. It’s known as just in time training in the (and especially Leo Burnett, Publicis Worldwide, Saatchi & Saatchi, business, i.e. once they need new skills, knowledge but also Starcom MediaVest, DigitasLBi and ZenithOptimedia) are or ideas to excel at what they do. We use all the tools and techniques you’d expect, face-to-face constantly devising increasingly rich and varied training programs. training, virtual training, e-learning, simulation, continuing training, mobile applications, etc. It’s For instance, at a network like Publicis Worldwide – which has the not easy to train teams as different, as numerous highest number of employees of any network within the Groupe and with as heavy a workload as our people. These over 700 programs are given in any one year. They range from programs are nonetheless imperative if we are Basic English for juniors in certain countries to a wide variety of to let new recruits choose “how, when and where more content-oriented courses (strategy, research, prospective they are going to learn”. E-learning is essential studies, etc.), but also include all the basics in our line of busiif we are to achieve this goal. In 2013, via the ness (drafting, oral expression, etc.). While they may appear DigitasLBi network and agencies, our staff received more traditional, a number of key courses are still very much on approximately 100,000 hours of e-learning. the agenda, e.g. creativity, innovation in marketing, analysis of mega-trends in consumption. A number of multicultural courses What are the main benefits of your policy? are also available (depending on countries) to help staff work We invest in training and development for two better together. reasons. First of all, it keeps our employees up to date with the most recent innovations in the field Building digital expertise of digital technology. Our sector is undergoing Our businesses change very rapidly and technological innovation extremely rapid change and, unless we keep a very is more than ever an element of creativity, competitiveness and close watch on developments, it’s very easy to find performance. Raising the level of digital skills is a core part of ourselves lagging behind. Our clients are counting our training programs on us to be experts in the marketing tools of today and tomorrow. Secondly, they enable us to retain and motivate our people. The professionals we The extensive range of training modules dedicated to digital recruit are very eager to learn and feel fulfilled skills enables us to cover the basic techniques: learning to write when they work with the latest technological and code in ad hoc languages, understanding new applications in creative trends, with the very latest information the market and knowing how to decipher consumer behavior and everything bordering on the experimental… studies are “must have” skills). The shift towards a digital world Our job involves anticipating the future. obliges us to study every single aspect and possibility in this ever-changing environment, but also to monitor and take part in our major partners’ training platforms where the emphasis is on new business skill sets. More advanced programs are regularly offered to a large number of employees in order to keep abreast of technological breakthroughs. 22 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Furthermore, the multiplicity of new mobile usages and the new CULTIVERIn theirLA own DIVERSITÉ, words challenges of inter-connectivity have led the agencies to organize continuing education in digital, mobile and connectivity-related areas.Our digital experts also attend courses adapted to their skill levels.Over 900 digital programs have been identified, not « Training is about enhancing to mention the fact that, especially in this field, knowledge and skills, and that includes skills are shared continuously and less formally among team human skills. » members all year round. Michelle Kristula, Managerial skills still very much on the agenda EVP, Global Head of People & Culture, Leo Burnett Our investment in management and leadership training is ongoing.In our agencies, talented people can advance rapidly, so we need to support them when they take on responsibilities.This particular endeavor resonates very strongly with our in-house culture, and since the turnover is high and our businesses change “We are only as good as our people” very rapidly, managers have to regularly share these issues with is one of Leo Burnett mottos. Given that their teams. our industry’s new workforce is mainly Over 800 programs on leadership and management were identified composed of young talents, how are you in the different networks in 2013. using training promote inter-generational cooperation within agencies? Indeed, we are constantly developing programs The Executive Development Program (EDP) to help our people be the best they can be. The main The Groupe continued to roll out its Executive Development Program goal of the “Young and the Restless”, a program (EDP) in 2013. Every year, between 100 and 150 people take this that is run in the US, is to provide “colleague and program, which has been running for nearly six years. Placed self-awareness” to new employees. The workshop under the responsibility of the Groupe’s Secretary General, Anneexplains the driving forces, perspectives and Gabrielle Heilbronner, this program is aimed at high-potential communication styles of each generation and managers from the various networks. Working in simulated provides guidance on how to adjust behavior situations, they spend a very intensive week of working together to different generations and move forward with and competing with one another. professionalism and respect. Coming out of the program, participants feel 64% more confident in The content focuses on proficiency in administration, management applying the skills they learned and list the following and sales development. This is also an opportunity for these future key take-aways: asking for feedback, try to figure leaders to establish ties with new colleagues while soaking up the it out before asking questions, take initiative, Groupe’s corporate culture. There are three EDP sessions a year, overall better understanding of manager behaviors. in Europe, America and Asia, and an association of alumni has just been set up. Training managers is a powerful way of creating a more constructive environment. What’s Leo Burnett’s strategy is this area? The global People Management Program (PMP) is designed to help strong contributors and high performer who are experts at their craft to also become masters at managing people and teams, to create an innovative, engaged work environment in which people thrive. The content is focuses on three areas: Providing self-awareness and enhancing competency for managing people, Building and leading effective teams and Retaining talent. EDP APAC 2013 23 Employment of disabled persons is one area in which the Groupe must progress. It is currently impossible to establish a reliable 53.4% women indicator within the group as the laws governing the identification of disabled persons vary from one country to another. Nevertheless, 46.6% men we are continuing with our initiatives in three directions: raising awareness within the Groupe, recruitment and job retention. For instance, several agencies have organized campaigns to raise awareness among staff regarding the different types of disability, 5 how disabled people are represented (and perceived) and the FOSTERING DIVERSITY, importance of inclusive behavior (e.g. during National Disability Week in France). In addition to this type of direct approach and FIGHTING DISCRIMINATION in conjunction with the various Procurement Managers, a number of agencies work with sheltered employment institutions (ESATs) Non-discrimination has always been one of the Groupe’s core providing services to companies in France, or with disabled-friendly principles and values. This principle has been stated and regularly companies within the Supplier Diversity program in the USA. reasserted as an intangible principle in several internal documents (Code of Ethics, Code of Conduct). Our agencies need people with very varied profiles, including experienced people and so-called seniors who so often have preFrom principles to commitment and action… cious experience and cultural knowledge. While young graduates With operations in 108 countries, the Publicis Groupe teams (or young people with an initial work experience) account for the are naturally multicultural with very varied profiles in terms of majority of new hires, the Groupe also takes on people with more education, training, career paths and experience.We nonetheless experience and who undeniably add value. The age pyramid, as well continue to implement a pro-active policy focused on 8 aspects: as a number of other detailed and consolidated social indicators, will gender parity, age, disabilities, cultural/ethnic origins, initial trainbe available when the ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning) system ing, sexual orientation, religion, and veterans (in the USA).Each will be fully deployed, as the ERP will enable us to fully consolidate agency (and/or network) works from these guidelines to put policy certain employment-related data at Groupe level. into practice, always in line with the local regulatory environment. Diversity in the USA: the Groupe Diversity Council and affinity groups The US regulatory framework promotes pro-diversity policies. Gender Disability Origins Training Since 2008, Publicis has had a Groupe Diversity Council comprised of the people in charge of diversity in its networks. In 2013, it continued to meet every quarter to share good practices in the field of diversity. Each network exercises great independence in its choice of local or highly targeted measures, depending on their Age Religions Sexual Veterans orientation business or recruitment needs. The Groupe continued to work on initiatives taken in recent years, e.g. with the Ad Color Awards Women in the majority in Publicis Groupe. The challenge here (ethnic diversity), but also the Most Promising Minority Student consists in ensuring compliance with the principle of gender parity program in advertising (ethnic diversity), or the Black Enterprise at all levels of the hierarchy, and in all the countries in which we Women of Power Summit (Afro-American women). New initiaoperate. The workforce is balanced, with 53.4% women and 46.6% tives in 2013 included taking part at the SAMMA conference men (compared to 55%/45% in 2012), though men tend to be in (South Asians in Media, Marketing and Entertainment), in favor the majority in the digital agencies. of communities of Asian origin. A new ERG (Employee Resources Group) called MOCA (Men of Color Alliance) was launched. The proportion of women at management committee level in the Across the Groupe, other ERGs have been active throughout the agencies was stable at 39% in 2013, while the percentage of women year: the Black Employee Network Perspectives (all cultures), Link on these same committees at network level rose 2% in 2013 to reach (for Afro-Americans), Adelante (the Latin Culture Group), Hola 32%. In general, in the agencies, women hold many important (for Hispanic employees), Panasian (employees of Asian origin), management positions and manage major client accounts. The not forgetting MERG (the Multicultural Employee Resources Publicis Groupe Supervisory Board boasts perfect gender Group). The challenges and objectives are the same every time, parity (50/50) and comprises 14 Directors chaired by Élisabeth namely to accompany employees of culturally diverse origins Badinter. The Groupe’s Executive Committee (the so-called P12) along their career path, to attract future employees with a great chaired by Maurice Lévy and the Strategic Leadership Team variety of profiles and talents and to raise awareness about the (enlarged P12) respectively have 15% (2 women out of 13 members) Groupe’s different businesses and skills. and 23% (5 women out of 22 members, i.e. 22.73%). 24 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance The Publicis Groupe international In their own words women’s network « Diversity “made in the USA” » Launched by the CSR Department in 2011, this network now exists in nine countries, is rolled out in 16 cities (including Shanghai, Mumbai, Madrid, Paris, Los Angeles, New York, Chicago, Sandra Sims-Williams, Toronto and São Paulo), and involves all the networks. VivaWomen! Chief Diversity Officier, is a group of women working in Publicis Groupe, volunteers Re:Sources USA mobilized to support other women within the Groupe, irrespective of position or profession. The top priority is to promote the personal and professional development of women, in an approach that requires equal input from men and women. In its mission statement, VivaWomen! focuses its work in four areas: Leadership, Mentoring, Diversity spans a whole multitude of topics Carreer Navigation and Worklife Integration. In 2013, over and initiatives. In what areas has the Groupe 2,000 women were involved in various events throughout the world progressed this year? (compared to 600 in 2012). The network also carried out a number 2013 was an eventful year in which we progressed in of external operations in conjunction with other women’s networks terms of Diversity & Inclusion. Because the Groupe (corporate and intercompany), and is committed to a number of Diversity Council conferred extensively with its causes defending women’s rights. The agencies have responded members, we were able to continue our endeavors enthusiastically to this network, setting up mini-networks at local in training, professional and personal development, level to work together on specific projects. This multidimensional the creation of in-house resource groups (Employee facet of VivaWomen! has given the movement a new direction, giving Resources Group or ERGs) and in recruitment. Of rise to initiatives that are both simple and easily accessible to young the most active groups, mention might be made of women, if only for geographic reasons. In addition to this internal the women’s group – VivaWomen! – which is growing initiative, Publicis Groupe works with various local institutions and in large cities and which brought a very large associations on issues relating to gender equality, e.g. le Laboratoire number of 600 women together at various events de l’égalité (i.e. equality laboratory) in France or other organizations in this area. throughout the year in the USA. Égalité (LBGT) also deserves a mention, as it expanded in several Laura cities and was also active outside of the Groupe, and Desmond, finally the recent creation of a MOCA (Men of Color Global CEO Alliance) group which has been fighting for more Starcom MediaVest active recruitment of professionals from ethnic Group, groups, including Blacks and Latinos. New-York VivaWomen! New-York Speakers How would you gauge the positive impact Speakers Series Series, 2013. of the most successful programs? Success is measured quantitatively and qualitatively. Over and beyond attendance figures and the quantitative assessment of programs, the feedback we receive directly from participants is very encouraging. Each individual story and the gut VivaWomen! Mumbaï feelings of each person are the best evidence of the fact that inclusion is becoming a tangible reality in our agencies, and that intentions are materializing into concrete action. This off-the-cuff feedback is the best form of evaluation and encourages us First-hand accounts of VivaWomen!: to continue our projects and to set ourselves even US Mentoring Circles with Joanne... more ambitious goals in the future. We must never let our guard down! “ Thank you for creating the Mentoring Circles. It was great to be with people from different agencies and to realize that we’re all faced with the same challenges. It was a fabulous opportunity for instant feedback and we should do it again several times a year, if possible. ” 25 Diversity in France Our agencies recruit talented In 2013 the Groupe restated its intention to facilitate access to employment and help job retention, for all age groups, by promoting young people… the transfer of know-how and skills. Negotiations were conducted at numerous meetings, notably on the issue of a contract among In February 2013, Publicis Groupe paid tribute in Poland generations, aimed at reaching an agreement on two preferred to Wladyslaw K., the Groupe’s oldest employee who had decided forms of action, i.e. the training and sustainable employment to not stop working at 91 years of age! Born in 1922 and a veteran of young people, and the advancement of older employees. The of World War Two, Wladyslaw worked in a number of areas Groupe has also continued to implement its ambitious social produring his career. He joined the Groupe’s financial department tection policy, bringing into effect two branch agreements signed in 1991, then moved on to Publicis Poland financial team and he in late 2012, one concerning death and disability insurance, and is still active as a financial controller. The local press had already the other concerning the reimbursement of medical expenses. acknowledged him as the absolute antithesis to what we usually see in the communications industry, where employees all seem very young. As an optimist and a person of great curiosity, In the field of diversity, the Groupe continued its partnerships he was happy in his work and led a very full family and social life. with several associations including: He said “I never saw the time pass!” • “Baisser les barrières” (i.e. lowering the barriers), which provides support to the visually impaired during their university training and in joining the workforce; • “Nos quartiers ont des talents” (i.e. there’s talent in our part of Veterans town), which promotes the employability and professional This new area of diversity stems from a reality that is somewhat inclusion of young graduates from underprivileged areas and specific to the USA. Historically, our agencies have always worked social environments; to include employees with unusual past experience such as • “B.A.ba Solidarité”(i.e. the ABC of solidarity), of which the Groupe ex-military personnel who saw active duty. Saatchi & Saatchi is a founding member, is an inter-company association and a Los Angeles currently employs three war veterans under a dedicated private sector initiative that brings together companies eager to program known as ‘Hiring our Heroes’, devised with the US promote access to basics (reading, writing and other basic skills) Chamber of Commerce and Saatchi & Saatchi’s client Toyota. in the workplace. In particular, it focuses its efforts on the fight The Los Angeles agency has worked on tools aimed at a larger against illiteracy among employees working in the Groupe’s number of veterans seeking employment in the civilian companies, beginning with cleaning staff. sector. These tools notably help veterans in three stages: ‘Helping Veterans Build their Brand’ consists in helping veterans Diversity in the UK consider how to put their unique experience to best advantage; The 2010 Equality Act, which covers the various aspects and chal‘Resume Engine’ helps them draft a resume and already boasts lenges of equality, sets a very stringent framework for UK companies, 16,000 users, and 1,300 firms have been signed up to pool their encouraging them to ensure the broadest possible diversity in the job vacancies; and finally a customized ‘Mentoring’ module helps workforce. Everyone should be treated on an equal footing, with UK them search for jobs or work on a specific professional project. law banning the inclusion of any criterion that might discriminate This is a one-on-one, e-Mentoring program running on a web even in a “positive” way. The Re:Sources HR teams in the UK are platform, with over 2,000 mentors and protégés already. Suptherefore working very closely with agency management, running port for spouses has also been arranged using a similar approach training seminars to explain the day-to-day application of this law. The to help them present this period of their lives in a positive light training sessions are more particularly aimed at managers, to raise when seeking employment. their awareness of these issues as regards their recruitment policy, how they behave on a day-to-day basis, and to ensure that they pass This is an interesting program for Saatchi & Saatchi LA for three the message on to their staff. These modules cover several aspects: reasons: firstly, the agency hires talented people and that includes legal definitions, the risks of discrimination (direct and indirect) and veterans who integrate very successfully as teams are highly recepthe legal consequences. They combine theory and practice via roletive to people with exceptional life experience; secondly, the spirit plays examining various situations that might arise, situations that of mutual cooperation with Toyota has established ties that exceed are then discussed with no holds barred. Quite a number of aspects conventional contractual relations; and thirdly, as ‘Hiring our need to be discussed and analyzed (age, disability, marital status, Heroes’ is a nationwide program, a very large number of veterans maternity, race, religious beliefs, sexual orientation, etc.). are benefitting and this is having a very positive impact of their return to civilian life. Finally, it should be added that our people Égalité (the internal LGBT network) was launched in London in 2013. are proud to take part in this program! It was deployed in the same way and according to the same model as in the USA, where it is active in several cities, and is an inter-agency organization. 26 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance 6 HEALTH AND SAFETY IN THE WORKPLACE: I In their own words MPROVING THE QUALITY OF LIFE AT WORK « BBH : A great place to work… » Nearly 100% of our employees have social protection (Social security-type medical insurance), irrespective of the local regime in force (State-run, joint State-company-employee, privately operated Niall Hadden, Global Talent Chief, employer-employee system or other). Furthermore, in addition to BBH Global traditional preventive action against seasonal illnesses, or in support of national campaigns for the prevention, screening or eradication of certain diseases, a considerable number of initiatives have been taken by our agencies in the battle against stress (and/or psychosocial risks or PSRs) and musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs). The Bartle Bogle Hegarty London (BBH) is vast majority of our employees work seated in front of a screen. the highest-ranked communications agency Their work is often both intense and sedentary. Local measures for in The Sunday Times “100 Best Companies the prevention of posture-related disorders and the adoption of a to work for 2013”, what is your key to such healthy lifestyle have been reinforced and diversified: a success? • visit from an ergonomics expert to make sure every employee The success of the BBH network has its origins in how the company was established 32 years ago. Nigel Bogle, is conscious of the dangers of incorrect posture, as well as ocJohn Hegarty and John Bartle wanted to create casional massage sessions on site with a visiting physiotherapist an advertising agency that was truly different, that or chiropractor; operated with openness, integrity and transparency, • eye exercises recommended by a visiting specialist (e.g. orthoptist) with an unswerving believe in the primacy of the idea or via awareness webinars; and power of creativity. Here are the key elements: • organization of gym classes (yoga, relaxation or other) over the • ‘None of us is as good as all of us’: many creatively lunch break either in the agencies or by special access to nearby focused organizations are heavily populated with sports facilities, or even in the building in which an agency is individuals with strong egos. Our most successful located; individuals are those who have learned to channel • regular meetings with nutritionists, even up to and including the their ego needs into their work, within a team, away laying on of fresh fruit; from independent personal glory. • and for the sportier types, teams are constituted to take part in • Managing proactively and developing our peoples’ races or cycling events (over the marathon or semi-marathon careers using career management tools is decisive distances) among other team sports. in an industry that is characterized by a relatively high turnover. Happy people have bigger & better The Injury Rate is estimated at 0.4% for the entire Groupe (after ideas: we strive to ensure that our employment 0.4% in 2012 for a scope corresponding to 76% of the Groupe – ie. practices are fully aligned to the market, in terms of work accident rate). The main causes of these injuries are transportflexible working practices and progressive employee related (the commute… to or from work). In recent years, agency engagement initiatives. managers have undertaken a more comprehensive approach using • Internal Communications is a key: all of our offices programs that deal with the prevention of stress and stress factors, have at least a monthly dedicated meetings on how our business is doing and the work we are producing. or broader-based prevention programs when specifically requested • “Do interesting things & interesting things will happen or required. In countries where collective bargaining agreements or to you” says Sir John Hegarty. Our ‘Culture Clubs’ branch agreements apply, special preventive healthcare initiatives around the BBH world are dedicated to making may be implemented. In countries such as these, all employees working life more interesting and include events range benefit from collective bargaining or industry agreements when from, free tickets to galleries/theatre, food/lunches they exist. In most countries, voluntary prevention and healthcare onsite, beauticians/massages onsite… campaigns are carried out by the agencies in the case of seasonal • Apply creativity for the good of society: this includes illnesses (e.g. influenza) or in the case of more targeted prevention the pro bono work that we do and of course, there is (e.g. against cancer or cardiovascular disease), campaigns that are always a BBHer climbing a mountain, cycling across sometimes carried out with the support of prevention and healthEurope or running a marathon for charity somewhere care organizations with which the Groupe works. All our agencies in the world. It’s a tradition: BBH gives 1% of its profits are involved in different areas relating to life in the workplace, all to charity. strive to create a pleasant environment and take further initiatives 27 to ensure that they provide a workplace where employees feel good, no matter what work they do or where they work. Prevention and self-education: In this respect, what Prodigious is doing in Costa Rica is a good the Groupe’s Wellness Program illustration of an all-round approach. A number of years ago, Costa Rica itself set about establishing a business environment that would in the USA attract major corporations, mainly by providing high-level training and education to create a recruitment pool of very talented people In the USA, the Groupe has set up an Employee Assistance (see p. 29). Program (EAP) to help with issues of disease prevention and healthcare. After harmonizing the various existing schemes to bring agencies into converge on a common program, the Re:Sources teams then set about upgrading the contents of the 7 services that can be made available to employees. The Wellness Program, which was announced in 2012, was widely rolled out PROMOTING in 2013 and met with considerable success. In certain agencies, WORK-LIFE BALANCE close to 50% of staff signed up in year one! The services on offer include a very complete self-assessment tool on matters of stress prevention and wellbeing. This tool is based on a detailed Because of the nature of the services we provide to our clients, questionnaire (Personal Health Assessment – PHA) that improves traditionally we have needed to be responsive, readily available self-awareness while offering very practical advice on how to and swift.The pressure has only intensified as working methods change certain habits and take care of one’s health. To allow for increasingly go digital. As a result, managing working time has the particularities of each individual, the program includes access become increasingly complex, calling for greater flexibility on the to a coach who will guide each individual through a customized part of employees and managers alike. This is something we share program to help find a balance that really suits him or her. with our clients who are faced with the same challenges, as our The program does not claim to be a formal medical program, businesses and professions are characterized by periods of high simply a preventive approach with a self-education component intensity (e.g. during the days running up to an important presenthat addresses a whole series of behavioral aspects that can be easily acted upon to obtain tangible results rapidly. For instance, tation or just before the launch of a communications campaign). the nutrition section of the program claims that when regularly Experience has shown that flexibility on a volunteer basis works applied, simple recommendations such as a balanced diet, without well for all concerned, and constitutes a more balanced solution. depriving oneself and in keeping with the lifestyle of our relatively This is one of the ways we meet current expectations on the part young teams, can have very positive effects very rapidly. of our employees who aspire to a better work-life balance. This is The same applies to the need to take daily exercise even when also an asset when it comes to attracting and retaining employees, one has a very busy work life. especially the members of generation Y who are increasingly figuring largely in our workforce. This young generation has come to expect greater flexibility and an adaptable work environment. Similarly, parental equality means that men are just as entitled as expectations. MSLGROUP USA has a program called “Flexibility women to a certain degree of flexibility when their children are with Accountability” which offers employees a variety of formulas, very young. These matters can be dealt with differently from one on request and on a case-by-case basis, such as working from home network, country or agency to another, and may also be dealt with one day a month (40% of staff benefitted in 2013) or one day a individually. This flexible approach is one solution to the greater week for senior management, variable working hours during the variety of legal arrangements in various parts of the world. The vacation period and during the summer (some 25% of staff took up Groupe’s employees may benefit, on a case by case basis, from this option in 2013) as well as special arrangements for new parents flexible working hours at different stages of their careers, e.g. part(men and women). The MSLGROUP network’s flexibility policy is time work, variable working hours, teleworking or other forms also being extended to other countries. Canada, for instance, offers of flexibility, provided they volunteer to do so and in accordance a program adapted to the local context, and India’s “Work from with existing arrangements. Home” formula is very popular with juniors (the daily commute can be very long and the public transport system is overburdened) In Europe, France has implemented more flexible arrangements for when approved by management (see 2012 CRS Report). parental leave, in particular its Passeport Parentalité (i.e. parenthood passport) and the CESU (personal services payment vouchers) for young parents. In the USA, several networks have rolled out flexible programs for all their employees. At DigitasLBi, management can grant flexible working hours on request, based on criteria such as performance, staffing requirements, workload and, of course, client needs and 28 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Though remuneration policy is largely local, the salaries paid to Prodigious Costa Rica: our employees are generally in excess of the legal minimum wage where such a measure exists. The Groupe has always applied the a “production platform” agency basic principle of equal pay for men and women in the same posilike any other tions and with the same skills. The Groupe and its management are careful to ensure that this principle is applied in practice, even in times of crisis. All information regarding employee profit sharOf the 400 people working for Prodigious Costa Rica, some ing and share allocation schemes granted are set out in the 2013 200 took part in a training program in 2013. This is an important issue for the agency as continuing training is a necessity in all Registration Document (Chapter 5, pp. 210-215 in particular). areas that are essentially digital, and there is a war being waged for talent in Costa Rica too. This is why the Groupe has set up operational schemes whereby our teams can be fully integrated 10 PROTECTING into our clients’ projects, even when Prodigious is operating “offshore”. This close relationship with clients’ project teams is also an opportunity for our teams to develop professionally HUMAN in other directions. Preventive measures have also been taken RIGHTS to address the issue of wellbeing in the workplace. The agency A fundamental and inalienable value is also closely involved in volunteering for local causes involving Respect for human rights is part of “la difference” in our corporate children or environmental projects, which are much encouraged in Costa Rica. In terms of diversity, the agency has its own culture. All employees are reminded of these principles, particuwomen’s network, inspired by VivaWomen! but with a specific larly new recruits attending induction courses. Janus – our internal focus on the professional future of women in high-tech sectors. Code of Ethics – is accessible on all network and agency intranets and circulated to all managers and their teams. This code sets out the obligation for managers and staff to abide by local laws and regulations and by the fundamental principles of the International Labor Organization (ILO). Special attention must be paid to gender equality in terms of equal pay for equal work, expanded 8 and efficient social protection and strengthened social dialogue. FACILITATING SOCIAL Pro bono campaigns (see the chapter 2 on Society) in support DIALOGUE of organizations or causes of general interest relating to human Our Code of Conduct rights, or opposing all forms of exclusion or discrimination, Our Code of Conduct clearly states the need to promote social serve as a clear demonstration of the Groupe’s commitment dialogue and to be attuned to staff. One of our strengths is the fact to the defense of human rights and freedoms. Contracts signed that the average size of our agencies is between 100 and 150 people, with the Groupe’s major suppliers (central or regional) include which is conducive to frequent, straightforward exchanges between various criteria relating to compliance with human rights, and staff and management concerning the firm’s business and projects. the Groupe Procurement Department’s efforts in this regard in Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are 2013 demonstrated a heightened attention to our responsible fundamental rights that the Groupe is very keen to respect. Staff procurement policy. representatives and employees in general are regularly consulted and kept informed of projects and developments concerning their Because of the nature of our work, we have little or no exposure to agency. child labor or forced labor. Janus nonetheless explicitly states that child labor, forced labor and compulsory labor are strictly forbidden, and calls for their eradication. These commitments also figure in the Publicis Groupe Procurement CSR Questionnaire sent to 9 all our suppliers (see chapter 3 on Economics and Governance). REMUNERATION POLICY N.B. On the question of security staff and the human rights policies relating to their work: security staff are directly employed not by Publicis Groupe, but by specialist service providDetailed information concerning the remuneration of Publicis ers. The only exception to this is Groupe’s headquarters in Paris, which has its own internal Groupe’s corporate officers and senior executives is provided in security staff of fire fighters. the 2013 Registration Document (Chapter 1.2.3, Chapter 4 note 3, and Chapter 5 notes 5 and 23). All employees, whether permanent or temporary, have a labor contract drawn up in compliance with local labor law and regulations. The Groupe does not have a consolidated indicator of remuneration for all its employees and comparisons lack relevance due to disparities between countries. 29 OUR TEAMS: KEY FIGURES FOR THE LAST THREE YEARS Groupe headcount growth Average age of employees by region and gender 65,000 Men Women 60,000 North America 37 35 55,000 Change Europe 36 35 50,000 2012/2013 +9% Asia-Pacific 33 31 45,000 Latin America 33 32 40,000 Change 2011/2012 Middle East & Africa 34 30 35,000 +6.5% 30,000 25,000 20,000 Change in average age by gender 15,000 60 33 34 34 35 34 35 10,000 50 40 2011* 2012** 2013*** 30 Total headcount 20 10 2011* 2012** 2013*** Women on executive committees Average age Average age women men 80 70 55% 55% 53.40% 60 40% Women distribution by region 50 39% 39% 30% 30% 32 % 40 % women 30 North America 57.8 20 Europe 50.9 10 Asia-Pacific 54.4 Latin America 48.1 2011* 2012** 2013*** Middle East & Africa 48.1 Women as % Agency management Network management Groupe average 53.4 of total headcount committees committees * 2011 scope: 90% to 95% of Groupe headcount ** 2012 scope: 97% of Groupe headcount *** 2013 scope: 100% (adjusted to 97% of headcount excluding acquisitions) 30 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Employees receiving training E-learning Classroom-based training (shared hours) (training days) 100 200,000 174,000 200,000 90 180,000 180,000 80 160,000 160,000 56% 57% 57% 117,640 70 140,000 140,000 100,457 60 120,000 120,000 85,600 50 100,000 71,040 100,000 40 80,000 80,000 30 60,000 31,135 60,000 20 40,000 40,000 10 20,000 20,000 2011* 2012** 2013*** 2011* 2012** 2013*** 2011* 2012** 2013*** Occupational injury rate Employee performance review 2011* 2012** 2013*** 100 90 77% Occupational injury rate 0.4% 0.4% 71% 69% 80 The occupational injury rate is calculated as the number of individuals 70 reporting an occupational accident divided by the total headcount expressed 60 as a percentage (2012 scope = 76% of Groupe headcount). The most common causes of such accidents are transport-related (commuting or business travel). 50 The frequency of occupational injuries is calculated as the total working days lost divided by the total working hours of total Groupe headcount over the 40 year expressed as a percentage: the estimated rate for 2013 is 0.02%. 30 20 Employee turnover 10 2011* 2012** 2013*** 2011* 2012** 2013*** Employee 28.5% 29.3% 30.5% turnover Employee turnover is calculated as the total number of departures for the year divided by the average headcount for the year expressed as a percentage. Absenteeism Employee satisfaction surveys in 2013 2011* 2012** 2013*** 58% of the workforce was invited to respond to a people survey or climate survey in 2013. Such surveys are conducted either annually or once every two Absenteeism 2% 2% 2% years, so it is difficult to compare findings from one year to the next. Absenteeism is calculated as the total number of days lost for reasons other than paid annual leave or maternity/paternity leave, divided by the total number of working days in the year expressed as a percentage. N.B. Other social indicators (by age, gender, etc.) will become available following the deployment of ERP (Enterprise Resource Planning), which should result in improved data consolidation at Groupe level. 31 CHAPTER 2 SOCIETY “ Staying relevant means keeping in touch with the grass roots, so... ” 32 Society Understanding communities’ needs, the better to support their causes Pro bono campaigns Volunteering Supporting charities • Cultivating relationships with schools and universities • Fostering relationships with professional organizations and institutions 33 Society In their own words Over 1, 100 initiatives « Fun committee: even better than it sounds! » 25.5 million euros Marjan Panah, EVP, estimated value of pro bono campaigns and volunteering5 Global Director of Human Resources and Talent, Publicis Healthcare Communications Groupe 1 UNDERSTANDING COMMUNITIES’ NEEDS, We work in a very client driven business and our teams are passionate about their work; hence work life balance may be a challenge: what is the role of the Touchpoint “Fun THE BETTER TO SUPPORT Committee”? THEIR CAUSES We are very passionate about delivering quality work to our clients at PHCG, and we are also very focused on ensuring the well-being of our employees. Getting involved: ways and means The Touchpoint Fun Committee organizes events to Agencies engage in very real terms with their surrounding compromote teamwork, personal fulfilment, and giving munities, either by creating pro bono (free) campaigns, or by back to the community. Events include The United playing an active part in volunteering and skills sponsorship. Way Day of Caring, breast cancer bake sales, a basket Employees are enthusiastic in their support for initiatives of auction (proceeds went toward victims of Hurricane this kind. By getting involved in the life of the communities Sandy in the US), holiday food drives, international around them, Groupe employees contribute enormously to food lunches and company picnics.. Coming together the positive impact of our activities on our neighbors and local to work towards a common, charitable goal or just residents. Taking part in campaigns such as these is an integral to have fun with one another feels good and creates component of their career path for agency employees, whatever better collaboration among our employees. We believe their profession or responsibilities. employees who work for a Company that cares about them and for the community motivates them to do Sponsorship: a question of choice their best. Ultimately, we believe this committee In accordance with the Groupe’s Sponsorship Charter6, and for contributes to better retention, balance and business obvious reasons of physical proximity, the choice of cause or orgaresults. nizations to support must be approved by the senior manager(s) of each agency. Nevertheless, these commitments must satisfy obHow can you measure the benefits of this jective criteria: they must be directed towards a cause in the public initiative (and similar ones) on your teams? Our office staff has a high retention rate, low turnover, and good employee satisfaction survey results, though we are always working to improve. Also, the Touchpoint Fun Committee is completely voluntary and so is “ The driving force behind this dynamic? Our teams, with their commitment participation in events. It’s clear that our employees value the “camaraderie” that these events create, and it’s an important part of our Company’s values and culture. and their willingness to engage. ” 5 Estimated value of all Groupe commitments, pro bono campaigns and volunteering initiatives, excluding provision of free media space (also known as society or social investment) 6 Available on the Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 34 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance interest, centered on an issue of real importance to the agency and its teams, and take into account the agency’s annual workload, to In their own words ensure that the project is managed in the best possible way. In 2013, the value of total Groupe commitments, through pro bono « The art of campaigns and volunteering (a total of over 1,100 initiatives), reconciling generosity was estimated at 25.5 million euros (excluding free media space, and professionalism. » estimated at a further 25 million euros). Erik Vervroegen, International Creative Director, Pro bono campaigns on the increase Publicis Worldwide, and Groupe agencies produced over 360 pro bono campaigns in 2013 Andy Bird, Executive Creative (up from 300 in 2012), excluding one-off services rendered free Director, Publicis London of charge that did not constitute campaigns as such. The increase clearly shows that agencies kept up their level of commitment despite the challenging economic situation. Their efforts focused mainly on major multichannel campaigns, while a number of Publicis Worldwide is widely known for agencies lent their name to public fundraising drives. its many pro bono campaigns. How do you go about managing these projects? Some of the main themes of these campaigns included child “We are more than happy to put our talent and protection, local community initiatives, general health and specreativity to work on behalf of good causes. It’s the best way of giving something back. The work we’ve cific health measures (cancer prevention, fighting AIDS, the war been doing on the ground over the past ten years on drugs, serious disease prevention, etc.), and environmental for Depaul International, the parent company of a protection. group of charities working to support homeless and marginalized people around the world, is a perfect Many of these campaigns are featured on the Groupe website example of unflagging commitment, pursued with (www.publicisgroupe.com), or on individual agency websites. intelligence and creativity by Andy and his teams,” Some are listed in the CSR Reports published since 2009. Erik points out. Andy agrees: “We tend to think of the work we do with charities as long-term partnerships, not as Médias & Régies Europe one-off campaign opportunities. All our joint projects have pushed back the boundaries of creativity and attracted great publicity, all of which benefits Depaul International and the people it helps as much as Médias & Régies Europe (MRE) encompasses all the Groupe’s it does the agency.” historic advertising network activities in France, including Mediavision, Metrobus, Mediagare and Mediarail. All the networks Are their any differences in relationships have a long history of stepping up when asked to support pro bono with pro bono clients as opposed to campaigns. In 2013, they provided ad hoc assistance and support conventional clients? on communication campaigns for some 50 organizations and “Publicis has always maintained that there is no issues of general interest. The free media space they provided, such thing as a small client. So, although we are short in duration but high on impact (such as outdoor or cinema selective as regards the organizations we work with advertising), provided a major boost for the causes in question, (for obvious reasons of resources), we make sure representing several million euros’ worth of media visibility. they are treated in exactly the same way as any other client and that all the talents needed to make their projects a success are made available to them. This is how we’ve worked with Depaul over all these years, and this is what has enabled them make their mark on the “charity market” (and it’s definitely a market!), whilst at the same time raising awareness of homelessness and boosting fundraising.” 35 PUTTING OUR TALENTS TO WORK FOR GOOD CAUSES AND LEADING CHARITIES: SELECTION OF PRO BONO CAMPAIGNS* Human Rights time, so why not do it the way prisoners Women do? The idea is to bring prison time into the 1 world of the free. The Empathy Calendars 4 cover not the usual 12-month period but the MRY DigitasLBi USA terms prisoners have to serve. A 100-meter Discovery PHCG Chicago The “End Trafficking” project long wall calendar invited the citizens of “Women in the Industry” for UNICEF Warsaw to measure time the prisoner’s way, for MAFA Masters Over the years, MRY has developed a strateby marking off each day on a section of wall, MAFA Chicago was founded to support divergic partnership with the CauseWay Agency as a gesture of solidarity. sity and inclusion within the advertising, marto support digital marketing for NGOs such keting and communications industries while as the United States Fund for UNICEF. These 3 connecting top diverse talent with some of the organizations generally operate on very tight city’s most reputable agencies and companies. budgets, and our ability to negotiate free SMG and Leo Burnett Chicago In December 2013, MAFA Chicago paid tribute media space for their campaigns is often a “1st Humanitarian Day » to outstanding women within the advertising, make or break factor. The goal of the End on behalf of the United Nations communications and marketing industries at Trafficking project is to raise awareness of The United Nations launched its #TheWorldan event entitled “MAFA Masters: Celebrating child trafficking and encourage the comNeedsMore campaign to raise funds and Women in the Industry”. munity to take action. These efforts have celebrate the humanitarian spirit. Leo Burnett helped the United States Fund for UNICEF to took on the task of creating the campaign, and 5 continue to grow and develop, using a range Starcom planned and negotiated all the media of tools including advertorial, mobile and space donations. Brands and individuals were Publicis Mojo Sydney digital video campaigns as well as various invited to sponsor a key word for a better “I am woman, hear me ramble on” emerging technologies. world (examples: #education, #inclusion.) for Marie Claire Every word from the list shared via a hashtag The November 2013 issue of women’s maga2 unlocked a donation from the sponsor associated zine Marie Claire Australia title was dedicated with the word. to the female body and women’s body issues. Leo Burnett Warsaw The media and advertising worlds are often “Empathy Calendar” criticized for pushing an unrealistic vision of for Amnesty International women’s bodies. The agency teamed up with Amnesty InterThe aim of the campaign was to tackle the national to raise public awareness of the problem head-on and come up with an ad plight of prisoners of conscience serving that promotes self-acceptance. It is fair to lengthy sentences. We all have to measure say it is hard writing an ad that asks nothing 1 2 3 4 5 * This selection of campaigns should be read in conjunction with those mentioned in the 2013 Annual Report and those featured on Groupe and agency websites. 36 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance of the consumer, but with this brief it was Children’s Villages, one of Austria’s biggest Communities more about recognizing the body issue so NGOs. The “Patenschaftskampagne” (sponcommon among today’s women and writing sorship campaign) was launched in March 10 a compelling enough ad to make women stop 2013, with the aim of attracting new sponsors and think for a second. keen to help children in need by making a BBH London regular monthly donation. “Please Turn Your Phone On” 6 for Missing People 8 The campaign was designed to raise awarePublicis Events Paris ness of the Missing People charity and its Gala for “Tout le monde chante Rosetta Cleveland phone hotline 116000, which helps those who contre le cancer” Supporting the Center are missing to reconnect with their families. For the past 10 years, the organization for Families & Children An interactive film urged cinema audiences (“Everyone sings out against cancer” in The aim of the project was to help the Center to switch on their phones and dial in on a English) has acted as a rallying point for all for Families & Children upgrade its online missing boy’s attempt to reconnect with those involved in fighting cancer, with the donation interface and manage its donor relahis mother. By interacting with the story aim of bringing moments of happiness and tions more successfully, but also to redesign audiences were informed about the charrespite into the lives of cancer sufferers and and re-platform part of the website. We mimity’s role, and received a text message with their families. Publicis Events organized icked a full-scale Rosetta project and formed the 116000 number to store in their phones. their annual concert, held at the Olympia cross-functional teams that worked together Those who interacted directly not only music hall, which attracted 2,000 people to accomplish the task. learned more about the charity’s role, but and some substantial financial donations. It also received a text message so they could was an evening of fun and warmth despite 9 record the 116000 hotline number directly on the seriousness of its subject, a subject that their mobile phone. The campaign brought increasingly affects children and adults, men Publicis Shanghai the charity thousands of new followers and and women alike. The aim was to look at the “Happy Shot” considerable media attention. disease from a different angle. in partnership with Sanofi Intravenous therapies can be a source of considerable stress and fear, especially for Child protection children. So what could Publicis Shanghai think up to help them relax? In association 7 with our client, Sanofi China, we found a way: coordinating a PR event in hospitals called ZenithOptimedia Vienna “Happy Shot”. Devising a brightly colorfull “Patenschaftskampagne” container resembling a balloon to hold the for SOS Children’s Villages drip bag is a great way of helping children The agency is deeply committed to its partto overcome their fear of needles and feel nership with the Austrian branch of SOS more relaxed. 6 7 9 10 37 11 13 15 Digitas Boston ZenithOptimedia Spain Leo Burnett Toronto “Pie in the Sky” Christmas cards signed “The Street House. for Community Servings by Angeles Urbanos A tour of homelessness” Digitas Boston and Community Servings have Every year, Zenith Spain sends out seafor Raising the Roof been working together for the past 17 years. sonal greetings cards to its clients and media Every year, Toronto hosts a festival called Community Servings is a charity that delivers contacts. This time, however, the agency “Doors Open”. Hundreds of the city’s beautinutritious meals to people who are critically ill decided to team up with Angeles Urbanos, ful and normally private spaces are opened and homebound. Two fundraising campaigns an NGO devoted to physically and mentally for the public to visit. During the festival, the are organized every year, the biggest being handicapped. The NGO’s members spent two agency built The Street House, made entirely the “Pie in the Sky” fundraiser. Coming up weeks making Christmas-themed drawings, of cardboard in a downtown alleyway, and each November before Thanksgiving, Boston’s as an occupational therapy. Five of the nuopened its doors to reveal to the public a finest chefs, restaurants, bakeries and hotels merous drawings produced were chosen to world rarely seen. bake up and donate pies, which are then sold be printed as cards, with a brief description This unique exhibit was designed to demystify as a 100% donation. of Angeles Urbanos and its work on the back the everyday struggles faced by homeless of each card: a source of pride and profilepeople. The feedback was universally positive, 12 raising for the NGO. and Raising the Roof has praised The Street House as one most successful campaigns ever. Fallon Minneapolis “We Can Do Better” The homeless for the Children’s Defense Fund The We Can Do Better campaign for the 14 Children’s Defense Fund tackles the issue of gun violence in the US head-on. The MSLGROUP London provocative campaign uses some powerful Campaign for the Depaul Box statistics hard-hitting statistics to inspire Company action and provides real ways for parents Big cardboard boxes are often associated in and children to make a difference.The CDF people’s mind with the homeless. Depaul UK unveiled the new social media campaign as took this negative association and turned it part of its “Protect Children Not Guns” initiaon its head. by buying a cardboard box from tive, marking the anniversary of the Sandy Depaul, consumers help ensure that a young Hook massacre. person is less likely to have to sleep on a cardboard box. MSLGROUP London gave its support to the launch of the Depaul boxes and handled the media coverage, helping to drive sales and thus generating funding for the organization. 11 12 13 14 15 38 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance 16 Health ness campaign. The film shows a young mother-to-be finding out she is HIV positive. PHCG London 18 She lives in a Western country, but is faced Campaign for The Passage with all the problems an African mother The Passage runs London’s biggest day Leo Burnett São Paulo would encounter in the same situation. The center for the homeless. The agency stepped ”Death of a Bentley” for the Brazilian juxtaposition of two worlds makes the shock in to boost donations and raise public awareOrgan Transplant Association and horror all the more poignant. That’s what ness of the charity’s work. Volunteers with To launch Brazil’s National Organ Donation makes this such a powerful campaign. collection boxes held up signs made from Week and raise public awareness of the cardboard – a widely recognizable symbol shortage of organ donors, Leo Burnett Tailor 20 of homelessness –. The first part of the Made came up with a PR stunt in association message on the sign listed things most with Francisco Scarpa Filho, an eccentric Digitas New York of us, including the volunteers themselves, Brazilian millionaire known as “The Count”. “(Up)Beat Cancer” normally take for granted while the emoHe announced on Facebook that he planned for the Joe Andruzzi Foundation tional second half would hopefully move to bury his prized possession, a $1.5 million Following successful treatment for cancer, people to contribute money. Bentley. Public opinion was outraged, but former NFL player Joe Andruzzi set up the on the day of the supposed “funeral”, with Joe Andruzzi Foundation to help patients and 17 hordes of journalists and photographers in families fighting cancer. With no clear identity attendance, the Count revealed that he would beyond that of Joe’s name, however, the Saatchi & Saatchi Berlin be doing nothing of the sort. He did make the foundation needed to find a way of standing “Days of Hope” for Diakonie point, however, that the indignation aroused out on the overcrowded NGO scene in the To highlight the growing problem of homeby the idea of burying his Bentley was ridicuUnited States. The solution lay in the way lessness on the streets of major European lous, when no one is shocked by the fact that Joe handled his fight against the disease: cities, a number of homeless people were inhealthy vital organs, that could save lives, with good humor and a positive attitude. vited to present the winter weather news on are buried every day as a matter of course. The new name, (Up)Beat Cancer, offers a new live TV. With telling illustrations of the effects philosophy and a new launch pad for social of the winter cold, each day’s presenter gave 19 engagement. viewers a piercing insight into the daily lives of the homeless. They spoke direct to the TV BBH London audience, inviting them to make donations “A World Apart” to their nearest homeless shelter or agency. for Mothers2Mothers The live images were watched over 2 million Advances in medicine and treatments mean viewers, and the campaign did much to raise that mother-to-child transmission of HIV can awareness of the difficulties facing homeless now be prevented. Charity Mothers2Mothers people, particularly in winter. asked the agency to come up with a aware16 17 18 19 20 39 21 Arts and Culture 25 Leo Burnett Paris 23 BBH São Paulo “If Only For a Second” “Little Kisses” for the MIMI Foundation Saatchi & Saatchi Moscow for the Festival Mix Brasil “You know what I miss the most? Being careCampaign for the Shusev The Mix Brasil Festival of Diversity Culture free!” These are the words that inspired the State Museum of Architecture is an event focused on the LGBT commuIf Only For A Second project. Twenty cancer There is a story behind every building façade, nity that features a wide variety of artistic patients were invited along to a studio for a and what we know of that story is only the events: film, music, dance and literature. The hair and make-up makeover, but they were tip of the iceberg. Everyone knows about the festival is also famous for the controversies asked to keep their eyes closed so they would Night at the Museum event, but not many and polemics it sparks through the themes not see the transformation taking place. know of the Shusev Architecture Museum. it addresses. The main aim of the campaign, A photographer stood ready to capture the The agency decided to train a spotlight on with its brightly colored “pop” approach, is to moment when they first opened their eyes. the city’s buildings. The aim of the campaign make the point that the festival is not just for Their sheer surprise enabled them to forget was to encourage Muscovites and tourists the LGBT community, but welcomes anyone their illness, if only for a second. The collecto explore the history of the city and its arinterested in culture and diversity. tion of photos was published in book form chitectural heritage by visiting the museum and the video, posted online in December on Museum Night to discover the full story 26 2013, has received over 15 million views. behind Moscow’s finest buildings. Publicis Sofia 22 24 “Facts we forget, experiences never” for the National Museum of History Publicis Conseil Paris Spark SMG Chicago Bulgaria’s National Museum of History in the “Nathalie” for the French Campaign for the Art Institute country’s capital, Sofia, was keen to set up Cardiovascular Research Foundation of Chicago an interactive education center but lacked Women are just as likely as men to suffer In 2013, Spark organized the planning of the funds. The idea was for children to study a heart attack. The campaign features exhibitions for the Art Institute of Chicago history in a novel way – by experiencing it! Nathalie, a stressed-out, hyperactive, multi(AIC). The aim was to create the most straThree of Sofia’s landmark monuments were tasking woman, very much of her time, who tegic media plans possible, utilizing relevant enveloped in cloth wrappings asking the key suffers a heart attack. The film is a stark media formats and placements. This approach question: do you know what is hidden behind warning to women and the medical profesprovides flexibility throughout the planning the facts? sion to make women’s heart disease a public cycle and presents the opportunity to focus on Only a few hours later, the campaign had health priority. exhibition-relevant partners. Spark works with become a media sensation. A series of visuAIC to provide strategy recommendations and als was created to call for financial support, plan execution against various campaigns, all accompanied by the same key message: including equity, tourism, membership, and “Facts we forget, but experiences we remany others. member”. 21 22 23 24 25 26 40 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Environment 29 They then discussed their original sketches with the professionals, attended the pre27 Saatchi & Saatchi Germany production meeting and all the shooting “Farmageddon” sessions, and oversaw the recording of radio Leo Burnett Sydney for United Nations World Water Day spots. The results: 8 print campaigns, 2 TV “Earth Hour” for the WWF Everything was fine until March 22nd, 2013, and 4 radio spots. For the past seven years, Leo Burnett has when a devastating drought suddenly hit the partnered the WWF in Earth Hour, a movevirtual farms on the Farmerama accounts of 31 ment that encourages everyone to turn off over 45 million online farmers around the the lights for an hour (at 8 pm local time) in world! Parched fields and withered grass Saatchi & Saatchi as many cities as possible around the world, meant catastrophe for every single one of Shanghai as a gesture against global warning. This them. “Paper Cuts Life” for Greenpeace year, protecting the Great Barrier Reef was All the crops that had been so carefully As most of us know, paper cuts really sting. one of the climate change issues closest to planted and painstakingly cultivated were devBut cutting down trees for paper does much Australian hearts. Earth Hour is an initiative astated by the world’s first online drought. The more harm to forests, animals and their that draws people together and overcomes aim of the UN campaign was to raise public habitat. social divides. awareness of water scarcity and raise funds The Paper Cuts Life campaign was launched for the real-life victims of drought. under this neat double entendre to remind 28 us all of the alarming truth that lies behind every sheet of paper. As part of the camSMG New York Animal welfare paign, an art exhibition was held at the “Earth Hour” for the WWF Shanghai Library and M50 Creative Garden. Starcom USA worked closely with Leo Burnett 30 to help raise awareness and involve as many people as possible in the event, across the Leo Burnett Milan “Awarded pro bono campaigns: ADC USA. Starcom has handled the planning “Pets4Pets” for WWF Italy Germany, Boston, AdClub, CA’s Award and buying of (free!) media space for Earth The future of the world belongs to our children. of Excellence, Cannes Lions, Clio Hour over a number of years, helping to That’s why 80 elementary school children were Awards, Communication Arts in D, Creative Circle Silver, D&AD, EPICA, Eurobest Silver, FARA raise support. Public spaces and buildings, asked to create a new campaign for WWF. First Awards Bulgaria, Golden Drum, Golden Hammer, skyscrapers, shops, homes and individuals... they learned the basics of advertising, then GPC 7+, Grand Prix de la Communication Solithe number of people and places turning off they were given a brief to work from. Using it daire, IDEA, KIAF, KTR, LIA, New York Festivals, Pororoca 2013 and Crista (Brazilian digital at 8 pm is rising! as their starting-point, they went on to present award), Silver Shark award, The Pro Awards, etc.” their ideas and creations. 27 28 29 30 31 41 Volunteering also on the increase In their own words Volunteering is a practice that is gaining ground in countries around the world. Over 750 initiatives were reported in 2013. The increase also reflects better recording of agency involvement « More than volunteering; with not-for-profits, NGOs, foundations or good causes in general. a shared state of mind. » It usually involves drafting in one or more teams, for a limited period, to provide operational assistance on projects on behalf of Milano Reyna, good causes, or to pitch in on pro bono campaigns. Sometimes it Worldwide Chief Talent Officer, includes fundraising with employees’ support. These moments of Saatchi & Saatchi shared engagement bring people together, and teams find them very rewarding. Many examples of organizations and not-for-profits that agencies have worked with on volunteering projects over the years can be found in the Groupe CSR reports published since 2009, or on agency websites. The positive impact of volunteer work in the community has long been recognized: Philanthropy in the community how do you deal with employee commitment Our agencies take part in a few charity events, but the Groupe’s in this field at S&S? priority is focused on concrete commitments such as pro bono camOur Saatchi & Saatchi teams are sincerely keen paigns, skills sponsorship or voluntary work, because this is where to “do some good”. Our CSR approach breaks down our assistance can be most effective. Agencies, management and into five key areas: social, community relations, staff alike, are always swift to respond to any emergency in their economic, the environment and, the keystone of the country, region, city or, indeed, anywhere in the world. Natural whole structure, education, in which voluntary work disasters and major accidents trigger spontaneous outpourings of has a major contribution to make. Our approach enables teams and agencies to follow their hearts generosity, with management and employees coming together to and create a lasting tradition built on the desire offer whatever help they can. As a general rule, the Groupe favors to give something back. Over the past five years, a decentralized approach, as being more flexible and easier to we have found that making CSR inclusive across these organize, and also providing simpler and immediate traceability themes enables more participation and creativity. of what has been done. With so many good causes crying out 2 CULTIVATING for support, how do you set your priorities? You never know where an initiative might lead. This year we took part in a whole range of operations: RELATIONthe Mandela Foundation; Martha’s Vineyard African SHIPS WITH SCHOOLS American Film Festival; the Young Women’s Leadership AND UNIVERSITIES Network; the Children’s Museum of Arts New York; the Art Production Fund; the Studio Museum Harlem; The Groupe has enjoyed close and regular relationships with Free Arts NYC; the Voss Foundation; the Prince’s schools and universities for years – indeed, for decades in some Trust; Play Rugby USA and many, many more. cases. In 2013, we identified close on 800 partnerships with All these causes had one thing in common: educating institutions of learning. Because the skills required in our busipeople for a better world in one way or another. ness are constantly and rapidly evolving, we continue to develop One of our favorite projects of this year addressed new partnerships to help us diversify our links and the profiles the themes of culture, sustainable development we might be looking to recruit. Every agency builds up its own and education: the Big Egg Hunt in New York, which network of relationships with a certain number of local schools we organized with Fabergé, to raise funds and the world-famous conservation charity Elephant Family. and universities (Groupe CSR reports published since 2009 list Take a look at our app on www.thebigegghunt.org. the main links between agencies and educational institutions). It’s a way of reminding ourselves that art can take us on a positive journey even as it speaks out for Ongoing relationships and regular encounters the generations still to come. Overall, there are four main types of event: 1) Careers Fairs, with agencies often joining forces to take part; 2) Regular Open Days where students can see the kind of work we do, sometimes in conjunction with local inter-branch organizations staging cross-sector events; 3) Teaching, with many of our managers contributing to school or university courses on an ad hoc or regular basis; agencies are * All Publicis Groupe CSR Reports published since 2009 are available online at www.publicisgroupe.com 42 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Volunteering nteering er to promote volu Volunte e tt Melbourn Leo Burne Pink Fridays for Breast Cancer money drive Publicis London Zoo Funday ZenithOptimed ia Barcelona yBig Impact Da Big Impact Da yNew York Aid s Walk VivaKi Seattle VivaKi Detroit h N ew York Team Razorfis Houses for Homeles Campbell sZenith Opti Elementary media Buenos Aires School mural Razorfish Austin Coat Drive BBH New York Hit the Beach To Clean It Up VivaKi Chicago Cleveland Community Support children at school – Service Day Rosetta Cleveland Zenith Optimedia Ho Chi Minh 43 keen to build such relationships over the long term, but also to In their own words diversify their contacts so as to offer opportunities for students with a range of profiles; 4) Student internships, offered by all agencies, whether as a compul« The art of war... sory part of the curriculum or end-of-course internships. The work for talents. » of the communications sector is becoming increasingly complex, and internships are the ideal opportunity for young graduates to Cassandra Yates, acquire a better understanding of a job or a profession that will Chief Talent Officer, help them in their choice of future career. VivaKi 3 FOSTERING RELATIONSHIPS WITH PROFESSIONAL Talented young people are much sought after nowadays. What are VivaKi’s main ORGANIZATIONS advantages in this “war for talents”? AND INSTITUTIONS As the nerve center or digital accelerator for the Publicis Groupe, our competitive edge in the talents Agency managers all over the world have a long tradition of war is the ability to offer completely new experiences involvement with their respective professional organizations. Over in the marketing industry thanks to our unique palette recent years, new opportunities for ad hoc inter-branch collaboraof technologies. Our teams work closely with hi-tech tion have emerged, with communications professionals working partners, including those way out on the leading edge, closely together as stakeholders in the shared tasks and reflection and soon become Ad Tech experts. They are building the tools, platforms, products and services that will undertaken with local institutions and organizations. define the future of advertising. Exposure to and close collaboration with tech giants like Google, Facebook, Lasting commitments Microsoft, Twitter and many more are of enormous In addition to the many local initiatives under way, the Groupe value to our teams, inspiring and equipping them is keen to ensure the continuity of its commitments over the to work together on developing new solutions for long term. businesses. VivaKi is quick to provide highly strategic • In the field of education, for example, this means continuing to training (as well as personal development courses), participate in the European MediaSmart program (PubMalin in including in areas such as agility and dexterity at a France), designed to help primary and secondary school teachers to global level. Our teams also enjoy opportunities to use educate their pupils in how to interpret advertising messages. The their expertise in new parts of the world, new cultures, program relies on a wide range of partners, including media reprenew agencies and new situations. That makes us unique! sentatives, teachers, consumer organizations and oversight bodies. • In the matter of industry cooperation, the What is your strategy for continuing Groupe continues to promote the new Adverto attract top talents? tising and Marketing Communication PracOur recruitment efforts have always been focused tice Consolidated ICC Code (International on young people with two years’ experience or more. Chamber of Commerce www.iccwbo.org). But we also take a close interest in key schools and For professionals, the code is the international universities where there is scope to work together benchmark on all matters of self-regulation on developing course programs. We have a specific and code of good conduct. Its latest edition strategic approach to young talents, as soon as the also covers the new issues raised by digital communications and graduate. At VivaKi, they are given the resources to develop their skills fast (“on-the-job skill building”). mobile applications. And we fast track the best of them into more expert • On a similar note, Groupe experts are involved in the work of roles with significant levels of responsibility, often the 4A’s Privacy Committee and the Advertising Self Regulatory even in their first year with us. Council in the United States, and in the European Advertising Standards Alliance, three forums for dialogue and interaction between advertising professionals and the relevant authorities. • In the area of standards: the Groupe continues its involvement in the implementation of ISO 26000 (as it applies to the communications sector) and its stakeholder-centric approach. 44 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance UNIVERSITIES AND SCHOOLS Some of our partnerships around the world NORTH AMERICA • CANADA Simon Fraser University, Burnaby – Mohawk College, Hamilton – Queen’s University, Kingston – University of Western Ontario, London – Concordia University, Montreal – Centennial College, Toronto – University of Toronto, Toronto • UNITED STATES University of Akron, Akron – Alma College, Alma – University of Michigan, Ann Arbor – University of Georgia, Athens – Emory University, Atlanta – Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta – The Creative Circus, Atlanta – University of Texas, Austin – University of California, Berkeley – Indiana University, Bloomington – Boston University, Boston – Harvard University, Boston – Howard University, Boston – Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Boston – Hult International Business School, Cambridge – Chicago Portfolio School, Chicago – Depaul University, Chicago – Loyola University, Chicago – University of Chicago, Chicago – Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland – Lee University, Cleveland – University of Missouri, Columbia – Ohio State University, Columbus – University of Dayton, Dayton – College for Creative Studies, Detroit – Michigan State University, East Lansing – Northwestern University, Evanston – University of Arkansas, Fayetteville – California State University, Fullerton – Grove City College, Grove City – University of Iowa, Iowa City – Otis College of Art and Design, Los Angeles – University of California, Los Angeles – University of Southern California, Los Angeles – Tufts University, Medford – Miami Ad School, Miami – University of Minnesota, Minneapolis – Central Michigan University, Mount Pleasant – Yale, New Haven – Binghamton University, New York – Columbia University, New York – Cornell University, New York – Fordham University, New York – Miami Ad School, New York – Miami University, New York – New York University, New York – Rochester Institute of Technology, New York – School of Visual Arts, New York – St. John’s University, New York – Syracuse University, New York – Miami of Ohio, Oxford – Philadelphia University, Philadelphie – University of the Sciences, Philadelphie – Princeton University, Princeton – Brown University, Providence – Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond – California State Polytechnic University, Pomona – University of Rochester, Rochester – California Academy of Sciences, San Francisco – Presidio Graduate School, San Francisco – Stanford University, San Francisco – San Jose State University, San José – California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo – University of California – Santa Barbara, Santa Barbara – Ringling College of Art & Design, Sarasota – Savannah College of Art and Design, Savannah – University of Washington, Seattle – Pennsylvania State University (Arts), State College – Syracuse University, Syracuse – University of Illinois, Urbana-Champaign – Georgetown University, Washington D.C. – American University, Washington D.C. LATIN AMERICA • ARGENTINA Escuela Superior de Creativos Publicitarios, Buenos Aires • BRAZIL Centro Universitário da Fundação Educacional Guaxupé, Guaxupé – Associação Educacional Luterana Bom Jesus/Ielusc, Joinville – Federal de Pelotas University, Pelotas – SENAC Pelotas, Pelotas – Universidade Católica de Pelotas, Pelotas – Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing, Porto Alegre – Universidade do Vale do Sapucaí em Pouso Alegre, Pouso Alegre – Universidade Federal do Rio Grande do Sul, Rio Grande do Sul – Escola Superior de Propaganda e Marketing, São Paulo – Miami Ad School, São Paulo • PORTO RICO Sacred Heart University, San Juan 45 Universities and schools EUROPE / RUSSIA • AUSTRIA Fachholchschule St. Pölten, Sankt Polten • NETHERLANDS VU Amsterdam University, Amsterdam • BELGIUM Vlerick Leuven Gent Management School, Gent – • NORWAY KU Leuven, Leuven Norwegian School of Economics, Bergen – Norwegian Business School, Oslo • BULGARIA National Art Academy, Sofia – New Bulgarian University, Sofia • POLAND London School of Public Relations in Warsaw, Warsaw – • CZECH REPUBLIC Warsaw University, Warsaw Economic University in Prague, Prague – VSFS, Prague • PORTUGAL • DENMARK IADE, Lisbonne Copenhagen Business School, Copenhaguen • RUSSIA • FRANCE Higher School of Economics, Moscow – Lomonosov Moscow State ESSEC, Cergy Pontoise – Université Léonard de Vinci, Courbevoie University, Moscow – Moscow State Institute of International Relations, Moscow – Peoples’ Friendship University of Russia, Moscow – HEC, Jouy-en-Josas – EM Lyon, Lyon – Euromed, Marseille – Auden– State University of Management, Moscow cia, Nantes – CELSA, Paris – École des Mines de Paris, Paris – École Normale Supérieure, Paris – EFAP, Paris – Epitech, Paris – ESCP Paris, Paris – European Business School, Paris – École des Gobelins, Paris – • SLOVENIA Academy of fine Arts and Design, Ljubljana INSEEC, Paris – Iscom, Paris – Sciences Po Paris, Paris – Sup de Pub, Paris – Université Paris Dauphine, Paris • SPAIN Centro Universitario Villanueva, Madrid – Universidad San Pablo CEU, • GERMANY Madrid – Creactiva Escuela de Creativos, Madrid – Escuela Europea ESCP Berlin, Berlin – Miami Ad School, Berlin – Fachhochschule de Direccion y Empresa, Madrid – Rey Juan Carlos University, Madrid des Mittelstands (FHM), Bielefeld – FH Köln, Köln – Hochschule Darmstadt, Darmstadt – Goethe University, Frankfurt – MTP Marketing zwischen Theorie und Praxis, Frankfurt – Zeppelin • SWEDEN Berghs School of Communication Stockholm, Stockholm – University, Friedrichshafen – EBC Hochschule Hamburg, Hamburg Gothembourg School of Economics, Goteborg – – Hochschule Fresenius, Idstein – Fachhochschule Mainz Stockholm School of Economics, Stockholm University, Mainz – Munich Business School, München – Technische Hochschule Nürnberg, Nürenberg • UNITED KINGDOM Barnet and Southgate College, Barnet – Cambridge University, • IRELAND Cambridge – Falmouth University, Falmouth – University for the University of Limerick, Limerick Creative Arts, Farnham – Lancaster University, Lancaster – University of Leeds, Leeds – London Business School, London – • ITALY London College of Communication, London – London School of University of Bologna, Bologna – Accademia Di Comunicazione, Economics and Political Science, London – ESCP London, London – Milan – Bocconi University, Milan – Polytechnic University of Oxford University, Oxford – Southampton University, Southampton – Milan, Milan – University of Milan, Milan – Palermo University, West Herts College, Watford Palerm0 46 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Universities and schools ASIA / PACIFIC AFRICA / MIDDLE EAST • AUSTRALIA • EGYPT RMIT University, Melbourne – Adschool, Sydney – University of Sydney, American University in Cairo, Cairo Sydney – Charles Sturt University, Victoria • LEBANON • CHINA Lebanese American University, Beirut – Universite Saint Esprit Hong Kong Design Institute, Hong Kong – Hunan Institute of Science Kaslik, Jounieh – American University of Beirut, Beirut and Technology, Yueyang – ECV-School of Visual Communication, Shanghai – Shanghai Normal University, Shanghai • QATAR Qatar University, Doha • INDIA Indian Institute of Mass Communication, Delhi – Indian Institute of Technology, Delhi • SOUTH AFRICA AAA School of Advertising, Johannesbourg • MALAYSIA IACT, Petaling Jaya – Taylor University, Selangor • TURKEY Bahçesehir University, Istanbul – Istanbul Bilgi University, Istanbul – • NEW ZEALAND Istanbul University, Istanbul – Yeditepe University, Istanbul ACG New Zealand International College, Auckland – Auckland University of Technology, Auckland • UNITED ARAB EMIRATES Dubai, Dubai – Institute of Management Technology Dubai, Dubai – • PHILIPPINES American University of Dubai, Dubai University of the Philippines, Los Baños – Ateneo de Manila University, Lungsod Quezon – De La Salle Lipa, Manila – Polytechnic University of the Philippines, Manila – University of the Philippines Diliman, Manila • SINGAPORE Singapore Polytechnic, Singapore • THAILAND Dhurakij Pundit University, Bangkok 47 CHAPTER 3 ECONOMICS • GOVERNANCE “ Ethical behavior and economic performance are not mutually exclusive. In order to reconcile them, we focus on... ” 48 48 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance CODE Economics Governance Raising teams’ awareness of ethical principles • Earning the loyalty of our clients • Working with our suppliers • Ethics: the new challenges posed by digital • Shared Services Centers (Re:Sources) • Shareholders and investors relation • Media relations • Compliance 49 49 CODE Economics Governance 1 RAISING TEAMS’ AWARENESS OF ETHICAL at which the issues can be addressed and discussed in much more concrete terms. Many Business Units incorporate sections or extracts from Janus into their induction manuals, in the same way PRINCIPLES as they provide information on the agency’s in-house culture or working methods. The Groupe’s key values were laid down many years ago. They are based on core elements that are set out in the Code At the same time, agencies also issue frequent reminders on some of Conduct, whose first pages set out the standards of conduct of the topics covered in Janus, to ensure that important details reand behavior expected of Groupe employees and the basic rules main fresh in everyone’s mind. Some agencies also run dedicated to be followed. This document is available to the public at training courses for managers to give them a greater insight into www.publicisgroupe.com and on all network or agency Intranets. internal rules and help them navigate the local legal and cultural context. Groupe legal experts, based in the Shared Services Centers The Groupe Code of Conduct (Re:Sources) and reporting to the Groupe’s Legal Department, Janus, as the code is known, includes the play a key role in developing awareness and implementation of Groupe Standards of Conduct and Behavior, anti-corruption legislation and regulations. They keep agencies specific Standards of Conduct for Groupe and informed of new developments and establish compliance procebrands key officers (CEOs & CFOs), and the dures specific to each local market. In 2012, the Groupe’s legal operating rules applying to all managers and experts drafted a new anti-bribery policy, initially implemented their teams. Some of the more technical chapin the United Kingdom and then gradually deployed in other ters are primarily for the use of management. countries over the course of 2013. The networks and agencies are constantly upgrading their internal programs to raise awareness and circulate information on the One of the responsibilities of the Internal Audit teams is to bring Code and its content: special sessions (Induction or Onboarding the Groupe’s rules regarding corruption and business ethics to the Programs) are held for new arrivals (whatever their position), to attention of local managers (details of the work of the Internal set out the basic rules by which the company operates and with Audit team are to be found in the 2013 Registration Document, which they are expected to comply. Some agencies require their Chapter 1.1.5). new hires to sign an undertaking that they are fully aware of the Code’s stipulations. Special attention is paid to the issues of human resources, IT and confidentiality, in order to ensure the protection of sensitive information. 4 main areas of activity Advertising (30%) Specialized Agencies (19%) “ Whoever our stakeholders may be, respect, mutual profitability Media (18%) and the quality of our services Digital (33%) are the keys to a lasting g relationship. p ” 2 EARNING THE LOYALTY OF OUR CLIENTS Anti-corruption policy and procedures The Code of Conduct makes frequent reference to the issues of gifts and inappropriate relationships – or relationships that might Many of the Groupe’s clients are world or sector leaders in their be construed as unethical – with suppliers or clients. industry. The Groupe derives approximately half of its revenue from international clients, i.e. clients with operations in more Janus also lays down very strict rules prohibiting any form of corthan five countries. The top 30 clients account for 41% of Groupe ruption or bribery. Human Resources or Finance Departments consolidated revenue (see the 2013 Registration Document, are responsible for organizing training/awareness-raising sessions Chapter 2.4.5). 50 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Quality of relations This is the best guarantee of a long-lasting relationship and the In their own words key to productive work. The Groupe’s client retention rate is outstanding, averaging 45 years for our ten biggest clients. CSR creates opportunities for varying the way we work with certain « Client loyalty, a key indicator clients, who may require different degrees and levels of vigilance in measuring satisfaction! » from our agencies: as regards the messages of a responsible communications campaign, for example, or the eco-design of campaigns, Barbara Jobs, (materials and media used, such as paper, etc.) and, on the supplier EVP, Global Human Resources Director, side, vigilance as regards certain types of partner (see Chapter 3.3). Starcom MediaVest Group Customer satisfaction surveys Groupe agencies conducted over 7,000 customer satisfaction surveys in 2013 (7,450 in 2012*). This figure reflects only a part of the total number of customer surveys, some of which are conHow are you tracking client satisfaction ducted via questionnaires sent out by agencies or through annual and how are you sharing this feedback interviews and performance reviews. Agencies do not have full internally? access to all customer survey data, however; several of our major SMG has always made client satisfaction one of its international clients conduct their own surveys using proprietary top priorities. To that end, we recently asked our tools (or conducted by third parties). This makes it difficult for clients from around the globe to rank us from 1 to 5 (with 5 being “most satisfied”). Over 90% ranked agencies to obtain detailed feedback on the survey method used or us a 4 or higher. In addition to this survey and the the number of opinions consulted on the client’s side, since they annual reviews that most of our clients conduct generally receive only a summary report of survey findings. In on their own, two of the best indicators of client 2013, the consolidated summary of customer satisfaction surveys satisfaction are retention and organic growth. (based on various sources, including the overall consolidation of As an example, MediaVest experienced 100% client information collected via NORMA7) showed the average level retention in 2013 with organic growth accounting of satisfaction reported at close on 4 on a scale of 1 to 5 (where 50% of the agency growth throughout the year. 5 represents the highest level of satisfaction). The Groupe measures client satisfaction against seven main criteria (and other In our digital and fast-working world, secondary criteria): the knowledge and skills of its teams; their where are now the expectations from capacity for innovation and the pertinence of the strategies they our clients? recommend; their professionalism; the quality of the work they We believe that we are one decade into a two-decade produce; their human qualities; prospects for further collaboration transition, where clients are increasingly seeking in the future; their ability to meet expectations as regards new a human-experience company. Three key themes technologies or services. are emerging for this second decade: Mobility Reinventing Shopping, Data-Driven Marketing and Liquid Experiences. Monitoring – and staying 3 WORKING on top of – these trends allows us to deliver plans to our clients that are timely, relevant and WITH consumer-focused. In addition, SMG’s Experience OUR SUPPLIERS Design Journey enables the agency to better define opportunities to drive clients’ businesses forward by intersecting cultural, consumer and brand truths Dedicated tools to develop effective strategies. In an increasingly The Groupe Procurement Department maintained its involvemore digital and data driven world we design ment in monitoring supplier compliance with CSR criteria. In experiences that are data inspired, digitally enabled addition to the in-house charter (CSR Procurement Charter) and content rich. SMG is ideally placed to anticipate aimed at the Groupe’s international team of buyers and designed our client’s future needs. to encourage the inclusion of CSR criteria in invitations to tender (ITT), the Groupe also requires its major suppliers to complete an ad hoc questionnaire (CSR Procurement Questionnaire). 7 NORMA is the Publicis Groupe’s qualitative data collection system for CSR reporting. 51 2013 inventory An inventory carried out by the Groupe Procurement Department in 2013 identified the highest-scoring internal indicators: Diversity Supplier & Small Business • systematic inclusion of CSR questionnaires in centrally and regionally Practice: managed ITTs (RFIs/RFPs); the example of Leo Burnett USA • factoring of responses to the questionnaire into the final scoring of supplier proposals; • supplier acceptance of our internal clauses on major themes such as human rights, labor law and environmental impact. For more than 15 years, the Chicago agency has had a highly structured procurement organization in place. Deeper and closer dialogue It meets all Supplier Diversity and Small Business Act criteria, as part of a twofold aim: firstly, to provide the agency with The Groupe’s Procurement Department sometimes becomes a dedicated organization that is able to familiarize teams directly involved at the client’s request, when the client needs a with the absolute necessity of choosing suppliers who meet commitment from its communications agency on supplier-related these very specific criteria (diversity, very small businesses, issues. Recent regulatory developments (such as the Small Busietc.), of establishing more regular collaboration and varying ness Act in the USA and its equivalent for Europe) are encouragthe choice of service providers; secondly, meeting the ing this trend. Similarly, many countries are starting to focus on requirements of certain clients who expect us to make firm issues of diversity (and social policy), grouped under the heading sourcing commitments under the contract. Some require of Supplier Diversity. These issues are monitored internally, either 5% or even as much as 15% of the spent for their campaign by dedicated teams in direct contact with the clients (a practice to be sourced from suppliers in these two categories. adopted by Leo Burnett a number of years ago – see opposite), Leo Burnett tackles the challenge at three levels: or with the support of external experts working in Groupe agenidentifying the service providers who meet the criteria cies (at Saatchi & Saatchi, for example, or PHCG). The issues (on issues of sourcing, and monitoring of their development, associated with supplier relations form a basis for closer dialogue skills, capacity); as far as possible, establishing regular between clients’ purchasing departments and the Groupe Procollaboration to build trust in client-supplier relations; curement Department, and may pave the way for joint projects. and, finally, producing qualified reporting on purchases made from the service providers to present to the client as proof External contributions of our compliance with the commitments given (assessed Communications activities under direct agency control may using the Leo Burnett Vendor Auditing Process). also need to take on board contributions from external sources such as experts, freelancers or ultra-specialized small entities. The team responsible for monitoring Diversity and Small Business procurement works closely with the internal This subcontracting is often carried out under strict conditions Compliance Department to make sure the system is sufficiently imposed by the client. The Groupe is careful in its dealings with rigorous. Activity reports are always reviewed with the these providers to set reasonable deadlines and make timely agency teams handling the client, for their approval and payments. to get their own operational feedback. The report is then submitted to the client. Extension The Groupe Procurement Department has also involved the Real Supplier Diversity and Small Business Practice is an integral Estate Department in the CSR approach, establishing a rigorous part of the agency’s ISO 9001 scheme, which is subject approach that takes CSR considerations into account when renoto annual inspection, and has the full support of network vating agency premises or looking for new office space. management. In certain instances, Leo Burnett also shares its expertise with other Groupe agencies, especially when they are working together on behalf of the same client. Thanks to this dedicated system, Leo Burnett also takes part in a number of professional events; these offer opportunities not only to meet new service providers, but also to play an active role, as a representative of the Groupe, on influential national bodies such as the National Minority Supplier Development Council and the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council. 52 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance 4 ETHICS: THE NEW CHALLENGES POSED Collective action In a world of big data, one of the major concerns for all those involved in digital is the risk of fraud – at any level. Fraud can be BY DIGITAL extremely damaging to many sectors, including communications, in terms of both actual damage done and harm to the credibility Our principles of online advertising. The measures needed to anticipate and preThe Groupe Code of Conduct lays down a certain number of key vent fraud are inevitably complex and sophisticated, so collective principles and standards of conduct and behavior applying to all action at industry level is a must. VivaKi places special emphasis employees in the exercise of their profession: respect for others, on education and training for client, partner and provider staff, to confidentiality of information, prevention of conflicts of interest, raise their awareness of the various types of potential fraud, and and the Groupe’s refusal to engage in partisan campaigns, a stance of how to detect and prevent them. Sharing experience is vital, that is fairly rare in communications sector. These rules (publicly so that all concerned can be better armed and work together to available at www.publicisgroupe.com) apply to all employees provide the highest level of protection. and are the foundation on which our corporate culture is built. The Groupe also firmly upholds certain values, which must be adhered to in our behavior and in our work, such as rigor, honesty and respect for others. Transparency and data protection VivaKi’s SkySkraper platform Publicis Groupe group operates in the business-to-business industry. The direct issues arising out of the Groupe’s communications activities are therefore closely linked to the nature of its clients’ VivaKi’s involvement occurs in the earliest stages of businesses (brands, products, services, etc.). One of the challenges communications campaign development, and addresses facing digital communications is that of personal data protection, a number of highly technical aspects. As mentioned in 2012, especially with the growth in mobile communications. Groupe the VivaKi Verified Process enables teams to constantly experts take part in a number of national and international mulmonitor the effectiveness of brands and consumers safety tiparty working groups set up to discuss good practices, standards by testing all data (media websites, data and technology issues and regulatory changes, at a time when practice standards partners). The aim is to provide greater transparency and are evolving rapidly. The common objective of these groups is security for clients whenever systems interface to work with greater transparency in these new ways of communicating and a partner. VivaKi brings the same approach to its Online interacting with end-users; the Groupe sets great store by the Behavioral Advertising (OBA) or Video on Demand (VOD) concepts of free will and freedom of choice for consumers/citizens. processes, as explained in the 2012 and 2011 CSR reports. A significant milestone for VivaKi was the creation of its Dedicated processes proprietary SkySkraper platform (SkySkraper Data Collection CSR reports for previous years have already described the processProcess). The platform was designed as a vast smart library es introduced by VivaKi on Online Behavioral Advertising (OBA) (data storage), a powerful centralized data service for Publicis or Audience on Demand (AOD). On OBA, Groupe agencies apply Groupe agencies that gathers and «processes» all existing the Self-Regulatory Principles for Online Behavioral Advertising studies and data in the public domain, from around the in the United States, and the Best Practice Recommendation for world. Its aim is to save agencies spending amounts of time Online Behavioral Advertising in Europe. In other countries, searching for and sorting data. Housing multiple data sources similar work is under way and similar rules are being introduced in one common platform creates operational efficiencies. through joint efforts with the regulatory authorities or through a Groupe agencies can tap into its data as needed for their client campaigns. Client sensitive data is also protected process of self-regulation. VivaKi hi-tech tools provide monitoring, throughout this process and VivaKi complies scrupulously detection of any problems, traceability and oversight to ensure with all provisions on these key issues, with every concern for that the practices of the multiple partners involved are compliant data protection and security. The platform doesn’t gather any and their systems secure. VivaKi works with the vast majority of personally identified information (PII). Access to Skyskraper Internet players. Our aim is to enable our clients to work confidatabases is controlled by a highly secure process, using dently with a large number of providers, secure in the knowledge monitored infrastructures (AWS, ISO27001 certified). that both their own data and that of their online end-customers is well protected. Personal data protection is a burning issue worldwide, in many areas of activity other than the Groupe’s; it is a subject hotly debated by stakeholders, as technological progress advances in leaps and bounds. 53 5 LES SHARED SERVICES CENTERS (RE:SOURCES) 6 SHAREHOLDER AND INVESTOR RELATIONS The Shared Service Centers (Re:Sources) cover most of the The Investor Relations Department handles day-to-day relations support services vital to the work of our agencies: accounting, with investors and shareholders, organizing numerous meetings cash management, tax, legal services, real estate, purchasing, and exchanges in various countries (see the 2013 Registration remuneration and benefits, insurance, IT, etc. Document, Chapter 6.4.2). Re:Sources not only seek constantly to improve processes already in place, but also contribute their expertise in terms 7 of local regulations and the Groupe’s internal rules, with each center operating from a single platform in each of the Groupe’s MEDIA RELATIONS main markets. The centers more than meet the professional and internal control standards laid down for our frequent client and external audits, and also guarantee compliance with strict, Periodic press releases issued by the Groupe are available on the measurable productivity standards. corporate website, www.publicisgroupe.com In the IT field in general, Publicis Groupe is continuing to optiThe Groupe’s Communications Department is responsible for mize its infrastructure, through the introduction of collaborative corporate communications, coordinating the schedule of official tools (portal, e-mail, instant messaging, telepresence, VoIP) and Groupe announcements and messages from the Chairman and of private corporate Clouds, to provide the agility the Groupe’s senior management. Much of this work is carried out in close activities require and to tackle the issues of security and the collaboration with the Investor Relations Department. Agencies protection of proprietary data. Asia will soon join the Americas generally organize their communication in consultation with and Europe in having its own Cloud. The Re:Sources teams were their clients. They release regular information on their latest kept busy in 2013, successfully demonstrating the robustness of achievements, campaigns, awards and accolades. All this inforour infrastructure and their unflagging commitment to serving mation is available on www.publicisgroupe.com the Groupe’s agencies and clients. The Altaïr project The Groupe is continuing to prepare for its migration to a global enterprise resource planning (Global ERP) platform known as Altaïr. The aim of the project is to harmonize the processes governing client service and administrative functions across all the countries in which Groupe agencies operate. Altaïr will eliminate both hardware and software duplication and any interfaces incapable of operating internationally. Its deployment will mark the final stage in migrating our key processes to regional centers of excellence, in Europe and Asia in particular. A number of change management and training programs have been developed to ease the transition, and agency and Re:Sources teams are working together to ensure the smooth migration of the various existing systems to the future ERP. 54 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance 8 COMPLIANCE Publicis Groupe, whose activities consist essentially of providing intellectual services, recorded no incidents involving child labor or forced or compulsory labor, or any breach of the rights of indigenous peoples. Pending litigation: the legal proceedings involving a former employee of MSLGROUP in the United States, which was mentioned in the 2010, 2011 and 2012 CSR Reports, are still pending. In March 2014, the United States Court ruled that the case did not qualify for the status of class action, which the Groupe considers to be a positive step. The individual lawsuit is still pending. The Groupe continues to maintain that the claim is unfounded and remains determined to defend its case in the courts. Publicis Groupe recorded no incidents of non-compliance with: • regulations and voluntary codes concerning consumer health and safety; • regulations and voluntary codes concerning its product and service information; • regulations and voluntary codes concerning the provision and use of its services; • Publicis Groupe was involved in no claims for breach of privacy or loss of client data. • in 2012, a very small number (in single figures) of agencies experienced incidents of non-compliance with communications regulations and voluntary codes, generally in the form of notices and notifications issued by oversight or self-regulatory bodies, generating immediatly creations. • no legal action was brought against Publicis Groupe for breach of antitrust laws or for unfair competition or monopolistic practices. 55 CHAPTER 4 ENVIRONMENT “ In order to consume less, we need to consume better... and measure what we consume. ” 56 56 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Environment Harnessing our initiatives to the drive for ongoing progress • Pursuing a collaborative approach on an international scale: the Green Teams • Curbing our consumption and emissions • Environment: key figures 57 57 Environment 1 HARNESSING OUR INITIATIVES TO THE DRIVE In view of the highly decentralized nature of the Groupe, and the number of agencies involved, a central Environmental Management System (EMS) covering the whole of the Groupe was not felt FOR ONGOING PROGRESS to be a viable option. Many of the larger agencies have deployed a local EMS, however, including Leo Burnett, Arc, Saatchi & Saatchi, In 2007, Publicis Groupe signed the United Nations Caring for ZenithOptimedia and Starcom Mediavest in London, and Saatchi Climate pledge, as a mark of its willingness to engage actively in & Saatchi Brussels (EMAS-EASY); all are ISO 14001 certified. tackling the climate issues within its purview. Our current target remains in line with the European Union’s 20-20-208 environmental Certification policy policy. Our strategy is based on creating synergies between local Agency certification is dependent on local circumstances. In the projects, particularly those undertaken by the Green Teams of United States, United Kingdom and France, over 20 Groupe volunteer employees, and wider-reaching initiatives launched by agencies are ISO 14001 and/or ISO 9001 certified. This number is the CSR Department and the Procurement Department and with growing smoothly and stems from voluntary initiatives, sometimes the support of local Shared Services Centers (Re:Sources) teams. in response to client expectations or prompted by the local regulatory context. There are also other forms of voluntary certifications 4 key priorities setting standards for the communications industry, as well as more In the interests of promoting greater awareness of the major issues technical certifications awarded by technology partners. at stake, the environmental policy drawn up by the Groupe several years ago focuses on four key priorities in promoting awareness 5th greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions report of the major issues at stake: Calculated annually for the Groupe, the report provides a 1) reduce raw materials consumption; snapshot of the overall carbon footprint of our activities, plus a 2) limit energy consumption; more detailed view for each country and agency. This makes it 3) reduce business travel and its impacts; an invaluable tool to help us improve our environmental policy 4) enhance recycling and organized waste management programs. and adjust our objectives. For the fifth edition of the report, the This commitment calls for changes in behavior. If we are to achieve Groupe’s GHG emissions were calculated with the aid of Bureau our objectives j and reduce our carbon footprint, p , we must: Veritas. The scope covered represents over 95% of the Groupe. Method and scope are unchanged from 2012, but total emissions in 2013 are slightly higher. “ Consume less,, consume better. ” 2013 GHG EMISSIONS 300,000 240,447 250,000 • limit business travel by deploying more remote working solutions, collaborative tools and continuing the rollout of telepresence rooms; 200,000 Scope 1 • reduce our energy consumption by gradually replacing older equipment with more energy-efficient versions, and by encouraging 150,000 good practices and eco-friendly habits; 68,576 Scope 2 • improve the energy efficiency of our buildings and IT equipment 100,000 by opting for low-energy systems with each new investment; 9,141 • use renewable energy whenever possible; 50,000 Scope 3 • reduce our consumption of raw materials – mainly paper and water, by changing the types of paper or printing methods used; • make selective sorting the norm for everyday waste and set up Scope 1 GHG: energy sources: gas, fuel oil and other fluids + business travel (auto) recycling programs for waste electrical and electronic equipment Scope 2 GHG: purchased electricity Scope 3 GHG: other business travel and commuting (incl. air, rail, etc.) + fixed assets (WEEE). + consumables + waste 8 The European Union 20-20-20 strategy sets targets for 2020: reduce EU greenhouse gas emissions by at least 20% from 1990 levels, raise the share of EU energy consumption produced from renewable resources to 20%, and improve the EU’s energy efficiency by 20%. NB: The GHG protocol calculating method is based on average emission factors (and therefore include a certain degree of uncertainty), thus it only provides estimations by order of size, with its vocation being to encourage reducing GHG emissions and measure the progress made. The degree of uncertainty linked to drawing up the assessment of Publicis Groupe’s 2013 GHG emissions is estimated at 20%. 58 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance • journeys of under 3 hours to be made by rail rather than air (when Renewable energy the infrastructure permits); • investment in a fleet of company cars with emissions below the 26% legal minima (example: not exceeding 130g CO2 in Europe); • introduction of financial incentives to encourage employees to use public transport (particularly in urban areas) and set up car-pooling Energy consumption down schemes, and installation of bicycle parking facilities to encourage 6% employees to cycle to work. Down: consumption of energy, paper, water… Energy intensity down After travel, our major items of consumption and sources of impacts are, in descending order of magnitude: 13% (2.8 MWh per employee) • Energy: at an estimated 173,201 MWh (173,201,270 kWh compared to 185,070,100 kWh in 2012*) of which almost 26% came from renewable sources (on the basis of information published by energy suppliers), our energy consumption was down 6% 2 compared with 2012 and our energy intensity (energy consumpCURBING OUR tion per employee) down 13%. The progress made in reducing our consumption is not necessarily high profile, stemming largely CONSUMPTION from automated systems (which automatically switch off lightAND OUR EMISSIONS ing, computers, heating or air-conditioning), changing supplier, replacing existing lighting systems with low-energy bulbs, raising Consistent GHG emissions reporting has been maintained over teams’ awareness of good practices and eco-friendly habits (switch recent years in order to identify the Groupe’s major impacts. The off policy, etc.). natural growth in the Group’s business, however, has masked the improvements made in a number of areas, including energy and Changes in regulations introduced in many countries (and sometravel. The Groupe’s carbon intensity remained steady at 5 TeqC times even at city level) provide further incentives for progress. per employee (average for service sector companies: 5.3 to 8.8 TeqC The Groupe’s commitment on environmental issues is by no – source: Bureau Veritas). means new; agencies are encouraged to discuss environmental issues with building managers and to work with them on making Up: emissions related to business travel real improvements, especially as regards major items of equipBusiness travel, estimated at 1,034,110,000 km in 2013 (compared ment such as heating or air-conditioning systems. Experience to 865,856,000 km in 2012 9), most of it by air, remains the single has shown that every time an agency has invested in upgrading biggest source of GHG emissions by the Groupe. The increase over its energy system, appreciable savings were achieved as early as 2012 is a direct and automatic consequence of the Groupe’s growth. the first or, sometimes, the second year. Overall, the reductions in energy consumption may be anything from 15% to 30%, even The continued deployment of remote working solutions and if it is difficult to arrive at precise figures for buildings in which easier access to telepresence rooms is nonetheless offering teams we are not the sole tenants. This “small steps” policy has proven new opportunities for avoiding business travel and working extremely effective: the positive impacts are often swift and, most remotely with colleagues in different locations, especially on the importantly, tangible! internal aspects of project management. Our clients are increasingly familiar with the tools in question, making it much easier • Fixed assets (buildings, office equipment including IT hardware, to transform more and more face-to-face meetings into telemeetservers, etc.) are assessed mainly on our consumption of office and ings. For some things, however, nothing can replace face-to-face IT equipment, since most of our agencies rent their office space. Our meetings and discussions. fixed asset base in 2013 (desktop and laptop computers, tablets, photocopiers) was 86,816 machines (up from 77,610 in 2012). The A number of initiatives on good practices adopted by our agenincrease of almost 12% in the number of machines is consistent with cies over recent years – and which have had very positive direct the increase in Groupe headcount (equipment is replaced every environmental and economic impacts – deserve a mention: three years) and the growing number of mobile devices. IT product 9 Calculated as: business travel + commuting. 59 All printing should preferably be in black and white and two-sided (with the exception of graphic color printers). Almost 100% of the paper used in agencies is now certified or green, the sole exception Down 19% being special graphic papers; these are gradually falling out of use, however, as more and more activities go digital. Media agencies Paper consumption per employee receive large quantities of newspaper and magazines, and some have joined forces with specialist organizations to ensure that all the paper is reused or disposed of through dedicated recycling schemes. • Water: estimated consumption of 777,020 m3 for 2013, equivalent lifecycle management is a key sustainable development issue, parto 12.4 m3 per employee, was down 2% on 2012 (732,000 m3, ticularly in France, and most of our IT waste is disposed of via the or 12.7 m3 per employee). Because the Groupe’s activities are Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) collection and service-related, it is not always easy to obtain information on management program. Other aspects of the IT equipment lifecycle sources of supply. are either addressed directly at source under the terms of contracts Note: the widespread use of water fountains and water filter with manufacturers, or dealt with downstream by organizations systems has sharply reduced consumption of bottled water, now specializing in reuse. reserved solely for meetings and external visitors. In the case of water use for sanitary purposes, agencies are pressing ahead with • Paper: 2013 consumption was 1,560 metric tons (compared to measures to reduce their consumption (installation of sensors or 1,792 metric tons in 2012), down 13% in overall volume and water-saving devices). down 19% per employee, and consumables (ink cartridges, office supplies, etc.) have decreased of almost 5 %. Some of our Waste management and recycling agencies have managed to become virtually 100% digital, thanks At an estimated 5,750 metric tons (compared to 4,580 metric tons to the specialized nature of their business. All the Groupe’s in 2012), our waste volume is up by 26%. The increase is largely agencies, however, have made efforts to reduce their consumpto be laid at the door of better data traceability, especially at the tion and continue to keep a watchful eye on paper quality and media agencies, which receive large volumes of daily newspasourcing. In recent years, the number of printers deployed in the pers and magazines. Most of this waste is made up of paper and Groupe’s larger agencies has been cut by 20% and replaced by cardboard, over 50% of which is disposed of through traceable multi-function printers (MFPs). recycling systems (some agencies have achieved 100% traceability for their waste paper volumes, depending on the local system in place and the service providers chosen). Merchandise Mart: quite some building... Green certification for Groupe agencies The building, one of Chicago’s oldest and most imposing, in Germany was awarded LEED-EB Silver certification in 2007, making it the largest certified structure in the world at that time. In 2013, it was awarded Gold Certification by the US Green Building Council (USGBC), and also for the Energy & Environmental Design It is with considerable pride that our agencies made the Program. All the work on the building’s energy performance was announcement: it’s official; the Groupe offices in Dusseldorf carried out in conjunction with the tenants, including a number are now certified by the German Sustainable Building Council of Groupe agencies. The rules applicable to all tenants are (http://www.dgnb.de/en/) as an economically and environmentally simple yet strict. They cover everything from cleaning materials, sustainable building. The building is home to the headquarters which must meet the high standards of Green Seal Certification, of ZenithOptimedia Germany and to the Performics – Newcast, to the decorating materials (paints, carpets) used. The building’s VivaKi, and Saatchi & Saatchi agencies as well as the Re:Sources electrical systems were completely overhauled, as were the teams. water supply and consumption systems, cutting consumption Perhaps the most distinctive feature of this brand new building by almost half. The building also has its own bicycle parking and is the system that heats and cools rooms by circulating hot has set up a 24/7 hybrid car-sharing program known as I-Go for or cold water. Other key features include mechanical ventilation those working in the building. Considerable efforts have also systems in the conference rooms and a building façade made up been made on waste management and selective waste sorting, of 45% glass. Last but not least of its virtues, the building by encouraging employees to adopt eco-friendly habits. is powered by 100% green energy. 60 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Selective waste sorting is becoming the norm for agencies, espeThe aim behind this approach was to encourage everyone with cially for paper/cardboard, packaging (plastic/aluminum/glass) ideas on CSR issues to come together, whilst leaving agencies and other waste (mostly on a voluntary basis). Agencies have entirely free to decide on their own particular priorities. Some achieved outstanding performances, sometimes managing to halve agencies brought on board not just their employees, but clients, their volumes of waste. Trade-in systems to encourage the recycling suppliers and partners, too. A real momentum built up, resulting of printer ink cartridges (exchanging an empty cartridge for a full in concrete actions leading to results that were immediate, visible one) are working well, irrespective of the partner involved. The and all the stronger for being part of a joint effort. introduction of special collection bins for used batteries is also gaining ground. Computers and other electronic devices (including mobile phones, smartphones and tablets) are, as mentioned above, automatically recovered when new replacements are issued, to ensure that they Create and Impact 2013 either embark on a second life (re-use) or are sent for traceable recycling/destruction. Flexibility and simplicity for greater effectiveness 3 PURSUING A COLLABORATIVE Our agencies engage with social, societal and environmental issues on a day-to-day basis. Environmental initiatives, for example, can be divided into four main categories: APPROACH ON AN eco-transport (green transport), changing habits at work, INTERNATIONAL SCALE awareness of environmental issues and recycling. United we stand The in-house commitment to CSR issues is alive and well. Led by the CSR Department and agency managers, teams of voluntary employees, known as the Green Teams, are encouraged to come up with initiatives to raise eco-awareness in their respective agencies. The fact that these initiatives are local and backed up by a strong sense of personal involvement makes them all the more effective. 200 Green Teams 100 agencies geared up for «Create & Impact 2013» Create & Impact: a month of action in June 2013 The Green Teams’ third year marked a turning point in the history of collaborative projects. June 2013 was designated a Month of Action, with a single watchword: Create & Impact 2013. For a whole month, the combined efforts of over 100 agencies (mainly in the United States and Europe) converged on a single focus. The remaining agencies were free to take part in the initiative in their own time over the course of the year. 61 ENVIRONMENT: KEY DATA FOR THE LAST THREE YEARS Change in GHG emissions Carbon intensity 300,000 by scope in TeqC 240,447 2011* 2012** 2013 250,000 208,093 Scope 1 0.14 0.11 0.15 195,965 Scope 2 1.24 1.23 1.10 Scope 3 3.65 3.62 3.84 200,000 Total emissions Scope 1 + 2 + 3 5 5 5 Scope 1 GHG = energy sources: gas, fuel oil and other fluids + busi150,000 ness travel (auto) Scope 2 GHG = purchased electricity 70,672 Scope 3 GHG = other business travel and commuting (incl. air, rail, etc.) + fixed assets + consumables + waste 66,801 68,576 100,000 50,000 7,722 8,522 9,141 Scope 1 Scope 2 0 * 2011 scope: 90% to 95% of Groupe headcount 2011* 2012** 2013 Scope 3 ** 2012 scope: 97% of Groupe headcount Carbon footprint by emissions factor in TeqC 2011* 2012** 2013 Scope 1 Energy (direct emissions + fluids) 5,445 6,332 6,389 Transport (direct emissions from owned vehicles) 2,277 2,190 2,751 Total Scope 1 emissions 7,722 8,522 9,141 Change in Scope 1 (%) – 10% 7% Scope 2 Energy (indirect emissions) 66,801 70,672 68,576 Total Scope 2 emissions 66,801 70,672 68,576 Change in Scope 2 (%) – 6% -3% Scope 3 Energy 5,880 6,173 5,870 Consumption 25,718 32,212 32,030 Freight 226 296 282 Transport (commuting/emissions from non-owned vehicles) 35,018 37,457 46,051 Transport (business travel/ emissions from non-owned vehicles) 71,650 72,644 91,551 Waste 629 543 689 Fixed assets 56,845 58,768 63,973 Total Scope 3 emissions 195,965 208,093 240,447 Change in Scope 3 (%) – 6% 16% TOTAL EMISSIONS SCOPE 1 + 2 + 3 270,489 287,287 318,163 Change in Scope 1 + 2 + 3 (%) – 6% 11% 62 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Energy (MWh) 2011 2012 2013 Electricity consumption 170,519 185,070 173,201 Energy intensity per employee 3.2 3.2 2.8 Change in energy intensity (%) stable -13% Renewable energy as a proportion of total consumption 21% 23% 26% Water (m3) 2011 2012 2013 Total water consumption 800,000 731,334 775,106 Total water consumption per employee 14.8 12.7 12.4 Change in water consumption per employee 3.65 3.62 3.84 Raw materials consumption (metric tons) 2011 2012 2013 Paper consumption 1,910 1,792 1,558 Paper consumption per employee 0.035 0.031 0.025 Change in paper consumption per employee 11% 19% Waste (metric tons) 2011 2012 2013 Total waste 5,250 4,577 5,750 Waste per employee 0.10 0.08 0.09 Change in waste per employee -19% 13% Business travel (km) 2011 2012 2013 Business travel – by air 392,225,952 396,859,915 457,386,307 Business travel – by rail 10,819,904 12,775,955 13,352,833 Business travel – by road 54,920,716 126,812,060 119,413,971 Total distance covered 457,966,572 536,447,930 590,153,111 63 REPORT OF THE INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDITOR ASSURANCE STATEMENT At the request of Publicis Groupe, SGS ICS carried out an audit of the information included in the Corporate Social Responsibility report for the year ended December 31, 2013, in accordance with Decree no. 2012-557 dated April 24, 2012 relative to companies’ social and environmental transparency obligations, with regard to the application of article 225 of law no. 2010-788 dated July 12, 2010 and article 12 of law no. 2012-387 dated March 22, 2012, which amended article L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code and the order of May 13, 2013 determining the procedure to be used by the independent third-party organization when conducting its audit. NATURE AND SCOPE OF THE AUDIT SGS ICS observes that the Publicis Groupe voluntarily complies with the indicators of GRI G4 “Key Criteria” in terms of social and environmental matters and took this into consideration in carrying out its audit. The audit performed by SGS ICS consisted of: • reviewing the statement on sustainable development policies in relation to the social and environmental impacts of the Company’s business activities, its societal commitments and any actions that might stem from these policies and commitments; • verifying that the Company has a data collection process in place to ensure that the information mentioned in the Corporate Social Responsibility report is complete and consistent, and identifying any irregularities. • stating, at the request of Publicis Groupe, that we have arrived with reasonable assurance at the conclusion that the CSR information presented is sincere. TESTS SGS ICS conducted its audit of Publicis Groupe including its subsidiaries and controlled companies within an international geographic scope, with Publicis Groupe preparing consolidated financial statements. SGS ICS conducted an initial audit from November 19, 2013 to March 22, 2014, of all the information contained in the 2013 management report (see the 2013 Registration Document), followed by a second audit completed on May 22, 2014, of all the information contained in the 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility report, including additional random checks on the quantitative and qualitative data during the consolidation process. 41 subsidiaries, representing over 25% of the Groupe’s headcount, were audited and eight interviews were conducted with representatives of the main corporate functions. Checks were made on quantitative and qualitative data during the consolidation phase. We consider that the sampling methods and the size of the samples we used enable us to arrive at our conclusions with reasonable assurance. 64 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance STATEMENT OF INDEPENDENCE • Although there have been improvements in the collection and consolidation of information, more work is needed to ensure AND COMPETENCE that all contributors fully understand and adopt the indicators. SGS is the world’s leading inspection, verification, testing and • Internal control now includes checks on agencies’ non-financial certification company. Recognized as the global benchmark for data. Our site audits are evidence that the new procedure has quality and integrity, SGS employs more than 80,000 employees been deployed. and operates a network of more than 1,500 offices and laboratories around the world. Signed in Arcueil, May 23, 2014 SGS ICS is a wholly owned French subsidiary of the SGS Group. SGS ICS France SGS ICS declares that its audit and findings were prepared in 29 avenue Aristide Briand complete independence and impartiality with regard to Publicis F94111 ARCUEIL Cedex Groupe and that the tasks performed were completed in line Téléphone + 33 (0) 1 41 24 88 56 with the SGS Group’s code of ethics and in accordance with the Fax + 33 (0) 1 41 24 71 29 professional best practices of an independent third party. www.sgs.com Auditors are authorized and appointed to each audit assignment Technical Audit Director, based on their knowledge, experience and qualifications. Stéphane LANGLOIS ASSURANCE OPINION Based on Publicis Groupe’s statement on sustainable development policies, the social and environmental impacts of the Company’s business activities, its societal commitments and the due diligence implemented, we declare that we found no significant irregularity that would call into question the fair presentation of the information included in the 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility report. OBSERVATIONS • The internal reference base for the reporting of environmental, social and societal indicators has been enhanced for greater pertinence. Training for validators and contributors around the world has, on the whole, been well followed through. • The Publicis Groupe introduced a new information system, “NORMA”, with the aim of improving the collection of qualitative data and at the same time improving data quality and reliability. This aim was achieved. The improvement in reporting has enabled the Company to provide its stakeholders with more, and more accurate, information in its 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility report, the better to illustrate the efforts being made. Some agencies, however, need to become more familiar with how best to use the new software. 65 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE GRI G4 Find information Global Compact ISO “Essential criteria” here Principles 26000 GENERAL REPORTING PRINCIPLES 2013 CSR Report A Meeting with Maurice Lévy Strategy and analysis G4-1 p. 4-5 4.7; 6.2; 7.4.2 2013 Registration Document* Activities and strategy, chap. 2.4, p. 69 2013 CSR Report p. 6-7 Groupe profile p. 8-9 Publicis Groupe networks p. 10-11 The Group’s clients 6.3.10; 6.4.1; 6.4.2; p. 17-31 Social 3, 4, 6 Organizational profile G4-3 to G4-16 6.4.3; 6.4.4; 6.4.5; p. 33-47 Community and 7 6.8.5 2013 Registration Document* Consolidated financial statements, chap. 4, p. 111-118 2103 Annual Report* 2013 CSR Report Identified material G4-17 to G4-23 p. 6-7 The Publicis Groupe networks 5.2; 7.3.2; 7.3.3 aspects and boundaries p. 12-13 Methodological framework 2013 CSR Report Stakeholder engagement G4-24 to G4-27 5.4 p. 14-15 Our stakeholders 2013 CSR Report Report profile G4-28 to G4-33 p. 12-13 Methodological framework 7.5.3; 7.6.2; 7.7.4 p. 68 Auditor’s report 2013 Registration Document Governance G4-34 p. 7-25 Governance and remuneration, 6.2; 7.4.3; 7.7.5 chap. 1.2, p. 7-25 2013 CSR Report p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical principles p. 55 Compliance 2013 Registration Document* Ethics and integrity G4-56 10 4.4; 6.6.3 Internal control and risk management procedures, chap. 1.1.5.2 p. 23-25 Code of ethics, chap. 1.1.7 p. 27 Our principles and values* Code of Conduct* SOCIAL INFORMATION a) Employment 2013 CSR Report Total headcount G4-9 p. 4-5 Profile of the Groupe 6.4.3 p. 30-31 Our teams: key figures 2013 CSR Report 6.2.3; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; Employees by gender, G4-10; LA1; LA12 p. 4-5 Profil du Groupe 6.4.3; 6.8.1; 6.8.2; age and region p. 18-31 Chapitre social 6.8.5; 6.8.7 Recruitment 2013 CSR Report EC6; LA1 6.4.3 and dismissals p. 18 Recruter et maintenir dans l’emploi p. 29 2013 CSR Report La politique de rémunération 2013 Registration Document 6.3.7; 6.3.10; 6.4.3; Remuneration EC1; EC5 Gouvernance et rémunérations, 6.4.4; 6.8.1-6.8.2; and changes chap.1.2, p. 28-44 6.8.3; 6.8.7; 6.8.9 chap.5.4 Note 5, p.201 et Note 23, p.210 2013 CSR Report p. 19-20 Listening to our teams Labor practices LA16 6.4 p. 20-21 Encouraging mobility p. 55 Compliance * Documents available on the Publicis Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 66 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance GRI G4 Find information Global Compact ISO “Essential criteria” here Principles 26000 SOCIAL SOCIALINFORMATION INFORMATION b) Organization of work Organization 2013 CSR Report 6.4.6 of working hours p. 28-31 Promoting work-life balance 2013 CSR Report Absenteeism p. 18, 30-31 Recruiting and retaining people 6.4.6 p. 27-28 Health and safety in the workplace c) Labor relations Organization of social dialogue: rules and 2013 CSR Report 6.3.10; 6.4; 6.4.3 ; procedures for information, LA4 p. 29 Facilitating social dialogue 3 6.4.4; 6.4.5 consultation and negotiation p. 26 Diversity in France with employees Review of collective 2013 CSR Report 3 6.4.3; 6.4.6 agreements p. 26 Diversity in France d) Occupational health and safety Occupational health 2013 CSR Report LA2; LA5 4 and 5 6.4.4; 6.4.6; 6.8.7 and safety conditions p. 27-28 Health and safety in the workplace Review of formal agreements with trade 2013 CSR Report unions or employee LA8 p. 26 Diversity in France 4 and 5 6.4.6 representatives on p. 27-28 Health and safety in the workplace occupational health and safety Frequency and severity rates of work-related p. 27-28, 2013 CSR Report LA6; LA7 4 and 5 6.4.6; 6.8.8 accidents and recording 30-31 Health and safety in the workplace of occupational diseases 2013 CSR Report Occupational diseases LA6 4 and 5 6.4.6; 6.8.8 p. 27-28 Health and safety in the workplace e) Training Training policy 2013 CSR Report LA10; LA11 6.4.7; 6.8.5 implemented p. 22-23 Developing professional skills 2013 CSR Report Total number of hours LA9; HR2 p. 22-23 Developing professional skills 6.4.7 of training delivered p. 29 Protecting human rights f) Equal opportunity 2013 CSR Report p. 24-26 Fostering diversity, Measures taken fighting discrimination 6.2.3; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; to promote equal LA3; LA12; LA13 1, 2 and 6 p. 28 Promoting work-life balance 6.4.3; 6.6.6 opportunity p. 29-31 Facilitating social dialogue Remuneration policy Measures taken to 2013 CSR Report promote employment and Fostering diversity, 6.2.3; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; LA12 1, 2 and 6 employment opportunities fighting discrimination 6.4.3 for the disabled 2013 CSR Report Anti-discrimination 6.2.3; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; LA12 Fostering diversity, 1, 2 and 6 policy 6.4.3 fighting discrimination * Documents available on the Publicis Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 67 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE GRI G4 Find information Global Compact ISO “Essential criteria” here Principles 26000 SOCIAL INFORMATION g) Promotion of and respect for ILO fundamental conventions 2013 CSR Report p. 29 Protecting human rights p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical Freedom of association 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.5; 6.3.8; HR4 principles 3 and collective bargaining 6.3.10; 6.4.5; 6.6.6 p. 55 Compliance Our principles and values* Code of Conduct* 2013 CSR Report p. 24-26 Fostering diversity, fighting discrimination Elimination of discrimination p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical 6.3.6; 6.3.7; 6.3.10; in respect of employment HR3 3 principles 6.4.3 and occupation p. 55 Compliance Our principles and values* Code of Conduct* 2013 CSR Report p. 29 Protecting human rights p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical Abolition of forced 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.5; HR6 principles 4 or compulsory labor 6.3.10; 6.6.6 p. 55 Compliance Our principles and values* Code of Conduct* 2013 CSR Report p. 29 Protecting human rights p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.5; Effective abolition HR5 principles 5 6.3.7; 6.3.10; 6.6.6; of child labor p. 55 Compliance 6.8.4 Our principles and values* Code of Conduct* ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION a) General environmental policy Measures taken by 2013 CSR Report the organization to deal p 58 Harnessing our initiatives with environmental issues to the drive for ongoing progress G4-1 7, 8 and 9 6.5.1; 6.5.2 and, where appropriate, environmental assessment or certification approaches Employee training 2013 CSR Report and information initiatives p. 59-61 Curbing our consumption 7, 8 and 9 6.5.1; 6.5.2 on issues of environmental and emissions protection p. 61 Pursuing a collaborative approach Resources devoted 2013 CSR Report to the prevention p. 59-61 Curbing our consumption EN31 7, 8 and 9 6.5.4 of environmental risks and emissions and pollution p. 61 Pursuing a collaborative approach b) Pollution and waste management 2013 CSR Report Measures taken p. 59-61 Curbing our consumption to prevent, recycle 7, 8 and 9 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.7.5 and emissions and eliminate waste p. 60-63 Waste management and recycling c) Sustainable use of resources Water consumption 2013 CSR Report and supply depending EN8; EN9 p. 59-63 Curbing our consumption 7, 8 and 9 6.5.4 on local constraints and emissions * Documents available on the Publicis Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 68 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance GRI G4 Find information Global Compact ISO “Essential criteria” here Principles 26000 SOCIAL INFORMATION ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION 2013 CSR Report Raw materials consumption p. 59-61 Curbing our consumption and measures taken to EN1; EN2 7, 8 and 9 6.5.4 and emissions ensure more effective use p. 61-63 Pursuing a collaborative approach Energy consumption 2013 CSR Report and measures taken to p. 59-61 Curbing our consumption EN3; EN5; EN6; improve energy efficiency and emissions 7, 8 and 9 6.5.4; 6.5.5 EN7 and the use of renewable p. 61-63 Pursuing a collaborative approach energy d) Climate change 2013 CSR Report EN15; EN16; Greenhouse gas (GHG) p. 58 5th GHG emissions report EN17; EN18; 7, 8 and 9 6.5.5 emissions p. 59-63 Curbing our consumption EN19; EN30 and emissions 2013 CSR Report Adaptation to p. 58 5th GHG emissions report the consequences G4-28 to G4-33 7, 8 and 9 6.5.5 p. 59-63 Curbing our consumption of climate change and emissions INFORMATION ON SOCIETAL COMMITMENTS IN FAVOR OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT a) Regional, economic and social impact of the company’s activity 2013 CSR Report p. 4-5 Profile of the Groupe p. 51 Working with our suppliers 2013 Registration Document 6.4.3; 6.7.9; 6.8.1; As regards employment EC1; EC6; EC7; Governance and remuneration, 6.8.2; 6.8.3; 6.8.7; and regional development EC8 Chap. 1.2, p. 28-44 6.8.9 Consolidated financial statements p. 111 Chap. 5.4 Note 5, p.201 and Note 23, p.210 2013 CSR Report p. 34-44 Understanding communities’ needs 6.4.3; 6.7.9; 6.8.1; On neighboring EC6; EC7; EC8; p. 36-41 Putting our talents to work 6.8.2; 6.8.3; 6.8.7; or local populations HR8; SO2 for good causes 6.8.9 p.43 Our teams and their commitment p. 61 Create & Impact b) Relations with stakeholders and interested parties 2013 CSR Report p. 12-13 Methodological framework Conditions of dialogue p. 14-15 Our stakeholders G4-26; G4-37 5.3; 6.8.9 with stakeholders p. 44 Fostering relationships with professional organizations and institutions 2013 CSR Report p. 24-26 Cultivating diversity p. 34-44 Understanding communities’ needs Partnership p. 36-41 Putting our talents to work EC7 5.3; 6.8.9 or sponsorship initiatives for good causes p. 43 Our teams and their commitment p. 61 Create & Impact Sponsorship Charter* c) Subcontractors and suppliers LA14; LA15; 2013 CSR Report 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.5; Provision made in EN33; HR5; p. 51 Working with our suppliers 6.3.7; 6.3.8; 6.3.10; purchasing policy for social HR9; HR10; p. 60 Curbing our consumption 6.4; 6.4.3; 6.4.4; and environmental issues HR11 and emissions 6.6.6; 6.8.4 * Documents available on the Publicis Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 69 CORRESPONDENCE TABLE GRI G4 Find information Global Compact ISO “Essential criteria” here Principles 26000 INFORMATION ON SOCIETAL COMMITMENTS IN FAVOR OF SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT c) Subcontractors and suppliers 2013 CSR Report The importance of LA14; LA15; p. 51 Working with our suppliers 6.3.3; 6.3.4; 6.3.5; 6.3.7; subcontracting and CSR EN32; EN33; p. 55 Compliance 1 and 2 6.3.8; 6.3.10; 6.4 ; 6.4.3; in relations with suppliers HR5; HR9; HR10; p. 60 Curbing our consumption 6.4.4; 6.6.6; 6.8.4 and subcontractors SO9; SO10 and emissions d) Fair practices 2013 CSR Report p. 50 Anti-corruption policy and procedures p. 55 Compliance G4-56; G4-57; 2013 Registration Document* Anti-corruption G4-58; SO3; SO4; Code of Ethics, Chap. 1.1.7, p. 27 10 6.7.3 measures SO5 Risks associated with the Groupe’s international presence, Chap. 2.8.4, p.94 Code of Conduct* 2013 CSR Report p. 50 Raising teams’ awareness of ethical 4.6; 6.5.3; 6.5.4; 6.5.5; Measures to promote EN27; PR1; PR2; principles 6.7.1; 6.7.2; 6.7.3; customer health PR3; PR4; PR6; p. 52-53 Ethics: the new challenges posed 10 6.7.5; 6.7.6, 6.7.7; and safety PR7; PR8; PR9 by digital 6.7.9 p. 55 Compliance Our principles and values* 2013 CSR Report p. 29 Protecting human rights HR1; HR2; HR7; p. 37 Putting our talents to work 6.3.1; 6.3.2; 6.3.3; Other initiatives HR8; HR9; for good causes 1 and 2 6.3.4; 6.3.5; 6.3.6; to protect human rights HR10; HR11; p. 43 Our teams and their commitment 6.6.6 HR 12 p. 51 Working with our suppliers Our principles and values* NON PERTINENT INDICATORS GRI G4 «Essential criteria» ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION a) General environmental policy Amount of provisions and warranties against environmental risks EC2; EN29 b) Pollution and waste management Measures taken to prevent, reduce or mitigate releases to air, water or soil with significant environmental impacts EN10; EN20; EN21; EN22; EN23; EN24 Measures taken to prevent, recycle and eliminate waste EN28 Consideration of noise and other forms of pollution specific to an activity EN24 c) Sustainable use of resources Land use EN11 d) Climate change Measures taken to conserve or develop biodiversity EN12; EN13; EN14; EN26 * Documents available on the Publicis Groupe website www.publicisgroupe.com 70 CODE Economics Environment Society Governance Note to readers In addition to this CSR report, readers are invited to consult a number of other publications which provide detailed information on the Groupe, its operations and organization: 2013 Registration Document 2013 Annual Report Code of Conduct: Groupe Standards of Conduct and Behavior Code of Conduct: Groupe Standards of Conduct for Groupe CEo and CFO and Brand CEOs and CFOs Publicis Groupe Principles and Values Publicis Groupe Sponsorship Charter United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress All these documents are available to the public at www.publicisgroupe.com Credits Photos: Marianne Rosenstiehl May 2014 Make-up: Farida Thiré Equipment: Lumière RVZ Design and production Publicis Groupe SA 133, avenue des Champs-Élysées 75008 Paris Tél. : (0)1 44 43 70 00 www.publicisgroupe.com 71 The digital version of this document is conform to Web content accessibility standards, WCAG 2.0, and is certified ISO 14289-1. Its design enables people with motor disabilities to browse through this PDF using keyboard commands. Accessible for people with visual impairments, it has been tagged in full, so that it can be transcribed vocally by screen readers using any computer support. It has also been tested in full and validated by a visually-impaired expert. e-accessibility
