CSR Communication on Progress 2013/2014 Visit csrr.adecco.com Contents 3 The Adecco Group 4 Key figures 6 Message from the Corporate Governance Committee Chair and the CEO 8 Our business & CSR 13 Our CSR strategy 18 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension 22 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension 54 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension 57 Our sustainability performance and goals 59 External acknowledgements on our sustainability performance 61 GRI Content Index 68 Further reading 72 Glossary 74 CSR Governance and contacts 76 Imprint CSR CoP 2013/2014 2 The Adecco Group We inspire individuals and organisations to work more effectively and efficiently, and create greater choice in the domain of work, for the benefit of all concerned. As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions – a business that has a positive impact on millions of people every day – we are conscious of our global role. Helping people to better work, better life is our common purpose and the way in which we contribute to society. CSR CoP 2013/2014 3 32,000~ 700,000~ 100,000+ 5,400~ Key figures FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT ASSOCIATES ON CLIENTS BRANCHES IN OVER 60 EMPLOYEES 1 ASSIGNMENT DAILY 2 EVERY DAY 2 COUNTRIES & TERRITORIES 1 Labour market facts & trends 1 Year-end 2012 2 Average 2012 36 MILLION PEOPLE EACH YEAR, OUR AS AN INDUSTRY, IN AGENCY WORK INDUSTRY PROVIDES WE HAVE MADE A IN 2012 8.3 MILLION PEOPLE PLEDGE TO UP-SKILL The role of our industry – from the WITH MORE WORK 65 MILLION PEOPLE Ciett Economic Report 2014 CHOICES THROUGH The industry confederation is Providing employment for millions • 11.5 million agency workers were UP-SKILLING strengthening that role and we collecemployed daily in 2012 tively made 5 pledges in May 2012 to • The USA employs the largest number We are well on the way to work! build better labour markets and proof agency workers with 11.5 million Annually, our industry… vide work opportunities and hope to people gaining employment through • Supports 36 million people in their millions of people every day: agency work each year job life • Support 280 million people in their • Europe employs 8.2 million people in • Helps 12.9 million young people job life agency work each year enter the labour market • Help 75 million young people enter • Serves 2.3 million companies 1 the labour market Whatever their skills levels • 77% of agency workers have at best • Up-skill 65 million people, giving finished their secondary education them more work choices • Create 18 million more jobs Giving younger generations the chance to step onto the career ladder • On average, 61% of agency workers 35% OF PEOPLE ARE • Serve 13 million companies with the right talents to succeed 1 are under 30 years of age UNEMPLOYED BEFORE, 14%, AFTER AGENCY WORK EACH YEAR, OUR 73 MILLION YOUNG Agency work helps unemployed find INDUSTRY CREATES PEOPLE ARE jobs and remain in employment • Agency work is not only a short time 3.1 MILLION MORE UNEMPLOYED solution, but provides a stepping JOBS WORLDWIDE stone into long term employment • Germany, South Africa, Greece and How our industry creates employment Sweden are the strongest examples • Two thirds of organisations would Main trends in the global labour not have created jobs without of this stepping stone function of market access to agency work agency work 1. C  ontinued high unemployment – • 70% of temporary agency work • Agency work provides a stepping above all youth unemployment stone from unemployment into work assignments are over 1 month 2. S kills and geographical mismatch – • A high percentage of agency millions of jobs do not get filled workers remain in employment 3. G reater need for flexibility – for after 1 year’s experience 1 companies to remain competitive 4. Fewer jobs for lower skilled workers 1 Source: Ciett ‘The Voice for Labour Choice’ (corporate leaflet) 2014. CSR CoP 2013/2014 4 Adecco 31,000+ 650,000+ 100,000+ 5,100+ FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT ASSOCIATES ON CLIENTS BRANCHES IN OVER 60 1 Year-end 2013 EMPLOYEES 1 ASSIGNMENT DAILY 2 EVERY DAY 2 COUNTRIES & TERRITORIES 1 2 Average 2013 ACROSS THE GLOBE ACROSS THE BUSINESS WORLD – HR SOLUTIONS AND SERVICES STAFFING SOLUTIONS General Staffing Professional Staffing Business Process Career Transition & Talent Outsourcing Solutions Development Services · Office · Information Technology · Managed Services · Outplacement · Industrial · Engineering & Technical Programmes (MSP) · Leadership Development · Finance & Legal · Recruitment Process · Career Development · Medical & Science Outsourcing (RPO) · Change Management · Vendor Management Solutions System (VMS) · Training  · Consulting ACROSS BORDERS – INTERNATIONAL MOBILITY 2013 CANDIDATE L A ST YEAR Through our Candidate International Mobility programme, INTER NATIONAL MOBILIT Y over 2,000 Adecco helped more than 2,000 people find new employment candidates found an international opportunity across borders in 2013. thanks to Adecco. WITH A FOCUS ALWAYS WHERE THEY FOUND JOBS ON PEOPLE – BETTER WORK 213 BETTER LIFE Norway 17 229 215 The Netherlands Finland Canada 115 8 • Coaching, career guidance, new skills Belgium Germany improving employability 12 USA 14 Bulgaria • Consecutive assignments – variety of experiences 104 to upgrade skills sets France 225 Switzerland 126 United Arab Emirates • International mobility 53 28 Qatar Colombia Uruguay 12 WHERE THEY C A ME FROM 475 291 236 137 82 68 40 30 20 15 14 11 6 Poland UK France USA Portugal Spain Slovak Denmark India Romania Hungary Sweden Taiwan Republic CSR CoP 2013/2014 5 Lifelong employment adapted to personal, family, generational and geographical needs and abilities for everyone is the aim of our industry. Dear Stakeholder, ‘Better work, better life’ – This is why we take concrete action through our global programmes such as the Adecco Way to Work™, Win4Youth and It’s our passion the International Olympic Committee and International Paralympic Committee Athlete Career Programmes. These initiaAs a global team of 31,000 colleagues, we are passionate tives are concrete examples of how we endeavour to increase about improving the world of work. Every year, we make an the employability of people at risk of exclusion from the workimpact on the lives of more than 3 million people and their force. We offer educational materials, training, work experifamilies – from school leavers to mature workers – providing ence and career guidance: We provide the practical tools to them with employment in a wide range of industries and funchelp them overcome barriers, and connect them with compations. We support enterprises, from large corporations to small nies and jobs. family businesses, matching talents and skills with their needs. We make sure that our customers have the flexibility to Indeed, people with the right skills have become the key redeal with the uncertainty of a complex and volatile economic source of the global economy. How countries and organisaenvironment. tions manage their talent will increasingly determine their competitive advantage. In November 2013, Adecco launched In times of economic instability, our responsibility and role the first Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) in partnerhave become even more important. Creating jobs, transformship with INSEAD and the Human Capital Leadership Institute ing careers through training and helping young people to enof Singapore. Our annual study measures the competitiveness ter the job market are at the very core of what we do. The fiof over 100 countries based on the quality of skilled people nancial crisis has turned into an employment crisis; and young they can develop, attract and retain. It provides private and people have been harder hit than others. Youth unemploypublic decision-makers with insights to where action must be ment is undoubtedly one of the biggest problems of our times. taken to implement and assess the effectiveness of talentToday 23.5% of youth are out of work across Europe. Just think related policies and practices. that in Greece more than 55% of young people are jobless. Globally, the ILO estimates that almost 73 million youngsters The Industry Leadership and Gold Standard distinction we are excluded from work 1. achieved in the 2013 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices review is a recognition of our global and local initiatives in the EcoWork is a basic human need and contributes to people’s wellnomic, Social and Environmental sphere. We take pride in this being, as well as to healthy societies and economies. We canachievement and see it as an opportunity to reach even greatnot sit back and watch as people at risk of exclusion lose their er goals in Corporate Social Responsibility and in what we do dreams and their aspiration to simply be a part of the active every day: providing more than 650,000 people with work and workforce growing their talent. 1 ILO: Global Employment Trends for Youth 2013 CSR CoP 2013/2014 6 What we do at Adecco is not simply a job, it’s our passion; it is what unites us in achieving our economic goals and our social and environmental targets. It’s what drives us every day. Therefore, a natural addition to our four core values – Team Spirit, Customer Focus, Responsibility and Entrepreneurship – is Passion. A value which has made and will make us improve the way people work – one job at a time. We thank all stakeholders – our colleagues, associates and candidates, clients, suppliers and our investors – who join us and engage with us and share our passion to improve the world of work and make ‘better work, better life’ a reality for millions of people around the world. Patrick De Maeseneire Wanda Rapaczynski Chief Executive Officer Member of the Board of Directors, Chairwoman, Corporate Governance Committee CSR CoP 2013/2014 7 We feel it is our responsibility to help people to better work, better life by creating opportunities in the labour market for all. Our business & CSR How CSR relates to our business Better work, better life In our global organisation, spanning over 60 countries, CSR is Colleagues Associates/ part of our business strategy, overseen by the Corporate Ý Þ Candidates Governance Committee and the CEO and is the designated Better work, responsibility of management throughout our business operbetter life ations. Clients ß à Public Space CSR Governance within the Adecco Group Board of Directors As the world’s leading provider of HR solutions, Adecco believes work is a basic human need. Our responsibility is to Corporate Governance Committee bring to life the principle of ’better work, better life’ amongst all our stakeholders. 'Better work, better life' is our job. Every Executive Committee Experts Groups day we help many companies to succeed by bringing together work teams with skills and attitudes that best match their CEO Adecco Group Head Group needs. Every day, we ensure that around 650,000 associates Communications worldwide have the best possible jobs. We help our employees and associates to succeed and grow by training, coaching We participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Assessment, and recognition of their achievements. In effect, they choose the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the FTS4Good Index Series. to work with us. And we also submit our Communication on Progress (CoP) on a yearly basis to the UN Global Compact and apply the Global 'Better work, better life' is what we care about when Adecco Reporting Initiative GRI Guidelines. teams worldwide volunteer their time and expertise in their communities to help to bring disadvantaged people into employment. Work is the foundation of personal and family life, corporate and organizational success, social stability and economic development. Choice in the domain of work supports people to develop and apply their talents and it gives a purpose to peoples’ lives by building a sense of inclusion in society. CSR CoP 2013/2014 8 Our values & leadership principles • We are passionate about people: our colleagues, candidates, associates and clients Our five core values – team spirit, customer focus, passion, • We make a difference for millions of people every responsibility and entrepreneurship – are at the very heart of year how we operate. They are shared and brought to life by all • We find people work, give them experience and our employees around the globe and reflect how we do busithe opportunity to build their future ness. Our five core values are in line with our promise to de• Q uite simply, what we do is not a job, it’s our liver ’better work, better life’ for our stakeholders. passion Values & Leadership Principles • Work is a basic need and a basic right: by finding people the right job, we provide them and their family with an income, status and a future • We promote diversity, equality and inclusivity in 'Better work, the workforce better life' • We lead by example, we act with integrity and respect Our core values • We volunteer personal time and contribute to our communities. • We take ownership and stand by our own results •  e act upon opportunities W • We learn fast from success and failure Our leadership principles • We inspire others and continuously seek innovative solutions Leadership principles Values •  eople who have values and make decisions, who P establish priorities, who can analyse and solve • W  e share clients and associates across branches, problems and who answer questions concretely business units and countries and appropriately without letting their ‘sense of • We share ideas and best practises self‘ cloud their answers. • We help our colleagues to grow personally and professionally • People who know how to reach out to other peo• We work hard and play hard; we have fun in what ple‘s hearts, who are able to make the most of we do. others, appreciating and respecting them, and are able to focus the energies of their co-workers and •  e build lasting relationships with our clients and W colleagues on a common objective. associates • We create value for our clients: • People who love their work and are willing to go We provide them with the best talent on time the extra mile. We help them to be competitive through flexibility • We partner with our associates in their career development We find them the best jobs to fit with their personal and professional life We advise them in their career progression and support their learning. CSR CoP 2013/2014 9 Adecco’s contribution to people, enterprises and the economy at large Economies ADECCO GROUP Enterprises Individuals How HR services benefit Enhancing occupational and geographic mobility We have a deep knowledge of labour markets in the over 60 countries the labour market and territories worldwide, where we operate. While there are barriers to mobility, such as language or cultural differences, Lifelong employment for everyone, adapted to personal, fameconomically difficult conditions and resulting high (youth) unily, generational and geographical needs and abilities is the employment will, we believe, further increase mobility of talent. aim of our industry. HR services companies help people find a For individuals, we offer legally recognised and regulated work permanent, fixed-term or temporary job as well as enhancing opportunities, facilitate on-the-job training and enhance occutheir employability through career counselling, education and pational and geographic mobility. While numbers are still low, continuous training. trends are emerging in worker mobility across Europe. During 2013, we supported workers from Poland, the UK, the USA, A stepping stone into employment HR services companies France, Portugal and Spain amongst others to find new emare a stepping stone for the unemployed and young people to ployment abroad. In total, more than 2,000 associates found (re-)enter the job market. According to the Eurociett study jobs across borders thanks to our International Candidate Mo'Adapting to Change' 1, 35% of temporary workers in Europe bility programme. are below the age of 25 and use temporary work as their first opportunity to gain work experience. On average 37% of all Supporting properly regulated employment services Our temporary workers are officially registered as unemployed services and knowledge around work bring us into construcbefore finding a temporary job. Twelve months after having tive dialogue with governments, labour organisations and finished work on a temporary basis, only 15% of temporary related bodies such as the UN, the ILO, the EU and national workers are registered as unemployed again. staffing federations, amongst others. To maximise the benefits of HR services in delivering greater labour market efficiency, Providing a variety of services to diverse industries The specrelevant regulation should balance flexibility with security, for trum of the HR solutions and services we offer is vast, as is the both workers and businesses. Adecco is supportive of interdiversity of our client base. It encompasses industry sectors national instruments that provide guidelines to properly regusuch as Office, Industrial, Information Technology, Engineering late private employment services, such as the ILO Convention & Technical, Finance & Legal, Medical & Science, Business 181 at global and the EU Agency Work Directive at European Process Outsourcing Solutions and Career Transition & Talent level. The convention was adopted in 1997 and recognises the Development Services. role HR services companies play in a well-functioning labour market and emphasizes the protection of the workers using Meeting the needs We maintain a constant dialogue with their services. Adecco, Eurociett and the national associations clients and workers as well as with societal, governmental and continue to advocate for the correct implementation of the EU business stakeholders to create more and better work opporAgency Work Directive, focusing on the appropriate regulation tunities for individuals worldwide. Economies, enterprises and and lifting of unjustified restrictions. Adecco was actively inindividuals all have to face seasonal, cyclical and structural volved in the Directive’s review process, which was conducted market changes and as a labour market intermediary, we help by the European Commission and which led to a report, pubthem to adapt and react to these challenges. lished in December 2013, confirming that all Member States 1 'Adapting to Change How private employment services facilitate adaptation to change, better labour markets and decent work'. A report by the Boston Consulting Group BCG and Ciett. CSR CoP 2013/2014 10 have adopted measures to implement Directive 2008/104/EC Materiality – choosing our on temporary agency work. In 2013, Adecco alongside Eurociett engaged in the EU Commission’s social partners’ consultasustainability priorities tion around prevention and deterrence of undeclared work. Eurociett submitted its contribution in the form of a position Our stakeholders’ concerns Work is a key part of life and paper to the second stage consultation of the European Comcontributes to a well-functioning society. The labour market mission. The position paper illustrates that a well-regulated, influences and is influenced by individuals, small businesses, less restricted agency work industry can play an important global corporations, investors, and society at large. Their conrole in the prevention and deterrence of undeclared work and cerns in the CSR ambit co-shape our agenda. supports the initiative to set up a European Platform for the purpose of exchanging best practice, information and to provide recommendations to Member States on the topic. Access the position paper Adecco is conscious of the environmental impact our operations can have and the difference we are able to make to our own performance also by supporting clients with their GHG 2 reduction goals. Therefore, in 2010 we started to collect data on our CO2 emissions in our 10 largest markets including the global headquarters. In 2013, the reporting was stepped up to 13 countries including the Group’s global Headquarters, covering over 86% of the Adecco Group in terms of revenue, which has led to a much improved database and resulting information. Through benchmarking with similar industries, a company-wide emission reduction target was defined in 2012 of 12% by 2022. Our main stakeholder groups and their major concerns (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) Our main stakeholder groups Concerns Our employees Employees, candidates and associates, all socio-economic back• Work as a basic need grounds, ages and abilities • Work generates income, is a basis for independence • Work as opportunity, as a pathway into a personal future • Work as social value which creates and fosters relationships Our clients Small and large, global and local, private and •  Human Resources management as a key factor for competitive public employers from all industry sectors ability and growth • Top talents for top jobs • The right person at the right time • Flexibility in the ever evolving markets Our investors Individual and institutional investors, • Profitability and return on investment analysts and stock market index providers • Sustainable growth • Corporate Governance • Risks and opportunities Socially and environmentally responsible investments The concerns we learn • Society at large from stakeholder diaCommunities, governments and related bodies, media, • Employment rates logue help us to prioritise research institutes, etc. • Work as social integration for vulnerable groups • Undeclared work as a burden for social costs our CSR core subjects • Decent work conditions and issues. 2 Green House Gas. CSR CoP 2013/2014 11 Adecco provides opportunity for young people (select countries) Youth unemployment rates 15–24 year-olds, as % of total labour force % of 15–24 year-olds 60 60 40 40 20 20 m nd s nd nd a in ce ly Ita ain an y m s nd nd nd a in ce ly Ita n ai y an iu la la nt an Sp iu la la nt an Sp lg la Po Fin ge Fr rm lg la Po Fin ge Fr rm Be er Ge Be er Ge th Ar th Ar Ne Ne 15–24 year-olds, amongst 15–24 year-olds, amongst all Adecco associates employed in local labour market Adecco’s age distribution shows substantially higher rates of young people compared to national labour markets (Source: ILOSTAT). This demonstrates Adecco’s contribution to fight youth unemployment as shown in the chart on the right. Choosing our sustainability priorities To define our priorities, we assessed the generic CSR core subjects as provided by ISO 26000 (i.e. human rights, labour practices, the environment, fair operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement) against our stakeholders’ concerns as well as against the nature of our HR services business, the scope of our company and our sphere of influence. This resulted in the following materiality matrix, from which we derived our six strategic focus areas (page 16). Our strategy reflects how CSR relates to our business and mirrors our core competencies, strengths and operational abilities, as well as supporting how we can make a difference in the world of work. Materiality matrix (blue = corresponding to UN Global Compact principles) High Environment Community involvement Human rights • Resource use • Labour integration • Discrimination & • Climate change • Job creation vulnerable groups • Income creation • Fundamental rights at work Labour practices • Human development • Health & safety Stakeholder concern • Decent work ­conditions Fair operating practices • Fair competition • Anti-corruption Consumer issues (HR services do not relate to consumers How we prioritise the ISO but to employees and 26000 core subjects and corporate clients) issues related to our Significance & relevance for Adecco Group business and the conLow High cerns of our stakeholders. CSR CoP 2013/2014 12 We identify and address material issues for our company according to Economic, Social and Environmental principles. This means we can maximise shareholder value in the long term and help solve the challenges labour markets face. Our CSR strategy The three dimensions of CSR Identifying, mitigating and managing risks is part of our culture. Furthermore, our risk management process is used to In 2012, we further developed our CSR strategy, aligning it with identify business opportunities, to improve our performance our core business, in response to global trends in our industry towards employees as well as services for clients and associand to the requests and feedback we receive from our emates and to increase the value of the Adecco Group with the ployees, associates/candidates and our clients. general public. All countries perform risk assessments on a regular basis and report their results to Group Management. Corporate Social Responsibility is the responsibility of comRisks identified at country and corporate level are treated as panies towards the three dimension of sustainability which opportunities for improvement. culminates in a ’triple bottom line’: We are dedicated to earning the trust and loyalty of our employees, associates, clients, shareholders and the commu1. Economic nities in which we operate by performing our work in accord2. Social ance with our Code of Conduct which is anchored in our Core 3. Environmental Values and in our Leadership Principles. It sets forth the standards and expectations that we must fulfil in our work and the It is all about how we manage our impact on the economy, way we do business, aiming at high standards with regards to social affairs and the environment. The goal is to integrate ethical and legal conduct. The main areas of focus include: economic, social and environmental targets into our corporate employment, business practices, finance and transparency activities in a way that fulfils the requirements of each of the and information technology. three dimensions without compromising on any one of them. For Adecco, this means the following: Customer satisfaction as a result of our services rendered is key. Our core competences include providing flexible workEconomic dimension: Our Corporate Governance disclosure force solutions and matching clients’ needs with the right canreflects the requirements of the Directive on Information Relatdidates. In an environment of cyclical and seasonal changes ing to Corporate Governance, issued by the SIX Swiss Exin demand, we help our clients to adapt their workforce needs change 1. Adecco’s principles take into account the recommenaccordingly and provide people with diverse work experiences dations set out in the Swiss Code of Best Practice for and educational background with employment. In the econCorporate Governance 2. omy at large, more customisation and made-to-order strategies impact the production cycle and reduce the predictability of our clients’ business development. To keep our associates’ satisfaction high, we offer interesting jobs and conditions through consecutive assignments, attractive wages and training modules that improve their skills and qualifications. 1 As amended on October 29, 2008. 2 As amended on September 6, 2007. CSR CoP 2013/2014 13 • Universal Declaration of Human Rights Ensuring transparent and ethical practices, the Supply Chain • ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at has become increasingly important in recent years. In 2012, work we issued a Code of Conduct and questionnaire for our major • ILO Tripartite Declaration of Principles concerning Multisuppliers to ensure that our supply chain adheres to the highnational Enterprises and Social Policy est ethical principles. • OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises Social dimension: Through the yearly release of our dedicated Communication on Progress (CoP), which is published on our Human & Labour Rights practices are fundamental for website and submitted to the UN Global Compact, we report Adecco’s successful business operations with employees, on the processes and tools used to identify and prioritise critiassociates and candidates as well as client companies and cal social issues within our business and CSR strategies. We its supply chain. apply the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Framework as it helps us to measure and report transparTo strengthen our role as the industry leader, it is our priority ently and with accountability on our CSR performance. The to assist our employees in achieving their full individual potenmateriality matrix according to ISO 26000 provides guidance tial. Talent Management has been a critical component of the on how we can operate in a socially responsible way looking HR strategy within the Adecco Group for many years, through at issues related to our business and the concerns of our a collaborative effort between the Group initiatives and the stakeholders. In addition, we respond to and are measured by local programmes in the countries where we operate. Our RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) assessultimate goal is to attract and retain the best talent and to ment, the Carbon Disclosure Project’s Investor and Supplier ensure that our leaders can continue to deliver on the overall Modules, and the FTS4Good Index Series. Adecco Group strategy. The four components of the Adecco As a strategic partner of the World Economic Forum and parGroup Talent Management framework are: identification of ticipant in their regional events around the globe, we support high potentials, development, performance management, and the Forum’s commitment to improving the state of the world finally, succession planning. For our candidates and associby creating greater choice in the domain of work and by unates, the acquisition and ongoing development of vocational locking potential in individuals, enterprises and society in genand transferable skills is a passport to employment, income eral. and a sustainable career in a changing economic and labour market environment. Public and private employment services Adecco adheres to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. play an important role in developing and delivering training In November 2003, the Adecco Group became the first comand re-skilling programmes. pany in its industry to sign the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). In October 2008, UNI Global Union and Ciett Corporate Members, including the Adecco Group, signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to consolidate the industry’s global social dialogue to achieve fair conditions for the temporary agency work industry. These two public endorsements are due to the fact that Adecco Group acknowledges adherence to the: CSR CoP 2013/2014 14 Three Dimensions of CSR Economic cy ien ffic ic E Eco -Ef om fici on Better work, en -Ec better life cy cio So Social Environmental Socio-Ecologic Efficiency Economic Social Environmental · Business Excellence · Training & Development · Environmental conscious behaviour · Governance & Compliance · Human & Labour Rights · Reducing consumption · Risk Management & Mitigation · Integration · Lowering CO2 emissions · Customer satisfaction · Diversity & Equal Opportunities · Supporting clients with their environ· Supply Chain management · Health & Safety mental targets Much of our day-to-day work involves integrating people into Environmental dimension: As the global leader in HR serthe workforce: from unemployment to work; from education vices, we are conscious of the environmental impact our opto work; from job to job; from temporary to permanent emerations can have and the difference we are able to make by ployment. Agency work creates jobs that would not otherwise acting responsibly. Since 2010, we have introduced processes exist, enhancing companies’ competitiveness and workers’ and tools to identify and prioritise critical environmental issues employability. Through select global and local projects and within our business operations as part of our increased focus our three Foundations in France, Italy and Spain, we make on improving our environmental performance. In order to sure that people at risk of exclusion because of disabilities, evaluate and reduce our carbon footprint in a consistent and age, ethnicity, gender or long-term unemployment get addistructured manner, we have been measuring and reporting on tional support to achieve ’better work, better life’ and have an environmental commitments in the Adecco Group’s CSR Report active role in society. and CoP as well as through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and the RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones SusThe Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and tainability Indices. The measurement of our CO2 emissions is diseases and furthers health, safety and well-being in the centralised thanks to the ‘myclimate’ database which helps us workplace through special training and measures for employto break down our environmental impact into Scope 1, 2 and 3 ees and associates. We conduct risk assessments of workemissions. We have replaced our environmental policy with places in order to provide health and safety training to our more comprehensive environmental guidelines which outline associates who are exposed to certain hazards when entering to all stakeholders, where the priorities lie in considering the new and unfamiliar workplaces. We instruct our employees impact our daily operations have. Our country organisations in about how to improve their workstation by using the right Spain, Norway and Sweden are currently ISO 14001 certified. equipment properly. The Adecco Group strives to meet all statutory health and safety obligations. In addition, we encourage our employees and associates through global and local initiatives to engage in sports activities which enhance their physical and mental well-being. CSR CoP 2013/2014 15 The six strategic focus areas support us to put strategy into practice and align our global organisation to achieve common goals in a tangible and measurable way. Our six strategic focus areas Team, Training & Development: Currently, around 7 million jobs don’t get filled in the US and the EU due to skills or geoCSR needs to reflect our business values, while addressing graphical mismatch despite high unemployment rates espesocial, environmental and economic challenges. On this basis, cially in European countries such as Greece, Spain, Italy, we have defined the following six strategic focus areas with France but also in the US, Australia and Japan 3. Young people the greatest value and impact for our company and society in are most affected. Too often, their education and training does the current labour market environment. not match the requirements of the business world. Adecco and its industry can contribute to solving this issue by retrainOur six strategic focus areas ing and upgrading workers’ skills. HR services companies help people enhance their employability through career counselling, education and continuous training. Environmental Responsibility Integration: Every company’s workforce needs people with diverse skill sets and from all backgrounds in terms of disabilDiversity & Equal ities, age, ethnicity, gender, religious background or sexual Opportunities orientation. Integrating people into the workforce through agency work is a central part of our business. Jobs offer people work experience and an income. Consecutive assignments provide people with diverse work experiences and enhance Inclusive Business & their adaptability to different roles and teams. In many cases, Integration Workforce they are a stepping stone to a permanent position for indiHuman Rights viduals who otherwise could become marginalised. The Adecco Group and its Foundations – often in partnership with various organisations – are involved in a range of international, national and local programmes to help these groups at risk Team, Training & Health & of exclusion. More employers are recognising the need to creDevelopment Safety ate and promote an inclusive workplace in order to maximise productivity, attract new talent and increase employee commitment. Diversity and equal opportunities: Employee engagement is one of six strategic priorities for the Adecco Group. Our employees and associates are the most important reason for our success. As a company, operating in over 60 countries, we see that diverse teams are able to come up with a wider range of solutions to business problems. Our approach to diversity and equal opportunities and our open company cul3 Source: OECD StatsExtract. CSR CoP 2013/2014 16 ture help the Adecco Group to attract, motivate and retain The Guiding Principles on Business & Human Rights define talented employees and associates. An example of what our what companies and governments should do to avoid and diverse teams can accomplish was, in our role as recruitment address possible negative human rights impacts by business. partner of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games. In October 2011, the European Commission published a new Adecco UK & Ireland recruited 8,300 people as permanent policy on CSR for the period 2011–2014 in order to create conand temporary employees for the Games. Adecco was given ditions favourable to sustainable growth, responsible business the task and succeeded in recruiting the most diverse workbehaviour and durable employment generation in the medium force for Olympic Games ever. Adecco shared LOCOG’s 4 vision and long term. As a result, in June 2013, the European Comfor a highly talented, committed, and diverse workforce, demission issued Sector Guides on Implementing the UN Guidveloping a unique tracking software that would measure the ing Principles on Business and Human Rights for three busisix streams of diversity (age, ethnicity, faith, gender, disability ness sectors including a guide for the Employment and and sexual orientation) in every department. Recruitment Agencies’ sector. Thanks to a the multi-stakeholder consultation, including Ciett and its members, the content Health & Safety: Our employees and associates are our most of the guide is balanced and reflects the real issues faced by valued asset. We are committed to the Health & Safety of our our industry. Adecco has published guidelines on Human & employees and the associates working with our clients. Our Labour Rights which reflect the size and maturity of our comindustry is unique. We do not directly control the workplace of pany. They were released in August 2013 to provide guidance our associates. Therefore, we must properly select, train, and and raise awareness. equip our associates before assigning them to a job. It is of utmost importance to ensure that our clients adhere to the Environmental responsibility: As the world’s leading provider highest safety standards so that our associates have a safe of HR solutions and a Fortune Global 500 company, we are and healthy workplace with adequate supervision. In order to conscious of the impact of our operations on the environment ensure a fair basis for comparison of our safety performance and of the difference we can make by acting responsibly. towards our associates among our country organisations, we Therefore, in 2010 we started to collect the data on our CO2 look at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), emissions in our 11 largest markets including the global headrather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the quarters, stepping the reporting up to 12 countries in 2011 and fact that our involvement in the various business sectors – and to 13 countries in 2013. This will help us to assess and reduce thus various risk potentials – varies significantly from country emissions and makes us an environmental-conscious partner to country. for clients. In 2012, by benchmarking with similar industries, we defined a company-wide emission reduction target of 12% Business & Human Rights: In recent years, Human Rights within the next ten years. Environmental-conscious managehave become an increasingly important aspect to businesses ment and subsequent monitoring and reduction are specifiand within corporate social responsibility. On 16 June 2011, the cally carried out in the following main areas of our operations: UN Human Rights Council endorsed the ”Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations 1. Electricity: electrical energy consumption ’Protect, Respect and Remedy’ Framework” proposed by UN 2. Mobility: company car and air mileage Special Representative John Ruggie which rest on three pillars: 3. Office supply: mainly paper and toner consumption/ recycling 1. The state duty to protect against human rights abuses by 4. Office equipment: computers and monitors bought and third parties, including business replaced. 2. The corporate responsibility to respect Human Rights 3. Greater access by victims to effective remedy, both judicial By improving our environmental performance, we will save and non-judicial. costs due to the lower consumption of resources which will benefit the company’s overall performance as well as our clients’ performance through the services they receive from us. 4 London Organizing Committee of the Olympic Games. CSR CoP 2013/2014 17 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Economic dimension Global programmes and initiatives Supplier Guidelines In July 2012, we published our Supplier Code of Conduct as well as a supplier questionnaire. They are Excellence Awards In 2013, Adecco Group Excellence Awards distributed to our major suppliers in order to ensure they adwere presented to nine winning teams recognised for the outhere to the highest standards. The Code of Conduct describes standing results they achieved living our five core values of the expectations of the Adecco Group towards its suppliers, team spirit, customer focus, passion, responsibility and entrevendors, contractors or any other organisation with whom preneurship. The Lee Hecht Harrison team won the overall Adecco conducts business. The employees of the Adecco Excellence Award the second time in a row for their outstandGroup perform their business activities with the highest level ing performance, while Adecco Eastern Europe and MENA of integrity and compliance within the laws and regulations of were recognised for their retention rate – one of Adecco’s the markets where Adecco operates in, which reflects our exstrategic priorities. The 2013 award for Service Excellence was pectations towards our suppliers. We recognise the variety of this time presented to a colleague from Adecco Norway. Other legal and cultural environments, in which our suppliers operwinners included Groupe Adecco France, Adecco Germany, ate, therefore our Supplier Code of Conduct provides a frameAccounting Principles US, Adecco Netherlands, Adecco Italy work of minimum requirements, which are applicable in the and Adecco Mexico as the best Emerging Market. vast majority of situations. In 2013, we also increased our focus on Bribery & Corruption prevention. Our employees are expected to perform a high-level check on the supplier’s reputation with regards to Anti-Bribery & Corruption. Enterprise Risk Management The enterprise risk management process which is led by the Global Risk Steering Committee with Risk responsibles in all our regions and major business lines, has strategic and operational dimensions. Whilst the focus is on analysing, managing and mitigating risks, we also aim to identify opportunities for business development. The process is overseen and approved by the Board of Directors. Adecco’s Risk Management Steering Committee supports the countries when identifying risks and has defined 15 overarchAdecco Eastern Europe and MENA were awarded for their excellent results ing risk categories, which can have a significant impact on with regard to employee retention rates. Adecco’s results and reputation. The defined risk categories are divided into externally and internally driven risks. Our risk management activities consist of risk identification, risk assessment, risk response, and risk monitoring. All segments perform regular risk assessments on the risk categories that can have a significant impact on their operations, quantifying both Gross Risk and Net Risk. Gross Risk is an estimate of the likelihood of risk occurrence and the potential impact on the financial results in the worst-case scenario. Net Risk is an estiCSR CoP 2013/2014 18 Completed online training on Compliance & Ethics (% of all employees requested to complete the respective module) 100 Adecco Code of Conduct Business Ethics: An Introduction 80 Conflicts of Interest 60 Information Security Bribery & Corruption 1 40 Global health & safety 20 Global competition 2013 2012 1 More details shown in respective chart on page 20. NB.: Due to normal staff turnover, the actual training completion rate always stays below the ideal of 100%. mate of the likelihood of risk occurrence and the potential im86.3% of the world’s population and 96.7% of the world’s GDP. pact on the financial results taking into account the risk mitiThe 2013 index placed Switzerland at the top of the ranking, gation effect of Management Controls. followed by Singapore and Denmark in second and third place respectively. ACE training & reporting The Adecco Compliance & Ethics Download the full report (ACE) training is our eight-module online training programme Watch the video for employees on the following topics: Code of Conduct; Business Ethics; Bribery & Corruption prevention; Corporate Governance – Remuneration In accordance with Global Health & Safety; Resolving Conflicts of Interest; Global the new Swiss Ordinance Against Excessive Compensation in Competition; IT security and e-mail. It prepares our employees Public Corporations (the “Ordinance”) which came into force to handle ethical and legal challenges which they may enon 1 January 2014, Adecco has introduced the election by the counter in their day-to-day work. All employees are required shareholders of the Chairman, the members of the Compento complete six of the mentioned training modules. The modsation Committee and the Independent Proxy Representative ule on Global Competition is specifically targeted to Sales proas of the AGM 2014. Adecco has already conducted the newly fessionals and the Health & Safety module to branch managrequired yearly individual elections of its Board of Directors ers. In March 2014, we launched a ninth-module on Insider for the last ten years. Adecco has been committed to following Trading, taking into account the revised Swiss rules in line with best practices in Corporate Governance for many years. new EU standards. The Adecco Compliance & Ethics (ACE) Reporting Tools are designed to assist employees, associates Accordingly, the Remuneration Report has also been subject and other stakeholders in reporting actual or potential violato an advisory vote annually. As of the AGM 2015, in line with tions of the law or Adecco Group policies, procedures or of the the requirements of the “Ordinance”, Adecco will submit to its Code of Conduct. Any stakeholder may report to the Board of shareholders for approval: the maximum remuneration of the Directors allegations of fraud and violations of the law, the Board of Directors for the upcoming office period (AGM to Group policies, the procedures or ethical standards of conduct AGM) and the maximum total remuneration of the Executive by the Adecco Group or any of its employees or agents. Management for the next fiscal year. In continuation of its existing practice, Adecco undertakes in its ‘Articles of IncorporaGTCI – Talent reshapes the world economy The first edition tion’ to submit the annual Remuneration Report to an advisory of the Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) was vote of its shareholders also in the future. As a result, the launched in November 2013 by INSEAD, based on research in shareholders will keep the possibility to examine the remupartnership with the Human Capital Leadership Institute of neration actually paid against the maximum total amount that Singapore (HCLI) and Adecco. The Index measures a nation’s was approved by the General Meeting and to voice their opincompetitiveness based on the quality of talent it can produce, ion. We are convinced that the new provisions of the 'Articles attract and retain. The purpose of the GTCI is to provide a neuof Incorporation' as adopted by the AGM 2014, adequately tral, global and respected index that would enable private meet the requirements of Adecco as the world’s leading comand public players to assess the effectiveness of talent-related pany in its industry with an international executive managepolicies and practices, identify priorities for action in relevant ment team. areas and inform international and local debates in the talent arena. The GTCI model covers 103 countries, representing CSR CoP 2013/2014 19 Completed online training on Bribery & Corruption prevention (% of all employees) 100 80 60 40 2012 20 2013 1 pe pe ica ica pa n c a di ro ro er er ifi In Eu Eu Am Am Ja ac rn n -P te er rth tin ia es st No La As W Ea 1 Not rolled out yet in Vietnam, New Caledonia, South Korea. Roll-out in Australia in 2013. NB.: Due to normal staff turnover, the actual training completion rate always stays below the ideal of 100%. Bribery & Corruption prevention Companies like Adecco doCustomer Satisfaction The Global Satisfaction Survey (GSS) ing business globally are under increased pressure to improve was introduced across the Adecco Group in July 2008 as a their anti-corruption and bribery compliance programmes in mandatory tool to measure client, associate and candidate order to prevent and detect potentially improper payments satisfaction as a way to anticipate potential business risks. It that put the company at risk. Adecco’s Bribery & Corruption aims to provide the Adecco Group leadership team with straprevention programme has been developed to ensure the tegic insights on customer needs and wants and our competiGroup’s compliance with applicable legislation while remaintive positioning in the market to capitalise on our strengths, ing flexible to business needs and cultural differences. Fundaaddress our shortfalls and shape our service delivery. To date, mental to the programme is the ‘tone from the top’ by which approximately 100,000 answers have been collected. The goal business leaders are expected to provide visible and explicit was to implement an effective measurement system that ensupport and commitment to the programme. Employees and ables systematic, fast measurements of client, associate and any third party acting on Adecco’s behalf may not provide candidate satisfaction through web-surveys at country level. anything of value to either government officials or private parCountries are encouraged to add their country-specific questies to obtain or retain business or a business advantage. tions to the survey. The GSS is also a major source of informaSimilarly, employees may not request or accept bribes or other tion for the preparation and roll-out of global strategic initiaimproper financial advantages. The Group Policy on Bribery & tives (e.g. Global Market Segmentation Programme; Global Corruption prevention has been approved by the Adecco Branding Project). After the implementation of strategic initiaBoard of Directors. The Bribery & Corruption prevention protives, the GSS methodology is a key element to measure the gramme includes a policy, risk-assessment, education and success and impact of global actions from an external pertraining, due diligence procedures and audit-testing processspective as well as to derive concrete actions ensuring a cones. Adecco’s attitude towards Bribery & Corruption in all its tinuous improvement cycle across the globe. In 2013, GSS forms is simple: it is one of zero tolerance. fielded in total more than 150 surveys across 24 countries and In order to further show our CEO-level commitment, we have 21 of our major brands, covering 88% of the Adecco Group in signed the World Economic Forum ‘Partnering Against Corrupterms of revenues. tion Initiative’ (PACI), a global platform centred on the PACI Principles for Countering Corruption. The initiative aims to inACE Reporting crease the impact companies have in the fight against corrupAllocation of reported issues 2013 (in %) tion through its cross-industry, multi-stakeholder approach. Employment Practices Internal Workplace Conduct Other (i.e.: fraud, time card fraud, customer site incidents, regulatory non-­compliance, conflict of interest, internal business operations, branch financial violations, etc.) CSR CoP 2013/2014 20 Select country initiatives and programmes For the third consecutive year, the assessment of 2012/2013 shows the commitment Groupe Adecco France has made to Adecco Group’s Think Tank As the innovation lab of the stay a top company and supplier for its clients, ranking bestAdecco Group, the Ignite team of innovators inspire and emin-class in its industry sector.and receiving Gold Class distincpower enterprise-level organisations to embrace, generate tion from EcoVadis. and promote change. Ignite, based in the US, uses a humancentred, digital, lean and data-driven approach to create products and services that solve problems around work. WickedSmart as an example matches high-potential students with meaningful and paid internships. For young people, this means getting experience in areas such as business, finance, accounting and technology, among other areas. Students double their chances of getting a job offer after graduation with a relevant experience in their CV. Ignite works in three phases: ‘Seed’ – the discovery phase to explore the business, people and problems. ‘Project’ – the experiment phase to recognise issues and identify and test potential solutions. ‘Product’ – the implementation phase where designs and concepts are tested. Ignite’s ideas are specifically around work, staffing Our Regional Head for Middle East and the UAE participated in the World and the workforce culture and support Adecco in improving Economic Forum on Middle East and North Africa, tackling the current state of employment for Arab youth and how to prepare the workforce for the the world of work. future. Visa center – a new service by FESCO Adecco As the first visa application center for the Netherlands in Shanghai, FESCO Adecco at the World Economic Forum Regional Meeting in Adecco will offer postal applications and other services for Jordan The Adecco Group is a Strategic Partner of the World accredited companies and travel agencies. The launch of the Economic Forum and will participate in the 5 Regional Meetvisa center for the Netherlands was in July 2013 and is expectings in 2014, in Latin America, East Asia, Europe, China (Aned to handle around 20,000 applications annually. Applicants nual Meeting of New Champions and India (Economic Sumcan use the services for joint Schengen visas and do not need mit), which are all committed to improving the state of the to come in person to the center. In addition, a postal applicaworld by engaging leaders in partnerships to shape global, tion service is offered as well as the option to send a repreregional and industry agendas. sentative. The time to get an appointment is shorter – usually within five working days. Applicants receive an SMS informing Adecco’s Regional Head for Middle East and the UAE was inthem that their passport is ready for pick up. FESCO Adecco vited to speak at the Regional Meeting in Jordan to discuss the received its visa agent qualification from China’s Ministry of current state of employment for Arab youth and preparing Public Security in 2011 and launched a Franco-German visa them for the workforce of the future. The proper training and application center with a partner already in November 2012. induction of students to the world of work and entrepreneurship is a major concern and priority and needs to be further Groupe Adecco France a Best-in-Class supplier At the reencouraged. quest of its clients, in 2009 Groupe Adecco France began working with EcoVadis, a French company offering its services to procurement teams, in order to implement sustainable supply chain management practices. Since then, EcoVadis has carried out its annual external evaluation of Groupe Adecco France’s CSR performance. The evaluation looks at the following areas: environment, human resources, business ethics and ethical procurement. CSR CoP 2013/2014 21 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Social dimension Since the launch of Win4Youth in 2010, sports events have been organized in all our countries contributing to a Group donation by running, biking and swimming for youth employment and development programmes around the world. By the end of 2013, a total of more than one million Swiss francs have been donated by the Adecco Group over the four years of the programmes’ existence. Win4Youth Win4Youth started as an opportunity for Adecco colleagues to engage in sports activity and a healthy life-style, live our values and transform the lives of young people. Over the four years of the Win4Youth programme, we have built on its huge success and momentum, also opening up participation to our clients and associates around the world. The 2013 Win4Youth initiative went back to its roots by selecting running as our sports activity. It culminated in the Athens Classic Marathon in Greece on 10 November 2013, where 75 colleagues participated in one of the toughest long-distance races, running 42.195 kilometres each. The Adecco team of ambassadors who competed in Athens represented their colleagues worldwide who ran or walked for Win4Youth throughout the year. The goal was to cover at least 500,000 kilometres to ensure a Adecco Group CEO Patrick De Maeseneire welcomes the Win4Youth ambasdonation to the four selected foundations in Colombia, Italy, sadors 2013 at the finish line of the Athens Classic Marathon in Greece. Thailand and Belgium. All the foundations we support are committed to helping disadvantaged young people get a betCharitable donations (Group & countries) from Win4Youth ter start in life and work. The targeted kilometres were already Donations (in USD) for integration initiatives 2010–2013 reached in autumn and were immediately upped to 600,000 500,000 kilometres by year-end. An outstanding result of 700,840 kilometres was achieved in 2013. Over 11,000 events in more than 400,000 60 countries took place, where 20,853 colleagues, 2,304 as300,000 sociates and 9,531 clients participated. 200,000 Adecco Croatia won the race, recording the most kilometres 100,000 per person – a total of 179 kilometres – and Spain ranked first overall with an amazing 82,453 kilometres collected. Well 2010 2011 2012 2013 done to every colleague, associate, client and country for a magnificent result. CSR CoP 2013/2014 22 “ I’m proud to be part of a company with a programme like this. Win4Youth allows us to help those in need and gives us the possibility to spend a good time with our colleagues and clients. My participation in this programme is a mark in my life.” Win4Youth ambassador 2013 Global engagement Win4Youth Win4Youth activities in 60 countries Win4Youth performance (in km) Nr. of events, involved clients and employees Sports activity: Running, cycling, swimming 35,000 1,750,000 30,000 1,500,000 25,000 1,250,000 20,000 1,000,000 Beyond target 15,000 750,000 Target 10,000 500,000 5,000 250,000 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 Events Clients Employees running triathlon cycling running be trained to climb the legendary mountain ‘Le Col du Tourmalet’ (2,115 m), one of the most famous climbs on the 'Tour de France'. Adecco with all its colleagues will be cycling to raise funds for five foundations in Cambodia, Argentina, Portugal, Poland and Italy and we have another inspiring Godfather in 2014: Alessandro Zanardi – a gold and silver medal winner at the London Paralympic Games 2012 in handbiking. Select country initiatives and programmes Tuesday is Adecco Greece Win4Youth Marathon Day Our employees in Adecco Greece made it easy to collect kilometres for Win4Youth in 2013. Every Tuesday evening at 7 pm, During the Adecco Leadership Conference in January 2013, Florence they organised the Adecco Win4Youth Greece Marathon Day Gravellier – One of Us – was introduced as the next Godmother for in Athens, where employees had the chance to come together Win4Youth. at the Olympic Athletic Centre ‘Spiros Louis’ to run or walk, contributing to the global goal of 500,000 kilometres. EmployOne of Us – Win4Youth Godmother 2013 ees from the Thessaloniki office had the chance – thanks to We were very proud to count on Florence Gravellier as the our Win4Youth App – to join the event virtually and add their Godmother for Win4Youth 2013. Florence Gravellier is a former kilometres! A group of colleagues also participated in the two-time Paralympic medallist and the former world number ‘Corporate Relay Run’. It was a philanthropic race and the one in Women’s doubles. But what’s more – she is One of Us! symbolic entry fee was given to support 10 charitable associaWith her university degree completed, she focused on her sporttions that support the needs of 10,000 children in Greece. ing career and between 1996 and 2010, her national and international sports career took her all over the world. In 1999, Florence was selected to play for the French team in Flushing Meadows and she went on to win six French Championship titles. A will of steel and a sponsorship by Groupe Adecco France, helped her to become a key player in wheelchair tennis worldwide. Florence is a champion in sport and a champion of diversity. In 2010, she retired from competition and joined the Adecco team. She led the ‘Disability & Skills’ programme and three years later, she was made responsible for Sponsorship and Public Relations at Adecco France, a position she reached thanks to her in-depth knowledge of the sports environment, event management but also to her ability to connect with people. Four teams of Adecco Greece colleagues participated in the ’Corporate In 2014 – the fifth year of Win4Youth – we are cycling again with Relay Run’ and met up every week to contribute kilometres to Win4Youth. a goal to achieve two million kilometres! 86 ambassadors will CSR CoP 2013/2014 24 “Win4Youth 2013 has brought us together as teams in our branches, divisions and offices – to have fun… to be healthier… to support youth charities… and to show that we care.” Christophe Duchatellier, Regional Head of Japan & Asia Family walk Hong Kong Adecco colleagues gathered for a three-hour walk-running trip to Hong Kong’s High Island Reservoir, located in the far south-eastern part of the Sai Kung Peninsula. It was built to prevent water shortage problems in Hong Kong. 60 of our Adecco Hong Kong colleagues and their family members gave it another purpose: the long hike served to contribute 756 kilometres for Win4Youth and fomented great team spirit amongst colleagues and family members. The Flash Run organised by Adecco Italy brought together colleagues, clients and employees of ’aiutare i bambini’, one of the chosen foundations in 2013. Reaching highs in Norway In August, 250 Adecco employees from all over Norway came together, equipped with their backpacks in a small place called Lom. The area is part of one of Norway’s National Parks, Jotunheimen, where the highest mountain of Scandinavia and Northern Europe – Galdhøpiggen (2,469 metres) – is located. The base camp area in Lom provided the climbers with seven large tents to overnight. Over 60 Adecco colleagues and family members spent time together hiking After dinner and some advice and information from mountain up to the Hong Kong High Island Reservoir and collecting 756 kilometres. guides for the trip ahead, people were mentally and physically ready for the challenge! Participants could choose between ’Flash Run’ not Flash Mob Adecco Italy organised the ’Flash two routes – one crossing an iceberg and the other mastering Run’ – inspired by the phenomenon of Flash Mob – a spontaa steep trail. It was a team effort to get everyone to the top, neous short public performance by a group of people. Italian and colleagues lived our values of team spirit, passion and employees planned for an event in June which brought toresponsibility. Despite the physical challenge, tired legs and gether 13 employees, their clients, volunteers and other supblisters, everyone was happy and proud when the top was porters to run kilometres for Win4Youth. The event took place reached – creating stronger ties, an even stronger team and in Milan and consisted of a five-kilometre run in ‘Parco Laman amazing amount of 3,491 kilometres for Win4Youth! bro’, starting from the head office of Adecco Italy. Employees from one of the four foundations supported in 2013 – ‘aiutare i bambini’ – participated in the ’Flash Run’ too, helping to collect funds for children in need! Win4Youth website Like & follow us on Facebook Watch the video from the Highlight event in Athens All of our 250 Norwegian colleagues made it to the top of ’Galdhøpiggen’ (2,469 metres). This is what motivated teams are able to achieve together! CSR CoP 2013/2014 25 “In Adecco Greece we opened our branches and approached our candidates to help them make their next career step successful in any way we can. We are honoured to have the opportunity to lend a hand.” Konstantinos Milonas, Country Manager Adecco Greece Watch the Way to Work™ Street Day 2013 video Unique work experience – job journeys across five continents Dreams are what future is made of. As part of the Adecco Way to Work™ initiative, a competition was launched to fire the work spirit and motivation of young people aspiring to build a better future for themselves. The nine winners and The Adecco Way to Work™ According to the International ambassadors, selected from more than 23,500 contestants, Labour Organization (ILO), some 74.5 million of the almost 202 received a unique opportunity to experience the world of work million unemployed in 2013 were young people aged between in a diverse, international way. Adecco designed ’job journeys’ 15 and 24. This is almost one million more than in the previous across five continents that provided the winners from France, year. There is a growing consensus that the causes go beyond the United States, Japan, Germany, Spain, Italy, Australia and the economic crisis and are due in part to a skills mismatch New Zealand with a taste of a wide variety of jobs and com– hard and soft skills of young people are not attuned to the panies. The nine youngsters were encouraged to share their demands of the new global knowledge Economy. experiences and journeys via a blog with family, friends, Adecco research suggests that 54 percent of unemployed Adecco employees, and the broader public. In total 46 Adecco young people feel they need more support and help in their clients in 49 countries supported the Adecco Way to Work™ efforts to find a job. Through the Adecco Way to Work™ initiaand were willing and eager to give these young job seekers a tive, we want to make Adecco’s leading recruitment expertise unique experience and an insight into their businesses. more accessible to young job seekers and provide real-life insights into the world of work and its requirements. We must As the nine youngsters travelled around the world, they had help unlock their potential and give them a perspective. We much to share with their peers. Federico Sattanino from Italy cannot risk losing a whole generation. offered this advice: “Don’t believe anyone who tells you that there are no jobs out there. There are, but we need to broaden our horiThe Street Day strategy The centrepiece of the Adecco Way to zons and look a bit further afield.” Imane Krirat from Germany Work™ was the Street Day on April 30, 2013. Adecco employwrote: “During my trip I had the privilege to experience many difees were involved in more than 1,000 activities in high-traffic ferent jobs. When I came back, I decided not to play it safe anypublic areas and visited schools and universities. In addition, more and do something that’s great for me. So, I’ve changed my more than 2,000 branches opened their doors to offer career course of studies – from American Studies to Law.” advice. In total, more than 20,000 coaching sessions were held and the Adecco Way to Work™ website registered a million visitors to its coaching resources. The Street Day is a symbolic act that can only inspire concerted action from governments, businesses, and individuals alike. More flexible labour markets, reform of education systems, and young people’s willingness to accept temporary job assignments or job opportunities abroad are essential requisites to overcome the current job crisis. CSR CoP 2013/2014 26 Global engagement Way to Work™ Way to Work™ Street Day – people reached Way to Work™ Street Day – activities and engagement 600,000 1,800 1,600 1,400 1,200 500,000 1,000 800 2014 600 2013 400 400,000 200 2013 2014 Nr. of Nr. of Nr. of branches cities with universities providing activities cooperating ’Open House’ There is a whole generation at risk of exclusion from the world of work. Adecco took action in 2013 by reaching out to more than half a million young people all over the world. The purpose was to give them back their dreams and to let them know that they are not a lost but a loved generation. With the scale and intensity of engagement that Way to Work™ reached in 2013, Adecco and its colleagues in over 50 countries have been highly motivated to keep up their efforts in 2014. For the second consecutive year, thousands of Adecco employees hit the streets of more than 900 cities in over 50 countries to take action against youth unemployment on April 30th, 2014. Our colleagues met over 600,000 people in the streets, public places and universities, offering career guidance and free training workshops. In total, 2,000 Adecco branches held open days and over 1,500 coaching sessions took place. The format of the work experience was adapted so that more young people could get the opportunity of a one-month internship. Until June 12, talents could apply for 100 Adecco experiences in over 50 countries. Successful candidates took up their internships during the month of July and Adecco made sure the experience was enriching and valuable for their future career development. The successful candidates could also opt to apply for a unique opportunity: to become the ‘CEO of Adecco for one month’ in September under the direct supervision of the Group CEO, Patrick De Maeseneire – a oncein-a-lifetime experience! Watch the Way to Work™ Street Day 2014 video Watch the Adecco Experience 2014 teaser video CSR CoP 2013/2014 27 “The Street Day took place just weeks after Adecco Canada was named to the Great Place to Work list for 2014. The Adecco Way to Work™ program is a testament to this win as it uniquely demonstrates what makes us different and ultimately, a top employer. Supporting the communities in which we operate is just as important as supporting our colleague base.“ Shari Angle, VP, Talent & Communications, Adecco Canada Select country initiatives and programmes Visits to High Schools and reaching out to graduates during ‘Russetiden’ Adecco colleagues in Norway visited several Spain invited people to join their ‘mobile branch’ During the High Schools around the country to provide students with imStreet Day 2014 in Spain, Adecco employees invited people to portant tools for their first step into the labour market. join them on their ‘mobile branch’, providing them with interThis included how to compose an attractive cover letter and view tips, CV advice and the confidence that there is support CV, how to apply for jobs through social media and how to for unemployed people to make their first step into – or reprepare for an interview. With the slogan #Thinkaboutyourenter – the labour market. On April 30, Adecco Spain reached future, Adecco also wanted to reach out to graduates who around 90,000 people in 110 of their major cities. every year in May celebrate their graduation. This celebration is called ‘Russetiden’ and represents the completion of 13 years of education. Adecco Norway visited the major graduate events in Norway on 3 May, where more than 10,000 graduates could be reached. Belgium’s Prime Minister joins the Street Day A great surprise for our Adecco team in Belgium – who were on the Streets with 130 employees, reaching out to 11,000 people. Unexpectedly, the Belgium Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo showed up at the Adecco branch in Mons to show his support for the Street Day and Way to Work™. The Adecco Spain ’mobile branch’ with colleagues during the 2014 Street Day, providing advice and guidance to people seeking for employment. Careerathon at San Diego’s Palomar Community College Adecco North America held their official ’Careerathon’ at Palomar College in San Diego, California. Career professionals were on hand to offer free, one-on-one job hunting and career advice to the students and general public of the city of San Diego. Adecco North America’s Executive Vice President & President of Adecco Staffing as well as members of the Adecco leadership team joined the Careerathon to personally meet with participants. To keep people’s energy level up, free waffles were served to all participants. What is your dream...? Adecco Belgium asked this during the Street Day and got a personal visit at our branch in Mons from Belgium’s Prime Minister Elio Di Rupo, showing his support to fight unemployment. In the US, the Adecco team undertook a variety of activities during the Street Day, one being the Careerathon at San Diegos’ Palomar Community College. CSR CoP 2013/2014 29 “My Way to Work adventure gave me back my self-confidence. It also made me aware of a career path for my future – web marketing. And now, my will to succeed is stronger than ever.” Tolotra Ramarovahoaka, Work Experience winner and ambassador 2013 The Adecco Experience 2014 The Adecco Way to Work™ proAndrew Chu, 19, Taiwan gramme 2014 provided career guidance and one-month job Studying Business Administration experiences to improve the employability of young job-seekers. Adecco Experience as Event Coordinator 88 young people in 50 countries took on a wide variety of at Chinese Taipei Olympic Committee roles in diverse areas of business thanks to the cooperation of Lives by the motto: Stay hungry, stay Adecco clients all over the world. This was a unique opporfoolish. tunity for the youngsters to showcase their talents to potential employers. For many, this was their first job and an intense work experience to add to their CVs. Allegra Guardi, 28, Italy The ‘CEO for one month’ boot camp 46 of these young people Master in Digital Marketing and New had the ambition to put themselves forward as ‘CEO for one Media month’ and be personally mentored by Adecco Group CEO Adecco Experience at Lombardini srl Patrick De Maeseneire. Ten were selected to join a boot camp (Gruppo Kohler) in Zurich between August 12 and 16. For this once-in-a-lifetime Lives by the motto: Necessity is the position, the finalists were tested, challenged and assessed mother of invention. with a focus on Adecco’s core values – team spirit, customer focus, passion, responsibility and entrepreneurship – and leadership principles of cool head, warm heart and working hands. Mohammed Assad, 26, Netherlands All ten finalists were exceptional talented candidates. Master of Science in Finance and Investments Meet the ten finalists: Adecco Experience as Finance Manager at Adecco Netherlands Aurora Petrel, 28, Spain Lives by the motto: Travel as much as Law and Political Science you can because travelling is the only Adecco Experience as Experience thing you can buy that makes you richer. Manager at Ikea Lives by the motto: Be a better person, Adam Boardman, 18, UK make a better world. Studying for a Diploma in Business Adecco Experience in HR & Marketing at Oxley Developments Lives by the motto: Work hard, dream Silvia Bizubová, 22, Slovakia big. Social and Economic Sciences and European Studies Adecco Experience as Integrated Supply Chain Specialist at IBM Learn more about the Adecco Experience Lives by the motto: If you really desire to achieve something, the whole universe conspires to help you achieve it. CSR CoP 2013/2014 30 “The boot camp was an incredible experience. In just three days I learnt so much, also from the other amazing candidates. I want to keep learning as much as I can, develop and put all my skills into practice.” Paola Ospina, Adecco Experience participant 2014 and Adecco Group ‘CEO for one month’ Paola Ospina, 26, Colombia Paola Ospina was chosen to be Adecco Group ‘CEO for one Advertising & Marketing month’ The 26-year-old Colombian Paola Ospina will spend Adecco Experience as Marketing the month of September working and travelling alongside Manager at Adecco Colombia Adecco Group CEO Patrick De Maeseneire, attending operaLives by the motto: Opportunities only tional meetings, carrying out business assignments, meeting come once, either you take many of her new Adecco colleagues and gaining a first-hand them or not – but always take them. insight into the running of a Fortune 500 company. Elena Ollendiek, 24, Germany Business Administration & European Management Adecco Experience in Sales & Marketing at Misumi Europe GmbH Lives by the motto: Follow your inner compass and stay true to yourself. Benoît Hommel, 25, France Master in Administration and Management Adecco Experience as HR assistant at Hewlett-Packard Lives by the motto: Always with the heart and a smile. Adharsh Kumar, 20, USA Marketing & Finance Paola Ospina signs her ‘CEO for one month’ contract watched by Patrick Adecco Experience as Marketing De Maeseneire who will personally mentor her in September. Coordinator at Ann Inc. Lives by the motto: Fake it till you make it. Way to Work™ website Follow Way to Work™ on Facebook Follow Way to Work™ on Twitter Watch the Adecco ‘CEO for one month’ boot camp video Watch the Way to Work™ videos CSR CoP 2013/2014 31 ”While elite athletes reach the finish line in their sporting careers, the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programmes in cooperation with Adecco ensure that they will receive customised and professional counselling to successfully transition into the workplace.” Cindy Chen, Regional Head, Adecco North East Asia A further 8-year commitment to elite athletes In the 2012 Olympic year, the IOC and the IPC both extended their commitment to the Athlete Career Programme by each signing a further 8-year contract with the Adecco Group in July and September 2012 respectively. Press release IOC ACP International Olympic Committee & International Press release IPC ACP Paralympic Committee Athlete Career Programmes “Combining sport with educaWhile life as an elite athlete and life in the business world may tion or work has become inseem to have few similarities, achieving success on the field of creasingly challenging for athplay and in a corporate environment requires similar personal letes nowadays. This is where traits. There are many transferable skills acquired by athletes the ACP can help, by providing during their sporting career that can prove to be invaluable in them with training opportunia professional capacity, such as the ability to perform under ties and job placements, and pressure, dedication, self-motivation, competitive analysis, thus achieving both sport and and a winning attitude. Making the transition from a sports life goals.“ career into the job market can be a difficult process, which is IOC President Thomas Bach why the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) Athlete Career Programmes are proving to be such a vital resource for Olympi“The transition from competians and Paralympians with one eye on the future. Since 2005 tion to the workplace can be a and 2007 respectively, the IOC and IPC in cooperation with the difficult and daunting task for Adecco Group have been providing education, life skills, camany. However, thanks to the reer development and job placement expertise to help elite cooperation with Adecco it will athletes successfully transition into the workforce. be far easier for athletes, who have many skills ideal for the Since the programmes were launched, more than 35 National workplace, to make the move Olympic and Paralympic Committees have cooperated with smoothly and successfully.” Adecco in their countries to deliver the ACP locally under the IPC President Sir Philip Craven global Programmes. Together with outreach activities, delivered in countries that do not currently have a local agreement in place, more than 15,000 elite athletes from over 100 countries had been supported by the end of 2013. CSR CoP 2013/2014 32 “For me it has always been important to have a second plan. Bobsleigh is like life. There are a lot of lines and turns – it’s unpredictable. When you don’t have a second plan, it is scary to think about life after sports. You need to do your preparation before.“ Alex Baumann, Olympic silver medallist in bobsleigh, Sochi 2014 Outreach IOC & IPC Athlete Career Programme development Adecco is working with the IOC and NOCs around the world to Nr. of Athletes deliver career development workshops in countries beyond the Adecco global footprint. Outreach training in 2013 contin5,000 ued to grow and took place in the following regions: Oceania, Asia, Latin America and Asia to strengthen the Olympic Move4,500 ment’s global commitment to prepare athletes for life after 4,000 sports. In 2013, several IOC Athletes’ Commission members 3,500 and former Olympians joined the sessions as trainees, with the aim of learning how to conduct workshops in the future. 3,000 This new ‘train the trainers’ method will allow the IOC ACP 2,500 Outreach Programme to expand in frequency and geographic 2,000 coverage. 1,500 Why athletes make a great fit for any company 1,000 Athletes inspire and excite the world with their outstanding performance on the field of play. And they are so much more 500 than what we see and perceive. That is why it makes sense 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 for companies to hire high-performers who have exceptional Winter Summer Winter Summer Olympic Olympic attitude, drive, experience, world-class accomplishments and Olympic Olympic Year Year Year Year skills. By engaging with the ACP, companies have the chance to further develop Olympic and Paralympic athletes from Outreach Adecco Countries world-class sports people to exceptional employees who contribute to an organisation’s success. Watch the video of Alex Baumann CSR CoP 2013/2014 33 “Those people are tremendous coaches. They have got lots of skills that can motivate the people around them, that can help their colleagues in fixing themselves clear objectives so that they can do their job better every day.“ Wim Claasen, Senior Consultant, Lee Hecht Harrison Belgium Select country programmes and initiatives 6th International Athletes’ Forum Singapore and ACP workshop for local athletes More than 40 local athletes attended the Athletes’ Career Programme workshop organised by the Singapore NOC and the Singapore NOC Athletes’ Commission with the support of the Singapore Sports Institute and Adecco at the Marina Bay Sands on 26 June, 2013. The NOC took the opportunity to organise this event as part of the 6th International Athletes’ Forum held in Singapore from June 27th to 29th. The panelists included Olympians Barbara Kendall of New Zealand, IOC Athletes’ Commission Chair Claudia Bokel as well as the Adecco head of the global IOC ACP, Patrick Glennon. During the workshop, athletes also had the chance to meet with employers for informal networking and the opportunity to present themselves for internships or job opportunities. Find out more Local sprint legend Frank Fredericks with a group of young Namibian athletes who were eager to learn how they can achieve life-long success – on and off the field of play. IOC Online Courses for athletes launched Massive Open Online Courses (MOOC) are revolutionising the way young people learn. In Sochi, the IOC celebrated the launch of the Adecco Hong Kong committed to support Paralympic IOC Athlete MOOC – a new online platform giving athletes the Movement Hong Kong Paralympic Committee and Sports opportunity to learn from the best sporting minds in the world, Association for the Physically Disabled (HKPC&SAPD) exanytime, anywhere. From short courses that cover subjects pressed its firm commitment to athletes’ career development from Sports Coaching and Sports Science to Sports Technology by signing a two-year extension of its cooperation agreement and Leadership, the IOC Athlete MOOC brings together the with Adecco Hong Kong. The goal is to expand the current expertise of the world’s leading universities, Olympic champrogramme from training and placement services to an addipions, top coaches and entourage, as well as inspirational tional pillar focused on inclusion. The new pillar focuses on leaders from sport and business. The IOC Athlete MOOC is fostering a dialogue between business, non-profit organisaaccessible for everyone free of charge. tions and government on the importance of including athletes Check out the IOC MOOC and people with a disability in the workplace, creating greater diversity for the benefit of all involved. Adecco is walking the ‘Tour de force’ to Southern Africa The Outreach Programme talk and employed So Wei Wang, Hong Kong star Paralymis one way in which the IOC ACP is delivered to athletes pian and 12-time medallist in an internship position with its around the world in cooperation with Adecco. The IOC AthMarketing & Communications team. His main project was to letes’ Commission Chair, Claudia Bokel, former IOC Athletes’ plan a major Win4Youth event for clients, associates and emCommission Chair and IOC member Frank Fredericks and ployees. management staff from Adecco led the workshops, with felRead more low Athletes’ Commission members Kirsty Coventry and Amadou Dia Ba as well as former Olympians Sandrine Thiebauld and Kadidiatou Kanouté participating as trainees to learn how to conduct their own workshops in the future. This group travelled to seven cities in six countries: Mazenod, Lesotho; Windhoek, Namibia; Cape Town and Johannesburg, South Africa; Manzini, Swaziland; Gabarone, Botswana; and Lusaka, Zambia. Learn more CSR CoP 2013/2014 35 Olympiatoppen trainee programme Six Olympic and Paralympic athletes were chosen in October 2013 to be the first trainees with Nordea and ÅF – both sponsors of the Norwegian Olympic & Paralympic Committees and Confederation of Sports (NIF). All one-year positions are structured so that elite athletes can continue their training and competition while gaining valuable insights into the labour market and company life as well as learning new skills. For the companies it is a great experience to have such talented sports people amongst their employees as they can bring a different kind of expertise to the table. One of the trainees – Nils-Erik Ulset, Paralympic Biathlete and crosscountry skier, was a gold and bronze medallist in Salt Lake City, Torino and Vancouver and silver as well as bronze medallist in Close to 20 Olympic and Paralympic Belgium athletes and 17 companies had Sochi. Many athletes cannot pay for their bills with their sports the chance to meet, learn and connect during Adecco Belgium’s HR ACP event. which makes this paid traineeship even more valuable. Olympic and Paralympic Committees in France commit to support athletes at Roland Garros At the beginning of June 2014, during the French Open – one of the four Grand Slam tennis tournaments for which Adecco and Ajilon recruited over 1,500 associates for the 15-day tournament, another important event took place. Groupe Adecco France and the French National Olympic Committee (CNOSF) renewed the agreement to deliver the Parcours Athlète Emploi (Athlete Career Programme – ACP) to French athletes. For the first time, an agreement was also signed with the French Paralympic Committee Nordea’s HR Director together with Adecco Norway’s Country Manager and (CPSF). Attending the ceremony were around 60 people, inthree of the six trainees who will have the chance to experience a one-year cluding the Regional Head of the Groupe Adecco France, the internship. two Presidents of the French Olympic and Paralympic Committee as well as the President and Vice-President of the French Sochi Blog – Adecco North America Adecco’s ACP team in Athletes’ Commission and around 30 elite athletes. the US has been spreading the word about the USOC Athlete The renewal of the 'Parcours Athlète Emploi' with the CNOSF Career Program through a blog, introducing readers to interwill last until 2016, the year of the Olympic and Paralympic esting facts and figures about the Olympics, different sports Games in Rio. The agreement with the French Paralympic and also about US athletes, their challenges, work experiCommittee (CPSF) was signed for one year and will be up for ences and competition. Running up to Sochi, the blog inrenewal in 2016. formed readers about competing athletes and their need for employment and flexible schedules so that they can be as successful in sports competition as in the labour market. Follow the USOC Athlete Career Program blog Meet and greet in Belgium In April 2014, Adecco Belgium brought together close to 20 Olympic and Paralympic athletes and around 17 client companies. The athletes could benefit from a coaching session on how to successfully network and present their acquired traits and skills in sport in business language. This was followed by a plenary session where Adecco Belgium’s Country Manager, the Presidents of the Belgium Olympic & Paralympic Committees as well as a renowned Sports psychologist and athletes talked about the importance The delegation of French elite athletes, Athletes’ Commission Members and of facilitating athletes’ access to the labour market during and the Presidents of the French Olympic and Paralympic Committees met with the Groupe Adecco France Country Manager during Roland Garros 2014. after their sports career. Athletes contribute to motivating a company’s workforce, and labour market participation helps Adecco ACP website athletes to perform better in sports and on the job. IOC ACP website Watch the Belgium HR event video IPC ACP website CSR CoP 2013/2014 36 Employee satisfaction Great Place To Work® scores 100 80 60 40 20 Q) on in e oo n ce UK ly n ai m s nd rg ay en nd nd ica (H ris el an Ita Sp iu bu rw ed la la er ar Be nt Fr lg la m No Fin er p ou Po Be er xe Sw itz Am tH th Gr ch Ne Lu Sw rth co He No ec e Ad Le 100 80 60 40 20 ico pa n in a az il a bi la ru ile lia a in a di ex nt Br m ue Pe Ch ra Ch In M Ja ge lo ez st Ar Co Ve Au n Adecco Group countries & business lines/ Adecco Group countries & business lines/ brands 2012/13 brands 2013/14 Our global programmes and initiaIn 2014, Canada, Belgium, Denmark, Luxembourg, Netherlands (Adecco and Ajilon), Spain, Sweden and the UK & Iretives in the strategic focus areas land (Adecco, Office Angels, Computer People, Spring Technology) all made it to the Best Workplaces lists in their respective country. In addition, euro engineering AG in GerTeam, Training & Development many again made it to Germany’s top employers list. One of the reasons for this good performance is our open company Global programmes and initiatives culture which is firmly based on our Group values and leadership principles. Adecco is a Great Place to Work Every year since 2004, we have been conducting the Great Place to Work survey. The survey has now been adopted by over one third of our country organisations and business lines/brands which includes over 80% of our employees in 28 countries and all of our major business lines/brands such as Beeline, LHH and Pontoon. Our goal is to be recognised as an employer of choice, not just in our own industry, but amongst other world-leading companies. The Great Place to Work Trust Index© is an employee survey tool that measures the level of trust, pride and camaraderie within workplaces. The overall result for the Group improved by 2% in 2014 compared to 2013. The greatest improvement was seen in the dimensions ‘respect and fairness‘ in 2014. For the first time, Adecco made the ranking of top multinational workplaces in Europe – coming straight in at number 19! Colleagues from Adecco Group, the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Sweden and Spain were in Rome to pick up Adecco’s Great Place to Work Europe award. Learn more CSR CoP 2013/2014 37 Adecco Group countries, brands and regions in Great Place To Work® rankings Company Ranking 60 Adecco country/brand ranking 2012/2013 50 Adecco country/ 40 brand ranking 2013/2014 GPTW total ranked 30 companies in respective 20 category 2013/2014 10 k3 ng 1 ng 1 m2 rg 4 n2 3 3 3 nd 3 4 3 1 Category ‘large & multinational enterprises‘ ar nd nd nd pe da 2 Category ‘large enterprises’ ffi ffi iu bu ai la la la la ro nm ta ta lg Sp Ire na m Ire Ire Ire Eu Ca De ls ra ls na Be xe ec co & & & & co co 3 Category ‘medium enterprises’ co Lu UK co ec ne sio ec co Ad UK UK UK Ad ec ec 4 One category only Ad Ge es Ad ec co y og ls ple Ad s of ec ge eo nd Pr Ad Ad ol An la s hn e rP er nd Te c fic te th la g Of pu Ne er rin m co th Sp Co ec Ne Ad co ec Ad This course focuses on leadership situ3 LEADERSHIP ations our colleagues experience and PROGRAM the behaviours they require to be an effective leader. The colleagues receive intense individual feedback and coaching and gain a better understanding of why people behave as they do. Colleagues The Adecco Academy The Adecco Academy provides a solid work in small teams with an experienced leadership coach: foundation for the Group’s global training and development learning through deep self-assessment, role play, outdoor offerings catering for a wide variety of employees. The proexercises and debriefs, case studies, group work and video grammes are organised under two pillars: leadership and (observing their own behaviour on film). The emphasis is on service & sales. experiences – they experiment with their own behaviour and actions, to find out more about themselves and others. Leadership Through our leadership programmes, in cooperation with two of the best business schools in the world, INWith this programme, colleagues gain a SEAD in France and IMD in Switzerland, more than 900 of LEADING WITH greater awareness of a changing world Adecco’s managers have been trained to improve their leadLWI INNOVATION and develop an understanding of the ership skills. impact digital media and technology has on society, communication and brands. It challenges This programme is designed around existing ways of thinking and working whilst building compeSENIOR SLDP Adecco Group’s six strategic priorities. LEADERSHIP tence and confidence within the digital space. Colleagues get DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM The basic concept is to combine each of to experience digital media through tangible tasks and exthese with cutting-edge academic thinkplore digital opportunities within their own Adecco Group ing, practically addressing the challenges facing the Adecco business. Group and its Senior Management team. The programme showcases best practice examples of what Colleagues engage in active and practical discussions conother organisations have implemented, with a special emcerning different initiatives and leave the programme with a phasis on the service industry. clearer focus and a personal action plan on what we can do to further progress on specific initiatives. This highly intensive programme deFurthermore, participants have the chance to apply the conM B A velops the skills that are needed to meet cepts introduced to real business challenges they face at the HIGHLIGHTS the demands of general management Adecco Group. responsibilities and effective leadership in an operations environment. The content has been adapted to the challenges of our industry and the unique needs of the Adecco Group business while still bringing innovation from other industries and leveraging the expertise of the worldclass faculty members. CSR CoP 2013/2014 38 Retention rate 2009– 2013 in % 70/75/75/76/76 66/80/81/81/80 64/73/70/74/70 65/67/62/62/68 90 FY 2009 70 FY 2010 FY 201 1 FY 2012 50 FY 2013 Group Europe North Rest of world America Service & sales HIGH INTENSITY High Intensity Training, or HIT as it is HIT TRAINING commonly referred to, has been The Service Excellence Course has been enhancing Adecco colleagues’ sales SERVICE designed, built and delivered by Adecco, and recruiting skills in over 25 countries since 2006. This trainEXCELLENCE SEC COURSE for Adecco. It is aimed at raising awareing programme is targeted at colleagues with a ‘retail‘ focus, ness of our customer needs and expecboth in the Professional and General Staffing businesses. Coltations, and how we can exceed these. leagues learn the basics of sales, recruiting, order mainteThe course is designed especially for Branch Managers as nance and operational efficiencies. We discuss global best they have the most access to, and impact on, our customers. practices and work through techniques in a classroom setting, Participants will work through a series of discussions, activities to adapt these best practices to local realities. Learning techand experiences to adapt a common customer service frameniques include large-group discussion, role plays and culturwork for key interactions with their customers. This proves a ally adapted small-group discussions. great opportunity to highlight the impact of one’s actions and All activities are done while receiving real-time coaching and behaviour and assist with overcoming potential poor percepmentoring from trainers. Confidence is built through repetition tions. In 2013, 1,130 people were trained from 46 countries. and reinforcement of the skills necessary to succeed in our industry. Value Focused Selling goes beyond VALUE VFS FOCUSED basic sales techniques and delivers a SELLING tried-and-tested approach focused on consultative selling methodologies. It has been delivered to Adecco colleagues in over 15 countries since 2009. Colleagues learn how to engage clients in a way that helps them understand what is important to our clients (value) and how to then customise a solution to meet those wants and needs. The course introduces a process with a practical application that guides colleagues throughout the entire sales process, giving them a better way to qualify and quantify the Adecco colleagues during one of our Service Excellence Courses in Bangasales potential. lore, India. The consultative approach covers how to work proactively throughout the entire client structure and utilise time and resources effectively. CSR CoP 2013/2014 39 “Adecco has worked with Great Place to Work® since 2004 to create and sustain a great workplace across the many countries. I am very impressed by the focused and dedicated effort they put into developing their workplace culture, both locally and globally.“ Ditte Vigsø, Managing Director, Great Place to Work® Denmark Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Poland’s Sales University Adecco is committed to finding the best talents. Our colleagues in Poland have creCAP certification: Behaviour – Diligence – Professionalism ated the ‘Sales University’ for Polish graduates. The goal is to Groupe Adecco France has implemented an internal certifiapproach graduates early and familiarise them with Adecco, cation process for associates. Their 80,000 clients are an imour sector and services in order to attract and gain new emportant opinion provider in this process. At the end of the asployees who are eager to learn and to be part of our comsignment, clients are asked to evaluate the associate based pany – specifically for our sales department with a focus on on seven criteria. Once an associate receives three ‘A’ ratings the retail sector. The programme was promoted at Universities from different clients, he/she is certified for one year and reand 200 students applied online. So far, Adecco Poland has ceives additional benefits and training. If appraisals are rated conducted four trainings over four days during a period of five ‘B’ or ‘C’, Adecco will work together with the associate to imweeks with a total of 70 applicants. After the candidates had prove performance. The certification process furthers the engone through an assessment and skill-testing process, Adecgagement of associates and strengthens the relationship with co Poland was able to recruit 14 young graduates directly from the client. It helps Adecco better match companies and talUniversity into our workforce. We are convinced that good ents. It also increases the employretention rates require the right recruitment practices. ability of associates because of the Visit the ‘Adecco Sales University’ website regular feedback they get after each Watch the ‘Adecco Sales University’ video assignment. And it motivates associates to outperform because their work is acknowledged and they feel part of the Adecco team. Training hours for associates Per 1,000 working hours (select countries) 5 4 3 The number of training hours Adecco provides to associates depends on various 2 factors, such as on national legislation, associates’ educational backgrounds 1 (cf. chart on page 40), as well as on business sectors served. ce s nd m an y an iu Fr la lg rm er Be Ge th Ne CSR CoP 2013/2014 40 Number and length of assignments per associate (Select countries) 8 Average length of assignment (days) 180 Nr. of assignments per associate 7 150 6 120 5 4 90 3 Average length of assignment 60 2 (left axis) 30 1 • Nr. of assignments per associate 0 (right axis) ce n ai ly m nd y an an Sp Ita iu la Fr lg Fin rm Be Ge Temporary work legislation and culture vary from country to country. This leads to different temporary work patterns: from many but short assignments (e.g. France, Spain) to fewer but long assignments (e.g. Finland, Germany). Supporting apprenticeships DIS AG Germany has always Human & Labour Rights been at the forefront in nurturing young employees. They have been promoting dual education for 16–19-year-olds by offering Global programmes and initiatives three-year apprenticeships which are composed of practical training on the job, seminars and e-learning modules to beAdecco Human & Labour Rights Guidelines Working with come a certified Human Resources expert. over 31,000 employees, 650,000 associates on daily assign‘Personaldienstleistungskaufmann/-frau’. The apprenticeships ments with more than 100,000 clients in over 60 countries, can be done in different departments such as Human Rerequires a strong focus on Human and Labour Rights. In 2013, sources, Business Development, Marketing, Procurement, we published our Guidelines on Human & Labour Rights which Sales, Accounting or in one of our branches. At the beginning also address adherence of our clients and suppliers. Adecco of 2014, one of DIS’ apprentices was awarded as the best upholds the principle that the inherent dignity and the equal graduate amongst all German students in her field. What and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is most motivated the 19-year-old was the great team spirit the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world as amongst her colleagues, the practical experience she could set forth in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. The gain alongside theory and the responsibilities she was given responsibility to respect Human & Labour Rights is a global in her role as apprentice. standard of expected conduct for all business enterprises DIS website for apprenticeships wherever they operate, even beyond national laws and conventions. Our company aims to implement the United Nations Educational attainment level of temporary associates ’Protect, Respect and Remedy’ framework which was en% of all workers in temporary sector (select countries) dorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Council on 16 June, 2011. Adecco recognises that the Guiding Principles provide an authoritative global standard for preventing and ad100 dressing the risk of adverse impacts on human rights linked to 80 business activity. 60 unknown/other Adecco’s Guidelines on Business & Human Rights high 40 medium Signing of European Works Council Agreement Between 20 low 1999 and 2011, Adecco engaged in a European-wide exchange of transnational information through the ‘Platform for Adecco Communication in Europe’ (PACE). ce s nd m an y an iu Fr la lg rm er Be Ne th Ge On 11 December 2013, the Adecco Special Negotiation Body signed the Adecco European Works Council Agreement, in The average educational attainment levels of tempory associates vary very accordance with the provisions set out in the: much from country to country, and therefore require different training needs • Directive 97/74/EC and Directive 2009/38/EC (source: Ciett Economic Report 2014). • UK Statutory Instrument 1999 No. 3323 • Community Charter of Fundamental Rights for Workers and; • Institutional Treaties of the European Union. CSR CoP 2013/2014 41 “The Adecco Group is a partner and key supporter of the platform Equal@work, led by the European Network Against Racism (ENAR) and the ENAR foundation. Adecco is one of a few European companies that has taken a strategic decision and an innovative approach to fight racism in the labour market, and daily contributes to make it more inclusive for all. Sarah Isal, President ENAR The purpose of a European Works Council (EWC) is to bring Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining: together employee representatives from the different EuroSituation of our associates in %, worldwide pean countries in which a multinational company has operations. The EWC process foresees that employee representatives are informed and consulted by central management on Associates in ’free’ or ’mostly free’ transnational issues of concern to the company’s employees. countries 1 95% The Adecco EWC is composed of employee representatives Associates covered by Collective Labour from all EU Member States where Adecco has operations – inAgreements: 41% cluding Norway and Switzerland – as well as Adecco manAssociates in ’partly free’ countries 1 3% agement representatives and is led by our global Chief HuAssociates in ’repressive’ countries 1: 2% man Resources Officer. UNI Europa was involved with a Associates in ’very repressive’ countries 1: representative in the negotiation process as an expert to the no operations in such countries employee representatives. Its first meeting took place on 3 1 Regarding level of workers’ rights: rating by Freedomhouse (www.freedomhouse.org) and 4 June, 2014 at the Adecco Group Headquarter in Zurich, Switzerland. Background on European Works Council The European Network Against Racism (ENAR) The Adecco European Commission E&RA 1 Sector Guide on Business & Group has been an active member of the ENAR Equal@Work Human Rights In December 2011, IHRB 2 and Shift 3 were initiative since 2009. This pioneering expert group brings toselected by the European Commission (Directorate-General for gether businesses committed to diversity and inclusion Enterprise and Industry) to develop sector-specific guidance (Adecco Group, EY, Groupe La Poste, L’Oréal and Sodexo) with on the corporate responsibility to respect human rights, as set non-governmental anti-racist organisations, Trade Union repout in the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human resentatives, State Authority representatives and Equality BodRights. The development of sector-specific human rights guidies. Together, we work on developing new ways to ensure the ance is one of the deliverables of the European Commission’s full participation of ethnic and cultural minorities in the labour policy on corporate social responsibility, adopted in October market. ENAR Equal@Work has issued recommendations to 2011. Further to a public consultation, the services of the Eurothe EU authorities on monitoring diversity; best practices adpean Commission decided that guidance would be developed dressing reasonable accommodation of cultural diversity in for employment and recruitment agencies (E&RA), information the workplace; and glass ceilings for migrants, amongst other and communications technologies (ICT) companies, and oil topics. At the same time, a focus has been set on driving and and gas companies. The development of this Guide involved creating research to achieve equality for all in the labour marextensive research and multi-stakeholder consultation. Ciett, ket since 1999. the World Staffing Association, was involved in the drafting Read more process from the beginning with a mandate on the Advisory Fourth ENAR Equal@work meeting Report Board. Adecco has actively supported and contributed to the ENAR Shadow Reports various drafting and consultation phases. The final guidelines were published in June 2013. 1  Employment & Recruitment Agency. Download the E&RA Sector Guide 2 Institute for Human Rights and Business. 3 Shift is an independent, non-profit center for business and human rights practice. CSR CoP 2013/2014 42 Age distribution amongst Adecco Group employees in % (select countries) 100 60< 50 –60 80 40 –50 60 30 – 40 <30 40 20 ce UK y an ly n ai s nd ay en ica pa n ica ia an Ita Sp rw ed er er As Fr rm er la No Sw Am Ja Am Ge th Ne rth tin No La Select country programmes and initiatives Groupe Adecco France has built its anti-discrimination policy around five pillars: Anti-discrimination training in the UK The Learning Portal is • Adecco has zero tolerance with regards to any discriminaAdecco UK & Ireland’s employees’ one-stop resource for all tory behaviour or action training needs. It spans a wealth of online training resources • The responsibility lies with all our employees covering well-known subject areas and specialised, tailored • Constant evaluation of our business practices solutions for a variety of roles and brands, to a scheduling and • Ensure traceability of any actions booking system for instructor-led training classes. The training • Take immediate corrective action if any discriminatory pracportal also includes a comprehensive three-module course tice has been detected. which has been developed to meet international and UK specific laws (Equality Act 2010) and anti-discriminatory standards. Adecco Colombia & Human Rights Adecco Colombia is enThe online course supports employees in offering a fair and gaged in a multi-stakeholder initiative resulting from the Free non-discriminatory service to our clients, candidates, associates Trade Agreement between the Columbian and the Swiss as well as colleagues. It informs employees about specific legGovernment. Various companies, the Swiss and the Columbian islation including basic recruitment law with regards to antiGovernments and the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para la Paz’ discrimination and it provides the right contacts where any signed the ‘compromiso ético’, focusing on the respect of doubts and questions can be addressed within Adecco. Human Rights. Since the beginning of 2012, regular meetings At the end of each module, the employee is tested. have taken place, focusing on explaining the concept and importance of International Humanitarian Law and the ‘Guías Groupe Adecco France – long-standing commitment to fight Colombia’ on Human Rights and International Humanitarian discrimination Discriminatory practices in the labour market Law, led by the NGO ‘Fundación Ideas para la Paz’. The ‘Guías are a reality and need to be addressed actively. Groupe Adecco Colombia’ share the purpose of defining, promoting and France began to raise awareness around this topic in 2001 adopting clear patterns and standards pertaining to Human with the creation of the ’Pôle de lutte contre les discriminaRights and International Humanitarian Law for business options’ putting in place tools, awareness training and audits of erations in complex scenarios like contemporary Colombia. business services. In addition, Adecco France and Adia also On an industry level, within ACOSET 4, Adecco has been participated in the European project EQUAL Latitude between co-driving two initiatives under the Human Rights umbrella: 2001 and 2006, developing concrete action plans with regards • The focus on Health and Safety at work, with the objective to discrimination and signed the French Diversity Charter toof Adecco Colombia reaching the target of zero employee gether with major multinationals. and associate accidents. • The potential support of collective bargaining and freedom Since 2010, Groupe Adecco France has been using a 5-modof association measures, as the workers representation ule e-learning training – mandatory for all employees – prolandscape is poor in Columbia. viding practical and legal support on non-discrimination. The Guidelines for implementation: Ethical Commitment of Swiss training was stepped up in 2013 with a video message from Companies in Colombia the Country Manager and Adecco diversity specialists and one-hour interactive group learning sessions using a comprehensive slide deck and the participation from management. 4 Columbian Temporary Work Industry Association. CSR CoP 2013/2014 43 “Adecco Foundation France has shown support and patronage of ‘Je filme le métier qui me plaît’. The category on ‘career stereotypes‘, sponsored by Adecco is crucial as young people need to overcome prejudice and focus on what they are best at and passionate for. 25% of all projects we received in 2014 focused on fighting career stereotypes. This is triggering a needed mind-set change in a playful way.“ Anne Fournier, Co-organiser ‘Je filme le métier qui me plaît’ Diversity & Equal Opportunities Adecco joins global apprenticeships coalition In May 2014, Adecco joined the Global Apprenticeships Network (GAN), a Global programmes and initiatives global coalition of companies calling for greater commitment and investment in work-based training. The GAN and its World Economic Forum – a focus on Human Capital and members seek to address global skills shortages and to creemployment In January 2014, the Adecco Group took part in ate opportunities for young people. The coalition focuses on the World Economic Forum in Davos for the third time since improving the status of apprenticeship programmes by offerbecoming a Strategic Partner in December 2011. ing apprenticeships as well as internships and by sharing best The goal of the Forum is to improve the state of the world which practices with other companies and labour administrations. is why youth unemployment, structural reform, skills mismatchInternational companies such as Telefónica, Ericsson, Huawei es and occupational shifts were high on the agenda and disTechnologies, UBS, Jindal Steel & Power and Samsung Eleccussed as part of the CEO series session on ’Tackling Talent tronics have to date also joined the GAN initiative. The network Scarcity – How employers are rethinking their responsibility to is supported by the International Organisation of Employers invest in talent for the long term’. Adecco was represented on (IOE) and the Independent International Business Association this panel by its CEO. Further Adecco participants at the World (BIAC) 5 which advises government policy-makers at the OECD Economic Forum included the Chairman of the Board of Direcand related platforms. In April 2014, at the G20-OECD-EC contors, our CFO as well as additional Executive Committee memference on ’Quality Apprenticeships’ in Paris, representatives bers. As Strategic Partner, Adecco is involved in a series of Refrom the G20 and OECD governments, as well as social partgional Meetings including the ones in Latin America, East Asia, ners and companies, concurred on the importance of focusing Europe, China and India where our local leaders are further on work-based training schemes to ensure job opportunities involved to co-shape the agenda on job creation. for youth and skills for business. A survey on apprenticeship Read about ’Talent as the future currency’ practices conducted in the G20 countries by the IOE, BIAC and GAN found that governments’ efforts were inadequate in involving business in apprenticeships systems. GAN website IOE-BIAC-GAN survey 2014 Adecco Group’s CEO Patrick De Maeseneire during the panel discussion on ’Tackling Talent Scarcity’ at the World Economic Forum 2014. 5 Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. CSR CoP 2013/2014 44 Employees with a disability in select countries and regions % of headcount 2013 12 CANDIDATE LAST YEAR INTERNATIONAL MOBILIT Y over 2000 10 candidates found an international opportunity 8 thanks to Adecco. 6 4 WHERE THEY FOUND JOBS 2 az il do r Ita ly pa n 213 Norway iu m an y EN A ue la ce ile bia Br ua an Ch m Ja lg rm 17 Ec Be /M ez Fr lo Ge Ve 215 pe n Co 229 Canada The Netherlands Eu ro Finland n 115 er 8Germany st Belgium Ea 12 USA 14 Bulgaria The chart shows Adecco countries and regions, which report more than 1% employees with a disability. This diversity indicator depends 104 also on local definitions of disability. Private data protection laws in many countries do not allow France 225 to track 126 this indicator. United Arab Emirates Switzerland 53 28 Qatar Colombia Uruguay 12 Select country programmes and initiatives WHERE THEY CAME FROM 475 291 236 137 82 68 40 30 20 15 14 11 6 Adecco North America awarded by Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC) The Commitment of Poland UK France USA Portugal Spain Slovak Denmark India Romania Hungary Sweden Taiwan Republic Adecco North America with regards to diversity was awarded in March 2014 by the Women’s Business Enterprise National Council (WBENC). Adecco was listed on their 15th annual list of America’s Top Corporations for Women’s Business Enterprises (WBEs). This is the only national award honouring corporaTHE MAIN PROFILES OF 31% tions for their leading Supplier Diversity programmes that OUR INTERNATIONAL 22% are breaking down barriers and are proactively integrating CANDIDATES Women’s Business Enterprises into their supply chains. Adecco 12% 14% North America is also a member of the National Minority Sup7% 10% plier Development Council (NMSDC). In 2013, 29% of Adecco 0.7% 1.9% 2.3% North America's spend was subcontracted with diverse suppliers. Read more Office Hospitality Call center / Managers Logisitics Engineers Medical IT Specialists Trade workers employees Help desk (Sales, Finance, workers & Technicians (including multilingual Operations) construction) Groupe Adecco France – committed to diversity In France, the ’Réseau Adecco Insertion’, created in 1994, has provided Candidate International Mobility CIM – furthering diverse solutions for more than 8,000 people with 3,500 client comteams In 2013,67% 33% thanks to the re-launch of Adecco’s Candidate panies to date, championing diversity and equal opportunities TEMPORARY International Mobility PERMANENT programme, over 2,000 candidates found for people at risk of exclusion. The network is composed of 65 an internationalWORK job thanks to Adecco. Most PL ACEMENT found work in Canbranches all over France. Sustainable employment or training ada, Switzerland, Norway and the Netherlands, while the majorwas provided by the ’Réseau Adecco Insertion’ to 60% of benity of associates came from Poland, the UK, North America Candidate International Mobility adecco.com and eficiaries after the two-year maximum period under an incluFrance. The profiles most in demand were trade workers, IT spesion contract. We are pleased to say that this result is above ™ of the Adecco Group or an af filiated company cialists, healthcare professionals and engineers. any average figures for this target group. The network is also In early 2014, the Candidate International Mobility Job Board contributing to Groupe Adecco France’s goal to place 40,000 was launched showing vacancies for international candidates people into employment by the end of 2015. in the new CIM job board on www.adecco.com. Candidates Read more can easily apply for open positions online. To date, Adecco has over 70 recruiters working on the placement of internationally mobile candidates. In June, the Adecco Global Transition Centre (GTC) was launched in Poland to further improve the coordination of international recruitment projects. Visit the CIM website CSR CoP 2013/2014 45 Sochi 2014 – success through diverse teams In 2011, Adecco candidates. Only 8% of the candidates came from Sochi, 62% Russia was selected as the Temporary Staffing supplier for were recruited from other cities in Russia and the remaining the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games. Adecco had the task 30% were non-Russian candidates from 25 countries. Adecco to recruit over 5,000 temporary employees in less than eight Russia hired 24% young people who were under the age of 25 months. Additional challenges were that the population in years and 15% who were over the age of 45 years. 61% were Sochi is less than 500,000 people. The Organising Commitbetween 25 and 45 years old. tee of the Sochi 2014 Winter Olympic Games needed diverse Adecco ensured that all associates received decent wages, profiles and in Russia, temporary work is not yet common. housing for three to seven months and a partial compensation The Adecco Russia Sochi team – which grew from 6 to 109 for travelling to Sochi. people in one year – managed to screen over 112,000 applicaAdecco Russia and its colleagues contributed to the great tions, conducted 36,000 interviews and offered jobs to 5,330 Games’ experience with a most diverse team of people. The Olympic and The Challenge How we did it Who They Were Paralympic Staff Adecco Team Candidates Legacy Games in Russia number of FTEs could only be Only 8% of candidates successful with 5330 were from Sochi. the right people 109 Temporary staﬀ Anadyr SP b Murmansk 4% and skills. 6 Kaliningrad Arkhangelsk TOP 3 positions: Main challenges: Saint-Petersburg Kazan Norilsk region 2400 Krasnodar 14% Moscow Short time frame. 2% Vologda This is what 16% region Moscow less than 8 months for recruitment process. Belgorod Kirov Nizhniy Novgorod Rostov Critical deadline. 8% Izhevsk Perm drivers Rostov December 2012 Kazan Yakutsk Adecco was Volgograd Ekaterinburg Surgut Samara All the employees had to be on-board in time. Krasnodar Ufa Tyumen Khanti-Mansiysk 800 Saratov Sochi Elista Stavropol Chelyabinsk Small local labour market of Sochi. 6% Stavropol Kurgan Astrakhan Omsk Krasnoyarsk Volgograd responsible for. Sochi Bratsk Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk region Novosibirks 8% Population of Sochi is less than 500 000 people. logistic December 2013 12% Novokuznetsk Chita specialists Unconventional project Vladivostok for Russian labour market. Roles Recruited We were the 400 Relocation for temporary work is not common for Russia. people behind transport supervisors Positions requiring a unique skill set. >10 non existing positions in Russia. UNIQ 565 candidates the people of Sport, Events, Media, Press For this project we had to use ﬀerent di kind of sources: Managing over Sochi 2014. 112 000 management & exotic positions, Services e.g. Meteorology Manager . from direct search to marketing campaigns. 5330 11% 70% applications PRO 14% 34% Recruitment On-boarding HR Administration ts Int 17% Diﬀerent sources en e Payroll Support Security Check Support 31% ob 1046 candidates 60% et J used to attract temporary candidates Ev rn ^ 1 000 000 views Adecco is proud to have been at the heart Accreditation Support Trainings Support staﬀ 9% of the success of Sochi 2014. Without Variety of managers of proﬁles at internet job boards: for all the OCOG Functions. 19% JOB.sochi2014.com & hh.ru Boards candidates attracted with the skilled and experienced people we Accommodation Support 300 000 minutes MASS ^ marketing actions and events of calls received by two call-centers from July 2013 to January 2014 recruited there would have been no 14% Outplacement ﬀ. After Universiade ‘Kazan-2013’ sta Sochi 2014. Adecco not only worked in ^ 200 000 likes 3719 candidates 17% Suppliers & Partners Russian Students Organization & ‘Basel’ on our posts at social networks: facebook, vk, odnoklassniki. partnership with Sochi 2014 to ﬁnd the Diversity Working hands at the Games: car drivers, logistics workers etc. 9% Adecco Base best people but sourced 92% of people from outside of Sochi. 25 countries Recruitment plan + 25% margin By working closely with the senior team at OCOG Adecco has demonstrated that hiring a diverse workforce is not about Candidates from: Armenia, Canada, 5000 achieving targets but about having the Croatia, Estonia, Finland, France, best, most innovative and capable Germany, Greece, Italy, Japan, Latvia, 3000 Passion workforce possible. Adecco team know Lithuania, Luxemburg, Malaysia, Norway, how to contribute to one of the largest, Panama, Poland, Slovakia, South Korea, Attitude most complex and deadline-driven projects Spain, Switzerland, UK, Ukraine, USA, 1000 Work Under in the world, providing HR service. Uzbekistan Ju ne Ju ly Au g. pt. Se ct. O N ov. ec D . n., 14 Pressure From this project Adecco Russia has Team Spirit gained an unique experience, a series Ja Gender 17% 83% Recruitment Funnel of practical tools to help its existing and future clients better engage with their Applications 112 000 local communities, attracting and Age 24% 42% 19% 15% Telephone interviews Personal interviews 57 000 Ability sourcing unique talent and above all delivering skills and teams to help 36 000 Customer or Selection by Functions for MASS ^ 25 25-35 35-45 ^ 45 organisations be the best in their Oﬀers 7 500 respective markets. English 80% 15% Work 5 330 Focus Language no knowledge Basic 1.5% Fluent 2.5% Intermediate CSR CoP 2013/2014 46 Adecco employee gender distribution in 2012–2013 in % 100 80 2013 male 60 2013 female 2012 male 40 2012 female 20 Senior Branch All All managers managers managers employees The ratio of female senior managers rose from 23% in 2012 to 34% in 2013, whereas the gender distribution within other management levels and amongst all employees remained stable. Adecco at the Vietnam Youth To Business Forum 2013 Integration A workshop at the Youth To Business Forum 2013 organised by AIESEC in Vietnam was delivered by the Country Manager Global programmes and initiatives of Adecco Vietnam. AIESEC is the world’s largest youth-run organisation and is present in over 113 countries. With over Adecco’s involvement with the Global ILO Business and 86,000 members it is focused on providing a platform for Disability Network People with disabilities make up around youth leadership development, offering young people the 15% of the world’s population. This amounts to over 1 billion of opportunity to be global citizens, to change the world, and to people, making them the largest minority group. As an emget experience and skills that matter today. Adecco’s Country ployer of over 10,000 people with disabilities per year, we Manager and Vice Chair of EuroCham Vietnam, presented on bring considerable experience to the Global ILO Business and the topic of ‘Entrepreneurship and Corporate Responsibility’ Disability Network through our membership and role on the to over 50 students in the workshop. In addition, a business Steering Committee. The Network is comprised of representacompetition was hosted on the topic of ‘Corporate Anti-Bribery tives from multinational enterprises, employers’ organisations & Corruption’ where students had to work in teams and create and business networks, and selected non-governmental and solutions to Anti-Bribery and Corruption issues which could be disabled peoples’ organisations. It assists companies with the faced doing business. The session helped the students look inclusion of people with disabilities into the workforce and for innovative solutions to address problems and fostered fosters the development of a workforce culture that is respectteam spirit as well as networking skills. It also raised awareful and inclusive; promoting the hiring, retention and profesness about situations and issues companies are confronted sional development of people with disabilities. By 2015, the ILO with and provided students with a first-hand learning experiGlobal Business and Disability Network strives to be recogence from experts. nised by international organisations, multinational enterprises Read the Forum Report and employers’ organisations as the global reference network to address disability in the workplace. In 2013, collaboration among members further developed and grew in an unprecedented way, transforming this network into what we had envisioned to be in its first three years of existence. The network continued to hold regional and national meetings, reinforcing the message that people with disabilities have a lot to contribute in the workplace and that they have a key role to play in society. In 2013, employers and other stakeholders gathered in Singapore, Turkey and China. Read more in their 2013 Annual Report ILO Business & Disability Website The Ability Factor: watch the latest video CSR CoP 2013/2014 47 “Adecco Group as a member of the ILO Global Business & Disability Network Steering Committee shares our conviction that it makes good business sense to employ persons with disabilities. Business-to-business support has proven to be key in convincing companies to put theory into practice and making their workforce more inclusive and diverse.“ Stefan Trömel, Senior Disability Specialist, ILO Global Business & Disability Network Adecco joins Nestlé Alliance for YOUth As part of our comHelping people with disabilities: in 45% of Adecco’s markets mitment to fight youth unemployment and provide young people with work experience, Adecco joined the Nestlé Alliance Americas: USA, Mexico, for YOUth programme in June 2014. During a high-level gathArgentina ering in Lisbon, the President of the European Commission, France José Manuel Barroso, the Prime Minister of Portugal Pedro Italy Passos Coelho, as well as the Minister of Solidarity, Netherlands Employment and Social Security, Pedro Mota Soares, joined Eastern Europe: Hungary, Serbia Nestlé Europe CEO Laurent Freixe and Nestlé’s business partners to sign up to the European Commission’s ‘European AlliIn more than 45% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to ance for Apprenticeships’. The Alliance aims to bring together integrate people with disabilities into the labour market. Database: associates on private companies, alongside European institutions and naassignment. tional governments, in the fight against youth unemployment. As the world leader in Human Resources solutions, Adecco will contribute its labour market expertise and help young Helping young job seekers: in 50% of Adecco’s markets people to develop the skills they need to succeed. Within the Alliance for YOUth, we will play a key role by proFrance Eastern Europe: viding educational material, training, job experience, as well Romania, Americas: as career guidance to build the programme aimed at preparUSA, Argentina Hungary, ing young people for the world of work. Serbia, Slovakia, Japan Follow the Nestlé Alliance for YOUth on twitter: #ALLiance4YOUth Greece Spain Read the Global Press Release Italy Denmark Watch the Alliance for YOUth partner video Netherlands In almost 50% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes (Way to Work™ not included) to integrate young job seekers into the labour market. Helping mature job seekers: in 40% of Adecco markets France Americas: USA, Argentina Spain Italy Netherlands Eastern Europe: Serbia, Slovakia Young people who had the chance to gain access to internships through the Nestlé Alliance for YOUth programme in Portugal during the high-level In more than 40% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to integrate mature job seekers into the labour market. gathering in June 2014. CSR CoP 2013/2014 48 People with disabilities integrated into the labour market Information on number of individuals 14,000 Other business units 12,000 Adecco Belgium 10,000 Adecco Italy & Adecco Foundation Italy 8,000 Adecco Spain & 6,000 Adecco Foundation Spain 4,000 Adecco France & Adecco Foundation France 2,000 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Our charitable foundations Adecco Group and its three Adecco Foundation Italy, created in 2001 major foundations in France, Spain and Italy – often in part• Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to nership with respected organisations – are involved in a range ensure their integration into the workforce. of international, national and local programmes to help • Activities: the foundation runs several partnerships and inigroups ‘at risk’ of exclusion from the workforce because of tiatives to integrate people with disabilities, single women disability, age, ethnicity or gender. Our Adecco foundations with family responsibilities, long-term unemployed, people are funded by contributions from Adecco and other compaover 40, elite Olympic and Paralympic athletes. nies and organisations committed to supporting our integra• Employees: 7 tion efforts. • Annual donation by Adecco Group Italy: EUR 325,000; Other companies: EUR 78,100 Adecco Foundation France, created in 2002 • Foundation budget: EUR 370,000 • Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to • Beneficiaries from Adecco Foundation Italy: 405 (318 vocaensure their integration into the workforce. tional training, 174 integrated) • Activities: developing social partnerships with various non• Beneficiaries from Adecco Group Italy programmes: 17,411 profit organisations in three fields: education, career orien(441 people with disabilities, 4,314 mature (50+), 12,305 tation and professional integration. In 2013, 31 non-profit young (18–24). organisations were supported and 290 Adecco employees Adecco Fondazione website volunteered time to participate in local solidarity initiatives. The Foundation also runs the French Athlete Career ProAdecco Foundation Spain, created in 1999 gramme helping elite, Olympic and Paralympic athletes • Purpose: assist, support and train disadvantaged people to with their transition into the labour market. ensure their integration into the workforce. Providing servic• Employees (FTEs): 3.7 (380 volunteers) es to companies with regards to their implementation of • Annual donation by Groupe Adecco France: EUR 500,000. CSR programmes and action plans as well as policies, with • Foundation budget: EUR 750,000 (EUR 500,000 in donation, the goal to enhance diversity within their workforce. EUR 250,000 in training tax) • Activities: the foundation runs several partnerships and ini• Community investment: 1,700 h tiatives. • Beneficiaries from the Adecco Foundation France activities: • Employees (FTEs): 104 (3,347 volunteers) 8,390 • Annual donation by Adecco Group Spain: EUR 222,500 • Beneficiaries from Groupe Adecco France programmes • Foundation budget: EUR 12,099,038 (Disability & Skills programme, Espace Emploi Handicap & • Investments in PP/Community Partnerships: EUR 10,047,259 Compétences): 5,600 • In 2013, employment was made possible for 2,434 disabled Adecco Foundation France website people, over 368 single mothers, 606 mature people (+45), including 126 people at risk of exclusion • Beneficiaries from Adecco Foundation activities: 14,121 Adecco Fundación website CSR CoP 2013/2014 49 Select country programmes and initiatives Adecco Chile – ’World Café’ for inclusion The ILO together with SOFOFA – the Chilean Staffing Federation – and Chilean ‘Proyecto Unidos’ in Spain Adecco Foundation Spain is proemployers including Adecco are working to raise awareness moting a project called ‘Proyecto Unidos’ (Joint Programme), on the positive impact that people with disabilities can have that brings together several national universities and comon enterprises. For that purpose in January, the ‘World Café‘ panies for a common goal: labour market inclusion of young event brought together 28 companies to engage in a dialogue people with disabilities. The programme's mission is to create on inclusion of people with a disability. The goal of the meetan inclusive university, accessible and open to diversity and ing was to show new perspectives and talk about benefits for talent – a stepping stone for these youngster into employorganisations by opening company doors to people with a ment. disability. According to Chilean statistics, 12.9% of the populaIn a first step, ‘Proyecto Unidos’ will support 150 students with tion have some kind of disability. Around 57.5% are able to disabilities through an orientation programme in which uniwork. However, only 29% are currently in employment. Adecco versities and companies will combine their knowledge, reChile has set targets to increase the number of people with a sources and experiences to mentor, guide and prepare studisability in its workforce and is also looking to work with dents with disabilities during their studies to increase their clients on how to make the labour market more inclusive and employability and ensure access to employment. accessible. Companies in the Spanish engineering and industrial sector Read more about the World Café have joined the Polytechnic University of Madrid (UPM) to supWebsite: Empresa inclusiva port the programme. At an event held at UPM, its rector and directors of 14 companies pledged their commitment to the ‘La Chaîne du OUI’ – The power to say ‘yes’ In January 2013, initiative. It is fundamental that companies are involved from when unemployment levels in France and many European the earliest stages of education and training in order to encountries were soaring, Groupe Adecco France launched a sure that students with disabilities acquire the skills, abilities major initiative called ‘La Chaîne du OUI’. The main objective and attitudes needed in the workplace. of Adecco is to create 270,000 permanent jobs within three Visit the ‘Proyecto Unidos’ programme website years for groups of people without a job and at risk of exclusion such as: youngsters, long-term unemployed and people with disabilities – but also supporting temporary employees to move into a permanent job. In the past three years, Groupe Adecco France showed that it was possible to create 230,000 jobs, so upping this number is not only an economic but also a social challenge which energises our employees. The challenge however cannot be achieved by Adecco alone, therefore, we have approached companies as well as organisations to say ‘yes’ and support us in this endeavour. Joining companies sign a Charter which is more of a moral commitment to engage in finding solutions to create jobs. After 18 Programa months, close to 400 companies have joined the initiative and Unidos the following goals have been reached: Overall objective (270,000 jobs): 43% or 116,523 jobs have Orientación académica y laboral para estubeen created diantes universitarios con discapacidad Permanent positions (130,000): 54.8% or 71,276 people moved into permanent positions People at the edge of exclusion (40,000 jobs): 31.2% or 12,752 have been integrated into jobs Universidad y empresa Youngsters (100,000 jobs): 32.5% or 32,495 people have unidos por tu futuro found employment. ‘La Chaîne du OUI‘ website Watch the video CSR CoP 2013/2014 50 ‘Je filme le métier qui me plaît’ – another engagement for Pre-labour market support for children, young people For the fifth consecutive year, Adecco Foundayouth & students: in 48% of Adecco’s markets tion France has sponsored the competition ‘Je filme le métier qui me plaît’. The category about career stereotypes, which is France Eastern Europe: under Adecco‘s patronage, is about making students and Americas: USA, Poland, Romania graduates aware of the gender stereotypes that exist around Argentina Nordics: Norway, jobs and the labour market through a film competition. This Germany Sweden, Denmark year, all Groupe Adecco France employees were also invited Spain Australia to vote for their favourite video. The winning video ‘Drôles de Italy Dames’ is a real example of how important it is to fight and break down stereotypes in the labour market. In 48% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to support Read more children, youth and students with educational projects, apprenticeships, internships and traineeships. Watch the winner video ’Diamo lavoro alle ambizioni’ or Work for the ambitious During a roundtable with the Italian Labour minister in May 2014, Adecco Italy pledged a EUR 10 million investment, 3,000 Helping immigrants and other groups of unemployed: internships and 50,000 vocational training hours to encourage in 30% of Adecco’s markets Italian companies to join the ‘Garanzia Giovani‘ (Youth Guarantee) European initiative. The project aims to create 100,000 Americas: USA, Nordics: Norway, new job opportunities in the next 24 months and is specially Argentina Sweden, Denmark focused on youngsters under 29. A concrete action plan was Germany Australia put in place to find and support the most ambitious youngSpain sters through a series of initiatives over the coming months. Italy Adecco Italy was also certified with the social certification Eastern Europe: standard SA 8000: 2008 for decent workplaces in 2014. Poland, Romania Read more Watch the video In 30% of its global markets, Adecco Group runs specific programmes to integrate immigrants and long-term unemployed into the labour market. Helping elite athletes: in 65% of Adecco’s markets Europe North America South America Asia Australia & New Zealand In 65% of its global markets, the IOC and IPC Athlete Career Programmes in cooperation with Adecco are currently being delivered to integrate active and retiring athletes into the labour market. CSR CoP 2013/2014 51 “It is essential for every company to provide their employees with a workplace that is safe and healthy. Establishing a commitment and culture of compliance with federal, state and local occupational safety and health rules and regulations is therefore key to success.” Ralph White, Risk & Safety Specialist, Adecco/Bureau Veritas North America Health & Safety Supporting employee health and well-being In most countries, we have health and safety guidelines for employees and Global programmes and initiatives offer psychological hotlines or even direct access to a psychologist. A safe and healthy working environment for associates We provide our employees – if their job allows – with the neThe Adecco Group strives to prevent accidents, injuries and cessary IT tools to work from home or any other place, helping diseases in the workplace. Recognising the risks our associthem to fulfil their daily tasks in the best and most productive ates are exposed to when entering new and unfamiliar workway possible. In many countries, we grant paternity leave and places, the Adecco Group meets all statutory health and safeoffer childcare assistance through agencies or cooperate with ty obligations. In order to ensure a fair basis for comparison of local day-care facilities in order to keep women in the workour safety performance among our country organisations, we force. Through our Win4Youth project, we also engage our look at the development of accident frequency rates (AFR), employees to join in sports events during and after working rather than comparing absolute AFR values. This is due to the hours. This contributes to enhanced passion, camaraderie, fact that our involvement in the various business sectors – and team spirit and well-being across departments and hierarthus various risk potentials – varies significantly from country chies. In many countries, there are one or two yearly events to country. for our employees to celebrate as a team and enjoy themselves in an informal setting. Our standard measures are based on five cornerstones: 1. Health and safety coordinators and committees Development of Accident Frequency Rates for associates 2. Risk assessment in the workplace with regular follow-ups 2011–2013 in select countries (rebased to 1 as of 2011) 3. Employee testing, training and induction 4. Medical checks in accordance with local regulations (#$ 1.2 5. Personal protection equipment provided by Adecco or client companies. ( 1.0 5:D+1E1? !#' Employee Global ACE Training on Health & Safety In 2013, 0.8 9:?16+ 91% of all required global employees successfully completed F+:0?1= !#& the online Global Health & Safety ACE training module on 0.6 G/?71 GH72I+:-?18 work-related hazards and illnesses. The training emphasizes !#% 0.4 JKB3L:+-?18 the importance of safety training and accident and incident JG5 reporting. Users also learn about ways to increase safety in !#$ 0.2 the workplace and how to implement healthy workplace ! behaviours by giving advice on ergonomics, and how people 0 2011 $!(( 2012 $!($ 2013 $!() interact with workplace tools, equipment and their working environment. Argentina Switzerland France UK & Ireland Germany USA Spain CSR CoP 2013/2014 52 Development of Accident Frequency Rates for associates 2007–2013 in France, our largest market (24% of Adecco Group, rebased to 1 as of 2007) 1.10 1.05 1.00 0.95 0.90 0.85 0.80 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: S@ve compétence: first implementations expanded to industry and roll-out of version 2.0 in construction sector transport sectors (Adia) (Groupe Adecco France) Health&Safety Plan 2010–2014 Local programmes and initiatives Adecco Canada was recognised by the Association of Canadian Search Employment & Staffing Services for its ten-year Groupe Adecco France – Health & Safety awareness and leadership and participation WSIB Safety Group Program. training for employees, associates and clients S@ve compétence is an online training tool to evaluate the Adecco Spain – healthy workplace Employees in Adecco know-how of associates with regards to safety issues in a Spain learn about prevention of ill health and the lifestyle working environment. The test is focused on how risks are which contributes to good health through the programme ‘A evaluated as well as the behaviour and technical knowledge tu salud’. It provides information on topics such as nutrition, of the associates. After the assessment, the associate is defitness and cardiovascular risks and how to prevent them as briefed by a consultant, who highlights good and bad pracwell as workshops on how to avoid back problems. Employtice. By the end of 2013, 650 branches were using the online ees also have access to a medical helpline offered through training for positions in the industrial, logistics and transportaVodafone for any questions. Adecco believes that healthy and tion industry. The training has helped to reduce accidents sigbalanced employees provide better service quality for our clinificantly. The goal for 2015 is to reduce accidents by an addients, are more productive and competitive and have lower tional 15%. Another measure which will be implemented is to absentee rates. In addition, healthy people contribute to a analyse all accidents that lead to associates and employees good team spirit and higher retention rates. being absent from work for more than four days. The French Olympics for safety Groupe Adecco France says “yes” to safety and “no” to accidents. In April 2014, the Safety Olympics were launched. Five principles are to be covered by colleagues in France with clients and associates: to organise a client meeting in April, addressing workplace safety (28 April being the International Day of Safety); to check on associates’ workplaces; to initiate safety talks with clients and associates; to create safety awareness with branches by producing posters; to analyse any accidents with inability to work for more than four days. The performance of colleagues accomplishing the five tasks will be monitored and awarded. Adecco North America with a strong engagement in health and safety A ‘company field safety, loss prevention and claims manual’, issued by the risk department, supports all employees in North America in their daily operations. It in6 cludes guidance on safety responsibilities, OHSA6 and Adecco Adecco Luxembourg with OHSAS 18001 certification responsibilities, employee safety orientation, hazard recogniFollowing the introduction of a health and safety system for tion and control, personal protective equipment procedures employees and associates, the OHSAS 18001 certification was and hazard communication procedures, client screening safethe next achievement on the basis of an audit in June 2010. ty principles and claims management amongst others. This enabled the company to improve its health and safety processes and thus reduce the accident frequency rate by 6  International occupational health and safety management system. 20% in 2011. CSR CoP 2013/2014 53 Our main programmes and initiatives in the Environmental dimension Global programmes and initiatives • encouraging the re-use and recycling of paper • encouraging the use and recycling of other recyclable prodMaking a difference through CO2 emission reduction Since ucts such as toners, cardboard, PET containers 2010, environmental conscious management, subsequent • encouraging our Business Units to incorporate environmental monitoring and reduction are carried out in the areas of: considerations into the procurement of goods and services. 1. Electrical energy consumption The Adecco Group expects that improving its environmental 2. Mobility: company car mileages and air miles flown performance will impact the following: 3. Office supply: paper and toner consumption 4. Office equipment: computers bought and replaced 1. O  ur CO2 footprint on the environment 2. Financial performance in our 13 largest markets (France, North America, UK & Ire3. Being a credible company for investors and analysts land, Germany, Japan, Italy, Netherlands, Belgium, Norway, 4. Being a trustworthy partner and employer to our clients, Sweden, Spain and Mexico) including the joint global & associates/candidates and employees Adecco Switzerland headquarters. These countries represent over 86% of our business operations in terms of revenues. In Our Environmental Guidelines In 2012, we published Environthe past two years, we have made the following steps: mental Guidelines which build on and replace our 2007 Environmental Policy. We are conscious of the impact of our 1. Identified our Carbon Footprint in 12 major countries includoperations on the environment and of the difference we can ing global HQ make by acting responsibly. 2. Used the data for all stakeholder enquiries 3. Started reducing our CO2 emission through targeted projects Our environmental commitments and progress are reported 4. Communicated about it accordingly to all stakeholders. annually in the Adecco Group’s CSR Report and CoP as well as through our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project In addition, in 2012, the Adecco Group set an emission reduc(CDP) and the RobecoSAM’s Dow Jones Sustainability Indices. tion target of 12% by 2022 and we expect to reach this goal View our Environmental Guidelines through concrete action points. For the measurement and calculation of our data according to Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, Greenhouse gas efficiency performance: we use a customised platform called ‘myclimate’. Average CO2 e emissions (metric tonnes, scopes 1, 2 & 3) With our business activities as a service provider, our action points include: 14 Per million • decreasing our use of electricity and fossil energy 12 EUR revenues • decreasing the amount of CO emissions through the Target per 2 10 reduction of air miles flown million EUR 8 revenues • increasing the number of environmentally friendly cars in our fleets or decreasing car usage 6 Per FTE • decreasing the amount of paper used and increasing the 4 Target per FTE use of electronic documents 2 • increasing the proportion of environmentally friendly paper 2010 2011 2012 2013 where paper is needed CSR CoP 2013/2014 54 “One of our biggest successes is to see how Groupe Adecco France implemented ’Covoiturage’. As well as reducing its impact on the environment, Adecco used the initiative to change mind-sets, promote new ways of mobility and provide sustainable access to employment for colleagues and associates.” Benjamin Dekester, Associate Director, ekodev Global performance indicators Our Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions (based on the Greenhouse Gas Protocol) Total emissions extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) (100% FTEs) metric tonnes CO2e (CO2 Source Scope equivalent) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 Own business cars 1 (direct) 39,551,27 51,562 81,423 85,683 38% 47% 16% 15% Electricity 2 (indirect) 55,285 64,524 62,609 70,663 43% 31% 28% 25% Electricity 3 (indirect) 15,142 17,710 27,275 30,615 43% 31% 28% 25% Own business cars 3 (indirect) 8,569 12,686 45,989 46,631 38% 47% 16% 15% Air travel 3 (indirect) 11,608 12,908 7,372 6,407 58% 39% 28% 10% Paper 3 (indirect) 1,974 2,0451 2,368 2,458 58% 42% 34% 18% Toner 3 (indirect) 492 5092 596 642 58% 42% 34% 18% New lap & desktops 3 (indirect) 2,681 2,694 2,497 2,446 100% 100% 100% 100% More details on emissions and measurement methodology are provided in our Carbon Disclosure Project assessment: www.cdproject.net. Our materials and water consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source (100% FTEs) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 Material Paper (office supply, does not 2080 metric 994 metric 1,845 metric 1,898 metric include printed matter) tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 58% 42% 34% 12% Toner (calculated from paper consumption) 208 kg 100 kg 185 kg 189 kg 58% 42% 34% 12% Water (from public water supply) 334,177 m3 427,320 m3 n.a. n.a. 9% 9% 0% 0% Our electricity and vehicle petrol consumption Total consumption extrapolated to Group level Data basis (% of Group FTEs) Source (100% FTEs) 2013 2012 2011 2010 2013 2012 2011 2010 Energy source Electricity (from national grids) 114,202 MWh 138,182 MWh 145,081 MWh 160,014 MWh 43% 31% 28% 25% Green electricity (from 100% renewable sources) 1,444 MWh 3,275 MWh n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. n.a. 15,608,240 21,502,000 Vehicle petrol litres litres n.a. n.a. 38% 35% 0% 0% 1 Restated from last year’s 1,193.32 metric tonnes: new calculative paper consumption 53 kg/FTE. 2 Restated from last year’s 297 metric tonnes. CSR CoP 2013/2014 55 Increasing data basis for emission calculations (% of Group’s FTEs) 100 Scope 1: Business cars mileage 90 Scope 1: Business cars’ effective gasoline 80 consumption 70 Scope 2 + 3: Electricity consumption Scope 3: Air miles travelled 60 Scope 3: purchased computers & 50 monitors 40 30 20 10 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 The graph shows the percentages of Adecco Group’s employees, from which we were able to measure the actual environmental activity data, as basis for group-wide greenhouse gas emission calculations. Select country programmes and initiatives Electronic invoicing and recycling in Argentina With the aim to reduce emissions and those related to services provided to Norway, Sweden and Spain are all ISO 14001 certified To clients, Adecco Argentina already began to change to a padate, Adecco in Norway, Sweden and Spain have been ISO perless invoicing system in 2010. In December 2011, 60% of 14001 certified. The ISO 14000 family of standards addresses clients agreed to the new handling of invoices and, in 2012, various aspects of environmental management and provides the number rose to 92%. As a result, Adecco Argentina has practical tools for companies and organisations looking to seen the following benefits: identify and control their environmental impact and constantly • enhanced security of documents issued improve their environmental performance. • reduction of time, money and space needed for invoicing • decrease in paper usage. Groupe Adecco France – ’Covoiturage’ and recycling Every day, Groupe Adecco France makes contact with thousands In addition to paper reduction, Adecco Argentina is also colof candidates and clients all over France which requires a lot lecting used paper and bottle caps. This activity supports the of travelling, much of it by car. To minimise their emissions, Foundation ‘Garrahan’ where employees can dedicate their in 2012 Groupe Adecco France introduced a service called time to help children in need and at the same time support ‘Covoiturage’, or car-pooling, for its employees and associour CO2 reduction efforts. ates. The dedicated website gives employees the chance to In 2013, thanks to the dedication of our employees in Argenshare cars and find potential passengers. In addition, whentina, 1,340 kilograms of paper were recycled and about 28 ever possible, Adecco encourages its employees and associkilograms or 11,200 plastic caps collected and donated. ates to use public transport and is replacing its car fleet with Adecco Argentina CSR Report 2013 models with a CO2 figure of less than 200 g. Groupe Adecco France also published their first CO2 emission report in their latest CSR Report 2012. 2013 Greenhouse Gas emissions split by source Read more about Covoiturage Rapport RSE Groupe Adecco France 2012 Electricity (scopes 2 & 3): 52% Business cars (scopes 1 & 3): 36% Recycle – integrate – re-use Groupe Adecco France in a partAir travel (scope 3): 9% nership with an organisation employing people with a disabilIT equipment (scope 3): 2% ity, has been collecting old and damaged IT and electronic Paper & toner (scope 3): 2% materials. In 2013, this led to an amount of 47 tons. The still functioning equipment was donated to ’Close the Gap’, an The GHG split indicates Adecco Group’s environmentally most material issues: international non-profit organisation that provides computers, 1) Electricity consumption: highest impact with 52%. software and hardware solutions for educational, medical and 2) Mobility: business cars and air travel: high impact with 45%. 3) Office supply (paper & toner) and IT equipment: reasonable impact with 4%. social projects in developing and emerging countries. Moreover, the Paris, Lille & Lyon offices jointly collected over 16 tons of paper with the support of a company hiring people with disabilities. CSR CoP 2013/2014 56 Measuring our CSR performance through KPIs and targets Our sustainability performance and goals In order for us to steadily improve our business and CSR perbetter life’ amongst all our stakeholders and make us a reformance and identify shortfalls, we have introduced clear sponsible player in our industry and beyond. Outlined below KPIs for the various areas in the Economic, Social and Environare the areas of measurement and the respective KPIs as well mental dimension. This will support our goal of ’better work, as the current status of performance. Dimension Area KPIs Status Economic Corporate Governance • Board structure • Non-executive Chairman • Responsibilities & Committees • Transparency • Diversity • Board Effectiveness • Transparency Senior Remuneration • Median compensation Risk & Crisis Management • Responsibility • Risk mapping • Risk Response Strategy Codes of Conduct / Compliance / • Focus Corruption & Bribery prevention • Systems/procedures • Policies • Coverage • Reporting & breaches Customer Relationship Mgmt. • Satisfaction measurement • Feedback process • Market segmentation Supply Chain Mgmt. • Supplier segmentation (tier 1, 2 and high-risk) • Risk management process • Risk management measures • Supplier Standards, Policy, CoC • Capacity building/joint initiatives • Leveraging opportunities Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR CoP 2013/2014 57 Dimension Area KPIs Status Social Social Reporting • CoP/CSR Report • Materiality framework Diversity & Equal Opportunities • Measuring diversity internally • Measuring diversity with associates • Partnerships • Training employees Integration • Integration of mature, young, disabled, athletes, women with family responsibilities into labour market • PPP and community initiatives • Company partnerships • Community hours by employees • Financial investment Human and Labour Rights • Global/local initiatives and commitments • Employee training discrimination • Coverage Freedom of Associaton/collective bargaining • Strike days employees/associates • Code of Conduct/ACE training • Reporting & breaches • Human & Labour Rights guidelines • Forums/events participation Health & Safety • Accident Frequency Rate associates • Nr. of accidents associates • Occupational fatalities associates • Absenteeism employees • Health and well-being initiatives employees • Health & safety traininig • Health & safety policy • Psychological hotline Environmental Environmental Reporting • Coverage • Public reporting on performance • Results from assessments (DJSI, CDP, other) Environmental Policy/ • Environmental Guidelines Mgmt. System • Certification (ex. ISO 14000) Eco-efficiency • Measuring Scope 1, 2, 3 emissions in centralised system • Reduction targets Very good to good performance Good to medium performance Improvements needed CSR CoP 2013/2014 58 External acknowledgements on our sustainability performance Adecco becomes Industry Group Leader in the Dow Jones Other ratings we have received: Sustainability World & Europe Indices In 2013, Adecco S.A. received confirmation of its continued Enhanced rating in the Carbon Disclose Project (CDP) inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability (DJSI) World and EuAdecco’s efforts in measuring and reporting its greenhouse rope Indices. In addition, Adecco S.A. has been recognised as gas emissions were acknowldegded in CDP’s evaluations the Leader in the Commercial & Professional Services Industry 2013: Adecco improved its disclosure score to 76 (CDP Supply Group by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in collaboration Chain average 49) and was placed in performance category with RobecoSAM. Adecco was benchmarked against the largBand D (CDP Supply Chain average C). est companies worldwide undergoing an in-depth analysis of financially material economic, environmental and social pracEcoVadis – Gold ratings tices. This includes innovation or supply chain management, The Adecco Group and Groupe Adecco France were both givclimate strategy and stakeholder engagement, with a special en a gold rating in the EcoVadis 2013 assessment which indifocus on industry-specific risks and opportunities. RobecoSAM cates our ‘Advanced’ CSR engagement. The EcoVadis methodinvites over 3,000 publicly traded companies, including 800 ology framework assesses companies’ policies and measures companies in emerging markets, to report annually on their as well as the reporting published on the environment, labour sustainability practices. practices & human rights, fair business practices and sustainRead more about RobecoSAM and S&P Dow Jones Indices on able procurement. The assessment conducted by CSR experts the DJSI annual review 2013 website. is made on the basis of the company’s responses and supporting documents to a survey which is dynamically adapted Adecco S.A. has received the Industry Leader and Gold to country, sector and size, as well as public and stakeholder Class distinction for its excellent sustainability performance (NGOs, trade unions, press) information publicly available. RobecoSAM published its Sustainability Yearbook 2014. As one of the top-scoring companies in our industry, Adecco S.A. has qualified for inclusion in the 2014 Sustainability Yearbook and has received the Industry Leader and Gold Class distinction for its excellent sustainability performance. Sustainability Yearbook website CSR CoP 2013/2014 59 DJSI Assessment – results Adecco Group Scorecards 2009–2013 100 80 Best company on 60 a global basis within industry group 40 Industry average on 20 a global basis Adecco Group 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 In 2013, the Adecco Group was recognised as the Leader in the Commercial & Professional Services Industry Group by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices in collaboration with RobecoSAM. Interbrand rating 2014 – Adecco scores high The Adecco Group was ranked 12th amongst the top 50 strongest Swiss Brands in the 2014 Interbrand ranking. The brand strength helps provide insights about a brand’s ability to create loyalty. Companies have been ranked against ten internal and external brand strength factors. The main components of brand value are determined through: financial analysis, the role of the brand and the brand strength. Read more • DJSI World www.sustainability-indexes.com • DJSI Europe www.sustainability-indexes.com • FTSE4GOOD Global Index www.ftse.com/ftse4good • FTSE4GOOD Europe Index www.ftse.com/ftse4good • ECPI Ethical Index Global www.e-cpartners.com • ECPI Ethical Index Euro www.e-cpartners.com • Ethibel EXCELLENCE Investment Register www.forumethibel.org DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland • www.dax-indices.com • Pictet-Ethos Swiss Sustainable Equities Fund www.pictetfunds.com • Natixis Impact Europe Equities Fund www.am.natixis.com • Vontobel Fund – Global Responsibility Swiss Equity www.vontobel.com CSR CoP 2013/2014 60 GRI Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) Content guidance Reporting on country level For further examples of Adecco Group’s CSR engagement at country level, please refer to the UN Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) respective country websites (provided on www.adecco.com). The various case studies featured in this report give an insight We would like to highlight the first CSR Report of Groupe into our activities in line with the ten principles of the UN GloAdecco France which was published in April 2013 and upbal Compact. For more details on our progress in relation to dated in December 2013, following the law known as ‘Grenelle the UNGC principles, please refer to the GRI Content Index on II’, voted by French Parliament on 29 June 2010 and promulnext pages. gated on 12 July 2010 which newly defined public reporting on sustainable development for major corporations in France. GRI application level The purpose of this report is to give an overview of our progress since the publication of our full CSR Report in August 2013. It is therefore limited in nature, concentrating on the material performance indicators for our business. For most GRI elements, there were no significant changes to report; in these cases we refer to the coverage in our last year’s reporting. It is based on the G3.1 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines. Based on our own assessment, this report achieves GRI application level B, as illustrated in the GRI applications level grid below. An in-depth account of our CSR strategy, initiatives and performance can be found on the relevant Adecco corporate webpages and in our next full CSR Report, published in August 2015. Application level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria Same as requirement 1.1 listed for Level C plus: for Level B 2.1–2.10 1.2 3.1–3.8; 3.10–3.12 3.9; 3.13 4.1–4.4; 4.14–4.15 4.5–4.13; 4.16–4.17 Not required Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Disclosed for each Indicator Category Indicator Category Report on a minimum Report on a minimum Respond on each core of 10 Performance of 20 Performance G3 and Sector SuppleIndicators, including at Indicators, at least one ment* Indicator with due least one from each of: from each of: Economic, regard to the Materiality Economic, Social, and En­vironmental, Human Principle by either: Environmental. Rights, Labour, Society, a) reporting on the Product Responsibility. Indicator or b) explaining the reason for its omission. CSR CoP 2013/2014 61 Legend EC GRI core indicator Reported EC GRI additional indicator Partly reported Not reported, see reference AR13 Reference to page number in Adecco Annual Report 2013 ­provided for reason of omission CSR12/13 Reference to page number in last year’s CSR Report 2012/2013 Code UNGC Description Reference principles or short answer Strategy and analysis 1.1 1–10 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 6–7 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Key impacts: 4–5, 10–12; risks and opportunties: AR13 35–36, 110–111 Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the reporting organisation Adecco S.A. (Holding) 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 5; AR13 17–19 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 8; AR13 16, 18, 44 (point 1.2) 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters Glattbrugg, Switzerland 2.5 Number and names of countries in which the Adecco Group operates Over 60 countries. AR13 128 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR13 135–136 2.7 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served and AR13 23–27 types of customers 2.8 Scale of the Adecco Group 4–5; AR13 47–49 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period adecco.com 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period CSR12/13 51–52 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Calendar year 2013 (some important developments from 1st HY 2014 are included) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report CSR Report 2012/2013, published in August 2013 3.3 Reporting cycle Annually 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding this report 74–75 3.5 Process for defining report content 11–15 3.6 Boundary of the report CSR12/13 52 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report CSR12/13 52 3.8 Comparability from period to period CSR12/13 52 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations CSR12/13 52 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatement of information CSR12/13 53 3.11 Significant changes from previous years in the measurement methods CSR12/13 53 3.12 GRI Content Index 61–67 3.13 Current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for this report This report has not been assured externally. Our Annual Report is assured externally. AR13 112–113. CSR CoP 2013/2014 62 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Governance, commitments, and engagement 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including major committees 8; AR13 140–152 4.2 Executive functions of the Chairman of the Board The Chairman has no executive functions. 4.3 Board members: number, gender, independence, (non-)executive functions AR13 140–143 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations CSR12/13 53; AR13 153–155 to the Board of Directors 4.5 Elements of the compensation programme 2013 for the Executive Committee AR13 158–176 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts AR13 144–148 of interest are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise CSR12/13 53; of Board members AR13 147 (point 3.4.3) 4.8 Internally developed charters and principles relevant to sustainable 9 (Values and Leadership ­performance Principles) 13 (Code of Conduct) 4.9 Procedures of the Board of Directors for overseeing management of 6–8; CSR12/13 53; ­sustainable performance AR13 146 (point 3.4.2) 4.10 Processes for evaluating the Board of Directors’ own performance AR13 144–148 (The Board of Directors discusses and assesses its own and its members’ performance.) 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle CSR12/13 54; is addressed AR13 110 (note 18) 4.12 Externally developed, voluntary charters and sets of 13–15 principles which the organisation endorses 4.13 Principal memberships in industry and business associations CSR12/13 54–57 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 11 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 11 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder consultation CSR12/13 57 4.17 Key topics and concerns 4, 10–17 Economic Performance Indicators DMA EC Disclosure on management approach EC AR13 13–16 EC1 Economic key data 4–5; AR13 22, 47–49; – Investments in philanthropic activities 22, 49 EC2 7 Financial implications of climate change CSR12/13 43, 45, 58 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligation AR13 92–95 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government CSR12/13 58 EC5 1 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum Reason for omission: wage CSR12/13 57 EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally based suppliers CSR12/13 58 EC7 6 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from CSR12/13 59 the local community EC8 Development and impact of services provided primarily for public benefit 22–58 EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts 4, 10–14 CSR CoP 2013/2014 63 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Environmental Performance Indicators DMA EN Disclosure on management approach EN 54 EN1 8–9 Materials used by weight or volume 55 EN2 8–9 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Percentages not known EN3 8–9 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 55 EN4 8–9 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Not known EN5 8–9 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Not known EN6 8–9 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products 54-56; CSR12/13 43–45 and services EN7 8–9 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption 54-56; CSR12/13 43–45 EN8 8–9 Total water withdrawal by source 55 EN9 8–9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water The Adecco Group is an HR EN10 8–9 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and re-used solutions provider; its operations therefore do not have EN11 8–9 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, a significant impact on water protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas sources, protected areas, EN12 8–9 Significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas habitats and biodiversity. EN13 8–9 Habitats protected or restored EN14 8–9 Strategies, actions and plans for managing impacts on biodiversity EN15 8–9 Conservation list species affected by operations EN16 8–9 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 55 EN17 8–9 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 55 EN18 7–9 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions 54–56; CSR12/13 43–45 EN19 8–9 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight Not relevant EN20 8–9 NOx , SOx , and other significant air emissions by type and weight Not relevant EN21 8–9 Total water discharge by quality and destination Not relevant EN22 8–9 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Not relevant EN23 8–9 Total number and volume of significant spills Not relevant EN24 8–9 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazThe Adecco Group is an ardous HR solutions provider and EN25 8–9 Water bodies significantly affected by discharges of water therefore does not deal with waste/water deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII. EN26 7–9 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts 54–56; CSR12/13 43–45 EN27 8–9 Percentage of products sold that have their packaging materials reclaimed Not relevant EN28 8–9 Fines and sanctions for non-compliance with environmental regulations The Adecco Group is not aware of any incidents or fines for non-compliance with any applicable international, national or local environmental regulations in 2013. EN29 8–9 Significant environmental impacts of transportation See EN24 and EN25 EN30 7–9 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type The Adecco Group currently does not have any specific environmental protection budgets. Our investment is reducing our CO2 emissions. CSR CoP 2013/2014 64 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Labour Practices DMA LA Disclosure on management approach LA: overview 13–17; AR13 28–34 LA1 Total workforce 5, 44–47 (Charts); AR13 51 LA2 6 Total number of new hires and employee turnover 39; AR13 51 LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary 37–41; CSR12/13 65 or part-time employees LA4 1; 3 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 42; CSR12/13 65 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 42; CSR12/13 66 LA6 1 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management – 42; CSR12/13 66 worker health and safety committees LA7 1 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, work-related fatalities 52–53; CSR12/13 66 LA8 1 Programmes in place regarding serious diseases Reason for omission: LA9 1 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions CSR12/13 66 LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 37–41; CSR12/13 32–34 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning 37–41; AR13 28–30 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 80–100%. More info: 37–41; development reviews AR13 28–30 LA13 1; 6 Composition of governance bodies CSR12/13 66; AR13 140–152 LA14 1; 6 Ratio of basic salary of men to women Reason for omission: CSR12/13 66 LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender CSR12/13 66 Social Performance Indicators: Human Rights DMA HR Disclosure on management approach HR: overview 13–17 HR1 1–6 Significant investment agreements that include Human Rights 41–43; CSR12/13 67 HR2 1–6 Screening of suppliers, contractors and other business partners 18, 41; CSR12/13 67 on Human Rights HR3 1–6 Employee training on policies and procedures, concerning aspects 19–20, 41; CSR12/13 67 of H ­ uman Rights HR4 1; 2; 6 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 20, 41–42; CSR12/13 67 HR5 1; 2; 3 Operations in which the rights for freedom of association and collective 42; CSR12/13 67 bargaining are at significant risk – and actions taken HR6 1; 2; 5 Operations in which child labour is identified as significant risk – CSR12/13 67 and m ­ easures taken HR7 1; 2; 4 Operations in which forced labour is identified as significant risk – CSR12/13 67 and measures taken HR8 1; 2 Percentage of security personnel trained in Human Rights Adecco Group is not in need of specific security personnel to protect its offices. HR9 1; 2 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people See HR4 HR10 1; 2 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to 20, 41–42; CSR12/13 67 ­Human Rights reviews and/or impact assessments HR11 1; 2 Number of grievances related to Human Rights filed, addressed and We are not aware of any sub­resolved through formal grievance mechanisms stantial grievances related to Human Rights filed in 2013. CSR CoP 2013/2014 65 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Society DMA SO Disclosure on management approach SO: overview 13–17; • DMA on business ethics 13–15, 17, 19–20; • DMA on community involvement 10–11 • DMA on compliance 13–15, 19–20; AR13 59, 134–153 SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, 18–56; CSR12/13 68 impact assessments, and development programmes SO2 10 Business units analysed for risks related to corruption 18–20; CSR12/13 68; AR13 35–36 SO3 10 Percentage of employees trained in organisation’s anti-corruption policies 20 and procedures SO4 10 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption In 2013, no incidents of corruption were reported. Cf. CSR12/13 68 SO5 1–10 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and 10–14, 19–20, 42–51; AR13 11 lobbying SO6 10 Financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related CSR12/13 68 institutions SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antitrust, and monopoly In July 2013, the French com­practices and their outcomes petition authority commenced an investigation of Adecco and certain of its competitors in France with regards to alleged violations of French competition law. Adecco is fully cooperating with the authorities (see Adecco PR). SO8 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with laws and r­ egulations In 2013, we are not aware of any significant fines or sanctions. SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local In 2013, we are not aware of communities any Adecco Group oper­ations with significant negative impacts on local communities. SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with Not applicable, see above ­negative impacts on local communities SO9. CSR CoP 2013/2014 66 Code UNGC Reported Description Reference principles or short answer Social Performance Indicators: Product Responsibility DMA PR Disclosure on management approach PR 10, 13–15 PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of services are a ­ ssessed CSR12/13 68 for improvement PR2 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning health and safety Adecco Group is not aware impacts of products and services of any significant incidents of non-compliance with regulations in this context in 2013. PR3 8 Type of product and service information required and services subject to CSR12/13 68 such information requirements PR4 8 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning product and CSR12/13 68 service information PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including surveys measuring 13, 20 customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws and standards related to marketing Adecco Group adheres to communications laws and applicable standards related to marketing communications. PR7 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations concerning marketing Adecco Group is not aware ­communications of any relevant i­nfringements of the law in this context in 2013. PR8 Substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and CSR12/13 68 losses of customer data PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning In the HR services industry, PR9 products and services comes up to SO8 (see above). CSR CoP 2013/2014 67 Further reading Publications by the Adecco Group Adecco Australia: Employment and Talent Report 2014 The Adecco Employment and Talent Report provides an expert and other industry-related studies analysis of labour market trends in Australia and a detailed review of key sectors. It also includes results from the Adecco For further knowledge resources, please visit candidate and client surveys. Adecco Group’s ’Industry Insights’ on: www.adecco.com Read more Adecco global and local publications Groupe Adecco France: Rapport RSE 2012 (French, 2013) Groupe Adecco France published its second report on social, Adecco Group: Global Talent Competitiveness Index societal and environmental responsibility 2012. The latest (GTCI) 2013 report exemplifies priorities, shows solutions that were put into The Global Talent Competitiveness Index (GTCI) is an innovaplace and demonstrates the Groupe’s long-standing committive, annual benchmarking study, encompassing 103 countries. ment to CSR. The report is structured along five major topics. The GTCI introduces the dimension of talent/human capital Read more and its connection to competitiveness. The 48 variables are grouped into talent enablers, attraction, growth, retention as Adecco Argentina: CSR Report 2013 (Spanish, 2014) well as output in terms of vocational and global knowledge Adecco Argentina published its 8th CSR Report. Sustainability is skills. Adecco Group has partnered with INSEAD and the Huan integral part of our business and how we operate. Adecco man Capital Leadership Institute (HCLI) for the Global Talent Argentina also introduced regular meetings with its main Competitiveness Index. stakeholders such as employees, associates and candidates Read more as well as clients and suppliers to address concerns. Read more (Executive Summary) Adecco Whitepaper: The Reality of Talent Issue 5 – Read more (PDF / online Report) Diversity Adecco Australia (2013) Diversity isn’t about ticking boxes or being politically correct – Adecco Fundación Spain: Annual Report / it’s about building an organisation that avoids a herd mentality Memoria 2013 (Spanish, 2014) and delivers better business outcomes. A recent study on the 2013 was a strategic year for the Adecco Foundation Spain. diversity and inclusion strategies of employers in Australia For the first time in 14 years of existence, the Foundation grew and Asia revealed that business leaders have a high level of to over 100 people, working every day to achieve one single awareness about the importance of workforce diversity but are goal: bringing employment to people who are in the weakest failing to implement a range of strategies to meet critical busipositions within society. ness needs; they are talking the talk but not walking the walk. Read more (Executive Summary) Read more Read more (Full Report) Adecco Australia: White Paper: Reality of Talent Issue 6 – Fondazione Adecco per le pari opportunità: ”Leading Staff Through Tough Times” 2013 Report on progress / Progetti 2013 (Italian, 2014) Simply trying to ‘just survive’ during what many predict may be The Adecco Foundation for Equal Opportunity published its another global financial crisis – or at the very least a recession Report on Progress 2013. It provides an overview of how the – is not going to cut it in 2013. Forward-thinking organisations Foundation promotes and develops projects for people at risk are taking the uncertain conditions as an opportunity to stand of exclusion and how it supports their integration into labour out from the competition. market. Read more Read more Adecco Australia Whitepaper: The Reality of Talent Issue 7 – Adecco Group North America: Lack of Soft Skills Negatively Workplace Health & Safety (WHS) 2014 Impacts Today’s US Workforce (2013) Work-related injuries and illness are a significant problem in Ninety-two percent of senior executives in the US acknowlAustralia, costing the economy more than $60bn a year, acedge there is a serious gap in workforce skills, according to cording to statistics from Safe Work Australia. Identifying hazthe State of the Economy and Employment Survey from Adecco ards, undertaking risk assessment and implementing control Staffing US. Yet, for all the traditional talk about a skills gap in measures are the key aspects of risk management. The aim technical and computer skills, 44 percent of respondents cited of WHS risk management is to reduce the likelihood and consoft skills, such as communication, critical thinking, creativity, sequence of a workplace incident that may result in injury or and collaboration, as the area with the biggest gap. disease. Read more Read more CSR CoP 2013/2014 68 Adecco Group North America: 2014 Adecco Way to Work Adecco Vietnam: Whitepaper Employee Communications Survey: Attitudes and Perceptions of American Youth (2014) Excellence (2014) This survey explores attitudes and perceptions of American There is no question that profitability, business strategy and youth on the workplace and job market. It presents the findthe all-important bottom line are critical to making an organiings of a telephone survey conducted among a sample of 751 sation successful. But a large proportion of these factors rely adults 18–24 years old, living in the United States. Interviewing on the same thing: its people. In order for an organisation for this survey was completed between April 5–8, 2014. One to be truly successful, it has to keep its employees engaged of the key findings reveals that 7 out of 10 (69 percent) young through regular communication. One of the findings is that Americans believe that it is harder to find a job now compared 47% of HR professionals indicated ’employee engagement’ as to previous generations. the number one HR challenge their organisation faces. Read more Read more Adecco Germany: The Adecco Job Index (German) Adecco Argentina: ‘Espacio Adeccco’ The Adecco Germany Job Index is a monthly publication which Adecco Argentina has created the Adecco Space ‘Espacio presents topic-specific results on the latest job market develAdecco’, a comprehensive platform where the latest studies, opments in Germany. corporate events and developments as well as their magazine Read more ‘viví’ are presented. Read more Adecco Asia: Gen Z – the next generation of workers in Asia 2014 Adecco Colombia: Job and news blog Generation Z (‘Gen Z’) is the most disruptive generation in Our dependency on cell phones and other mobile devices is a modern history. Instead of waiting for ideas to filter through fact. Therefore, Adecco Colombia has created a list of applicathe generations that came before them, Gen Z are go-getters tions related to the labour market and interesting news from and trendsetters. Social media has demolished all barriers Adecco Colombia, which can be easily viewed on the go on to communicating about brands and products, meaning that portable devices. corporations as potential employers will be more intensively Read more researched and scrutinised by job seekers than ever before. Read more Groupe Adecco France: Lab’Ho Lab‘Ho is the Think Tank of Groupe Adecco France with regards Adecco Asia: Attracting Talent in Asia’s Digital Arena (2014) to topics on workplace inclusion for all, fostering diversity and “An increasingly digital world” is a phrase of the past. The world sustainable employment. It was relaunched in March 2014 and is digital, and when practically everything lives in the cloud it issues surveys, barometers, white papers and videos. should come as no surprise that the next generation of job seekRead more ers is looking beyond the classifieds. In fact, they have even gone beyond the standard job boards and are engaging with potential employers on social media sites and other digital platforms. Industry-related publications Read more World Economic Forum: The Global Competitiveness Report Adecco Singapore: Job blog 2013–2014 Any questions with regards to the labour market? The Adecco The Global Competitiveness Report 2013–2014 assesses the Singapore Job blog provides tips and advice on how people competitiveness landscape of 148 economies, providing can be more successful at work. The blog also includes the insight into the drivers of their productivity and prosperity. latest survey results and labour market studies. The Report series remains the most comprehensive assessRead more ment of national competitiveness worldwide. Read more Adecco Vietnam: Findings from the third Annual Adecco Career Survey of Children living in Vietnam (2014) AccountAbility: Redefining Materiality II: The annual ’Adecco Children’s Career Survey 2014’ of children Why it Matters, Who’s Involved, and What It Means for living in Vietnam has again revealed that becoming a Doctor Corporate Leaders and Boards (2013) is the top career choice amongst Vietnamese school children. AccountAbility has released a comprehensive report examining They also believe that it is more important to ’spend time with the growing importance of non-financial factors on corporate family ’ than ’making lots of money ’ – showing that our chilperformance, disclosure, and valuation. Redefining Materiality II dren care more about family bonding than financial wealth. was developed in response to accelerating acceptance that nonRead more financial materiality is an influential factor in corporate valuation. Read more CSR CoP 2013/2014 69 World Economic Forum: The Human Capital Report 2013 Business Europe Position Paper: Promoting Diversity in A nation’s human capital endowment – the skills and capacities Employment and Workplaces (2013) that reside in people and that are put to productive use – can be European labour markets in general benefit from a diverse a more important determinant of long-term economic success workforce which increases the pool of talents available for than virtually any other resource. The Human Capital Report companies to compete globally. There is a business case for details the findings of a new Index which measures countries on diversity which is demonstrated by the fact that an increasing their ability to develop and deploy healthy, educated and able number of companies actively seek ways to tap the potential workers through four distinct pillars: Education, Health & Wellof a diverse workforce in terms of performance and competiness, Workforce & Employment and Enabling Environment. tiveness. Diversity cannot be promoted by means of legislaRead more tion. Company-based voluntary initiatives are the most effective way to enhance it. The UN Global Compact-Accenture CEO Study on Read more Sustainability 2013 In the world’s largest CEO study on sustainability to date, ILO: Feasibility study for a global business network on more than 1,000 top executives from 27 industries across 103 apprenticeship (2013) countries assess the past, present and future of sustainable There is a growing interest in apprenticeship in the business business; discuss a new global architecture to unlock the world due to its potential to make a meaningful contribution full potential of business in contributing to global priorities; to resolving the youth employment crisis and the prospect and reveal how leading companies are adopting innovative of developing a well-trained and productive workforce. In strategies to combine impact and value creation. response to the interest expressed by business leaders, the Read more ILO, in collaboration with the International Organisation of Employers, conducted a feasibility study to explore options for The Ernst & Young study ‘Transparency in sight: developing a global business network on apprenticeships for Sustainability Reporting amongst the largest youth employment. Swiss companies’ (2013, German) Read more The goal of this study was to provide an overview of the current status with regards to sustainability reporting amongst the leadKPMG International Survey of Corporate Responsibility ing Swiss companies and at the same time provide an internaReporting 2013 tional comparison (see chapter 03). In addition, an outlook is KPMG’s survey provides a snapshot of current global trends in provided about the most important international developments. CSR reporting with benchmarks, guidance and insights to help Read more companies worldwide determine their own approaches to CSR reporting and to assess and improve the quality of their reWorld Economic Forum: The Global Gender Gap Report 2013 ports. This is the 8th edition of the KPMG Survey of CSR reportThe Global Gender Gap Report 2013 benchmarks national ing and marks 20 years since the first survey was published. gender gaps of 136 countries on economic, political, education Read more and health-based criteria. The Global Gender Gap Index was developed in 2006, partially to address the need for a consistILO: Global Employment Trends – 2014 The risk of a jobless ent and comprehensive measure of gender equality that can recovery track a country’s progress over time. The index points to potenThe Global Employment Trends study offers the latest global tial role models by revealing those countries that – within their and regional information and projections on several indicators region or income group – are leaders in dividing resources of the labour market, including employment, unemployment, more equitably between women and men than other counworking poverty and vulnerable employment. The weak global tries, regardless of the overall level of resources available. economic recovery has failed to lead to an improvement in Read more global labour markets, with global unemployment in 2013 reaching almost 202 million. The UNGC Global Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 Read more Since 2007, the survey has helped the Global Compact understand and benchmark how corporate participants are advancing their commitment to the Global Compact and implementing the Ten Principles. The Global Corporate Sustainability Report 2013 is based on findings from the Global Compact Annual Implementation Survey featuring 1,712 respondents from 112 countries. Read more CSR CoP 2013/2014 70 World Economic Forum: The Global Risks 2014 report Ciett Economic Report 2014 The Global Risks 2014 report highlights how global risks are The 2014 Ciett Economic Report provides a comprehensive not only interconnected, but also have systemic impacts. To overview of the agency work industry around the world. It manage global risks effectively and build resilience to their combines some key data that was available from impacts, better efforts are needed to understand, measure 2013 with more in-depth data from 2012. Eurociett also proand foresee the evolution of interdependencies between risks, duces the monthly Agency Work Business Indicator with data supplementing traditional risk management tools with new on recent market developments. concepts designed for uncertain environments. Read more Read more ILO: World of Work Report 2014 – Developing with jobs World Economic Forum: Annual Meeting Report 2014 This year’s edition focuses on developing countries and arThe Reshaping of the World: Consequences for Society, gues that quality jobs are a key driver for development. It Politics and Business draws on evidence from over 140 developing countries and Meeting under the theme The Reshaping of the World: finds that a common factor amongst those countries that have Consequences for Society, Politics and Business, more than achieved higher per capita income and sustained growth was 2,500 business, government and civil society leaders from over quality jobs. 100 countries took part in the 44th Annual Meeting in DavosRead more Klosters, Switzerland, to navigate the complexity and interconnectivity of our changing world – a world in which profound EcoVadis: Guide on Sustainability in Real Life (2014) political, economic, social and, above all, technological forces A new guide was published in May 2014 on the business case are reshaping our lives, communities and institutions. for supply chain sustainability, a collaboration amongst the Read more Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition® (EICC®), the Global e-Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) and EcoVadis. The publicaWorld Economic Forum: The Europe 2020 Competitiveness tion includes case studies and an implementation guide that Report (2014) provide a review of challenges and field-tested solutions The World Economic Forum’s Europe 2020 Competitiveness designed to help companies overcome barriers and improve Report is the second in a series of publications that measure their triple bottom line. It is designed particularly for supplier Europe’s performance in becoming smart, inclusive and envilevel companies new to sustainability. ronmentally sustainable. It takes a global approach, assessing Read more highly advanced countries around the world as well as the EU’s individual member states and candidate countries. ITUC Global Rights Index: The world’s worst countries for Read more workers (2014) A global leaderboard in the race to protect workers’ rights International Organisation of Employers (IOE): was released in June at the ITUC World Congress in Berlin. Position Paper on Flexible Forms of Work (2014) The ITUC Global Rights Index ranks 139 countries against 97 The paper aims to highlight the benefits of these flexible forms internationally recognised indicators to assess where workers’ of work, not only for businesses – by enabling them to retain rights are best protected, in law and in practice. and create jobs whilst staying adaptable and competitive – Read more but also for workers, especially the young, the unemployed, low-skilled workers, and workers with family responsibilities ILO Global Business & Disability Network – which make full-time work difficult, by giving them the chance 2013 Annual Report (2014) to acquire work experience and new skills and by facilitating a The 2013 Annual Report of the ILO Global Business and Disbetter work-life balance. ability Network is now available. Find out about the Network’s Read more activities and how its members collaborated last year to create workplaces that are more inclusive of people with disabilGREAT PLACE TO WORK®: Guide to Greatness (2014) ities around the world. Among the 2014 FORTUNE 100 Best Companies to Work For®, Read more three trends are apparent: high growth, culture as a strategic business priority, and a strong focus on employee development. The “Guide to Greatness,” provides more information on these themes and how they come to life at the nation’s best workplaces, and most importantly, it provides tips which can be applied to organisations striving to build a great workplace. Read more CSR CoP 2013/2014 71 Glossary Adecco Group Foundations The Adecco Group Foundations economic, social and environmental responsibilities. CR is are not-for-profit organisations that directly or indirectly help backed by UN initiatives such as the Global Compact and is disadvantaged groups enter the labour market. The foundathe subject of several standardisation initiatives such as the tions focus on the needs of target groups, and build an imporGRI, the AA1000 series and the ISO 26000 guide. tant basis for the Adecco Group’s social commitments. DAXglobal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland The DAXgloAgeing workforce The next few decades will see substantial bal Sarasin Sustainability Switzerland Index tracks Swiss comdemographic changes due to the ageing of the workforce. panies with sustainable performance. The Swiss index is This development will reshape all aspects of our lives, includbased on the 50 largest companies in terms of market capiing businesses, workplaces, health and education systems, talisation and on the sustainability criteria defined by the Sararequiring active intervention by all concerned. sin Sustainability Matrix, which combines an industry rating Candidate Any person interested in becoming an associate and a company rating, and takes into consideration direct and or having a permanent placement. indirect ecological and social effects. www.sarasin.ch Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Independent not-for-profit Diversity A range of visible and invisible differences that exist organisation holding the largest database of primary corbetween people. By managing diversity, we can take advanporate climate change information in the world. tage of these differences and create a productive environment Carbon footprint The sum of all emissions of CO2 (carbon in which everybody feels valued, where talents are fully utidioxide), which are induced by activities in a given time frame. lised, and in which organisational goals are met. Ciett The International Confederation of Private Employment Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) The Dow Jones SusAgencies. Ciett is the authoritative voice representing the comtainability World Index was launched in 1999 as the first global mon interests of the agency work industry and consists of 40 sustainability benchmark. The DJSI family is offered cooperanational federations from EU and Efta and six of the largest tively by RobecoSAM Indices and S&P Dow Jones Indices. The staffing companies worldwide. Its main objective is to help its family tracks the stock performance of the world’s leading members, which include Adecco Group, Olympia Flexgroup, companies in terms of economic, environmental and social Kelly Services, Manpower, Randstad, and USG People. criteria. The indices serve as benchmarks for investors who CO2 equivalent (CO2-e) An accounting value for greenhouse integrate sustainability considerations into their portfolios, and gas (GHG) emissions: These are generally expressed as a provide an effective engagement platform for companies who weight of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2-e). This is because want to adopt sustainable best practices. other GHGs may have a different global warming potential EIRIS A leading global independent, not-for-profit organisation from carbon dioxide and it is usual to combine the effect of all which conducts independent research into the environmental, greenhouse gases into one number for CO2-e. social, governance and ethical performance of companies. Code of Conduct A document referring to companies’ policy ESI Ethibel Sustainability Indices provide a comprehensive statements that define ethical standards for and proper pracperspective on the financial performance of the world’s leadtices for individuals and the organisation. ing companies in terms of sustainability, for institutional invesCoP Business participants in the UN Global Compact make a tors, asset managers, banks, and retail investors. Ethibel Suscommitment to comply with the Global Compact’s ten princitainability Indices list the pioneering companies, as well as ples, including them in their business strategy and their day­those whose performance is rated within the average for the to-day operations. At the same time, companies are required sector and which meet certain financial criteria. The ESI are to issue an annual Communication on Progress (CoP), a public owned by Vigeo. www.ethibel.org disclosure to stakeholders on progress made in implementing Ethical Index Euro The Ethical Index Euro is part of E. Capital the ten principles, and in supporting broad UN development Partners’ ECPI Index Family. The development of the underlying goals. criteria for the indices is based on client consensus, sustainCorporate governance Corporate governance encompasses ability and good business behaviour, the UN Declaration of the full range of principles directed towards shareholders’ Human Rights, the ILO Protocol, as well as the work of acainterest, seeking a good balance between direction, control demic institutions and NGOs involved in human rights and and transparency at the highest company level while mainenvironmental questions. www.e-cpartners.com taining decision-making capacity and efficiency (source: Swiss Eurociett The European Confederation of Private Employment Code of Best Practice for Corporate Governance). Agencies. See under ‘Ciett’. www.euro-ciett.org Corporate (Social) Responsibility (CR or CSR) The definition Eurofound The European Foundation for the Improvement of CR/CSR is still evolving. It addresses the concept that, beyond Living and Working Conditions is a European Union body. It merely conducting its business and adhering to legal guidewas set up to contribute to the planning and design of better lines, an organisation has obligations such as looking after living and working conditions in Europe. Eurofound’s core the welfare of its employees, the community, society at large business is both research and communicating the results of and the environment. CR encompasses corporate governance, that research. www.eurofound.europa.eu CSR CoP 2013/2014 72 Flexicurity The term refers to the combination of labour marOECD The Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Deket flexibility in a dynamic economy with security for workers. velopment (OECD) is to promote policies that will improve the Flexicurity is a three-sided mix of flexibility in the labour mareconomic and social well-being of people around the world. ket, combined with social security and an active labour market Public-Private Partnership (PPP) All forms of cooperation policy with rights and obligations for the unemployed. between public authorities and the private sector. PPP is beFTSE4Good The FTSE4Good Index Series is a series of benchcoming an increasingly important factor in the labour market marks and tradable indices for socially responsible investors. owing to the need for greater flexibility on the part of compaThe indices are used as a basis for regional and global index nies, safeguarding of social security for employees and the tracker funds – a range of structured products – and as a growing importance of career changes. stock selection platform for actively managed funds. The index Ruggie Guidelines The United Nations Human Rights Council inclusion criteria have been designed to identify companies endorsed a new set of Guiding Principles for Business and that meet globally recognised and accepted, socially responHuman Rights designed to provide for the first time a global sible criteria as they evolve. www.ftse.com/ftse4good standard preventing and addressing the risk of adverse imGHG Greenhouse gases are those gases which trap the heat pacts on human rights linked to business activity. The Guiding in the atmosphere and thus cause global warming. The princiPrinciples are the product of six years of research led by Propal greenhouse gases that enter the atmosphere because of fessor Ruggie from Harvard University, on how States and human activities are: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), businesses should implement the UN ‘Protect, Respect and nitrous oxide (NO2) and various fluorinated gases. Remedy’ Framework. Global Compact Launched at the UN headquarters, New SAM Investment boutique focused exclusively on SustainabilYork, in July 2000, the Global Compact is a voluntary corpoity Investing since 1995. The firm’s offering comprises asset rate citizenship initiative with a vision of a more sustainable management, indexes and private equity. and inclusive global economy. It has two objectives: to encourScope 1, 2 and 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions The conage the adoption of its ‘Ten principles’ in business activities cept of Scopes defines the boundaries between three different around the world, and to help achieve the UN’s human and types of indirect and direct emissions: Scope 1 are direct emislabour rights goals. www.unglobalcompact.org sions, Scope 2 are emissions associated with the generation GRI Global Reporting Initiative. An independent institution of electricity, heating/cooling, or steam purchased for own dedicated to developing and disseminating globally applicaconsumption, and Scope 3 are indirect emissions other than ble Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI seeks to those covered in Scope 2. elevate sustainability reporting to the same level of rigour, Secondary suppliers Other recruitment agencies, which comparability, credibility and verifiability expected of financial Adecco Group, in the role as first human resources supplier to reporting, while serving the information needs of a broad a specific client, may use for staffing procurement. range of stakeholders from civil society, government labour Skill shortage Is an economic condition in which there are and the private business community. There are strong links insufficient qualified candidates/employees to fill the marketbetween the GRI and initiatives such as the United Nations place demands for employment at any price. Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational EnterSRI Stands for socially responsible investment, an investment prises and many others. www.globalreporting.org strategy that takes into account a company’s ethical, social ILO The International Labour Organization (ILO) is the tripartite and environmental performance as well as its financial perforUN agency that brings together governments, employers and mance. workers of its member states in common action to promote Stakeholder Individuals in, or representatives of, a group who decent work throughout the world. www.ilo.org have for various reasons an interest in a company such as the ISO 26000 A Guidance on social responsibility issued by the Adecco Group. This includes people who are directly or indiInternational Organisation for Standardisation. It aims to be a rectly affected by the Company and its actions. first step in helping all types of organisation in both the public Sustainability The principle that we must meet the needs of and private sectors to consider implementing ISO 26000 as a the present without compromising the ability of future generaway to achieve the benefits of operating in a socially respontions to meet their own needs. Sustainability, corporate resible manner. The guidance standard was published in Nosponsibility and CSR are often synonymous. vember 2010 and is voluntary in character. It does not include UNI Global Union The global union for skills and services. It’s requirements and thus is not a certification standard. the biggest grouping of individual trade unions in the world Key performance indicator (KPI) A parameter used to deterwith more than 900 affiliated unions in 150 countries and mine whether the desired input or outcome has been 20 million affiliated members. www.uniglobalunion.org achieved. CSR CoP 2013/2014 73 CSR Governance and contacts within the Adecco Group Board of Directors Rolf Dörig Chairman of the Board of Directors Andreas Jacobs Vice-Chairman, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee, Member Audit Committee Responsibilities at committee Alexander Gut, Chairman Audit Committee Andreas Jacobs, Vice-Chairman Dominique-Jean Chertier David Prince Andreas Jacobs, Chairman Nomination & Compensation Committee Thomas O’Neill Wanda Rapaczynski Wanda Rapaczynski, Chairwoman Corporate Governance Committee Alexander Gut Didier Lamouche Thomas O’Neill Corporate functions Patrick De Maeseneire Chief Executive Officer Dominik de Daniel Chief Financial Officer Mark de Smedt Chief Human Resources Officer Stephan Howeg Global Head Group Communications & CSR Patrick Kleffel General Counsel Hans Brütsch Head Group Compliance Reporting & Corporate Secretary Pierlaurent Barbieri Head Group Internal Audit Country contacts Argentina Esther Parietti Director Social Responsibility Jesica Lores Manager Social Responsibility Australia & New Zealand Rick Khinda Marketing & Communications and CSR Belgium Anke Rinkes HR and Product Manager Disability Canada Shari Angle VP Talent & Communications, HR and CSR Denmark Vibeke Jacobsen HR Manager and CSR Eastern Europe Evangelia Isari Marketing Manager and CSR Finland Arto Toyra Intl. Account Manager and CSR France Alain Dehaze President, Adecco Group Foundation France Jean-François Connan Head Responsibility & Social Innovation, Groupe Adecco France Bruce Roch CSR & Solidarity Manager Groupe Adecco France, General Delegate, Adecco Group Foundation France CSR CoP 2013/2014 74 Johan Titren Equal Opportunities Manager, Groupe Adecco France Renaud Joubert Manager Sport & Insertion programme, Adecco Group Foundation France Iberia & LATAM Francisco Mesonero Fernández de Córdoba General Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM David Morales Communications Manager Fundación Adecco and CSR Adecco Iberia & LATAM India Binny Pappachan Marketing & Communications and CSR Italy Claudio Soldà General Secretary Adecco Fondazione and Public Affairs Adecco Italy Japan Tsuyoshi Nakano CSR Japan & Asia Mexico Erika de la Barrera Analyst and CSR Netherlands Rinus Wittenberg Marketing Manager and CSR Norway Reidun Brekke Regional Director, Public Affairs and CSR North America Lois Cooper Vice President CSR & Inclusion Tyra Tutor Corporate Development and CSR Rachelle Chapman ‘Career Connections Programme’ Switzerland José M. San José Marketing Director and CSR Fabienne Wildbolz Media Relations and CSR Sweden Fred Lafquist Sponsoring and CSR Charlotte Norden Director Marketing and CSR UK & Ireland Sid Barnes Head CSR and Managing Director IT, Telecommunications & Engineering businesses Lee Jackson Health & Safety Manager and CSR Gemma Jones Health & Safety and CSR CSR CoP 2013/2014 75 Imprint Registered office Adecco Group S.A. (Holding) CH-1275 Chéserex Contact details Adecco Group management & consulting S.A. Sägereistrasse 10 CH-8152 Glattbrugg T +41 44 878 88 88 Group Communications & CSR T +41 44 878 87 87 Press.Office@adecco.com http://media.adecco.com sustainability@adecco.com http://csr.adecco.com Investor Relations T +41 44 878 89 89 investor.relations@adecco.com http://investor.adecco.com Adecco Group on the Internet www.adecco.com www.adecco.com/csr/default.aspx Imprint Publisher: Adecco management & consulting S.A., Glattbrugg August 2014 CSR CoP 2013/2014 76 adecco.com
