5Fs Gommunication on Progress UN Global Compact (COP) 201 3 Editor: Peter Savoie / Claude Stadler Version: 1.00 Date 01t20t2014 sF5 1. Statement of continued support by the Chief Operating Officer (COO)...... 3 2. Human Rights Principles 4 3. Labour 5 4. Environment 6 5. Anti-corruption........ 7 5F5 1 Statement of continued support by the Ghief Operating Officer (GOO) To our stakeholders: Over more than 50 years SFS has evolved from a family-owned Swiss company into an international group. However the strong roots are still in the St. Gall Rhine valley and the SFS values are transferred to all sites within the group by an appropriate management model. Sustainability in its actions has been the core driver of SFS since its foundation. For SFS sustainability means partnership with . customer . employees . community ' supplier Therefore the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact have been implicitly part of the SFS business model since its first days and have a tradition of decades. I am pleased to confirm that SFS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. ln this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions and achievements to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Jens Breu COO SFS Version 1.00 dated 2O.O1.2014 3 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2013 5F5 2. Human Rights Principles .{rÌ ,,1 ,i l/\/i ( rl( 1 Iì -tìlr,lii,l r' ',')'.,'.i,,i';'l iliì Principle l: Businesses SFS defines in its Corporate Model a clear statement towards the SFS Group Corporate should support respect of the community regarding basic rights, protection of Model and respect the environment, safety of products as well as the support of free market protection of and democracy as economical and political system. internationally A Code of Conduct has been developed in 2013 and will be released SFS Code of Conduct proclaimed in2O14 which covers the following topics: human rights o Legal compliance . Ethic standards o Open communication and confidentiality ¡ Fair competition and anti-conuption ln addition there exists the lnternational Quality Manual which covers Quality ManualV4 basic rights and duties of our employees and the adherence of 01to1t2014 intemational conventions as well as national laws and provisions. lntemal processes (so called Group Guidelines GGL) are established to certifi the legal compliance and monitored yearly by the 51 GGL 01 management at each site of SFS as well as intemal and external 56 GGL OI audits. All employees throughout the company were trained in these topics the year the documents were introduced. New employees receive their orientation during the job introduction training. Action planned 2014: Training and rollout of the Code of Conduct in the entire organization. Set up of a process to contiously maintain the awareness and adherence ofthe Code ofConduct. Principle 2: Make sure that SFS has to a certain extent an assertiveness and authority towards its they are not vendors. The vendor base of SFS is very narrow because ofthe high complicit in value added within SFS and its technologies applied. Nevertheless for human rights all strategic vendors exist contracts which govern the partnership with 74 GGL 01 abuses SFS and deal amongst others with environmental and safety aspects 74GGL02 regarding the vendors employees as well as its products. All strategic vendors are monitored on a regular basis through audits performed by SFS employees. 82 GGL 04 Action planned 2014: Define the concept to rollout the Code of Conduct towards our vendors. Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2014 4 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2013 5F5 3. Labour ji,' r, Ì,t,t',,i,t riir,l l, l. I I tilirl, i,, i,; ,' ,it 1, I,ti i ll Principle 3: Businesses SFS employees are entirely free to join labor unions and similar should uphold organizations in adherence to ILO core labor statements without the freedom of consequences for them by the employer. ln many countries of association and activities internal employee representative committees exist with the effective which the local managements maintains a constructive and fruitful recognition of dialogue. the right to Collective agreements (e.9. overall work contracts, tariff agreements) collective exist in countries where this is common practice (e.9. Germany, bargaining. Austria, France). Principle 4: Businesses The SFS Code of Conduct explicitly excludes forced labor SFS Code of Conduct should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses The SFS Code of Conduct explicitly excludes child labor. SFS Code of Conduct should uphold SFS strongly supports the education of young people through the effective apprenticeship and provides adequate resources for the respective abolition of child training programs at its local sites. The SFS group employs labour. approximately two hundred apprentices which corresponds to 3.0% of the work force. Hans Huber, the Co-Founder of SFS nourishes the Hans Huber Foundation. The foundation supports and decorates persons and institution which have outstanding merits in regard to vocational training. Principle 6: Businesses SFS has no personnel policy or employment practice to prefer or SFS Code of Conduct should uphold discriminate a person by his or her characteristic (i.e. gender, age, the elimination confession). The employment is purely based on professional of discrimination knowledge and achievement. in respect of For SFS fair and equal pay for men and women is mafter of course. SFS Condition of employment The proportion of female employees as of end of 2013 was 31 %. employment CH and occupation. Action planned 2014: Training and rollout of the Code of Conduct in the entire oçanization (as in topic 1) and release of SFS Condition of employment intemationally where applicable. Version 1.00 dated 2O.O1.2014 5 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2013 5F5 4. Environment ,tit Ir1r rl lr¡!; , {,i,j(,lrf ì, lti I ilr it;l :, i,', i;¡ ;, ti,1, rtr iit,,i' Principle 7: Businesses SFS has a long tradition regarding sustainable business execution ISO 14001 Certificates should support towards environmental challenges. The headquarter in Switzerland is a precautionary certified according to the intemational standard follow Quality Manageapproach to ISO 14001 since 1996, the year of the first issue of this standard. ment and Certification environmental Nine sites followed since. challenges. The company wide applied Business Management System (process Different Group descriptions regarding quality, environment and safety) fulfils the Guidelines (GGL) requirements of the ISO 14001 standard. The environmental and safety policy clearly states that all actions of lnternational Quality V4, SFS must be in harmony with economics, ecology and with the 01t0112014 responsibilities to the community, particularly looking forward to future generations. follow Quality Actions planned 2014: Management and Quality, environmental Preparation of the Environmental Management System of the sites in and safety reporting CZ-Tnv, US-Medina and CN-Nansha to pass the certification audit according to ISO 14001 in2014 and 2015. Principle 8: Businesses SFS measures the ecological impact by so called eco-balances. The should main aspects and key figures regard the consumption of energy, follow Quality undertake water and air, the generation of waste and the emission of green Management and initiatives to house relevant gaseous substances. Quality, environmental promote greater Every year goals for the relevant key figures are set and actions and safety reporting environmental defined. Over the years substantial improvements in absolute values responsibility. and even more in relative values (in proportion to produced parts) have been achieved. Principle 9: Businesses SFS's business consists to roughly 50% percent of subcontracting to should the automotive and other industries without development of products. encourage the However, SFS searches explicitly for business partners which development develop environmentally friendly products. and diffusion of SFS screens the market for environmental friendly production http ://www. sfsi ntec. bile n/ environmentally equipment and resources in its applied technologies, i. e. all web/industry_solutions/ friendly investments into new machinery for injection moulding are electrically construction/solar_fixi ngs/ technologies. driven machines which reduce the consumption of electricity by up to solar_fixings_l .html 40%. The portion of such machines has reached 45o/o over the last five years. ln the area of mechanical fastening system, where SFS develops and distributes products, a new fixing system for photovoltaic panels has been developed and released in 20'12. The product improves (cost, time to install, static, etc.) the fixation of panels on various building constructions significantly and reduces hereby the cost of ownership. ln 201212013 a new system for the installation of windows with thick insulation has been developed and the market introduction in selected countries os planned in 2014. Actions planned 2014: Continue to develop and launch innovative and environment friendly products according to the product development road map. Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2014 6 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2013 5F5 5. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses The SFS Code of Conduct excludes all forms of corruption and is SFS Code of Conduct should work enforced regularly through the local management. Any applied form of SFS Group Corporate against corruption known to SFS will lead to immediate dismissal of all Model corruption in all involved employees. its forms, Action planned 2014: including Training and rollout of the Code of Conduct in the entire organization' extortion and Set up of a process to contiously maintain the awareness and bribery adherence of the Code of Conduct. (as in topic 1) Version 1.00 dated 20.01.2014 7 SFS Communication on Progress UN Global compact (COP) 2013
