INVESTING IN THE FUTURE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 OLD MUTUAL IS AN INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT, SAVINGS, INSURANCE AND BANKING GROUP Introduction 1  Statement of support from Julian Roberts, CEO of Old Mutual 2 Our business at a glance 4 Our approach to Responsible Business Our progress 5 Human rights 6 Labour 7 Environment 8 Anti-corruption Looking forward 9 Looking forward 9 Useful links Contact and feedback If you would like to find out more information, have any questions, or would like to provide any additional feedback on this Communication on Progress please email our Responsible Business Team at responsiblebusiness@omg.co.uk Cover picture – One of the recipients of investment through our Futuregrowth Agri Fund. STATEMENT OF SUPPORT JULIAN ROBERTS, CEO OF OLD MUTUAL Old Mutual’s ambition is to be Our five pillars – recognised as a leader in ■■ Responsible to our customers Responsible Business. In 2014, we ■■ Responsible investment have become explicit about our ■■ Responsible to our employees commitment to being a Responsible ■■ Responsible to our communities Business: responsible to our ■■ Responsible environmental management customers and employees; responsible in the way that we Key progress in 2013 – invest; responsible to the ■■ Launched a publicly available Responsible communities in which we operate; Investment Standard across the Group and responsible in our ■■ In January 2014, the Old Mutual plc Board environmental management. announced that it had achieved 33% female membership Although our five pillars were established in ■■ We invested £16.1m in our community 2010, we’ve had so much more to report in programmes, representing 1% of pre-tax terms of business transformation and more annual operating profit Julian Roberts recently our growth potential, that we’ve been ■■ We improved our position in the CDP GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE much quieter on the subject of Responsible Business, but it is important to us and is Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index for something that we will communicate more FTSE 350 financial services companies about in the future. from eighth to fifth The nature of the services we provide our The progress we have made across our five customers means that we cannot conduct our pillars during 2013 emphasises our business without thinking about assessing the commitment to becoming a truly Responsible impact we have on society. Business. Being an active member of the Global Compact gives us the support to face Secure, transparent and affordable financial this commitment with confidence, learning from products are at the heart of a strong and other members and sharing our own progress. thriving society, and that is what we seek to provide to all our customers. We believe that From 2014, we have set new performance our products and services can be a key to a indicators and targets across our five pillars sustainable economy, often serving the lower that will guide us as we move to integrate income groups of the communities in which we Responsible Business into everything we do. operate. This means that we must carefully We understand there will be challenges along manage a broader set of responsibilities that the way, but we have entered 2014 with a are part of doing business. Whether it’s how renewed sense of purpose. we treat our employees, addressing our environmental impact or understanding the Our 2013 Communication on Progress impact of our investments, our careful provides an overview of our developments management of these broader responsibilities against the ten Global Compact principles will ensure a greater positive impact on society over the last year. For more detailed as a whole. information, please visit our website and other Old Mutual publications that detail our progress and plans including our 2013 Responsible Business Report. Julian Roberts Group Chief Executive 1 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 GROUP AT A GLANCE We operate under five principal business units, in over 30 countries. Group Emerging Nedbank Markets Old Mutual Group is an international We provide We provide investment, savings, insurance and Innovative life assurance-based solutions A wide range of wholesale and retail banking group. which address protection, savings banking services, wealth management, and retirement needs. asset management and insurance solutions. Highlights ■■ Improved customer insight and segmentation ■■ Leading asset management business in Africa ■■ Old Mutual has a majority shareholding to better serve customer needs ■■ Niche franchises in Latin American wealth in Nedbank, one of South Africa’s leading ■■ Improved and expanded the product range management and successful joint ventures banks, which also has banking interests in our Emerging Markets businesses and in China and India. in other countries in southern Africa. improved the customer experience ■■ Expanded distribution capabilities in India, Position Position China, Latin America, Kenya and Nigeria No1 in total life sales in South Africa South African Bank of the Year ■■ Improved the platform functionality (FT and The Banker magazine 2013) and product offerings of the UK and International Wealth businesses Financial Constant Financial Constant ■■ Improved Nedbank customer highlights 2013 currency Reported highlights 2013 currency Reported experience and security through the AOP £590m +12% -3% AOP £797m +12% -3% use of proprietary digital technology. FUM £48.1bn +16% -9% FUM £11.7bn +26% -1% Financial Constant highlights 2013 currency Reported Highlights Highlights AOP (pre-tax, ■■ Significant developments in the African ■■ Acquired an initial 36% stake in pre NCI)* £1,612m +15% – strategy with acquisitions of Oceanic Life Banco Único in Mozambique, subject FUM £293.8bn +19% +12% Insurance in Nigeria, Provident Life to completion Assurance in Ghana and a partnership ■■ Alliance with Ecobank provides Nedbank with Faulu Kenya, subject to completion. with access to 37 countries across Africa. Group by geography AOP by geography (pre-tax, pre-NCI)* £1,612m South Africa 79% UK, Europe & Int 13% United States 7% Africa (excl. South Africa) 6% Other markets 2% Interest and central costs (7)% 2 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 Property & Old Mutual US Asset Casualty Wealth Management We provide We provide We provide General insurance solutions in Africa, Integrated wealth management products A diverse range of investment strategies and operating as Mutual & Federal and iWYZE and services, combining asset management products, operating as OMAM, and delivered in South Africa. as well as saving and investment solutions to via a multi-boutique model to institutional 1.4 million affluent clients in the UK, Europe investors around the world. and selected international markets. Position Position Position Top 2 in property and OMGI recorded the second highest Leading Institutional Asset Manager casualty insurance in South Africa† UK retail net inflows in 2013†† Financial Constant Financial Financial Constant highlights 2013 currency Reported highlights 2013 Reported highlights 2013 currency Reported AOP £4m -88% -89% AOP £217m +11% AOP £111m +21% +22% FUM £0.2bn – – FUM £78.5bn +13% FUM £155.3bn +23% +21% Highlights Highlights Highlights ■■ Acquired Oceanic’s Nigerian general ■■ Our asset management brand, OMGI, ■■ Generated growth in the portfolio through insurance business from Ecobank was launched successfully in the first half increased NCCF, investment performance, ■■ Acquired Agricola UMA, contributing of the year product and channel initiatives and 13% growth in GWP. ■■ Good flows of new business, further complementary global distribution strengthened by the expansion of the ■■ Non-US clients account for 36% of FUM † based on the latest available industry data in respect UK equities team. (2012: 35%). of gross written premium †† Pridham Report Customer numbers AOP by business unit (pre-tax, pre-NCI)* Employees by business unit 16m £1,612m 56,812 Emerging Markets 49% Emerging Markets 37% Emerging Markets 35% Nedbank 40% Nedbank 49% Nedbank 52% Property & Casualty 2% Property & Casualty 0% Property & Casualty 5% Old Mutual Wealth 9% Old Mutual Wealth 14% Old Mutual Wealth 5% US Asset Management** US Asset Management 7% US Asset Management 2% ** Institutional clients Interest and central costs (7)% Other 1% 3 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 OUR APPROACH TO RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Trust is fundamental to our future Our vision to be our customers’ most trusted partner shapes not Our five pillars only what we do, but also how we do it. We are proud of the progress we have made with our Responsible Business strategy over the last Responsible to our customers four years, setting our principles and governance structures to ensure that we operate in a responsible and sustainable way. From 2014, we Responsible investment are excited that one of our Group’s Big Five Strategic Priorities is to be recognised as a leader in Responsible Business in Financial Services. Responsible to our employees By incorporate Responsible Business into our Group strategy, and committing to being a recognised Responsible Business leader, we Responsible to our communities are better positioned to build trust with our customers and other stakeholders. Responsible environmental management Our Big Strategic Priorities Our governance We have a comprehensive governance structure underlying our Responsible Business programme across the Group to support us in In South Africa align OMSA, Nedbank and Mutual & Federal to achieving our goals. In 2013, a Responsible Investment Standard was become the leading and most trusted financial services group added to the Responsible Business Policy and compliance against this In Africa build an African financial services champion, while will be tracked for the first time in 2014. Twice a year, business unit continuing to grow in other emerging markets CEOs sign off compliance to the policy as part of our governance Old Mutual Wealth transform to build the best retail investment process. business in the UK US Asset Management continue to improve and grow our Our Responsible Business Committee membership has been updated multi-boutique asset management business to include representatives from not only a range of different business functions, but also the business units themselves. The committee has Responsible Business in each of our markets become the pillar leads who support the sharing of best practice and policy recognised financial services leader in responsible business owners, and practitioners within each business who liaise with the Group Responsible Business Team. For more information on the Group’s Strategy see Our vision, strategy and values on pages 10-17 in our Our role Annual Report. We have a role across society, working not only with the most affluent This approach explicitly commits us to operating responsibly, whilst but also with those newer to the financial services sector. The level of examining the impacts of our business as an integral part of our exposure to financial understanding varies across our customer base decision-making. and this is why we focus our attention on supporting our customers and the local communities in increasing their understanding of the Over the past 12 months, with input from our stakeholders, we have financial sector and what products they may be exposed to. refined our Responsible Business strategy to continue to build on our existing five pillars with clear objectives for each. Over the coming Our future years, our Responsible Business strategy will guide us from being a Since the publication of our first Responsible Business report in 2010 Group with pockets of excellence to being a recognised leader in where we announced our initial targets, we have worked with our Responsible Business. businesses to identify KPIs and targets across our five pillars. In addition, our new group-wide performance metrics and targets will allow us to track our progress and be held to account. By pursuing our Responsible Business strategy and embedding it in our other four Big Strategic Priorities, we are confident that Old Mutual will continue to deliver value to all its stakeholders now and in the future. 4 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 OUR PROGRESS 1. Human rights UN Global Compact Principle 1 UN Global Compact Principle 2 Businesses should support and respect the protection of Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights abuses. Old Mutual’s position compliance. Through their role, they escalate relevant instances of nonAcross our business, Old Mutual remains fully committed to raising compliance with the Group policies with the Group Governance function. awareness of human rights, labour standards, and their impact, and ensuring they continue to be respected in all our activities. Our Group Code of Conduct and Group Operating Model are central to ensuring responsible business practices are understood and embedded Our engagement with all our stakeholders is firmly built on respect. We across all our business units. manage our relationships with all our stakeholders in accordance with our core values: Pushing beyond boundaries, Accountability, Respect and The Group Code of Conduct contains specific statements that address the Integrity. two principles relating to human rights in the Global Compact. Process In addition, in our Responsible Business Policy, which is part of our Group Throughout our various operations, we have a number of channels for Operating Model, we explicitly reference human rights and the reporting any suspected breach of human rights. These include our Human responsibilities all our employees have towards others. Resources, Responsible Business and Risk functions, who report such At Group level we have policies that actively encourage engagement with our incidences to the Audit and Risk Committees that are in place across the communities. To supplement these, at local level there is flexibility to focus on Group, with escalation to the Group Audit and Risk Committee where the issues that are most appropriate to that business. warranted. This year, our Annual Report included a statement regarding our position on Across the business, owners of all Old Mutual Group policies, with support human rights. from business unit representatives are tasked to monitor implementation and 2013 highlights on progress Sustainable, tailored support for local communities We recognise our responsibility to support the local communities in the Developing governance around Responsible Business markets in which we operate, forming part of our commitment to the The updating of the membership of the Responsible Business Committee promotion of human rights. We are aware of the need to create economically highlights the intent we have to fully embed all five pillars of Responsible viable communities and help people find livelihoods and dignity. In 2013 we Business across all our business units invested £16.1 million in community programmes, reflecting our aim to enable ■■ We revisited our network of task forces and committees who monitor the positive futures. Highlights include: delivery of responsible business within each business, and work to ensure ■■ The Old Mutual (South Africa) Foundation launched a flagship education compliance with the Responsible Business Policy project with an investment of at least R350million over seven years ■■ Mirroring the structure of our Group Customer Board, we submit a ■■ Following a R500,000 donation from Nedbank, we supported 400 detailed annual report to the Old Mutual plc Board on Responsible learners in the Free State with their own bicycles to travel to school Business activities ■■ The Nakelela Employee Volunteering scheme was launched in Mutual & Making progress on Responsible investment Federal to coincide with Mandela Day activities across the company We are aware that we need to consider how our investments can impact social issues, such as human rights. In the past year, we have focused on ■■ Our UK partnership with Young Enterprise was expanded to cover both training and improving our governance in this area. Southampton and London offices ■■ We launched a publicly available Responsible Investment Standard across ■■ Our South African Employee Payroll Giving Programme passed a the Group, which will be tracked as part of the Responsible Business Policy milestone since 2002, over R10million has been donated by employees, for the first time in 2014 which has been matched by the Old Mutual (South Africa) Foundation ■■ We undertook focused training on responsible investment and the environmental, social and governance issues at our operations in the US, Namibia, Kenya, Zimbabwe and South Africa ■■ Strengthening our relationship with the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (UN PRI), we were a principal sponsor of the seventh annual ‘PRI in Person’ event, which was held for the first time on African soil in October 2013 ■■ In March 2014, we will submit our first annual report to the UN PRI covering our progress on embedding the Principles across the Group For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 5 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 OUR PROGRESS continued 2. Labour UN Global Compact Principle 3 UN Global Compact Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. child labour. UN Global Compact Principle 4 UN Global Compact Principle 6 Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination compulsory labour. in respect of employment and occupation. Old Mutual’s position standards in relation to all our employees. This policy details our mandatory We continue to uphold the principle of the freedom of association and the requirements with regards to policy and practice that all business units must effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, where permitted by meet. It covers a range of aspects, including employee relations and the law. employment, diversity, selection and appointment, remuneration and performance management and employee welfare. We do not, under any circumstances, tolerate forced labour or child labour. Each year, CEOs from all our business units are required to sign a Letter of We are wholly committed to increasing diversity throughout the Group Representation to confirm both they and their employees have complied with structure: we recognise that the different backgrounds, experiences and the Group Policy over the previous year and detail if and where any issues perspectives of our employees are one of our largest assets. Our range of have arisen. This process is supported by regular internal audit checks to policies ensure no employee receives less favourable treatment based on confirm compliance with this and other Group policies. their gender, age, sexual orientation, race, disability, religion or any other factor unrelated to the requirements of their position. We have specific We dedicate time to carefully selecting and working with all our suppliers to short-term targets in place across the Group with regards to gender. In ensure they reflect the values we recognise as important in relation to labour southern Africa, recognising the unique circumstances, we balance these standards. This dialogue is underpinned by internal governance bodies that principles against our commitment to address employment equity and promote and facilitate good labour practices. We provide ongoing training transformation issues. of employees to ensure all people responsible for procurement are aware of the relevant requirements. Process At a Group level, we have a comprehensive Human Resource Risk Management Policy in place that governs the management of labour 2013 highlights on progress Strengthening our diversity We retained our focus on the number of women within the business and Removing barriers to develop our culture developing the proportion in leadership positions. For the first time, this year Across the Group, we delivered a number of programmes aimed at sharing we disclosed the gender breakdown of our total workforce and senior roles learnings from our different business units. within our business through our Responsible Business Report. ■■ We launched an Old Mutual Emerging Markets (OMEM) wide ■■ In January 2014, the Old Mutual plc Board announced that it had achieved programme, Catalyst, aimed at middle and senior management to 33% female membership. Our target was 30% by 2015 enhance engagement on strategy leadership and culture ■■ We launched the Old Mutual Women’s Network in our Emerging Markets ■■ In Old Mutual Wealth, we established a Leadership Programme, in business, with the launch event attended by Archbishop Emeritus Desmond collaboration with Cass Business School, developed with input from the Tutu executive team including CEO Paul Feeney External recognition ■■ During 2013, our US Asset Management business conducted a number of This year we have been recognised by a number of external organisations for training and education sessions with our Affiliates on Responsible our various achievements relating to our employees, including: Investment initiatives. ■■ Awarded a number of South Africa’s top employer awards for our Promoting strong employee relations and a healthy workplace commitment to employees in Old Mutual South Africa, Nedbank and We are committed to ongoing monitoring and improvement of our working Mutual & Federal conditions for our employees across the Group ■■ Old Mutual South Africa and Nedbank maintained their Broad-Based ■■ Our third annual Culture Survey maintained a high response rate and Black Economic Empowerment Level 2 ratings confirmed that people experience many of our espoused values in their everyday work ■■ In our US Asset Management business, we redeveloped our employee wellness programme, reflecting employee suggestions to cover new topics including nutrition and retirement savings For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 6 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 OUR PROGRESS continued 3. Environment UN Global Compact Principle 7 UN Global Compact Principle 9 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmental challenges. environmentally friendly technologies. UN Global Compact Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Old Mutual’s position Our Group Climate Change Strategy, developed in 2010, helps us to focus on Across the Group, we are fully aware of our global footprint and its reducing our climate change impacts and improving our energy efficiency. implications. Our aim is to continue to improve our operations and Within this strategy we set ourselves the target of reducing Old Mutual’s behaviours whilst minimising any negative impacts across the business. We carbon emissions by 20% by 2020. We have dedicated Environment continue to look for innovative ways of contributing positively to the Taskforces within our business units who work to implement our Climate environment and ensuring the way we do business reflects emerging thinking Change Strategy and act as a focal point in helping to deliver this key target and on best environmental practices. build on the multitude of activities already going on across the Group. As an investor, we have the ability to make the conscious decision to invest in One of the greatest climate change risks to our business is through the ‘green’ technologies and promote products and services that allow our clients investments we hold and the policies we underwrite. For the first time, this to have greater environmental responsibility. year we began calculations regarding our estimated total carbon exposure. One of our future targets, as stated in this year’s Responsible Business Report, Process will be to apply our Responsible Investment Guidelines to all our investment Our approach to environmental management lies with effective facilities and capabilities (US 50%). We have a number of socially responsible investment property management, aligned with employee engagement – encouraging and ethical funds available to our customers to invest in specific our people to take ownership of their own environmental footprints both at environmental projects, however our group-wide aim is to mainstream work and home. We monitor, manage and reduce our impacts as far as environmental, social and ethical criteria into all our investment making possible – from waste production, energy, water and paper consumption in decisions. our buildings to how we travel to our meetings. This is an ongoing focus and we look to best practice examples as well as integrating employee suggestions for innovative solutions to reduce our reliance on precious resources. 2013 highlights on progress Promoting greater environmental responsibility We further emphasise greater environmental responsibility through support Reducing our environmental footprint of others and investment of our own and our clients’ funds. Having targets in place across the Group has helped us focus on reducing our environmental outputs and increasing environmental efficiency across the ■■ Nedbank has funded and supported projects that will deliver 1,478MW or Group. 38% of the total renewable energy capacity allocated by the Renewable Energy Independent Power Producer Procurement Programme (REIPPPP) ■■ We are now measuring our carbon footprint on an operational control basis ■■ We ran awareness days for employees across our Emerging Markets and Wealth businesses, highlighting ways to reduced energy usage both in the ■■ In 2013, Old Mutual appeared in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index office and at home for the fifth consecutive year, ranking fifth for the Financial Services sector ■■ Since its inception, the Nedbank Green Affinity Programme has raised more than R150m in support of nearly 200 environmental projects across ■■ Despite both our carbon emissions per m2 in our investment property South Africa portfolio and per employee in our employee-occupied properties increasing from our 2010 base line, they have decreased since last year, as have our total carbon emissions ■■ We completed a thorough audit on our Emerging Markets environmental data (which accounts for 80% of our footprint) For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 7 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 OUR PROGRESS continued 4. Anti-corruption UN Global Compact Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Old Mutual’s position We work closely with regulators, law enforcement agencies and trade The values of Old Mutual Group are fully against the concepts of bribery and associations to share good practice both inside and outside the Group. corrupt business practices, which create unfair markets, erode public trust By promoting better education and awareness of issues connected with and stifle long-term economic development. We remain committed to ethical financial crime we also help promote a more accountable society that is able and legal business conduct throughout all the countries in which we operate. to combat other anti-social activities that are often supported by gains from financial crime. Process The Business Protection team at Group Head Office oversees the We have a group-wide anti-bribery and corruption policy in place. All implementation of our financial crime prevention policies across the Group. business units are required to follow the requirements of this policy and CEOs This team regularly reports to the Group Executive, Board Risk and Group are required to attest annually in relation to compliance with this policy. Audit Committees. Major issues are escalated and dealt with as they arise, The Group’s anti-bribery stance and its position with regards to employee while less serious issues are reported and analysed quarterly. conflict of interest requirements is further emphasised in our revised Group All business units have an up to date anti-bribery risk assessment in place. All Code of Conduct. The Code aims to ensure that the anti-bribery message is employees across the Group are required to attest that they have read their fully understood in terms of the Code’s alignment with the Group’s values. local business unit anti-bribery policy and that they will comply with obligations imposed by it. 2013 highlights on progress ■■ Our business in Latin America uses regular bulletins to communicate anti-bribery messages supporting the online training that is provided to all Working against corruption through positive networks employees. Within their formal contracts, all employees have anti-bribery Tackling corruption in all its forms requires having robust systems in place, clauses. and having the right working culture. We are proud to collaborate with other ■■ Anti-bribery training is provided in all Old Mutual Emerging Markets organisations to create positive networks to tackle corruption. Group Forensic Services fraud awareness training and workshops In 2013 we continued to make progress in a number of these areas. Highlights include: ■■ Nedbank repeated their week long anti-corruption campaign to coincide with International Anti-Corruption Day in December. Now 95% of all Nedbank employees have followed the ExCo’s lead and signed the Nedbank anti-corruption pledge For links to relevant documents, please see our Useful links section on page 9. 8 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 LOOKING FORWARD Old Mutual remains committed to advancing the Each of our five pillars of Responsible Business has targets for the Global Compact’s principles and wider UN goals future, with some of our aims for the coming year summarised below – throughout our business. ■■ Responsible to our customers – improve our approach to measuring the impact of our financial education programmes on new and existing customers Following our decision to place Responsible Business at the heart of our strategy going ■■ Responsible investment – publish our first UN PRI report highlighting our progress across the Group with regards to forward, our overarching aim for 2014 is to work implementing best practice towards firmly embedding this across our business. ■■ Responsible to our employees – continue to promote Old Mutual as a great place to work and ensure all our employees feel valued In each of our markets, we will increasingly and supported within their roles position and differentiate ourselves as the leader in ■■ Responsible to our communities – focus on increasing number of Responsible Business, making explicit a way of Old Mutual employees volunteering behaving that flows naturally from our core values. ■■ Responsible environmental management – establish new target around water usage Useful links Old Mutual Group Values Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – http://www.oldmutual.com/about/ourValues.jsp Guidelines on Responsible Investment http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ Old Mutual Group Code of Conduct OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelines.pdf http://www.oldmutual.com/vpage.jsp?vpage_id=2726 Old Mutual Investment Group South Africa – Old Mutual Group Responsible Business Report 2013 Guidelines on Responsible Ownership http://reports2013.oldmutual.com/responsible-business-report/ http://www.oldmutual.co.za/documents/omigsa/ Nedbank Integrated Report 2013 OMIGSAResponsibleInvestmentGuidelines.pdf http://www.nedbankgroup.co.za/financial/Nedbank_ar2013/ Old Mutual South Africa transformation Nedbank United Nations Global Compact http://www.oldmutual.co.za/about-us/transformation.aspx Communications on Progress Old Mutual Group and Nedbank CDP reports http://www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/detail/77721 https://www.cdproject.net/ 9 Old Mutual plc Communication on Progress 2013 Old Mutual plc Registered in England and Wales No. 3591559 and as an external company in each of South Africa (No. 1999/004855/10), Malawi (No. 5282), Namibia (No. F/3591559) and Zimbabwe (No. E1/99) Registered Office: 5th Floor Millennium Bridge House 2 Lambeth Hill London EC4V 4GG www.oldmutual.com
