CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group Contributing to life and living for people around the world ASAHI KASEI CORPORATION Asahi Kasei Group Philosophy Contents Asahi Kasei Group Philosophy inside cover Editorial policy / Contents 01 Group Mission Message from the President 02 We, the Asahi Kasei Group, contribute to Operating configuration Corporate profile 04 05 life and living for people around the world. Overview of operations Asahi Kasei products and technologies in everyday life 06 08 Business activities and CSR at the Asahi Kasei Group 10 This is the Asahi Kasei Group’s unchanging reason for being. Special Feature What we never cease to strive for, though the needs of society change throughout the ages. The Asahi Kasei Group is working to create new value through businesses that help society overcome various challenges. 14 It is in our very nature, deriving from a sincere regard for the people of the world. Environment 16 Residential 20 Health Care 22 & Energy Living Editorial policy The Asahi Kasei Group is committed to fulfilling its Group Philosophy through our business activities. We also recognize the importance of contributing to sustainability of society and enhancing corporate value for the benefit of our various stakeholders as well as society as a whole. Corporate governance Corporate governance 24 This report features a description of our initiatives in the three fields of “Environment & Energy,” Compliance Framework for compliance 26 “Residential Living,” and “Health Care” where we Risk management 27 are focusing on growth. We also describe our approach to contributing to the sustainability of Responsible Care Responsible Care at Asahi Kasei 28 society as well as report on various related measures. The Asahi Kasei Group will continue to actively Overview of environmental impacts 32 communicate with our stakeholders through Group Vision accurate and highly transparent information Environmental protection 32 disclosure. We welcome the opinions of our readers Operational safety 38 Providing new value to society by enabling “living in health and comfort” so that we may continually improve the content of future CSR reports. Workplace safety and hygiene 40 and “harmony with the natural environment.” Period under review Health maintenance 42 The primary focus of the report is fiscal 2012 (April Product safety 43 2012 — March 2013), and all data shown Managing chemical substances 44 corresponds to this period unless otherwise Group Values indicated. Corporate citizenship Stakeholder dialog 48 Some qualitative information pertaining to events Customer relations 49 from April to June 2013 has also been included. Sincerity – Being sincere with everyone. Organizational scope Investor relations 49 Challenge – Boldly taking challenges, continuously seeking change. The scope of the report is Asahi Kasei Corp. and its Principled supplier relationships 50 consolidated subsidiaries, except with respect to Public outreach 51 Creativity – Creating new value through unity and synergy. Responsible Care, in which case the scope is operations in Japan which implement Asahi Kasei Community fellowship 52 Group’s Responsible Care program. Asahi Kasei has nine operating segments Respect for employee Human Resources Principles 57 corresponding to its main fields of business and an individuality Human resources development 57 “others” category for the remainder of its operations. Group Slogan Unless otherwise specified, the titles and positions of Valuing human rights and diversity 58 the corporate officers and other personnel shown in Balancing work and family life 60 Creating for Tomorrow this report are current as of August 2013. Communication between management and labor 61 Publication The commitment of the Asahi Kasei Group: Published August 2013 in Japanese Environmental and Expenditure for environment and safety / 62 To do all that we can in every era to help the people of the world Next scheduled issue: J uly 2014 safety data Environmental accounting make the most of life and attain fulfillment in living. (Previous issue August 2012) Environmental performance data 63 Since our founding, we have always been deeply committed Guidelines consulted Organizations implementing Responsible Care 66 to contributing to the development of society, The Global Reporting Initiative’s Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 3.1, ISO 26000, and other Correspondence with GRI 3.1 and ISO 26000 68 boldly anticipating the emergence of new needs. guidelines were consulted during the preparation of This is what we mean by “Creating for Tomorrow.” Independent Review 70 this report. Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 1 Message from the President Continually creating for treatment plant in Korea. The Residential Living for Combinations that creating new value for Tomorrow project is working to create innovative new society lifestyle proposals that meet the changing needs of tomorrow through new society. In 2012, we began selling a house designed for The world faces many challenges today, including a family living with their parents and an unmarried resource depletion, global warming, environmental sibling. The biggest result from our Health Care for pollution, employment problems, human rights issues, Tomorrow project was our 2012 acquisition of ZOLL combinations and development challenges in emerging countries. Medical Corporation of the United States to heighten Challenges for Japan include reconstruction from the critical care technology. We are now marketing Great East Japan Earthquake, the low birthrate and ZOLL’s automated external defibrillators (AEDs) and aging population, and energy supply. To address these intravascular temperature management systems in increasingly complex and diverse challenges, we need Japan. The “For Tomorrow” projects are described in The world today is faced with a number of challenges that pose risks to our way of to evolve from the conventional simplistic approach. greater detail later in this report. The Asahi Kasei Group is focused on creating new The Asahi Kasei Group works in close accord with life and living. In order to help overcome these challenges, the Asahi Kasei Group combinations that will effectively contribute to local communities near to our manufacturing sites is determined to create new value for society by anticipating emerging changes solutions to such challenges. We have a uniquely throughout Japan. To gain greater understanding of our diverse range of operations, from petrochemicals and operations, we regularly hold meetings with and leveraging our diverse strengths. fibers to homes and construction materials, electronic community members, and participate in neighbourhood devices and materials, and pharmaceuticals, medical clean-up and tree-planting activities. We also give devices, and critical care systems. We are working to lectures at schools and sponsor student science contests create new value for society by combining our strengths as part of our efforts to help educate the next generation in these diverse fields to advance solutions for the and encourage interest in science and technology world’s various challenges. among the youth. Within the Asahi Kasei Group, we are focused on Finally, the underlying foundation for all business obtaining new combinations through our “One Asahi activity, which is compliance. There have been a Contributing to life and living for people Kasei” initiative to enable new forms of business number of corporate legal violations in the news around the world development by combining the functions of different recently. I believe such problems can largely be Our Group Mission is “Contributing to life and living business units. In addition, we are also building prevented with better interpersonal communication and for people around the world.” The word life here means combinations with outside companies that have placing greater value on personal connections. Our a society where each and every person can live a resources and technologies that complement our own. Group Values are “Sincerity,” “Challenge,” and healthy and comfortable life, while the word living By enabling results to be achieved more quickly than if “Creativity.” Our personnel act with sincerity not only means a society that thrives in harmony with the natural we performed R&D on our own, this represents new as individuals, but also collectively, which environment. To fulfill our social responsibilities, our business model for us. demonstrates the company’s integrity and earns the business activities are performed in accordance with The key to such combinations will be the human trust of our various stakeholders. our Group Vision of providing new value to society by element. By combining the efforts of our own enabling “living in health and comfort” and “harmony personnel with people in other countries and the people with the natural environment,” with all personnel at our alliance partners, we can obtain fresh focused on the same goal. perspectives that generate new ways of thinking. Asahi Kasei s aspirations Our Group Slogan of “Creating for Tomorrow” means anticipating changes that emerge in society, and At times like this when there is much uncertainty contributing to solutions to the many challenges the Results from For Tomorrow projects regarding the future, it’s more important than ever to world faces today. The key is to empower every one of and our CSR activities adhere closely to our unwavering Group Mission and our personnel to consider how they can continue to Group Vision. Our strength lies in our people, our contribute to such solutions. Concrete efforts to create new businesses through new technologies, and our materials that we have built up combinations are directed under our “For Tomorrow” through the ages. We will continue to create new projects as part of our medium-term management products and new businesses through the combined initiative “For Tomorrow 2015.” These projects in the strength of our diverse people and things united as fields of the environment & energy, residential living, “One Asahi Kasei.” By additionally including ideas President and health care are beginning to see results. and knowledge from outside, we will be able to create Asahi Kasei Corp. One focus of the Environment & Energy for even more new value for society. The Asahi Kasei Taketsugu Fujiwara Tomorrow project is to utilize our advanced technology Group will continue to focus on Creating for Tomorrow to help provide solutions to water resource problems through such combinations, taking on new challenges around the world. In 2012, our membrane filtration with a creative spirit. technology was adopted at a large-scale wastewater 02 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 03 Operating configuration Corporate profile Under the holding company configuration, the Asahi Kasei Group consists of nine core operating companies and Company Name Asahi Kasei Corp. Core Operating Companies Asahi Kasei Corp., which holds ownership of the core operating companies. Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. The core operating companies enjoy broad independence and autonomy to swiftly adapt and respond to changes Date of Establishment May 21, 1931 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-8101 Japan in the operating environment. The holding company is focused on strategic planning and analysis, administration Paid-in Capital ¥103,389 million Phone: +81-3-3296-3200 of resources, oversight of management execution, and development of new businesses which extend beyond the Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. scope of any single operating segment. Stock Listings Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka, 3-3-23 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku Sapporo Osaka 530-8205 Japan Phone: +81-6-7636-3500 Tokyo Head Office Asahi Kasei Corporation 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. 1-24-1 Nishi-shinjuku, Shinjuku-ku Tokyo 160-8345 Japan Strategic planning and Administration of Oversight of Development of new Phone: +81-3-3296-3000 Fax: +81-3-3296-3161 Phone: +81-3-3344-7111 analysis resources management execution businesses Osaka Head Office Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. 3-3-23 Nakanoshima, Kita-ku 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Osaka 530-8205 Japan Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Phone: +81-6-7636-3111 Fax: +81-6-7636-3077 Phone: +81-3-3296-3500 Core operating companies and main businesses Beijing Office Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Room1407, New China Insurance Tower 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Chemicals Fibers No.12 Jian Guo Men Wai Avenue Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Chao Yang District Phone: +81-3-3296-3911 Asahi Kasei Chemicals Asahi Kasei Fibers Beijing 100022 China Phone: +86-10-6569-3939 Fax: +86-10-6569-3938 Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Asahi Kasei (China) Co., Ltd. Tokyo 101-8101 Japan 8/F, One ICC, Shanghai International Commerce Centre Phone: +81-3-3296-3939 Organic and inorganic industrial chemicals, synthetic resin, Bemberg™ cupro cellulosic fiber, Bemliese™ cupro cellulosic No. 999 Huai Hai Zhong Road synthetic rubber, coating materials, latex, pharmaceutical and nonwoven, Roica™ elastic polyurethane filament, Eltas™ Shanghai 200031 China Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. food additives, explosives, separation and ion-exchange spunbond, Lamous™ artificial suede, Leona™ nylon 66 Phone: +86-21-6391-6111 Fax: +86-21-6391-6686 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku membranes, systems, and equipment, Saran Wrap™ cling filament Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Asahi Kasei America Inc. Phone: +81-3-3296-3600 film, Ziploc™ storage bags, plastic film, sheet, and foam 535 Madison Avenue, 33rd Floor New York, NY 10022 USA Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. Phone: +1-212-371-9900 Fax: +1-212-371-9050 1-105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku Tokyo 101-8101 Japan Homes Construction Materials Asahi Kasei India Pvt. Ltd. Phone: +81-3-3296-3750 The Capital 801C, Plot No. C70, G Block Asahi Kasei Homes Asahi Kasei Construction Bandra Kurla Complex, Bandra (East) ZOLL Medical Corporation 269 Mill Rd., Chelmsford, Materials Mumbai 400051 India Phone : +91-22-6710-3962 Fax: +91-22-6710-3979 MA 01824-4105 U.S.A. Phone : +1-978-421-9655 Hebel Haus™ houses, Hebel Maison™ apartments, Hebel™ autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) panels, Eazet™ condominiums, remodeling, real estate, residential land and other piles and foundation systems, Neoma™ foam development, home financing insulation panels, steel-frame structural components Consolidated Results FY 2012 sales by region (¥ billion) Employees by region (as of March 31, 2013) FY 2012 net sales (¥ billion) Critical Care 52.1(3%) Others Europe and US Health Care China, Korea, 18.0 (1%) Japan 133.5 (8%) Electronics Health Care and Taiwan 284.1 (17%) 1,181.4 (71%) 11% Chemicals Electronics 684.6 (41%) 131.1(8%) Asahi Kasei Microdevices Asahi Kasei Pharma Total Total Japan Total Asahi Kasei E-materials Asahi Kasei Medical ¥1,666.6 Other 28,363 82% ¥1,666.6 Asia billion billion Construction 7% Materials Hall elements, LSIs, fine-pattern coils, Hipore™ microporous Teribone™ , Recomodulin™ , Elcitonin™ , and other Other 51.5 (3%) membrane, photomask pellicles, plastic optical fiber, APR™ pharmaceuticals, diagnostic enzymes and reagents, APS™ regions Homes Fibers 201.1 (12%) photopolymer and printing-plate making systems, epoxy resin, artificial kidneys, Cellsorba™ leukocytapheresis columns, 486.2 (29%) 109.6 (7%) Pimel™ photosensitive polyimide precursor, Sunfort™ Planova™ virus removal filters, Sepacell™ leukocyte reduction photosensitive dry film, glass fabric filters Employees (as of March 31, 2013) FY 2012 capital expenditure (¥ billion) FY 2012 R&D expenditure (¥ billion) TM: Trademark or registered trademark of Asahi Kasei Corporation, affiliated Holding company Others Corporate assets and eliminations Corporate expenses Others Critical Care companies, or third parties granting rights to Asahi Kasei Corporation or affiliated companies. Others 1,156 (4%) 1,138 (4%) 1.1 (1%) 10.1 (9%) 0.1 7.5 (11%) Chemicals Critical Care 15.9 (22%) Chemicals 5.4 (5%) Chemicals ZOLL Medical Critical Care 2,435 (9%) 6,599 (23%) 47.3 (42%) Critical Care Fibers 3.9 (5%) 2.8 (4%) Total Health Total Total Care 28,363 14.3 (13%) ¥113.8 ¥71.1 Fibers Homes billion billion ZOLL AED Plus™ automated external defibrillator (AED), Others Health Care 2,382 (8%) 2.2 (3%) Thermogard System™ temperature management system 4,642 (16%) Homes Plant engineering, environmental engineering, personnel 5,118 (18%) Health Care Construction staffing and placement, think tank services Fibers 20.0 (28%) Electronics Materials Electronics Construction Materials Construction Homes 6.8 (6%) Electronics 1.0 (1%) 17.0 (15%) Materials 3,876 (14%) 1,017 (4%) 9.5 (8%) 17.6 (25%) 2.2 (2%) 04 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 05 Overview of operations Overview of operations We have a wide variety of businesses in United States Massachusetts various locations around the world. Asahi Kasei Pharma America Corp. ZOLL Medical Corporation Michigan Asahikasei Plastics (America) Inc. We have more than 20 major production locations in Japan, including Nobeoka, Miyazaki Asahi Kasei Plastics North America, Inc. Prefecture, the location of our historic roots. Our rapidly expanding international business is Illinois New York Asahi Kasei America, Inc. supported by some 60 operating bases, including affiliated companies and sales offices. Asahi Kasei Bioprocess, Inc. Crystal IS, Inc. Colorado Main sites of operation ZOLL – Broomfield New Jersey Sun Plastech Inc. Pennsylvania Belgium Tennessee ZOLL – Pittsburgh Asahi Kasei Plastics Europe SA/NV California Asahi Photoproducts (Europe) SA/NV Asahi Kasei Medical America Inc. AKM Semiconductor, Inc. United Kingdom Asahi Kasei Bioprocess Europe SA/NV Korea ZOLL – Sunnyvale Asahi Photoproducts (UK) Ltd. Tong Suh Petrochemical Corp. Asahi Kasei Microdevices Europe SAS Germany Asahi Kasei Chemicals Korea Co., Ltd. Asahi Packaging GmbH Asahi Kasei Microdevices Korea Corp. Asahi Kasei Fibers Deutschland GmbH Asahi Kasei E-materials Korea Inc. Asahi Kasei Spandex Europe GmbH Asahi Kasei Medical Trading (Korea) Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Medical Europe GmbH Spain Turkey Beijing Office Asahi Pharma Spain, SL Asahi Kasei Medical Trading Ltd. Sti. Hong Kong France Italy Asahi Kasei Plastics (Hong Kong) Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Microdevices Europe SAS Asahi Kasei Fibers Italy SRL Asahi Chemical (HK) Ltd. Asahi Photoproducts (Europe) SA/NV Asahi Kasei Medical Europe GmbH Guangzhou Asahi Kasei Plastics (Guangzhou) Co., Ltd. Taiwan Formosa Asahi Spandex Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Microdevices Taiwan Corp. Asahi Kasei Wah Lee Hi-Tech Corp. Asahi-Schwebel (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Japan (major R&D and plant sites) Asahi Kasei Medical Trading (Taiwan) Co., Ltd. Hozumi Gunma Shiga Ageo Moriyama Ishinomaki Thailand Ono Asahikasei Plastics (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Mizushima Saitama PTT Asahi Chemical Co., Ltd. Southeastern China Nantong Thai Asahi Kasei Spandex Co., Ltd. Mibu Asahi Kasei Performance Iwakuni Asahi Kasei Spunbond (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Tomobe Zhangjiagang Chemicals Corp. Asahi-DuPont POM (Zhangjiagang) Co., Ltd. Changshu Chikushino Tokyo Head Office Sakai Singapore Asahi Kasei Electronics Materials Asahi Kasei Plastics Singapore Pte. Ltd. Suzhou (Changshu) Co., Ltd. Chiba Polyxylenol Singapore Pte. Ltd. Asahikasei (Suzhou) Plastics Compound Co., Ltd. Osaka Head Office Asahi Kasei Synthetic Rubber Singapore Pte. Ltd. Asahi Kasei Electronics Materials (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Kawasaki Ohito Indonesia Hangzhou Asahi Kasei Microza (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. Fuji PT Nippisun Indonesia Oita Nagoya Hangzhou Asahikasei Spandex Co., Ltd. Shanghai Hangzhou Asahikasei Textiles Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei (China) Co., Ltd. Suzuka Asahikasei Plastics (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Asahi Kasei Medical (Hangzhou) Co., Ltd. Nobeoka/Hyuga Asahi Kasei Fibers International (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Wakayama Asahi Kasei Microdevices (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 06 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 07 Asahi Kasei products and technologies Office Cell phones & smartphones in everyday life Office equipment ●Delpet™ for displays ●LSIs ● Aluminum paste for metallic ●Hall elements paint Computers and printers ● Hipore™ Li-ion battery ●Stylac™ separator ●Polystyrene ●Hall ICs ●Xyron™ ●Chemicals ●Fibers ●Homes ●Construction Materials ●Electronics ●Health Care ●Critical Care ●Holding company ●LSIs ●Tenac™ TM: Trademark or registered trademark of Asahi Kasei Corporation, affiliated companies, or third parties granting rights to Asahi Kasei Corporation or affiliated companies. ●Hall elements ●LSIs Home ●Sunfort™ Houses ●Photomask pellicles Automated external ●Pimel™ defibrillator Detached houses Underfloor panels for Foundation piles Facial masks Bedlinen wood-frame homes ●Fine-pattern coils ●ZOLL AED Plus™ ●Hebel Haus™ ●Eazet™ ●Bemliese™ ●Bemberg™ ●Yukatec™ AAC ●Glass fabric Wall panels Exterior paint Innerwear Packaged meals Air conditioners ● Hebel™ autoclaved Column base ●Polydurex™ ●Bemberg™ ●Suntec™-S film attachment system ●Hall elements aerated concrete (AAC) ●Roica™ ● Hebel Lite™ AAC ●BasePack™ Linings for suits ● Hebel Powerboard™ AAC ●Bemberg™ Insulation panels ●Neoma™ foam ●Jupii™ Hospital Drugs (prescription) ● Teribone™ and Elcitonin™ for osteoporosis Gauze ● Flivas™ for benign ●Bemliese™ prostatic hyperplasia ● Recomodulin™ Nursing bed pads recombinant ● Cubit™ 3D thrombomodulin honeycomb fabric ● Lucica™ GA-L glycated Kitchen goods albumin assay kit ● Saran Wrap™ cling Artificial kidneys ● Ceolus™ pharmaceutical film excipient ●APS™ ● Cookper™ bakery paper Nutrition-fortified products Leukocytapheresis ● Frosch™ column ● Acure™ enriched liquid dishwashing diets Covering fabric for ●Cellsorba™ detergent high-quality sofas ●Nutritional drink ●Lamous™ Temperature Filtration of Diapers management system imported wine ●Eltas™ ●Thermogard System™ ● Microza™ hollow-fiber ●Roica™ membrane Surfactant for shampoo Plastic shopping bags ●AminoSurfact™ ● Suntec™ high-density polyethylene Outdoors Plastic zippers ●Tenac™ Stockings Plastic storage Sportswear ●Roica™ containers ●Roica™ Toys ●Ziploc™ container ●Bemberg™ ●Polystyrene Doll hair ●Stylac™ ●Saran™ fiber Home LAN Home electronics Storage bags ● Plastic optical fiber ●Stylac™ ●Ziploc™ bags ●Polystyrene ●LSIs Automobiles Packaging film for ham and sausage Asphalt modifier Power windows Tires Car navigation & ●Barrialon™ ●Hall ICs audio systems ●Tufprene™ ●Tufdene™ ●Asaprene™ ●LSIs Taillights ● VOCLE™ hands-free middleware Paper coating for calendars ● Leona™ filament ●Delpet™ for tire cord ●Styrene-butadiene latex Engine parts, etc. Li-ion battery (LIB) for hybrid/ Car seats ●Xyron™ Shrink labels for PET bottles electric vehicles ●Lamous™ ●Tenac™ ●Asaflex™ ●Hipore™ LIB separator ●Leona™ resin Airbags ●Leona™ filament 08 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 09 Business activities and CSR at the Asahi Kasei Group Business activities and CSR Business activities and CSR Business Activities We believe that corporate social responsibility (CSR) is achieved by addressing a wide range of Asahi Kasei Group Vision and Strategic Management Initiative social challenges through the advancement of our diversified businesses in accordance with our The Asahi Kasei Group engages in business activities under the ultimate goal of creating new Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world. value for society from the perspectives of living in health and comfort and harmony with the natural environment in accordance with our medium-term management initiative “For Tomorrow Group Philosophy and CSR 2015” for the period of fiscal 2011 to fiscal 2015. Group Mission of new value for society. For the expansion of world-leading businesses, we are Recognition of the Business Environment proactively developing global businesses to build market Contributing to life and living for people around the world. leadership in growing markets. The operating environment for the Asahi Kasei Group is For the creation of new value for society, we are one that faces many environmental and social challenges on concentrating resources on expanding businesses in fields a global scale. These include growing international related to the three fields of the environment & energy, Group Vision competition with the growth of emerging countries, residential living, and health care to meet emerging social resource depletion, global warming, and environmental needs for living in health and comfort and harmony with the Leveraging our diversified strengths, we will offer new value from the perspectives of living in degradation. In Japan, we face a major challenge related to natural environment. We have established “For recovery from the Great East Japan Earthquake as well as Tomorrow” projects in these fields that combine different health and comfort and harmony with the natural environment by Creating for Tomorrow. an aging population and declining birthrate. Companies business units to find new solutions to society’s challenges. today need to find ways to adapt to such change and contribute to solutions to the increasingly diverse For Tomorrow projects challenges facing society. The Asahi Kasei Group believes that this situation Business strategy Reformation of corporate systems presents new opportunities to exhibit leadership in Contributing to life and living Basic strategy anticipating the world’s emerging needs. We will leverage in anticipation of emerging 1. Expansion of world-leading businesses 1. Global business expansion our strengths in the production and efficient utilization of social changes 2. Creation of new value for society 2. Creation of new businesses resources, as well as health care and residential living, to Environment/energy-related 3. Propagation of our mission, values, and vision create new value for society and capture new markets. Residential living-related 4. Human resource policies Environment Health Care & Energy Health care-related 5. Management control and resource allocation Residential For Tomorrow 2015 and its basic Living strategy Basic CSR policies CSR in Action CSR Fundamentals The Asahi Kasei Group tackles social issues through our We believe that CSR is achieved by raising corporate Based on a clear understanding of the effects of our Creation of new value for society value for our various stakeholders through our operations on the global environment and local diversified businesses ranging from chemicals and fibers to business operations in accordance with our Group communities, our efforts and actions related to CSR homes and construction materials, electronics, health care, Mission of contributing to life and living for people are focused on four CSR Fundamentals: which we operate in accordance with our Group Mission of around the world. Compliance, Responsible Care, Corporate contributing to life and living for people around the world. Expansion of world-leading businesses Citizenship, and Respect for Employee Individuality. One objective of our mid-term management initiative Homes & Chemicals “For Tomorrow 2015” is to fulfill our Group Slogan of &Fibers Construction Electronics Health Care Materials Creating for Tomorrow from the perspectives of living in health and comfort and harmony with the natural environment. Our key business strategies to achieve this Group Philosophy are the expansion of world-leading businesses and creation Message from the Executive Officer for Management Strategy The Asahi Kasei Group is expanding its world-leading businesses and concentrating resources on the three fields of the environment & energy, residential living, and health care to achieve the Net sales (consolidated) Operating income and net income (consolidated) Group Vision of enabling living in health and comfort and harmony with the natural environment, 2,500 250 based on the medium-term management initiative “For Tomorrow 2015” which began in fiscal 2,000.0 200.0 2011. 2,000 1,891.0 200 1,666.6 Fiscal 2013 represents the mid-way point of our medium-term management initiative. By 1,553.1 1,433.6 1,555.9 1,573.2 1,500 150 combining our strengths in various materials and technologies in these fields, we will strive to ¥ billion 130.0 ¥ billion 122.9 110.0 help solve social issues around the world and create new value for society. 104.3 1,000 100 92.0 As our operating environment undergoes dramatic change, the Asahi Kasei Group will act as 77.0 Hideki Kobori 57.6 60.3 55.8 53.7 Director one to leverage our ability to adapt, enhancing our corporate value and contributing to the 500 50 35.0 25.3 Senior Executive Officer sustainable development of society. 4.7 Asahi Kasei Corp. 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 13 15 08 09 10 11 12 13 15 forecast target forecast target Fiscal year Fiscal year Operating income Net income 10 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 11 Business activities and CSR Business activities and CSR CSR at the Asahi Kasei Group Our efforts and actions related to CSR are focused on our four CSR Fundamentals: Compliance, Objectives and results Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect for Employee Individuality. Notable CSR actions, results, and plans Mediumto long-term Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2012 Fiscal 2013 Related Organization targets (goals) targets results target page ・Develop Basic Policy and ・Continue compliance ・Received reports of minor ・Support education activities Code of Conduct for education and training at all compliance violations and to eliminate compliance Relationships with Stakeholders Structure and organization for CSR Corporate Ethics core operating companies measures to prevent violations Corporate Ethics ・Advance corporate ethics and departments recurrence ・Revise Basic Policy and P26 Committee education ・Operate the Compliance ・Operated the Compliance Code of Conduct for We believe that CSR is achieved by raising corporate value The CSR Council, formed in April 2005 with the holding ・Operate the Compliance Hotline Hotline appropriately Hotline appropriately Corporate Ethics ・Operate the Compliance for our various stakeholders through our business company President serving as chair, formulates CSR policy Hotline appropriately operations in accordance with our Group Mission of and guides the CSR effort throughout the Asahi Kasei ・Prepare measures to deal ・Respond to the Great East ・Revised rules concerning ・Revise company-wide contributing to life and living for people around the world. Group. At the same time, it monitors specific CSR with potential or actual risks Japan Earthquake large-scale earthquakes emergency response ・Respond to the new ・Enhanced stock of headquarters manual for In addition, based on a clear understanding of the effects initiatives implemented by its seven committees, including Risk Management influenza outbreak emergency supplies large earthquakes P27 of our operations on the global environment and local the Corporate Ethics Committee to ensure regulatory Committee ・Performed disaster drill ・Review response measures for an outbreak of a new communities, our efforts and actions related to CSR are compliance and the Responsible Care Committee to guide including establishment of an emergency response influenza virus focused on four CSR Fundamentals: Compliance, efforts for environment, health, and safety. headquarters Responsible Care, Corporate Citizenship, and Respect for Note: The Export Control Committee did not meet in fiscal 2012, as there were no ・Perform preliminary reviews ・Hold Market Compliance ・Held total of 23 meetings ・Hold Market Compliance and checks prior to all Committee meetings as (reviewed 57 cases) Committee meetings as Employee Individuality. matters warranting discussion. Regular duties related to export control are performed by our Export Control Dept. Market Compliance across-the-board price needed needed P26 Committee revisions to confirm compliance with the Antimonopoly Act ● Framework for advancement ・Compliance with export・Hold Export Control ・No meetings held because ・Hold Export Control Asahi Kasei Group CSR Export Control related regulations Committee meetings as there were no relevant cases Committee meetings as ー President of Corporate Ethics Committee Committee needed to address needed holding company •Preparation of Basic Policy and Code of Conduct for The ・Deliberate on plans and community corporate ethics results in regard to •Advancement of ethics education and operation of Responsible Care The Community compliance hotline environmental protection, P29 employee outreach The Committee product safety, operational environment Responsible Care Committee safety, etc. Employee Environmental fulfillment protection •Deliberation of plans and results in regard to environmental ・Deliberate and determine ・Expand scope of activities ・Finalized company policy on ・Help build a low-carbon protection, product safety, operational safety, etc. group-wide measures to with the transition from the the global environment society (develop system to Sustainable increase counter global warming Global Warming Response CSR Council Global Environment Committee Global Environment ・Established targets and achieve targets in fiscal in corporate value Committee metrics 2020) P32-33 The The •Formulation of unified policy •Deliberation and adoption of group-wide measures to Committee ・Protect water resources customer shareholder and action plans counter global warming (develop system to achieve Customer Contributing to life Shareholder •Guidance and counsel for the Market Compliance Committee targets in fiscal 2015) satisfaction returns subordinate committees and living for people •Preparation of CSR Reports •Examination prior to all across-the-board price revisions to confirm compliance with Antimonopoly Law ・Formulate policy, plans, and ・Continue to give lectures at ・Some 1,700 students took ・Implement various courses of action in regard schools (including in part in our school lectures measures for the around the world •Monitoring of independent evaluation to community fellowship disaster-affected areas) ・Continued sponsorship of development of the next Export Control Committee activities The The Community ・Sponsor educational the Japan Student Science generation •Disclosure of CSR information supplier local economy in concert with Corporate •Compliance with export-related regulations contests and events Awards and the Earth ・Examine new community P52-56 Fellowship Committee ・Continue participation in Classroom program fellowship activities related Fair business Local economic Communications and Investor Risk Management Committee dealings participation Relations tree-planting projects ・Participated in tree-planting to harmony with the natural •Formulation of plans and measures to respond to actual project at the Asahi Forest in environment Business operations or potential crises Miyazaki Prefecture Community Fellowship Committee CSR Fundamentals Compliance Responsible Care Corporate Citizenship Respect for Employee Individuality •Formulation of policy, plans, and courses of action in regard to community fellowship activities Asahi Kasei supports the UN Global Compact Supporting The UN Global Compact and its ten universal principles Message from the Executive Officer for CSR The ten principles of the UN Global Compact The Asahi Kasei Group believes that fulfilling its Group Mission of contributing to life and living for people around the world through its diversified businesses embodies the fundamental essence Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a of CSR activities. the protection of internationally precautionary approach to environmental The CSR Council guides measures throughout the Asahi Kasei Group to advance our four CSR Human proclaimed human rights; and challenges; Rights fundamentals of compliance, responsible care, corporate citizenship, and respect for employee Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater human rights abuses. environmental responsibility; and individuality through our business activities. We are also committed to appropriate and timely Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion information disclosure to enhance our relationship of trust with our stakeholders. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of of environmentally friendly technologies. We have launched “For Tomorrow” projects in three fields under our medium-term association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against Hiroshi Sawayama management initiative. Through these projects, we aim to create new value for society and Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and corruption in all its forms, including Director contribute to sustainable development. Labor compulsory labor; Antiextortion and bribery. Lead Executive Officer Secretariat, CSR Council Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Corruption Asahi Kasei Corp. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 12 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 13 Special Feature Special Feature Challenges facing society Challenges facing society Environment The world faces a wide range of environmental and energy problems, including global warming, depletion of Residential Japan faces many challenges related to residential living, including an aging population, a declining birthrate, & Energy forest, water, oil, and coal resources, and loss of biodiversity. Living an increase in single-member households, and diversifying family composition. There is a growing need for homes that provide enhanced safety and environmental performance, with long-term durability to enable lasting quality and value. Solutions Asahi Kasei Group technologies are contributing to solutions, including advanced battery materials, Solutions lithium ion capacitors, next-generation devices, and LED materials for energy conservation and lowOur homes for mature urban markets offer health and comfort with innovative lifestyle proposals carbon energy generation, as well as Microza™filtration membranes and water treatment services that provide new value to society, including homes that enhance interpersonal bonds, enable that provide solutions to water problems around the world. resource and energy conservation with environmentally friendly low-carbon solutions, and maximize the utilization of land value. Hipore™ lithium-ion Sensors/power-saving Microza™ Acrylonitrile battery separator LSIs Asahi Kasei developed a Asahi Kasei developed a Hipore™ supports the high Asahi Kasei produces proprietary hollow-fiber method to manufacture Urban houses Insulation Long Life Homes performance of lithium-ion some 70% of the world s membrane technology acrylonitrile from propane In addition to features required in Our Neoma™ foam insulation panels Long Life Homes from Asahi Kasei batteries (LIBs), which are Hall elements, which are called Microza™ that gas obtained from natural dense urban areas such as fire for exterior walls and Jupii™ floor enable residents to live in safety and widely used to power essential for making home achieves highly stable gas. resistance and adaptability to small insulation panels provide worldcomfort for generations. mobile devices. appliances more energy filtration performance. plots of land, our houses enable leading insulation performance, efficient. effective utilization of sunlight, wind, contributing to greater energy and other natural elements even in efficiency in residential living. an urban environment. The Asahi Kasei Group is working to create new value through businesses that help society overcome various challenges. The operations of the Asahi Kasei Group span from petrochemicals, fibers, and homes and construction materials, to electronic materials and devices, and pharmaceuticals, medical devices, and critical care systems. In various ways, each of these businesses contributes to solutions to many of the challenges the world faces today. We are committed to fulfilling society’s expectations by contributing to such solutions through our existing businesses and by continuing to develop new businesses which do so. Challenges facing society Health Society’s expectations regarding health care continue to rise. Solutions are required for unmet medical Care needs, and efforts are advancing to suppress increasing costs and provide greater equity in access to care, while there is a growing need for at-home care solutions as the population ages. Solutions We supply Planova™virus removal filters, artificial kidneys, and therapeutic apheresis devices, and continue to develop new pharmaceuticals. To further contribute to a healthy and lively society of longevity, we are focusing on the three themes of “heightening acute critical care,” “utilizing medical IT to support healthy life,” and “applying cell therapy and regenerative medicine.” Planova™ Sepacell™ Artificial kidneys Therapeutic apheresis Planova™ virus removal Sepacell™ leukocyte APS™ polysulfonedevices filters are used around the reduction filters use a fine membrane artificial kidneys Therapeutic apheresis devices world to improve viral safety fiber mesh to trap leukocytes help to improve the quality of are used in preventative in the manufacture of that could cause side effects life for dialysis patients medicine and to treat biotherapeutics. such as fever during blood around the world. intractable diseases for which transfusions. drugs are ineffective. 14 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 15 Special Feature Environment & Energy Our Vision Addressing environmental challenges and limitations with diverse technology, for a brighter future Asahi Kasei provides many value-added products and services that are applied throughout the energy lifeline of power generation, transmission, storage, and use. ● Depletion of water resources around the world Challenge ● Stricter regulations for drinking water and wastewater Solution Leveraging advanced technology to help resolve water problems around the world Main Achievements in Fiscal 2012 Depletion of water resources has become a problem around the June world, and there are growing needs for improved water quality, Start-up of Microza™ hollow-fiber increased supplies of clean water, and recycling of wastewater. In membrane system at a large-scale MBR order to use the world’s limited water resources more effectively, wastewater treatment plant in Korea Asahi Kasei Chemicals is marketing its Microza™filtration [Asahi Kasei Chemicals] systems to water treatment plants around the world. Microza™ August features a proprietary hollow-fiber microporous membrane filter Start-up of power plant using wood Challenge ● Reduce energy consumed in production processes liquids. Asahi Kasei Chemicals has continually improved the biomass fuel in Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan functionality and performance of Microza™for over 30 years, [Asahi Kasei Chemicals] advancing both membrane production technology and module September Solution Utilizing UV-LEDs as a power-saving technology for various applications, as well as operational control light source systems to maximize filtration performance. Its cutting edge Start-up of processing facility for Hipore™ LIB separator in China nanostructure control technology and exceptional filtration system [Asahi Kasei E-materials] performance are helping to make sustainable water use a reality. Power-saving and long-life light-emitting diodes that emit ultraviolet December Completion of construction of the (UV) light are expected to be used in a wide range of applications. Kawasaki Innovation Center Ultraviolet light is a strong source of energy that activates chemical [Asahi Kasei Chemicals] reactions, making it an effective means of sterilization in the fields of water treatment and health care. Today, mercury-vapor lamps are the June 2012 January 2013 Start-up of acrylonitrile (AN) and methyl most common UV light source, but replacing them UV light-emitting Start-up of Microza™ hollow-fiber membrane system at a large-scale methacrylate (MMA) plants in Thailand diodes (UV-LEDs) would enable greater energy efficiency, lighter [Asahi Kasei Chemicals] weight, smaller size, and offer a longer service life. This will make it MBR wastewater treatment plant in Korea possible for use in portable sterilization equipment, in addition to A large-scale municipal wastewater treatment facility in Paju, conventional uses. Gyeonggi-do, Korea, began operation in June 2012 using a Microza™ hollow-fiber membrane bioreactor (MBR) system* from Asahi Kasei Chemicals. The company’s rich experience and superior technology were major factors in the selection of Microza™for this project, which is Korea’s largest wastewater treatment plant. Working to quickly commercialize UV-LEDs As the Korean government continues to tighten wastewater regulations, MBR systems are expected to be increasingly in demand In December 2011, Asahi Kasei made Crystal IS, Inc. (CIS) a as an effective and efficient solution for maintaining high water subsidiary with the goal of quickly commercializing quality standards. Asahi Kasei Chemicals holds a share of some 25% UV-LEDs, and we advanced R&D together during fiscal of the market for water filtration membranes in Korea, and plans to 2012. Asahi Kasei and CIS developed an aluminum nitride increase its share with increased adoption of MBR systems. single crystal substrate based on CIS’s world leading AIN single crystal growth technology and UV-LED technology. There are challenges associated with water resources all around the We are combining CIS’s technologies with the advanced world, including water pollution problems in China and tighter thin-film and device technology and the compound drinking water regulations in North America. We are determined to semiconductor technology platform developed in our advance the use of Microza™to help provide solutions to the world’s electronics business to create high-performance UV-LEDs. water problems. We have already achieved the world’s highest UV-LED output, and are preparing for commercialization in the fields * MBR systems use microorganisms to break down organic substances in wastewater, and then filter the water through membranes for of sterilization and air purification. clarification 16 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 17 Special Feature Environment & Energy ● Reduce the environmental burden of production Challenge processes ● Ensure stable procurement of raw materials Development of the world’s first AN production process that uses natural Solution Reduce CO2 emissions from production processes gas as feedstock ● Challenge ● Effectively utilize wood biomass resources Acrylonitrile (AN) is a petrochemical intermediate mainly used to make acrylic fiber (for sweaters and carpets) and ABS resin Solution Reducing CO2 emissions by shifting to (for consumer electronics and office equipment). wood biomass fuel for power generation Conventionally, AN is made from propylene derived from petroleum, but Asahi Kasei developed a process that uses The Asahi Kasei Group has been generating electricity using wood biomass propane derived from natural gas as feedstock for AN as a portion of fuel at the Nobeoka Power Plant of Asahi Kasei NS Energy production. since June 2008, and it has since constructed a new biomass power plant that can further reduce greenhouse gas emissions as part of its commitment to prevent global warming. This new power plant uses over 60% wood biomass fuel by energy content (about 100,000 tons/year), enabling us to January 2013 suspend operation of some oiland coal-fired boilers and power plants. Start-up of commercial operation at AN plant in Thailand In Thailand, Asahi Kasei Chemicals built the world’s first propane-process AN plant, with commercial start-up in January 2013. The new plant has an annual production capacity of August 2012 200,000 tons, raising the company’s total capacity to 965,000 tons per year and solidifying its position as Asia’s largest AN producer. Asahi Kasei Chemicals enjoys highly advanced AN Start-up of wood biomass power plang in Nobeoka production process technology and catalyst development technology, enabling energy loss to be minimized and reducing the environmental burden of production. The new propane Asahi Kasei Chemicals started commercial operation of a process used in Thailand has the additional benefit of avoiding reliance on petroleum as a biomass power plant in Nobeoka, Miyazaki, Japan, in August feedstock source. This breakthrough production process balances the requirements for 2012. The newly constructed plant consists of a circulating commercial expansion with those for environmental compatibility. fluidized bed boiler that produces 80 tons of steam per hour, a condensing extraction steam turbine and a 14,000 kW generator, Asahi Kasei Chemicals is now studying the construction of a new AN plant in Saudi Arabia using wood biomass, coal, and RPF* is used as fuel. The plant as it continues to grow toward the world-leading position. will annually use approximately 100,000 tons of wood biomass fuel, mainly forest thinnings and construction waste from Miyazaki and surrounding prefectures. By replacing power Opening ceremony The new plant generation from fossil fuels with renewable wood biomass, it is forecasted that this will reduce CO2 emissions by 170,000 tons per year. Asahi Kasei is a founding member of the International Partnership for Satoyama Initiative (IPSI), which was first established in 2010. The new power plant of Asahi Kasei Chemicals that uses wood biomass fuel from forest resources in the Gokase River watershed area is a case study in the Satoyama Initiative. Jointly, Miyazaki Prefecture, the Grand Opening Ceremony in Thailand The new AN plant City of Nobeoka, and forestry cooperatives in the area ways to utilize forest thinnings and remaining timber to preserve the afforested area of the Gokase River watershed area and Biomass fuel its biodiversity, while revitalizing the local forestry industry. The full-scale operation of the new biomass power plant is expected to generate a positive cycle that includes a system of local production for local consumption as well as satoyama revitalization. * RPF: Refuse Paper and Plastic Fuel. A form of solid fuel comprising waste paper and waste plastic. 18 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 19 Special Feature Residential Living Our Vision Providing a comfortable living environment to more customers, more quickly Asahi Kasei provides new lifestyle proposals by combining various products and services from both within the Group and outside. We are focused on enabling homeowners, their families, and their ● Create innovation by combining the latest neighbors to live in health and comfort in a local community characterized by harmony with the natural Challenge technologies environment, safety, and aesthetic appeal. ● Achieve new ways of living that didn’t exist before Combining technologies from both inside and outside the company to Solution ● Achieve safe and comfortable residential living in an aging society Challenge ● Adapt to diversifying family composition lifestyles create new ways of living At our Housing R&D Center in Fuji, Shizuoka, Japan, we are Creating residential proposals that meet Main Achievements in Fiscal 2012 combining a wide range of know-how both from inside and changing needs, through communication Solution March outside the company at our “HH2015” demonstration house to create new businesses that meet the needs of tomorrow’s society. with customers Launch of Hebel Haus™ homes featuring enhanced disaster preparedness functions This demonstration house features the latest technology from a [Asahi Kasei Homes] Asahi Kasei closely monitors feedback and requests from customers variety of domains, including energy-saving, low-carbon April even after their home has been completed and delivered in order to exteriors, and home health care. This facility enables us to create Increased production capacity for ensure that the Hebel Haus™owners of today and tomorrow may completely new ideas for living, verifying their commercial Neoma™ phenolic foam insulation continue to feel satisfaction with their homes over the long term. In viability as part of new business models. [Asahi Kasei Construction Materials] 2012, the Lifestyle R&D Laboratory of Asahi Kasei Homes April conducted a survey on the living conditions of customers living in Launch of two-generation Hebel Haus™ two-generation homes. The survey revealed changes in family homes with a system for energy sharing between families composition and styles of working which homes had not been Research on food safety and enhanced security [Asahi Kasei Homes] tailored to before. To meet the emerging needs, we created a new home designed specifically for a family living with their parents and August an unmarried sibling. This is just one example of how we We are now focusing especially on two areas of research at the VEGEUNI Launch of Hebel Haus™ homes for a family continually monitor customer needs and create new products with HH2015 demonstration house, food safety and enhanced living with their parents and an unmarried lifestyle proposals that match these evolving needs. security. sibling One result of our research on food safety is a new hydroponic [Asahi Kasei Homes] herb-growing system called VEGEUNI. The small portable unit September August 2012 can be placed on a table or anywhere there is an electrical outlet. Launch of Jupii™ floor insulation panels Launch of Hebel Haus™ homes for a family living with their It works with LED light and a special culture solution that is [Asahi Kasei Construction Materials] parents and an unmarried sibling replaced every week. The herbs will be ready for harvest in six January weeks. Launch of the Hebel Haus™ Rondo Japan’s national census in 2010 showed that a rising number of households headed by For enhanced home security, we are developing advanced Compact integrating an extra unit couples with children who were living together with an unmarried sibling as well as monitoring and intrusion detection systems. Many senior with flexibility in dimensions and purpose of use their parents. We conducted our own independent survey on the residential needs of citizens and women living alone are concerns about safety and [Asahi Kasei Homes] such households, finding that most of the unmarried siblings security at home. We are using the HH2015 facility to verify the worked full time while also helping with housework. In 2012 real-world performance of a radio wave-based movement and we launched a new Hebel Haus™home designed to meet the intrusion detection system developed by the National Institute of unique needs of such households while building on our Information and Communications Technology (NICT). We will established know-how and experience in two-generation advance studies together with NICT to evaluate the commercial homes. The new homes offer the unmarried sibling a greater potential of services using this technology. degree of independence while also being able to interact with the other family members. There is a separate full-featured Three-story Hebel Haus™ washroom vanity for them, as well as a generously-sized The HH2015 demonstration house walk-in closet. There is also a large dining room that can accommodate the whole family at mealtime. The homes also feature a multipurpose zone that can be utilized flexibly as the children grow, and can accommodate future changes in family composition. Two-story Hebel Haus™ 20 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 21 Special Feature Health Care Our Vision Unique products & technologies that contribute to a healthy and lively society of longevity Asahi Kasei seeks to contribute to a healthy and lively society of longevity for people around the world through our many products. We are focused on achieving advanced care that seamlessly connects acute and chronic treatment, supporting patients, their families, and their communities. Challenge ● Heighten acute critical care Launch of Japan’s first-ever intravascular temperature Solution Challenge ● Heighten acute critical care management system ● Raise awareness and availability of AEDs Main Achievements Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical (AZM) began selling the in Fiscal 2012 Thermogard System™in Japan. A central venous placement April Acquisition of ZOLL Medical Corporation Solution Entry into the field of critical care temperature management system for the reduction of fever due to neurological injury, this represents a major breakthrough as the of the US first intravascular temperature management (IVTM) system— [Asahi Kasei] Under our “For Tomorrow 2015” medium-term management initiative which controls a patient’s temperature using a central venous May launched in fiscal 2011, health care is identified as a strategic area for growth. catheter—to be available in Japan. Strengthening of strategic alliance in the Complementing our established operations in pharmaceuticals and medical field of hemodialysis with investment in NxStage Medical, Inc. devices, we entered the growth field of critical care devices and systems by [Asahi Kasei Medical] acquiring ZOLL, a world leader in resuscitation technology. With ZOLL as part of the Asahi Kasei Group, we are together advancing new critical care October technology that will help save more lives around the world. Establishment of Asahi Kasei ZOLL The Thermogard System™ for IVTM Medical to expand sales of critical care devices in Japan [ZOLL Medical] Neurogenic fever (fever caused by abnormalities in the temperature regulating center of the hypothalamus) is common in neurological December injury such as ischemic stroke, intracerebral hemorrhage, Conclusion of joint sales agreement for overactive bladder therapeutic drug Increasing survival with AEDs subarachnoid hemorrhage, and traumatic brain injury, and is [Asahi Kasei Pharma] associated with increased mortality and poor outcome. The An AED (automated external defibrillator) is a medical device that administers an Thermogard System™is used for therapeutic normothermia for February electric shock to a heart that has stopped beating in order to return it to a normal neurologically injured patients, with a unique multi-balloon catheter Launch of Thermogard System™ in Japan rhythm. A person’s chance of survival decreases 7 to 10% every minute their placed into a central vein (superior or inferior vena cava) which [Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical] heart stops beating. This is why AEDs play a vital role in the field of acute critical regulates body temperature by heat exchange with blood. care where quick treatment is the key to saving lives. An AED automatically Temperature-controlled saline is circulated within a closed-loop takes an electrocardiogram to determine the degree of electric shock needed, multi-balloon catheter placed into a central vein, and the patient is making it possible for even a person without a background in medicine to quickly cooled as blood passes over each balloon. The system regulates the administer treatment simply by following the verbal instructions. AEDs sold in temperature of the circulating intra-balloon saline automatically Japan by Asahi Kasei ZOLL Medical enable easy application of the electrode pad based on feedback of the patient’s core temperature, enabling precise to the chest area and provide audiovisual feedback to help rescuers perform the temperature management with minimal nursing workload. proper depth and rate of chest compressions. Sudden cardiac arrest is the cause of death for some 60,000 people per year in While advancing preparations for clinical studies for the Japan. We believe that number can be reduced with Thermogard System™for the indication of therapeutic hypothermia Thermogard System™ further distribution of AEDs and greater awareness following cardiopulmonary resuscitation, AZM is also focused on and understanding for their use. We will continue to obtaining Japanese regulatory approval for other ZOLL products, work not only to increase the availability of AEDs in while working together with other Asahi Kasei Group companies to Japan, but also to raise awareness about how to use expand operations in the field of critical care. This expansion in the them as part of our commitment to enhance the field of critical care will help the Asahi Kasei Group achieve its quality of acute critical care. vision of contributing to a healthy and lively society of longevity. ZOLL AED Plus ™ 22 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 23 Corporate governance Corporate governance Directors in the discharge of their duties by attending Board of Corporate Auditors Board of Directors’ meetings and examining business Corporate governance Comprises four Corporate Auditors, two of whom are performance. Corporate Auditors of the Company and Corporate governance Corporate Auditors of the core operating companies exchange information on a regular basis. Our Corporate Outside Corporate Auditors. Corporate Auditors exchange views, deliberate, and decide on substantive matters relating to auditing. Meets at least once per quarter. Auditors Office has multiple dedicated personnel who, We work to heighten corporate value by enhancing the efficiency and independently from Directors, support the Corporate CSR Council (see p. 12) Auditors in their duties. transparency of management. Formulates plans and action policies on CSR for the 6) PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata performs financial holding company and all Group companies, monitors its audits of the Company and the core operating companies seven specialized committees, and implements CSR in accordance with the Corporation Law and the activities. Meets at least once per year. Financial Instruments and Exchange Act. Compliance Corporate Governance System 7) Company standards stipulate that as a general rule a Executive Officer system Corporate governance Director is not to concurrently serve as Director at four An outline of the corporate governance system of the Asahi We employ an Executive Officer system under which the or more other companies whose shares are stock market Kasei Group is as follows (see charts below and on p. 25). Presidents and Executive Officers of the core operating Basic Concept listed. companies hold authority and responsibility for We believe that constant effort to increase the efficiency 1) Asahi Kasei Corporation is a holding company and has 8) The Company has a performance-linked remuneration management execution within their respective companies, and transparency of management is essential for continuous elected to take the form of a company with a Board of system as stated above, and remuneration of Directors is and the President and Executive Officers of the holding enhancement of the corporate value of the Asahi Kasei Corporate Auditors. determined by the Board of Directors within the range company hold authority and responsibility for management Group. Under the structure of a holding company and core stipulated therein. execution of the holding company as well as of the whole 2) Two Outside Directors were elected in June 2007 to operating companies, the Asahi Kasei Group exercises Asahi Kasei Group. The President of the holding company enable oversight of the management of the Asahi Kasei Responsible Care corporate governance based on the following two Group organization oversees the state of business execution at the core Group based on their wealth of experience and broad principles. operating companies while Board of Directors of the range of insight. In June 2008 an additional Outside Board of Directors holding company oversees the performance of the holding Director was added for a total of three to further 1) Based on the structure of a holding company and core Oversees group management, and deliberates and decides company President and the state of business execution of strengthen the management oversight function of the operating companies, the core operating companies are on basic group policy and strategy, and on substantive the Asahi Kasei Group. Board of Directors. responsible for business execution and the holding proposals by the Strategic Management Council. The company is responsible for oversight. 3) The company has a Group Advisory Committee as an Chairman of the holding company chairs meetings of the Audits advisory body to the Board of Directors, enabling the receipt Board of Directors. Meets once or twice per month. The Internal Audit Dept. is a corporate organ under the 2) The Group Approval Authority Regulations are of various advice and recommendations of knowledgeable positioned as the highest ranking among all the direct authority of the President of the holding company. persons from outside the Company for the benefit of the Strategic Management Council Each year, the Internal Audit Dept. prepares plans for an regulations governing the overall Group for decision overall management of the Asahi Kasei Group. Deliberates and decides on substantive matters relating to internal audit in accordance with basic corporate regulations Corporate citizenship making in executing business. Authority is distributed to each organ of the holding company and the core 4) The Internal Audit Dept. serves as the corporate organ for the operation of the holding company and of the group. Its for internal audits, obtains the President’s approval for these operating companies in accordance with the degree of internal audits of the execution of duties in the Asahi Kasei decisions are made by the President of the holding plans, and then performs the internal audit. influence on management. Group in accordance with basic corporate regulations for company, who chairs meetings of the council, after In accordance with the audit policy adopted by the Board internal audits. Results of the internal audits conducted by deliberation by the attending constituent members. Meets of Corporate Auditors, each Corporate Auditor attends In this context, corporate governance is further enhanced each group staff function are also reported to the Internal twice per month. meetings of the Board of Directors and audits Directors in by implementing various measures, including the election Audit Dept., so that all information regarding results of the discharge of their duties through examination of of multiple Outside Directors and the operation of an internal audits in the Asahi Kasei Group are centralized at Group Advisory Committee business performance. The Corporate Auditors Office Internal Audit Dept. the Internal Audit Dept. provides staff to support Corporate Auditors in their duties. The advisory body to the holding company’s Board of We will continue to advance measures to heighten PricewaterhouseCoopers Aarata is contracted as the 5) In accordance with the audit policy adopted by the Board Directors, comprises Chairman, President and corporate governance for the further enhancement of Independent Auditors to perform financial audits in knowledgeable persons from outside the Group. Meets Respect for employee individuality of Corporate Auditors, each Corporate Auditor audits accordance with the Companies Act and Financial corporate value. twice per year. Instruments and Exchange Act. The Internal Audit Dept., the Board of Corporate Management Configuration Auditors, and the Corporate Auditors of core operating Corporate governance system Shareholders companies and other subsidiaries regularly meet to confirm the effectiveness of internal governance systems for legal Holding company Shareholders Board of Corporate Auditors Group Advisory Committee compliance and risk management. The Board of Corporate Auditors provides counsel to the Independent Auditors with Holding Election Election Election Board of Directors company Strategic Management Council respect to its audit plan, and receives the results of the Chairman CSR Council Board of Board of consolidated financial audit of Asahi Kasei each quarter Independent and each fiscal year. Directors Corporate Auditors Environmental and safety data President Group staff functions 10 Directors 4 Corporate Auditors Auditors Audit Coordination Internal Audit Dept. •Resources administration •Compliance & risk management ( incl.Directors 3 Outside ( ( Corporate Auditors ( incl. 2 Outside •Strategic planning & analysis Oversight Audit New Business Development Audit President Core operating companies WEB Please use the following link to learn more about Internal Group staff New Business corporate governance at Asahi Kasei (including our Audit Dept. functions Development basic approach to internal governance systems). Asahi Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei ZOLL Framework for execution About Asahi Kasei > Guiding Principles Kasei Fibers Chemicals Construction Materials Homes Microdevices E-materials Pharma Medical Medical Construction Electronic Electronic Medical devices Critical care devices Oversight > Corporate Governance Translation of Corporate Governance Fibers, textiles Chemicals Housing Pharmaceuticals materials devices materials and systems and systems document filed with the Tokyo Stock Exchange Chemicals & Fibers business Homes & Construction Materials www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/aboutasahi/governance/ sector business sector Electronics business sector Health Care business sector Core operating companies (As of June 27, 2013) (As of June 27, 2013) 24 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 25 Compliance Compliance Information protection and management Risk Management Corporate governance Protection of personal information Compliance Asahi Kasei is committed to the proper handling and use of personal information, in accordance with our basic policy. Our Risk Management Committee, under the authority of the CSR Council (see p. 12) serves to enhance the risk Education and training for all employees—including the management system of the Asahi Kasei Group. Its basic The ongoing trust of people throughout the world is earned by compliance with distribution of an information security handbook which mission is to prevent operational crises and to minimize the describes our rules for handling information, and the effects should a crisis occur. Since fiscal 2007, we have law, social norms, and internal corporate regulations, by respect for local culture provision of education via e-learning—is monitored by the operated with Basic Risk Management Regulations, and customs, and for human rights, and by conduct based on high ethical values. Corporate Ethics Committee. authorized by the Board of Directors, which provide clear guidelines to heighten the capability and effectiveness of risk management and emergency response throughout the Compliance Basic policy for protection of personal information Asahi Kasei Group, as a key aspect of fulfilling our social Compliance Hotline 1. We handle personal information properly and in responsibility. Framework for compliance The Asahi Kasei Group began employing a Compliance compliance with the Personal Information Protection In the event of any major accidents, incidents, or Hotline in April 2005 to ensure that any possible ethical Law and other applicable statutes, and in problems which cause significant damage to Asahi Kasei Framework for corporate ethics lapses which employees may encounter or observe are dealt conformance with generally accepted norms and Group operations or which may foreseeably cause our with swiftly and appropriately. Reports can be made operations to have adverse effects on the general public, we The Corporate Ethics Committee oversees education and standards. through the corporate intranet or by post (to a specified law establish a group emergency response headquarters headed training for compliance, and monitors the status of 2. We ensure that personnel throughout the Asahi firm), in the name of the reporting party or anonymously. by the President of Asahi Kasei Corp., and the headquarters compliance within the Asahi Kasei Group. Chaired by the Kasei Group thoroughly understand and faithfully Structures are in place to ensure that the reporting party works with various divisions and departments to guide the President of the holding company, the committee also comply with corporate standards and regulations incurs no disfavor or disadvantage as a result of having proper response to be taken. deliberates on matters pertaining to corporate ethics and for the handling of personal information. In fiscal 2012 we determined that in the event of a major Responsible Care determines company-wide policy. Where shortcomings are made a report. 3. We use personal information only for the specific disaster which would prevent the use of the Tokyo head identified, the committee formulates and implements purposes which have been indicated or announced office, the group emergency response headquarters would measures for improvement, enhancing compliance Compliance Hotline Flow at the time of its receipt. be established at either our Osaka head office, Nobeoka throughout the Asahi Kasei Group. Example: Anonymous intranet report, violation confirmed. office, or Atsugi office, depending on the state of damage. At its meeting in July 2012, the committee discussed 4. We employ appropriate measures in the We also determined that the emergency response priority issues and policies at each group company for maintenance and management of personal Executive for headquarters will handle head office functions as required ensuring compliance, the state of compliance with laws and information to ensure against unauthorized compliance to ensure continuation of operations and more rapid regulations, the handling of personal information, and directive to alteration, disclosure, and loss of personal perform recovery in the event of such a disaster. operation of the Compliance Hotline. corrective action information. 5. We will respond in good faith to requests from you to Corporate Ethics – Basic Policy and Corporate citizenship Reporting content of instruction to confirm, revise, cease using, or delete personal party report investigate Organization Emergency response system Code of Conduct (anonymous) in violation information. Our Corporate Ethics – Basic Policy and Code of Conduct Stakeholders Employees is the standard and guide for ethical conduct throughout the Information disclosure day-to-day work of each and every member of the Asahi Protection of intellectual property through Corporate Direction and Compliance guidance Kasei Group. report Hotline investigation The Asahi Kasei Group implements strict measures to Communications It is reviewed every year and revised as necessary to Secretariat prevent unauthorized or unintentional outflow of Emergency response headquarters reflect changing requirements in society. Translated into technological information and know-how in accordance English and Chinese, it or an equivalent standard applies to with its basic policy and management standards for Fact checking, coordination all companies in which our ownership exceeds fifty prevention of technology outflow. The Asahi Kasei Group percent. Respect for employee individuality also applies internal guidelines summarizing related Responsible division or department Market Compliance Committee precautions to take when entering business overseas as well Response as procedures to ensure the preservation of prior-use rights Corporate Ethics – Basic Policy The Market Compliance Committee, which was formed in in China. 1. Creating value, contributing to society 1976, oversees compliance with antimonopoly law. To The company’s internal magazine is used to raise further Emerging crisis ensure against any violation of antimonopoly law such as awareness among personnel, and workshops are held for Typhoon, earthquake, or other natural disaster; industrial 2. Caring for environment, health, and safety participation in a price cartel, all across-the-board price training and education regarding protection of intellectual accident causing pollution or injury; terrorism; infectious 3. Honoring law and norms of society increases require the approval of the committee before they property. disease; product safety incident, etc. can be implemented. The committee met twenty-three 4. Excluding subversive elements times in fiscal 2012, reviewing fifty-seven cases. 5. Respecting the individual For more information about our intellectual property, please Environmental and safety data WEB 6. Ensuring transparency refer to the Asahi Kasei Group Intellectual Property Report. www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/aboutasahi/library/ip_report.html 7. Respecting information and intellectual property 8. Practicing corporate ethics 26 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 27 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care RC objectives and results ★★★Complete ★★Satisfactory ★Unsatisfactory Responsible Care Corporate governance FY 2012 RC Objectives FY 2012 Results Attainment FY 2013 RC Objectives Enhance RC compliance Improved ★★★ Enhance RC compliance RC training course for section managers revised Advance RC education and training Advance RC education and training RC training course for assistant chiefs created ★★ Safety is a fundamental prerequisite for the continuation of operations as a RC RC training course for assistant chiefs initiated Enhance RC at affiliates compliance Expanded range of affiliates implementing RC Enhance dialog with the public corporate member of society. To ensure that every aspect of safety is maintained, Enhance RC at affiliates RC at affiliates enhanced through instructions and support by core operating companies ★★ the Asahi Kasei Group implements a Responsible Care (RC) program comprising Enhance dialog with the public RC reports of 4 core operating companies and 8 plant complex sites were used in community outreach ★★★ the six pillars of operational safety, workplace safety and hygiene, environmental Avoid all polluting accidents No polluting accidents or minor incidents ★★★ Avoid all polluting accidents and minor incidents Promotion of recycling-oriented society: Promotion of recycling-oriented society: protection, health maintenance, product safety, and community outreach. Final disposal of 0.5% or less of generated Maintain rate of final disposal at 0.3% of generated industrial waste Goal reached with final disposal rate of 0.5% ★★★ industrial waste or less Maintain recycling rate of at least 85% Recycling rate of at least 83% Goal reached with recycling rate of 91.2% Curtailing greenhouse gas emissions: Compliance Curtailing greenhouse gas emissions: Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan by 3.0% Reduce CO2 emissions by 1.0% CO2 emissions reduced by 23.5% from FY 2005 level No increase of global CO2 emissions Reduce GHG emissions in Japan by 4.5% Greenhouse gas emissions reduced by 30.6% from FY Message from the Executive for RC Reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 2.0% 2005 level ★★★ Achieve LCA contribution ratio (new definition) of 4.7 Protect water resources: Environmental LCA contribution ratio of 4.2 1 LCA/CO2 contribution ratio of 6.6 The spirit of RC is autonomy, responsibility and open disclosure. At the Asahi Kasei Group, we go Water resource contribution ratio of 1.8 protection Reduce FY 2008 2012 average unit energy FY 2008 2012 average unit energy consumption Control emissions of chemical substances: beyond mere compliance with laws and regulations as we operate our businesses with due consumption by 20% from FY 1990 level reduced by 23.4% from FY 1990 level Control emissions of PRTR-specified substances Reduction of chemical release: Control emissions of air and water pollutants consideration for all matters related to the environment, health, and safety. In fiscal 2012, we Release of PRTR-specified substances and emission of ★★★ Preserve biodiversity by procuring biological resources established our Global Environment Committee to globalize our efforts to achieve a low-carbon and Prioritize the items to reduce VOCs reduced by 90% and 88% respectively from FY 2000 level Advance CSR procurement recycling-oriented society, to protect water resources, and to coexist in harmony with nature. We are Preserving biodiversity: Investigated impact of our business activities on integrating global environmental measures together with business activities to fulfill our social Implement measures in line with the priorities biodiversity ★★★ responsibility in accordance with our Group Vision of enabling harmony with the natural Give consideration to biodiversity Implemented biodiversity monitoring Responsible Care ★★★ environment. In addition, we advanced a wide range of RC efforts including training and education Advance CSR procurement Implemented CSR procurement Avoid all industrial accidents One accident occurred (small fire during dismantling) ★★ Avoid all industrial accidents Hiroshi Kobayashi at all organizational levels. In certain areas where we can perform better, we are redoubling our Control changes to equipment and operating Provision of accurate instructions and guidance was ★★★ Control changes to equipment and operating conditions efforts to raise results in line with our commitment to prevent accidents and disasters, maintain conditions confirmed Director Completed inspection related to preventing abnormal Enhance risk assessment, prevent abnormal reactions, product safety, and promote employee health, for complete achievement of all RC objectives. ★★★ confirm interlock functions on-site Senior Executive Officer Enhance risk assessment reactions and securing interlock functions On-site confirmation of results is ongoing Monitor for hazards of fire, explosion, and leaks; Asahi Kasei Corp. Monitor for hazards of fire, explosion, and leaks; RC audits at Kawasaki, Ohito, and Nagoya implement remediation Operational implement remediation Workshops at Fuji and Nobeoka ★★★ Enhance emergency response systems safety Confirmed enhanced disaster response capabilities Enhance emergency response systems (introduced disaster response trucks) ★★★ Monitor for items in need of replacement and uninspected Monitor for items in need of replacement and items, implement remediation: Implement seismic retrofitting for specific buildings as Responsible Care at Asahi Kasei uninspected items, implement remediation: planned for FY 2013 Implement seismic retrofitting for specific buildings as planned for FY 2012 Completed according to the plan ★★★ Complete the evaluation of seismic capacity for non-specific buildings and implement retrofitting as Complete the evaluation of seismic capacity for non-specific buildings Evaluation incomplete at 4% of subject buildings ★★ planned for FY 2013 RC represents the commitment and initiative to secure and improve safety and environmental protection at Corporate citizenship Avoid all workplace injuries: Avoid all workplace injuries: every step of the product life cycle through the individual determination and responsibility of each firm Achieve frequency rate2 of 0.1 or less Frequency rate of 0.16 ★ Achieve frequency rate of 0.1 or less Achieve severity rate of 0.005 or less producing and handling chemical products, together with measures to gain greater public trust through Achieve severity rate3 of 0.005 or less Severity rate of 0.154 Enhance utilization of OHSMS: disclosure and communication. RC was conceived in Canada in 1985, and was strengthened on a global Enhance utilization of OHSMS: Reduce latent risks at workplaces Enhancement of internal audits Ongoing review of risk assessment; special scale with the establishment of the International Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA) in 1990. In 1995, Reduce latent risks at workplaces management procedures confirmed at audit with Make the effects of OHSMS more visible Ensure thorough compliance with safe working reference to registered list ★★★ the chemical industry in Japan began implementing RC with the establishment of the Japan Responsible Care Enhancement of internal audits Improvement confirmed at audit with reference to standards internal audit records Avoid all accidents in caught in/between category: Council (JRCC 1). Asahi Kasei was among the founding members of the JRCC, and played a leading role in Make the effects of OHSMS more visible Confirmed at audit with reference to risk level changes No lost time injury due to caught in/between the expansion and development of RC in Japan. Workplace Avoid all accidents in caught in/between accidents Enhance safety management guidance of on-site category: RC at the Asahi Kasei Group is not limited to chemicals-related operations but encompass operations in all safety and hygiene One lost time injury occurred (three in FY 2011) ★★ contractors: No lost time injury due to caught in/between Initiated comprehensive equipment inspection at Enhance safety management structure as the fields, including housing, healthcare, fibers, electronics, and construction materials. accidents workplaces where injuries had occurred during the past contracting manufacturer few years Enhance safety management of on-site contractors Respect for employee individuality Enhance safety management guidance of on-site Reinforce management of safety on equipment work: contractors: Enhance implementation of safety management Enhance safety management structure as the Satisfactory improvement confirmed in audit with standards Responsible Care at the Asahi Kasei Group Asahi Kasei Group RC Principles contracting manufacturer reference to check sheets at each site ★★★ Throughout theEnvironmental Protection product life cycle from R&D to disposal, utmost consideration Enhance safety management of on-site Self-evaluation results and safety management contractors guidance at each site confirmed at audit is given to environmental preservation, product safety, operational safety, and Eliminate severe accidents at firms contracted to workplace hygiene and health as preeminent management tasks in all work on equipment: Environmental ★★ Protection operations worldwide. Enhance implementation of safety management Confirmed issues at audit with reference to work standards management records ● Environmental preservation is achieved by ameliorating the environmental Reduce proportion of personnel for whom health Proportion of personnel for whom health warning signs Promote health maintenance and improvement among burden of operations while giving full consideration to the environment in warning signs are found are found increased from FY 2011 ★★ personnel: Community Construction Operational the development of new technologies and products. Promote the prevention of and countermeasures to Materials Chemicals ● Product safety is ensured by evaluating the safety of products and lifestyle-related diseases Outreach Safety Health Early discovery and treatment of employees with Proportion of personnel with mental health issues Prevent falls providing safety information. maintenance mental health issues decreased from FY 2011 ★★★ ● The safety of personnel and members of the community is secured through Promote countermeasures to mental health issues and enhance support system Environmental and safety data endeavors to maintain stable operation and improve technologies for safety Enhance health management framework Health management enhanced and unified within RC ★★★ Electronics Asahi Kasei Homes Develop the health management system Group and disaster prevention. ● Workplace accidents are prevented through improvements to the Avoid serious product safety incidents No product safety incidents ★★★ Avoid serious product safety incidents workplace environment and plant modifications to achieve inherent safety. Enhance management of chemical substances: Enhance management of chemical substances: Workplace ● Maintenance and promotion of employee health is supported by efforts to Product safety Promote compliance with laws and regulations on Product Health and Promote compliance with laws and regulations Fibers Safety and achieve a comfortable workplace environment. on management of chemical substances in Compliance maintained and system enhanced management of chemical substances in Japan and Safety Care management Hygiene Japan and overseas ★★★ overseas of chemical In addition to maintaining legal compliance, continuous improvement is substances Encourage JIPS activities Performed risk assessments and began public Encourage JIPS activities Promote JAMP tools pursued through attainment of self-imposed targets based on results of risk disclosure of safety documents Health assessment. Public understanding and trust is gained through proactive Promote JAMP tools Provided information via MSDSplus and AIS Maintenance communication and information disclosure. Number of people our health care business Number of people our health care business contributed to: contributed to: ★★★ June 4, 2002 FY 2013 target: 18% increase over FY 2010 Living in health FY 2012 target: 14% increase over FY 2010 22% increase over FY 2010 and comfort Number of residents in Hebel Haus™ homes: Number of residents in Hebel Haus™ homes: FY 2013 target: 12% increase over FY 2010 ★★★ 1 JRCC: Operated as the Japan Chemical Industry Association s RC Committee since April 2011. FY 2012 target: 7% increase over FY 2010 8% increase over FY 2010 1 See p. 33. 2 Number of accidental deaths and injuries resulting in the loss of one or more workdays, per million man-hours worked. 28 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 3 Lost workdays, severity-weighted, per thousand man-hours worked. Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 29 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care RC Management System environmental protection and ISO 9001 quality management Overseas RC activities regulations on chemical substances and the environment. The efficiency and effectiveness of Asahi Kasei Group RC is system certification for product safety. An Occupational The Asahi Kasei Group has been expanding world-leading We will continue to support overseas expansion on a groupCorporate governance maintained in accordance with its Group RC Management Health & Safety Management System (OHSMS) is adopted businesses as a major focus of growth under our “For wide level, including measures to enhance RC in each Guidelines and other internal standards, with the President of for workplace safety, hygiene, and health. Tomorrow 2015” medium-term management initiative, country and region, and reinforcement of overseas RC the holding company serving as chair of our RC Committee. with a particular focus on growth potential in emerging audits. To flexibly respond to the rapidly changing As shown in the diagram below, continuous reevaluation and markets. “One AK” management, which enhances unified operating environment in China, we have established improvement are systematically pursued with “plan-dostrength of the whole group, is not only a key for the offices in China, including our Beijing Office and Asahi check-act” (PDCA) cycles—for the Asahi Kasei Group as a dynamic growth strategy but also a foundation for our RC Kasei (China) Co., Ltd. in Shanghai to support our Chinawhole, within each core operating company and Region1, and activities overseas. related business, as well as support investment affairs and within individual plants and facilities. In overseas subsidiaries and affiliates, RC officers of the Group companies in China. We work to maintain Certified compliance with internationally standardized corresponding core operating company regularly carry out compliance by obtaining information on amendments to management systems is obtained for the RC Management RC audits following the same procedure used for Japanese relevant laws and regulations as quickly as possible. Examples of RC audits and RC activities in Asian Compliance System of the Asahi Kasei Group. We have obtained ISO subsidiaries and affiliates. When considering entering a 14001 environmental management system certification for RC Committee meeting new location overseas, we carefully plan appropriate RC subsidiaries are shown below. measures to comply with the applicable laws and PDCA flow for RC President Executive for RC Fuji Region General Manager RC activities at overseas subsidiaries and affiliates Nobeoka Region General Manager Holding RC Committee2 company Moriyama Region General Manager Overseas RC Audit by Asahi Kasei Chemicals in countermeasures, and reporting of near-accidents and New Business Development General Manager Korea potential hazards were performed in coordination with Corporate Production Technology General Manager Twice every year, Asahi Kasei Chemicals performs RC the mother factory in Japan. To further heighten the audits of Korean subsidiary Tong Suh Petrochemical. level of RC implementation, a lecture on preventing Responsible Care Core operating Presidents of core operating companies In addition to the AN Department, the Production lower back pain was held as a safety training session. companies Department and ESH & QA Dept. of Asahi Kasei Plans and targets at each core Plans and targets at Chemicals take part in the audit. As with factories in RC Principles RC Objectives operating company and Region individual plants and facilities Japan, all elements of RC are subject to audit at Tong Suh Petrochemical, which is conducted following the RC Plan of Asahi Kasei Chemicals. Each audit Plan Plan Plan Plans Plans Act Do Act Do Act Do involves a site inspection, question and answer session, and information exchange. Recently a major Implementation Implementation Check Check Check construction project was completed without any accident or injury. We are committed to extending our Corporate citizenship Lecture on preventing lower back pain at the Review RC Audit Review RC Audit Review RC Audit record of zero industrial accidents, which has been Suzhou Factory in China RC Report, Local RC Reports sustained for approximately 10 years. Overseas RC audit by Asahi Kasei Fibers in RC education and training We will continue to hold such courses for assistant chiefs, Thailand In order to further heighten the effectiveness of our RC production managers, and EHS managers. Asahi Kasei Fibers conducts an RC audit of Thai Asahi initiative, a new textbook was produced, which describes Kasei Spandex every year. These audits have enabled RC management, environmental protection, employee us to verify that a systemized RC program involving health, and the fundamentals and principles of occupational RC Symposiums local staff has been established. An Environmental safety, and also includes a large number of actual examples Every year, RC Symposiums are held at our major Health and Safety Department has been created to to learn from. Using this textbook, we conducted education production Regions such as Nobeoka, Moriyama, and Fuji, ensure the effectiveness of the program, while a and training courses for production managers and EHS with awards presented to plants which have outstanding qualified person serves as the safety warden to set Respect for employee individuality managers, as well as candidates for those positions, group safety performance records. In fiscal 2012, RC examples for safety activities. Going forward, the leaders of research departments, and EHS personnel. Symposiums were held by three Regions and four core authority for everyday RC activities will continue to be In fiscal 2012, we held RC training courses for seventy operating companies, as well as the holding company. To shifted to Thai managers, while the local Japanese section managers, which consisted of two rounds of two share information and maintain the vitality of the initiative, Members participating in the RC audit at Tong Suh managers will focus on activities relating to the 2-day sessions. Seven hundred and forty personnel have RC results are reported, seminars are held, and Safety Petrochemical prevention of industrial accidents and severe injuries taken the courses over the six years since the training began Awards are presented at the symposiums. among workers. in 2007. In addition, a training course for assistant chiefs was formally Overseas RC audit by Asahi Kasei E-materials in initiated in fiscal China 2012, with Asahi Kasei E-materials performs an RC audit of Asahi Environmental and safety data some160 Kasei Electronics Materials (Suzhou) every year. In personnel fiscal 2012, continuation of a very active participating. implementation of RC was confirmed, including industrial accident prevention, environmental safety, Asahi Kasei Corporation and product safety. Notably, investigations into the Members participating in the RC audit at Thai Asahi RC training lecture RC Symposium (November 2012) causes of industrial accidents, application of Kasei Spandex 1 A site or group of sites consisting of several plants and facilities of various core operating companies. Each Region General Manager is responsible for the unified implementation of RC in the respective Region. 2 The RC Committee is chaired by the President of the holding company, and its members include Presidents of the core operating companies, the New Business Development General Manager, the Corporate Production Technology General Manager and General Managers of the Nobeoka, Moriyama, and Fuji Regions. The RC Committee meets once each year. 30 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 31 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Overview of environmental impacts Quantitative indicators and targets of environmental initiatives Greenhouse gas emissions Corporate governance 1. Contributing to a low-carbon society Reducing CO2 emissions 14 The diagram below describes the environmental impacts of business activities at Asahi Kasei Group plants. • Reduce CO2 emissions in Japan to 10% below the FY 2005 level by 12.06 FY 2020 12 As in our Group Vision of harmony with the natural environment, the Asahi Kasei Group considers • Hold total CO2 emissions in Japan and overseas in FY 2020 to at or environmental preservation as one of the most important tasks. Our major focuses are on 1) prevention of Million tons CO2 equivalent below the FY 2010 level 10 Baseline emissions global warming, 2) promotion of a recycling-oriented society, 3) management of chemical substances, and Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 8 4) preservation of biodiversity. • Reduce GHG emissions in Japan to 15% below the FY 2005 level by FY 2020 For prevention of global warming, we have established new indexes and targets to curtail greenhouse gas 6 5.92 5.48 5.65 5.26 5.05 LCA/CO2 contribution ratio (new definition)* emissions to be achieved by fiscal 2020 (see p. 33). Regarding promotion of a recycling-oriented society, we 4.11 • Achieve ratio of 7.9 by FY 2020 (5.9 in FY 2012 and 3.2 in FY 2010) 4 achieved zero emissions of industrial wastes in fiscal 2010 and are working to maintain this. Furthermore, as * LCA contribution ratio: LCA is used to determine the amount of reduction in CO2 emissions Compliance a chemical company, we are working to promote safe handling of chemical substances and actively provide enabled by Asahi Kasei products and technologies in comparison with conventional products and technologies. The ratio is calculated by dividing this amount in a given fiscal year by the 2 global CO2 emissions of the entire Asahi Group for the same fiscal year. safety information. We are also making efforts to reduce the impact of our business activities on biodiversity. 2. Preserving water resources 0 1990 05 08 09 10 11 12 Water resource contribution ratio* Index set Baseline • Achieve ratio of 2.0 in FY 2015 (1.2 in FY 2011) at Kyoto Protocol Asahi Kasei Group Main Environmental Impacts (FY 2012) * The water resource contribution ratio is calculated by adding up the total quantity of water clarified and recycled using Asahi Kasei filtration technology and dividing this by the quantity of Fiscal year the Asahi Kasei Group s water intake. Water Atmospheric emissions Release to soil CO2 N2O CH4 HFC PFC SF6 268 million m3 Asahi Kasei Group plants SOx: 5,800 tons PRTR-specified substances: NOx: 3,700 tons 0 tons Contributing to a low-carbon society Soot and dust: 180 tons PRTR-specified substances: As a participant in the Commitment to a Low Carbon Society the emissions level in 1990, the index year set under the 390 tons launched in April 2013 by the Japan Chemical Industry Kyoto Protocol, we continue to maintain a reduction of Responsible Care Energy Regulated VOCs: 1,300 tons Greenhouse gas emissions: Association and Nippon Keidanren, the Asahi Kasei Group is GHG emissions by more than 50%, most notably through 5.3×10 J 16 4.11 million tons CO2 equivalent Industrial waste implementing activities in line with this commitment. We the development of technology for thermal decomposition will also pursue activities under global indicators and targets nitrous oxide (N2O) byproduct. INPUT OUTPUT Including hydroelectric power (converted in accordance with Japan s Effluent waste: 262,000 tons Effluent water Act on the Rational Use of Energy) Of which, landfilled: 1,800 tons set for our overseas manufacturing sites as well. Volume: 210 million m3 Scope 3 emissions1 Materials COD of effluent: Nitrogen: 850 tons 6,200 tons The Asahi Kasei Group s activities for building a The domestic Japanese portion of Scope 3 emissions is Including 4.22 million tons Phosphorus: 25 tons low-carbon society regularly calculated for Asahi Kasei Chemicals and Asahi PRTR-specified PRTR-specified substances: 1. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions of the Asahi Kasei Kasei Homes because this accounts for 85% of such Products substances 90 tons Group emissions for the entire Asahi Kasei Group. (1) CO2 and GHG emissions in Japan Our Scope 3 emissions have steadily declined from fiscal (2) Global CO2 emissions 2005 to fiscal 2012, with some fluctuation due to the global Corporate citizenship (3) Scope 3 emissions financial crisis, and in fiscal 2012 they were about 8% Environmental protection 2. Helping reduce CO2 emissions throughout the entire lower than in fiscal 2005. lifecycle of products This reduction can be attributed to the launch and 3. Making international contributions growing sales of Hebel Haus™ products with power The Asahi Kasei Group s environmental protection measures include efforts for the achievement of a lowgeneration, efficiency, and conservation functions which 4. Developing innovative new technologies carbon society, the establishment of a recycling-oriented society, and the preservation of biodiversity. As our reduced Category 11 emissions (use of sold products), and operations involve the use of large volumes of chemical substances, we implement measures under our the to reduced use of fossil resources and fossil fuels which The Asahi Kasei Group s environmental initiative framework ISO14001 environmental management system to prevent pollution-causing accidents. reduced Category 12 emissions (end-of-life disposal of sold products). This committee deliberates and adopts group-wide Global environmental measures. It is chaired by the Quantitative indicators and Environment holding company Executive for RC, and has the The Asahi Kasei Group s global environmental policy Respect for employee individuality presidents of the core operating companies and targets to curtail global 1. Contributing to a low-carbon society Committee the General Manager of New Business warming (1) Sharing the international goal of cutting worldwide greenhouse gas emissions in half by the year 2050, the Asahi Development as members. It meets twice per year. Scope 3 Emissions in Japan Kasei Group will establish targets for reduction of emissions from its business activities by 2020. This committee consists of the chair from the In June 2012, we established our Global (2) The Asahi Kasei Group will contribute to the establishment of a low-carbon society by providing the world with products, technologies, and services that enable reduced greenhouse-gas emissions through our proprietary holding company and members from the core 7 Environment Committee to oversee an technology. operating companies and from New Business 6.38 6.38 6.17 5.98 (3) The Asahi Kasei Group will monitor and clearly visualize the amount of CO2 emissions from its supply chain. LCA Development. It promotes LCA throughout the 6 5.84 5.86 5.86 8% Million tons CO2 equivalent expanded scope of activities related to 2. Preserving water resources Committee Asahi Kasei Group and performs LCA for the Group s products and technologies, including 5 5.33 global warming. At its second meeting, The Asahi Kasei Group will help preserve water resources around the world through its domestic and international water supply filtration membrane module business and industrial water recycling service business. those under development. It meets five to six times 4 the Global Environment Committee The Asahi Kasei Group will measure the quantity of its water intake while striving to maintain and improve the efficiency of its water usage. per year, and reports results of its activities to the Global Environment Committee. formulated policy on environmental 3 3. Promoting a recycling-oriented society initiatives that apply to the entire Asahi The Asahi Kasei Group will promote the reduction of environmental impacts and the efficient utilization of 2 resources and energy throughout the entire life cycle in its business activities in order to contribute to a Reducing GHG emissions from production Kasei Group (shown at right). In recycling-oriented society. Specifically, we will raise the percentage of reduction, reuse, and recycling (3Rs), processes 1 Environmental and safety data addition, quantitative indicators and and increase the usage of resources and energy with lower environmental impacts as well as renewable 0 resources and energy. targets1 were revised and updated in 4. Achieving harmony with nature The Asahi Kasei Group’s GHG emissions in fiscal 2012 05 06 07 08 09 Fiscal year 10 11 12 order to clearly visualize and confirm The Asahi Kasei Group will monitor and carefully manage its business activities to preserve natural capital, maintain consciousness of biodiversity, and ensure the environmental impacts of its business activities are within were equivalent to 4.11 million tons of CO2, which represents a reduction of 30.6% compared to the 5.92 Purchased products and services Capital goods ongoing progress of these acceptable ranges. First, we will study the current situation pertaining to our use of land and biological Fuel and energy related activities not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2 million tons from our baseline year of fiscal 2005. resources. environmental initiatives. 5. Overseas locations (factories) Upstream transport/distribution The Asahi Kasei Group will create systematic monitoring items that will enable environmental management Significant factors that contributed to this reduction include Waste emitted from businesses Business travel the suspension of ammonia and benzene production, the practices equivalent to those at its factories in Japan. Employees commuting Upstream leased assets 6. Supply chain shift to biomass power generation, and a lower rate of Use of sold products The Asahi Kasei Group will proactively collaborate with members of its supply chain to undertake the End-of-life disposal of sold products operation at our Mizushima plant complex. Compared to abovementioned activities. 1 See p. 33. 1 Scope 3 emissions: Greenhouse gases emitted indirectly by a company throughout its supply chain. 32 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 33 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Life cycle assessment of reduced CO2 emission The Asahi Kasei Group s efforts to reduce CO2 Promoting a recycling-oriented society of achieving a final disposal rate of 0.5% or less and a Although CO2 is generated during the manufacture of emissions The Asahi Kasei Group is working to reduce the amount of recycling rate of 83% or more with results of 0.5% and Corporate governance materials and intermediate products in the Asahi Kasei industrial waste for final disposal through the “3-Rs” of 91%, respectively. Group, there are also many examples of products which Energy conservation reduction, reuse, and recycling in order to help build a We enhanced our management of off-site treatment of contribute to reduced CO2 emissions during use. LCA To reduce CO2 emissions from power generation, we target recycling-oriented society. industrial waste by expanding the use of electronic calculation takes such contribution into account and improved unit energy efficiency. Unit energy consumption In 2012, we increased on-site waste separation and manifests. We also performed periodic on-site inspections determines the amount of CO2 reduction achieved over the in fiscal 2012 increased by 7% from the previous year. recycling to reduce the volume of industrial waste of consigned firms to ensure that proper disposal is product life cycle. By expanding sales of such products However, there was no increase in the average annual unit transferred off-site for final disposal, achieving our targets performed in accordance with sound systems of control. and commercializing new products and technologies that energy consumption over the past five years. enable significant reduction of CO2 emission based on LCA, we contribute to the overall reduction of greenhouse Alleviating the environmental effects of physical Off-site final disposal volume, FY2012 Off-site final disposal by category of waste, FY2012 gas emission throughout the supply chain. distribution Compliance The results of activities in fiscal 2012 saw threeProduct shipments for Asahi Kasei Group operations in 30 26.8 dimensional knit fabric technology developed by Asahi Japan amounted to some 1.1 billion ton-kilometers in fiscal Kasei Fibers’ R&D Laboratory for Applied Products used 2012, generating approximately 80 thousand tons of CO2 Others 43% Sludge 40% to create lightweight car seats that improved fuel economy, emissions—an 8% decrease from fiscal 2011. In 20 and the development of an energy-efficient humidifier filter cooperation with the transport firms contracted for Thousand tons Total amount that reduces heat and motor energy during humidification. shipment, a wide range of measures are employed to reduce 1,800 tons The anticipated LCA and CO2 reduction volume of these energy consumption and alleviate the environmental effects 10 two technologies for fiscal 2020 are 540,000 tons of CO2 of physical distribution. 6.2 4.8 and 700,000 tons of CO2, respectively. Both Asahi Kasei Chemicals and Asahi Kasei Fibers have 1.8 Plastic waste 8% received Eco-Rail Mark certification in recognition of their 1.3 1.3 0 Global warming conscious products preferential shipment of products by rail, an ecological 00 08 09 10 11 12 Debris 7% Controlled mixed waste 2% Responsible Care In April 2012, we formulated guidelines on global warming mode of transport which results in lower CO2 emissions for Fiscal year conscious products. Having formulated a similar set of a given weight and distance than many other means of guidelines in 2003 for eco-friendly products, the Asahi transportation. Kasei Group decided to formulate a new set of guidelines Flow of industrial waste, On-site treatment Off-site treatment (thousand tons) for global warming conscious products given recent Use of low-pollution vehicles FY 2012* Recycling demand both in Japan and overseas. The Asahi Kasei Group is phasing in low-pollution vehicles （25.5%） Recycling 99.0 （65.8%） 255.4 In accordance with these guidelines, we have certified the for use in marketing and within plant grounds. In fiscal products in the following chart as global warming 2012, some 70% of company-owned vehicles were lowWaste generated Volume reduction by Effluent waste Volume reduction by incineration, dehydration, etc incineration, dehydration, etc conscious products. pollution vehicles. （100.0%） 387.9 27.2（7.0%） 261.6（67.4%） （1.1%） 4.4 On-site landfill Final disposal Corporate citizenship Renewable energy List of global warming conscious products （0.0%） 0.0 （0.5%） 1.8 The Asahi Kasei Group has seven hydroelectric power Rank Product name generation plants in the Nobeoka Region, which provided * Excluding industrial waste generated at the construction sites of Asahi Kasei Homes. Hall ICs and Hall elements for DC motors used in air 13% of the total electricity we used in Japan in fiscal 2012. A conditioners Generation of the equivalent amount of power at Reducing industrial waste from construction thermoelectric plants would result in approximately 160 different construction sites. Asahi Kasei Homes is also Ion-exchange membrane electrolysis system for caustic materials and housing businesses reducing the volume of waste as well as implementing A soda thousand tons* of CO2 emissions annually. Furthermore, our biomass power generation facility in Asahi Kasei Construction Materials recycles trimmings of sorted waste collection at housing construction sites. With A Rubber for low rolling resistance in automotive tires Nobeoka started operation in August 2012. Hebel™ autoclaved aerated concrete (AAC) panels in its these measures, waste for final disposal has been reduced to A Phosgene-free polycarbonate production process own plants and others, utilizing its certification for “widezero at new construction sites. * Using Japan s Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry and Ministry of the area recycling”1 which permits the transport of waste from Respect for employee individuality Hebel Haus™ with power generating, efficiency, and Environment standard of 550 g CO2/kWh. A conservation functions B Hebel Haus™ with next-generation insulation Recycle flow for trimmings of Hebel™ AAC panels Final disposal industrial waste generated at construction sites Electricity sources, FY 2012 60 B Sunfort™ photosensitive dry film 55.7 C Plastic molding machine purging agent 40 Thousand tons C Hipore™ lithium-ion battery separator for HEV and EV Hebel™ AAC panels Building sites Cement material, lightweight artificial soil C Neoma™ foam insulation material for homes Purchased 47% Total Thermal 40% 2,200 GWh 20 Rank A: LCA/CO2 reduction of at least 500,000 t-CO2/y 14.4 11.8 12.3 Environmental and safety data Rank B: LCA/CO2 reduction of at least 100,000 t-CO2/y 9.8 8.6 Rank C: LCA/CO2 reduction of at least 10,000 t-CO2/y Certified plants of Asahi Kasei 0 Recycling consignee 00 08 09 10 11 12 Construction Materials (Kanto area) Hydroelectric 13% Hozumi Plant, Iwakuni Fiscal year Plant, Sakai Plant AAC trimmings New construction Dismantling 1 Certificate for wide-area recycling: For certain parties, who perform recycling in a wide-area, Japan s Minister of the Environment eliminates the need to obtain separate waste transport permits for each local area. The system was established to promote further recycling of industrial waste. 34 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 35 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Management and disposal of In fiscal 2012, we established a guideline for the world’s best factory site located near freshwater fish, as polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs1) management of effluent water which outlines our basic Releases of PRTR-specified substances part of a program to protect the natural water environment Corporate governance Disused condensers, fluorescent lamp ballasts, and other policy, as well as equipment standards and management 5,000 4,890 of Lake Biwa. devices that contain PCBs are emplaced in stainless steel methods. Factory effluent management practices at each In fiscal 2012, we monitored the habitat throughout the vessels, recorded in a ledger, and stored under strict control. site are confirmed in accordance with this guideline. year to determine the full potential for protecting native fish These are scheduled to be disposed of by March 2027, the 1,000 species. We also prepared a manual for removing foreign legal deadline, through consignment to specified sites such Reduction of hazardous chemicals species after testing a variety of different fishing as Japan Environmental Safety Corp. (JESCO) facilities The Asahi Kasei Group makes an effort to reduce the Tons 680 680 equipment. equipped to render them harmless. In addition to the release of hazardous chemicals. These chemicals include 500 480 In Fuji, we created a local biotope called the Asahi Woods disposal of condensers and transformers, we have begun substances specified in the Air Pollution Control Act, Water 340 of Life at our plant and laboratory complex, recreating the ecosystem of the local area. Many of our employees and 300 disposing fluorescent lamp ballasts. Pollution Control Act, and the PRTR2 Law, and other Going forward, we will also ensure that waste with substances which we have voluntarily designated for local residents participate in biodiversity-related activities such as planting trees, planting and harvesting rice, and Compliance minimal amounts of PCBs is rendered harmless at approved reduction. Priority for reduction is based on the degree of 0 00 08 09 10 11 12 facilities in accordance with Japan’s Wastes Disposal and hazardousness and amount of release. As shown in the Fiscal year watching fireflies. Public Cleansing Act. graph on the following page, release of PRTR-specified to the atmosphere to water substances and VOC3 emission were reduced by 90% and Note: No release to soil Ikimono Kyosei Jigyosho® initiative 88%, respectively from fiscal 2000. Asahi Kasei is involved in the Ikimono Kyosei Jigyosho® * The figures reflect the change in number of PRTR-specified Water, air, soil and groundwater substances due to a regulatory revision in 2010. contamination Release of substances regulated by the Air Pollution initiative advocated by the Japan Business Initiative for The Asahi Kasei Group employs a range of measures to Control Act and the Water Pollution Control Act were Biodiversity (JBIB). As part of this initiative, we manage effluence and emissions to prevent water, air soil, maintained below the permissible limits. Releases of VOCs performed a biological monitoring study to assess greenery and groundwater pollution. In the event that water, air, soil, 12,500 at the Asahi Woods of Life at our Fuji site and the green or groundwater contamination is discovered at any of our space at our Moriyama site, and to investigate the insect sites, we promptly act to prevent effects on the surrounding 10,400 and wildfowl species living there, using a land use report Responsible Care card. This study was performed in conjunction with a 10,000 area, report the matter to the local community, relevant authorities, and the media, and implement remediation in comparison of riverside consultation with the authorities and independent 5,000 forest and park land. The Biological monitoring study Tons specialists. 3,900 4,000 results showed that Fuji had 2,500 2,800 2,500 a higher degree of 1,300 biodiversity than a large New wastewater treatment facility urban park. As for 0 00 08 09 10 11 12 Moriyama, the plant’s green space was found to be linked Until July 2012, Asahi Kasei Pharma’s Ohito site sent need to send untreated wastewater through the Fiscal year to the neighboring riverside Study in Moriyama area wastewater requiring treatment about two kilometers to underground pipeline, eliminating any risk of leakage. forest and the land can also Corporate citizenship a facility where it was treated using the activated sludge In addition, the BOD reduction rate of the new facility be utilized as an ecological method and released into the public sewage system. is on average more than 96%, verifying that it provides Preservation of biodiversity corridor (a connected space This distance was traversed in an underground pipeline the same stable treatment capacity for the entire Ohito Basic policy that enables wildlife to move that passed beneath public roads, railway tracks, and site’s effluent as before. The new facility also reduces To ensure the sustainable utilization of living resources, due between important habitats) agricultural fields. This situation carried with it the risk power costs more than one half even though it handles consideration is given to reducing the impact of our under the Shiga Prefectural of leaks during the transport of untreated wastewater in the same amount of wastewater as the previous facility. business activities on biodiversity, and we have established Biotope Network Long-term the underground pipeline, and was energy inefficient Going forward, the Ohito site will strive to maintain guidelines for the preservation of biodiversity. Based on Concept. Study in Fuji area due to overcapacity at the treatment facility after we the stable operation of this new facility to properly treat this guideline, the Asahi Kasei Group began examining the exited the alcoholic beverage and food businesses. To wastewater from its plants and research laboratories, impact of our business activities on biodiversity. In order to Future initiatives resolve these issues, we constructed a new, smaller contributing to the overall environmental protection promote business activity with due concern for biodiversity, We continue examining the impact of our business Respect for employee individuality treatment facility within the site that is better suited to program of Asahi Kasei Pharma. we are working to raise awareness among personnel by activities on biodiversity, and adopt measures that handle the current volume of wastewater. This new various means including our RC education program. contribute to environmental preservation. As a founding facility was completed in March 2012 and officially corporate member, we will also pursue activities under the came on line at the end of July 2012 after a four-month Notable actions in fiscal 2012 Satoyama Initiative Promotion Network (tentative name), trial operation period. Several minor issues occurred Through the examination of the impact of our business which was established by Japan’s Ministry of the after start-up, but the tireless efforts and ingenuity of activities on biodiversity, we came to realize the extreme Environment, several local governments, NGOs, and other our effluent control personnel ensured there were zero importance of biological resources and the ecosystem for companies. environmental accidents, and the plant continues to our operations. Our plants and offices are undertaking a operate without issue. variety of initiatives to preserve biodiversity in each This facility changeover means that we no longer The new treatment facility Our effluent control personnel location. In Nobeoka, as part of a reforestation program organized Environmental and safety data by Miyazaki Prefecture, we are engaged in the regeneration of a broad-leaf forest called the Asahi Forest in an area where cedar and cypress had been cultivated previously. We are also working with other companies performing tree1 PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyls) are persistent and pose a risk to the living environment and human health. Their manufacture and use is essentially prohibited in Japan. planting programs in the Gokase River watershed area for PRTR: Pollutant release and transfer register. Under the PRTR Law, releases to the environment and off-site transfers of specific hazardous chemical substances must be monitored and coordinated biodiversity preservation. 2 recorded for each production facility and operating site. Results are reported to the government, which publishes aggregate results. 3 VOC: Volatile organic compound. Although the term generally applies to any organic compound which is in gaseous state at the time of release, regulations for the control of their release In Moriyama, we are working to remove foreign species and protect native species of fish based on a vision of being exclude methane and some fluorocarbons which do not form oxidants. 36 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 37 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Process review experience with controls Operational safety Reviewing processes at our existing plants has long been and instrumentation. Corporate governance performed as part of our program to monitor for items in Operators thereby gain need of replacement and uninspected items, and beginning the technical skills and To achieve safe operations, it is essential to build highly safe plants, perform sound plant maintenance, in fiscal 2009 we began specialized RC audits focused on practical understanding of and operate facilities in a stable and safe manner. The Asahi Kasei Group avoids industrial accidents the risk of fires and explosions as part of our effort to chemical engineering through risk assessments prior to the construction of new plants and periodic inspections of existing necessary for safe and eliminate industrial accidents. In fiscal 2012, we plants performed by auditors specialized in fire and explosion prevention, as well as process reviews performed reliable plant operation, corresponding to the age of facilities. In fiscal 2012, we performed inspections from the perspective of inspections from the with the ability to respond AOA lecture preventing abnormal reactions and ensuring interlock functions, and initiated a program of on-site perspective of appropriately in the event confirmation. There was one industrial accident during fiscal 2012 in which the internal filter of flue-gas preventing abnormal of any abnormality. desulfurization equipment burned out during dismantling. reactions and Compliance ensuring interlock Management of operational safety Pre-investment inspection system functions, and also Internal regulations require a pre-investment inspection to initiated a program of Our ongoing, autonomous program to ensure operational verify plant safety when there are plans to invest in new on-site confirmation. safety includes safety assessment and hazard identification in accordance with a basic safety management policy, and plant, plant expansion, or plant modification of a certain Meeting on preventing abnormal reactions and AOA practical training session scale or larger. Inspection and approval prior to trial ensuring interlock functions specific plans are implemented on both annual and multiyear cycles. operation provides an additional confirmation of plant Training for maintenance Preparation for emergency situations safety before commercial operation begins. Safety assessment is performed as part of the preMaintenance is on par with production as one of the two A comprehensive set of internal regulations guides the Operational safety management system at Asahi Kasei investment inspection. Ranks are assigned based on the most important aspects of any plant. The training program proper response to any industrial accidents or natural Chemicals degree of hazard, with methods such as HAZOP1 utilized in we launched throughout the Asahi Kasei Group in fiscal disasters which may occur. Responsible Care the risk assessment of high hazard facilities, and other risk 2009 to nurture the skills of maintenance personnel consists The smooth operation Head office assessment methods utilized for low-risk plants which are of on-the-job training, off-the-job training, and of the emergency deemed to be vital. presentations. Every year the classroom component of this response system ensures Auditing program has included some 18 lectures led by in-house that personal safety is experts on such topics as planned maintenance and the secured, that effects of the Head System for inspection prior to capital investment basic elements of machinery. situation are prevented Check Act office Core operating company plans new construction or Each year between from spreading to Internal auditing Rectification plant expansion 200 and 300 surrounding areas, and Basic safety Review by of operational safety head of production site employees take part in that damage is held to a management Core operating company prepares environment/ the program, with a minimum, through close Corporate citizenship cumulative total of communication between management policy safety management plan some 2,400 (including examination and approval by General Managers for RC at core operating company and operating site) the plants, regional Environment/ Site-specific employees having management, and the safety conferences, safety management participated through head office. etc. policy Final examination and approval by Executive for RC fiscal 2012. The knowledge gained Specific requirements from classroom Training session for maintenance in Moriyama Application Groundbreaking Emergency response training drill in Atago Do Plan lectures is reflected in onsite maintenance Hazard identification Implementation Mid-term RC plan Inspection and approval prior to trial operation activities and used to Physical distribution safety and reporting Annual RC plan improve and modify Respect for employee individuality Operation equipment as well as Asashi Kasei Chemicals works closely with logistics ensure stable and safe providers contracted for storage, loading, unloading, and operations. transportation to implement safety activities, which include physical distribution safety symposiums, safety liaison conferences, safety evaluations of logistics providers, Safe, stable plant operation In addition, safety information and know-how are shared on-board ship safety assessments, and many other safety Given our diverse range of operations that include across the Asahi Kasei Group through group-wide plant Training session for maintenance in Fuji measures. Furthermore, individual production sites hold chemicals, fibers, homes & construction materials, engineering conferences with four specialist panels: joint training drills together with logistics providers, police healthcare, and electronics, the Asahi Kasei Group has Formulation of optimum systematic maintenance Training for operational safety departments, and fire plants with a wide variety of different characteristics. No programs, establishment of standards and criteria, At our petrochemical sites in Mizushima and Kawasaki, the departments to prepare for single approach to safety would be appropriate for all formulation of training systems for maintenance engineers, Asahi Operation Academy (AOA) serves as the training accidents that may occur Environmental and safety data plants. and sharing engineering information. center to cultivate the skills necessary to operate and to ensure that damage We employ a systematic process to tailor the safety effort petrochemical plants. AOA teaches the principles and from such accidents is to each plant’s specific requirements. This includes the use structures of equipment, heightening the ability to identify minimized. of PDCA cycles to ensure the appropriateness of the the cause of equipment failure and to respond it. Miniature maintenance standards for each individual unit of plants and simulators are used at AOA to provide hands-on equipment. Training drill for physical distribution safety with a vinyl chloride tank truck 1 Abbreviation of hazard and operability study, a method of identifying and dealing with potential problems in industrial processes by assuming deviations from design intentions. This highly exhaustive method is widely utilized throughout the process industries. 38 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 39 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Occurrence of workplace injuries We also formulated a set of guidelines on machinery safety Workplace safety and hygiene in accordance with ISO121001 and are providing training to Corporate governance Of the 8 workplace injuries that occurred during fiscal 2012, 12.5% fell into the “caught in/between” category, ensure effective utilization. The effort to prevent workplace accidents is integrated in a comprehensive OHSMS1 program that which can easily result in severe injury. The proportion is Accidents involving falls on the same level and combines conventional safety initiatives̶such as tidiness/orderliness/cleanliness, reporting of nearslightly lower than the 21%, average of fiscal 2002 to 2011. kickbacks/overexertion accounted for 75% of all workplace accidents and potential hazards, hazard prediction analysis, safety patrols, and case studies̶with risk We continue to strive to reduce accidents in the “caught in/ injuries in fiscal 2012. To prevent these common accidents assessments and a prevention-oriented plan-do-check-act (PDCA) system. between” category by eliminating sources of danger and that could occur even in non-factory workplaces such as enhancing safeguards. In fiscal 2012, we began program of sales offices or headquarters, we are promoting safety comprehensive plant inspections that incorporates fresh activities in all workplaces and renewing our emphasis on a Integration of workplace safety initiatives perspectives from outside experts and from our personnel culture of safety. of different sites and different core operating companies. Conventional safety initiatives Risk assessment PDCA management system Compliance Incidence of workplace injury by event category, Incidence of workplace injury by event category, Occupational Health and Safety Management System FY 2012 FY 2002−2011 Contact with hazardous Contact with high substance 1% Others 6% temperature substance/ Caught in/ Caught in/ between machinery Cut/scrape 1% Approach to workplace safety Mitigation of the highest risks object between machinery Collision 2% 21% 12.5% 12.5% Identification of potential hazards Measures to achieve inherent safety by eliminating unsafe Effective prevention of workplace accidents requires the conditions (by eliminating dangerous procedures, Hit by flying/ Caught in falling object something else identification of all potential hazards in a workplace. In automation, eliminating sources of problems, changeover Total 2% Total 4% addition to conventional safety initiatives, it is important to to safe materials, etc.) and the application of safeguards are 8 cases Contact with high temperature 110 cases Traffic accident Fall on extremely effective in the effort to avoid risks. We focus on Kickback/ consider safety from the perspective of the problems which 16% Responsible Care overexertion same level substance/object achieving inherent safety and applying safeguards 3% conceivably arise in a wide variety of situations—as a result 37.5% 37.5% Fall on same level of both potentially unsafe physical conditions (hazardous (isolation and stoppage) to avoid risks associated with the Explosion or rupture 4% 16% working environment due to equipment, materials, noise, use of machinery and equipment to prevent the “caught in/ Kickback/overexertion10% etc.) and potentially unsafe actions of personnel. between” category of accident, which can easily result in Fall from height 14% severe injury. Risk assessment Frequency rate2 Severity rate3 Inherent safety, safeguards Priority for mitigating the potential workplace hazards thus Measures to achieve inherent safety and the application of （%） （%） identified is assigned based on a scoring system that 1.2 0.20 safeguards to avoid risks are generally considered to provide 1.05 combines the severity of the impact of problems which 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.0 0.165 the greatest level of safety, as shown in the following table. 1.0 0.16 0.154 could occur and the frequency with which such problems 0.13 We incorporate such measures in the construction of new or Corporate citizenship 0.8 0.88 0.12 would be likely to occur. 0.84 0.85 0.12 replacement facilities, upon safety reviews of existing 0.72 0.72 0.10 0.6 0.09 0.08 facilities, and to prevent the recurrence of accidents. 0.10 0.08 0.07 0.4 0.07 0.08 0.04 0.04 0.36 0.04 Schematic image for prevention of workplace accidents 0.2 Formulation of safety measures 0.21 0.21 0.008 0.005 0.16 0.16 0.0 0.00 Safety measures Degree of safety 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Unsafe conditions Unsafe actions achieved Fiscal year Fiscal year 1 Inherent safety 100% Asahi Kasei Group Chemical industry, Japan Asahi Kasei Group Chemical industry, Japan Manufacturing industries, Japan Manufacturing industries, Japan 2 Safeguards 80% Considering potential Note: Fiscal years for the Asahi Kasei Group, calendar years for the Notes: Conventional safety Indications, chemical industry and manufacturing industries in Japan. 1. Fiscal years for the Asahi Kasei Group, calendar years for the chemical problems which could 3 20% initiatives Control warnings, etc. industry and manufacturing industries in Japan. Respect for employee individuality cause accidents 2. The severity rate increased in fiscal 2011 because of one fatal accident method Manuals, approved and in fiscal 2012 because of one accident that caused lasting injury 4 systems, etc. 20% (Level 2 Disability). Source: Japan Industrial Safety and Health Association, Shokuba no Risk Assessment Identification of potential hazards (problems which could occur) no Jissai (Realities of Workplace Risk Assessment), 1999, p.26 Systems for safe operation Occupational Health and Safety where potential health hazards are present are subject to Risk assessment (score based on severity and frequency) Operations for which the elimination of risks through Management System (OHSMS) regular monitoring under the Working Environment equipment modification is impractical are classified as Measurement Law. In fiscal 2002, we began applying OHSMS in accordance Where radioisotopes are present, radiation dose rates are Mitigation of the highest risks operations requiring special control. In such cases, risks with OHSAS 180014 standards. In fiscal 2009, OHSMS are reduced through compliance with safe operating maintained below regulatory limits, with measurement was implemented at 90% of all plants and laboratories. results reported each year to Japan’s Office for Radiation standards2. In addition to double-checking that proper Inherent safety/ Control method Regulations. Noise and heat exposure data are recorded Environmental and safety data safeguards Risk reduced by systems procedures are followed, a range of creative measures are Maintaining workplace hygiene Risk avoided for safe operation employed to ensure that safe operating standards are and maintained for all relevant personnel to enable each observed from day to day. Each autumn we hold a group-wide Workplace Hygiene individual’s exposure to be managed and minimized. We Week, during which workplace environments are reviewed are advancing plant modification and reviewing work and plans for improvement are prepared. Workplaces procedures to reduce exposure to noise and heat. 1 Occupational Health and Safety Management System. A standardized management system used to confirm that continuous improvement is being applied to measures to minimize the risks of workplace injuries and to prevent the emergence of future risks. 2 Rather than individual rules for specific procedures, safe operating standards are a system of safety principles which define common safety practices that apply to categories of operation 1 ISO12100 specifies principles for achieving safety in machinery design and principles of risk assessment and risk reduction. based on similarity of risk. For example, to prevent entanglement in machinery, our standard stipulates not to touch any exposed moving parts. 2 Frequency rate: Number of accidental deaths and injuries resulting in the loss of one or more workdays, per million man-hours worked. Our goal of 0.1 or less is extremely ambitious. At a plant with 100 workers, it would mean only one worker in 50 years suffered from a workplace injury which resulted in a day off. 3 Lost workdays, severity-weighted, per thousand man-hours worked. 4 Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series, number 18001. A standard for certification of OHSMS. 40 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 41 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Health maintenance Product safety Corporate governance The Asahi Kasei Group implements various activities to help employees maintain and advance their To ensure the provision of products that the customer can use safely and reliably, the Asahi Kasei Group mental and physical well-being in accordance with its health management guidelines, including constantly strives to improve product safety and product quality, while maintaining consistent screening for lifestyle-related diseases and mental health checkups. production control. In fiscal 2012, we once again met our target of no serious product safety incidents. Enhanced health management framework Mental health and care Prevention of product safety incidents Product safety guidelines In fiscal 2011 we appointed a chief occupational medical The Asahi Kasei Group is working to improve the Consumer satisfaction and safety Group-wide product safety guidelines have been prepared officer and in fiscal 2012 we reorganized our Health workplace environment by enhancing its four Products sold by the Asahi Kasei Group range from to secure product safety and prevent the occurrence of Compliance Maintenance Department to fall under the control of the complimentary approaches to care in accordance with its industrial materials to consumer products. Many of the product safety incidents. The guidelines specify matters to departments charged with RC activities for smoother mental health care guidelines. For self-care by individual materials we sell are used in products which are purchased be controlled throughout the process from material communication. Our chief occupational medical officer employees and care by industrial medical staff, in fiscal by ordinary consumers. Consumer satisfaction is therefore purchase through use and disposal. The guidelines are visited independent plants and smaller offices, evaluated 2012 we moved from a conventional paper-based stress the ultimate measure of our success in the provision of safe, centered on risk assessment during the development stage the health care circumstances at our overseas sites, and survey to an intranet-based electronic diagnosis system high-quality products. to ensure product safety prior to marketing. Specific interviewed employees stationed overseas and their developed by Fujitsu Software Technologies Ltd. We strive to maintain product quality and safety through product safety measures for individual products are applied families in order to determine how health management can Administering this stress survey at the time of annual continual attention to production control to ensure that the by each core operating company in accordance with the be further improved. employee health checkups enables early detection and products used by consumers are completely free of safety guidelines. Products are classified as either “chemicals” or treatment of problems. In addition to surveying the stress defects. “equipment,” with separate procedures to ensure product Reducing health warning signs level of individual employees, this system analyzes safety as shown below. workplace stress to help improve the workplace Responsible Care The Asahi Kasei Group has provided personnel with health environment as part of our effort for care by line of Flow of product safety measures guidance and exercise guidance by outside experts and authority. health maintenance staff in each location. Nevertheless, the A provision for shortened working days is available for Product development phase Product supply phase proportion of employees for whom health warning signs are personnel returning from leave of absence for psychiatric Proposal Pre market-evaluation study Pre-marketing study Post-marketing study found at annual checkups has slightly increased. From convalescence as well as for any other injury or illness, fiscal 2008 to 2012 our employee health insurance Preparation of Pre market-evaluation safety review Evaluation of Evaluation of safety and risks enabling a gradual recovery of a full work load. Nearly all measures to secure safety and risks association provided the first phase of specified health those who used this provision have successfully returned to product safety, Elimination and Pre-marketing safety review setting schedule guidance in accordance with the Act of Assurance of Elimination and reduction of risks full-time work. At each plant site and office location, we reduction of risks Medical Care for Elderly People. Some 5,000 employees actively provide care by specialists, including training Understanding methods of use and disposal Understanding methods of use and disposal received this guidance, and signs of improvement were sessions by external lecturers and introduction of confirmed. Corporate citizenship counseling services. Identification of risks for users and risk reduction Identification of risks for users and risk reduction measures measures Preparation of documentation Four approaches to emotional care Preparation of documentation Revision of documentation Ratio of employees with health warning signs Self-care by Prevention and alleviation of one s own Confirmation and revision of 60 individual Identification of conditions Application of conditions for stress conditions for production and employee for production and distribution distribution production and distribution 50 51 50 46 Consultation of the employee with the Care by line of 42.2 42.3 supervisor, improvement of the authority 40 41.8 workplace environment 32 Product safety procedure for chemicals Product safety procedure for equipment Respect for employee individuality 29 Consultation with the individual or 30 27 Care by industrial supervisor, support for improvement of Product planning Designation of applications medical staff the workplace environment and destinations 24 24 24 20 10 11 12 Care by specialist institutions and Designation of applications Care by specialists Researching regulations Fiscal year specialist physicians and destinations and standards Average age Ratio of employees with health warning signs (%) Researching hazards Researching regulations and standards Product design BMI (assembly of prototype) Ratio of employees who smoke (%) No Develop the product? Determination of the limits Yes Acquisition of Understanding Hazard identification Environmental and safety data required data exposure conditions Risk estimation Risk Risk evaluation assessment No Is risk manageable? Risk evaluation Yes Yes Conditions for Conformance with Is safety secured? Completion production and regulations and standards No distribution Elimination and Identification of matters to be Conditions for production Preparation of reduction of risks communicated and distribution documentation to users 42 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 43 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Managing chemical substances Research and development Education and training Corporate governance The management of chemical substances begins with R&D, The Asahi Kasei Group conducts extensive education and To ensure the safety of products and production processes in the Asahi Kasei Group, we maintain which is guided throughout every stage by a commitment to training on the management and control of chemical developing products and process characterized by safe, substances for all personnel in research, manufacturing, and awareness of the properties of the chemical substances we use, and manage them strictly and environmentally sound production, handling, and use. sales. This includes intensive study on the Chemical appropriately throughout each phase from materials procurement to production, use, and disposal. At Asahi Kasei E-materials, the Product Safety Substance Control Law and the Industrial Safety and Committee meets four times each year, in recognition of the Health Law, and is an inherent part of our pervasive importance of product safety in the R&D phase. The corporate-wide chemical substances management. committee shares the progress of product safety activities In fiscal 2012, we advanced preparations to ensure Chemical substance management flow among different product categories, to present study results compliance with the revised Chemical Substance Control concerning product safety systems in different departments, Law, including distributing the latest information on the Society Compliance and to provide information on controlling chemical revisions throughout the group and encouraging substances to R&D personnel. participation in related seminars and briefings. Basic and Asahi Kasei Group intermediate education on product liability was continued at Asahi Kasei Chemicals with a particular emphasis on Environmental Operational Physical practical training to heighten the level of knowledge on the protection: safety: distribution safety: Green Reduction of Prevention of Provision of subject. Procurement environmental fires and Transport burden explosions Emergency Cards Supplier Customer Responsible Care Supply Material Procurement Production Sale Product Use Disposal A Product Safety Committee meeting at Asahi Kasei Product liability education at E-materials Asahi Kasei Chemicals Receipt of Product safety: SDSs for R&D Distribution of materials SDSs for products Global trends on management of chemical substances The Asahi Kasei Group is enhancing the management of chemical substances in accordance with Workplace safety relevant global trends. Many international organizations and private-sector associations are promoting Corporate citizenship and hygiene: chemical management based on risk assessment and advancing product stewardship in supply chains. Prevention of workplace injuries Developments in management of chemical substances The Asahi Kasei Group s effort Production Organization Related items Development Strict management and control of chemical substances is a The safety of the local community and the protection of the Resolution to minimize adverse effects on human health and the key element in the effort to ensure environmental environment are secured by proper handling of chemical ● Respect for employee individuality Resolutions at environment due to production, handling, and use of chemical protection, operational safety, workplace safety and substances to suppress environmental release (see p. 32-37) international substance; implementation of Action Plans to achieve certain hygiene, health maintenance, and product safety. Chemical and to prevent fires, explosions, and leaks (see p. 38-39). UN conferences targets by 2020 substances are managed at each stage from development to The health of employees is protected by preventing concerning global ● Implementation of Globally Harmonized System (GHS) for the use and disposal, as shown above. workplace exposure to hazardous substances. environment classification and labeling of chemicals Materials purchase Use and disposal ● Collection of safety data under the High Production Volume Safety checks on When purchasing materials, information related to the Guidance for proper use and disposal of chemical OECD existing chemicals (HPV) Chemicals initiative by each member country and its safety of chemical substances is received from the supplier. substances and chemical products is provided in Safety chemical industry This information serves as a guide to safe storage and Data Sheets (SDSs), technical bulletins, and product Environmental and safety data handling. brochures. Transport Emergency Cards are issued to guide ● REACH Regulation for the registration, evaluation, authorization, the proper environmental and safety response in the event Implement new and restriction of chemicals of an accident during physical distribution. EU regulation on ● RoHS Directive for the restriction of the use of certain hazardous chemicals substances in electrical and electronic equipment 44 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 45 Responsible Care Responsible Care Responsible Care Committing to the RC Global Charter Asahi Kasei Chemicals as our main entity for promoting Joint Article Management Program (JAMP) Outline of efforts for product safety and Corporate governance On May 30, 2008, the President of Asahi Kasei Corp. the disclosure and sharing of information, we participated As an active member of JAMP, we participate in the chemical substance management signed a letter of commitment to the Responsible Care in seminars for preparing and registering Global Product development of systems to manage chemical substance The Asahi Kasei Group routinely performs employee Global Charter (RCGC) on behalf of the Asahi Kasei Strategy (GPS) safety summaries held between April and information as well as revision of the list of applicable education on product liability, chemical product safety, and Group, indicating our recognition of the importance of RC June 2012. We also advanced plans to create safety substances. As an upstream company, we also convey equipment safety, along with risk assessment. We examine and especially chemical substance control. The RCGC was information on substances that had already received a risk relevant information throughout the supply chain to help the substance of complaints about our products and apply launched by the International Council of Chemical assessment, with Asahi Kasei Chemicals publishing a establish JAMP as a widely used tool. lessons learned to our quality assurance systems (QMS and Associations (ICCA) with a UN resolution. safety summary on one chemical substance and safety In fiscal 2012, we provided the JAMP Tools via the GMP) as part of the continuing effort to ensure product information on five substances. JAMP-IT platform to convey relevant information on safety and avoid complaints. Going forward, we will apply our guidance-based risk hazardous chemicals and share information externally. With regard to the safety of chemical products, the HPV and LRI assessment work within the Asahi Kasei Group to promote Asahi Kasei Electronics was able to obtain and provide the Global Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling further disclosures of risk assessments and safety Compliance The Asahi Kasei Group has been a leading participant in the JAMP Tools via the JAMP-IT platform, and is now actively of Chemicals (GHS) has been introduced in Japan in Japan Challenge Program, which was launched in 2005 as a summaries, with the goal of full-scale implementation. disseminating information internally and externally to accordance with a United Nations advisory. We have nation-wide public/private sector alliance to accelerate the Through our involvement in JIPS activities, we will share support commercial AS vendors1. As a major upstream revised our SDSs for compatibility with GHS and have collection of safety information on high production volume information both internally and externally on the Asahi company, we will continue to work with the JAMP Office labeled our chemical products to make safety information (HPV) chemicals for public disclosure. The final activity Kasei Group’s chemical control activities, contributing to toward the greater adoption of the JAMP-IT platform as a more visible. In addition to their useful properties, many of report was submitted in fiscal 2012, and these activities environmental protection. means of information sharing. our products are potentially hazardous if handled were completed. The JAMP-IT platform framework is shown in the figure improperly. Further, we take part in ICCA-LRI1 of The Japan Globally Harmonized System (GHS) 3 below. We therefore provide a range of information for safe use Chemical Industry Association (JCIA) to develop safety We are advancing a program to classify the hazards of all of and handling of our products, continuously review the evaluation technologies. The Asahi Kasei Group our chemical products in accordance with GHS categories, safety of our products, and strive to ensure that the safety participates in the Executive Committee and the Research and revise our SDSs and label our products with safety information that we provide is easy to understand and Responsible Care Advancement Panel for specialized areas. information accordingly. apply. REACH4 compliance Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship In fiscal 2012, we prepared for the second round of The Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship (JIPS)2 is a REACH registrations. Relevant core operating companies voluntary program by the JCIA to promote voluntary risk conduct internal education and training on REACH JAMP-IT Platform Framework assessment and management of chemical substances, and to requirements and periodically hold meetings among related encourage enhanced product stewardship. Under JIPS, a organizations. At the same time, we continue to move Information provision Japanese version of the ICCA Product Stewardship forward with preparations for CLP regulations5. Since function Guideline has been prepared, including a Japanese version transmission of information and notifications of substances with very high concern (SVHC)6 is now obligatory, we Corporate citizenship of risk assessment guidance and product stewardship Information guidance for communication of risk information continue to gather and provide information on chemical Company collection function Commercial Commercial Customer throughout supply chains. Efforts are now focused on substances. Preparations are continuing for the second and AS1 AS2 promoting these as an industry standard for product third rounds of REACH registrations, while compliance stewardship activities. with all relevant requirements is maintained. In fiscal 2012, Asahi Kasei continued its active involvement in the JIPS Implementation Panel, supporting efforts to communicate information and taking part in JAMP-GP activities in accordance with the panel’s schedule. With Commercial AS3 Group Company Customer Respect for employee individuality AS Vendor JAMP-IT JAMP-IT consists of AS and GP • AS stands for Application Service. Functions as the direct window for JAMP-IT users, registering AIS and MSDSplus information, storing data, and enabling referencing of stored data. • GP stands for Global Portal. Acts as an exchange where registered data on company products in each AS is exchanged between different ASs. Environmental and safety data 1 Commercial AS vendor: A company providing application services (AS) with database functions. 1 ICCA-LRI: The ICCA Long-range Research Initiative seeks to deal with unresolved issues regarding the impact of chemical substances on human health and the environment, and to develop new safety assessment technologies. The JCIA has ongoing research projects in five areas: effect on organisms in the environment, neurotoxicity, carcinogenicity, immunotoxicity, and improvement of the precision of risk evaluation. 2 JIPS (Japan Initiative of Product Stewardship) is a chemical industry initiative promoted by the Japan Chemical Industry Association to minimize chemical risks with the aim of achieving the 2020 targets set by the World Summit on Sustainable Development. 3 Globally Harmonized System of Classification and Labeling of Chemicals (GHS): An international system of standardized hazard categories for chemical products, together with harmonized labeling 4 REACH compliance: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals (REACH) is a European Union (EU) regulation on chemical substances. It applies to all chemicals imported or produced in the EU, including solvents, detergents, fibers, and components, and requires companies to conduct safety assessments of such chemicals. 5 CLP regulations: CLP is a regulation of the European Parliament and European Council on classification, labeling, and packaging of substances and mixtures in accordance with GHS. 6 SVCH: Substances of Very High Concern. Substances added to a list of candidates for authorized regulation. 46 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 47 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Customer relations Corporate governance Corporate citizenship We highly appreciate frank and honest feedback from the customer, considering it vital to our effort to enhance the quality and value of our products and services. We believe that it is by maintaining customer satisfaction that our products and services contribute to society. We are committed to advancing in harmony with society from a global perspective through fair information disclosure and the proactive employment of Communication with customers management resources for corporate responsibility and citizenship. Asahi Kasei Group Customers Sales and R&D departments Response Compliance Fibers & textiles, chemicals & polymers, Materials, Processors, Stakeholder dialog construction materials, electronic materials & devices, Inquiries, intermediates, devices manufacturers, trading companies suggestions, medical devices requests Different corporate organs hold responsibility for fair and open dialog with each of our different groups of stakeholders. Asahi Kasei Group Customers Customer support center of Response each product Saran Wrap™ cling film, Ziploc™ bags & containers, Final products Consumers Inquiries, pharmaceuticals, suggestions, Shareholders, Local Responsible Care Stakeholders Customers Suppliers Hebel Haus™ homes requests investors communities Corporate Communications at CSR Office at Asahi Kasei Corp. Marketing and sales departments, Investor Relations at Asahi Kasei Corp. Purchasing and logistics sections, General affairs and administration Investor relations Asahi Kasei Corp., consumer contact environment and sections at communications offices safety sections at production sites sections at core production sites We strive to disclose information in a timely and fair manner to enable our investors to gain an accurate operating understanding of the Asahi Kasei Group. companies Corporate citizenship •Issuing news •Issuing CSR •Face-to-face •Meeting with •Safety •Periodic releases reports discussion by securities discussion community Shareholder distribution IR Meetings with institutional investors and marketing and analysts and forums dialog meetings Asahi Kasei Corp. has some 110 thousand shareholders. securities analysts •Holding news •Website sales personnel institutional conferences disclosure of investors •Information •Community At the end of March 2013, approximately 44% of our Investor Relations (IR) carries out a wide variety of information •Taking inquiries exchange forums outreach shares were held by Japanese financial institutions, 23% by communications activities so that domestic and •Website disclosure of •Responding to via telephone, website, etc. •Website disclosure of initiatives Japanese individuals and groups, and 27% by foreign international investors, securities analysts, and individual information CSR-related information investors. investors can better understand the Asahi Kasei Group. questionnaires In fiscal 2012, IR held 291 meetings with institutional •Taking inquiries •Promoting for via telephone, investors and securities analysts in Japan, including social website, etc. Distribution by type of shareholder (as of March 31, 2013) quarterly results briefings and an annual management Respect for employee individuality contribution activities briefing with the President. A further 52 meetings were Other companies held overseas. P49 P49 P50 P51 4.19% In total, 343 meetings were held to directly provide Japanese financial information to institutional investors and securities analysts Asahi Kasei Group Foreign investors institutions during the year, with a cumulative attendance of 1,331. Distribution by 27.43% type of 43.89% We also provide a wide variety of information for shareholder investors on our website. Japanese individuals and groups Seminars for individual investors Information Disclosure Policy WEB Information Disclosure Policy 22.52% To provide individual investors with a better understanding Environmental and safety data Effective and strategic information disclosure which www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/ir/disclosure.html Japanese securities Treasury stock companies of the operations of the Asahi Kasei Group, 19 seminars contributes to greater corporate value is performed in 0.36% 1.61% were held in fiscal 2012, with total attendance of 2,853 accordance with our Information Disclosure Policy. individual investors1, an increase in attendance of over 30% from fiscal 2011. We will continue to provide accurate and timely information to individual investors through direct communications, the corporate website, and articles published in magazines for individual investors. 1 Excluding participants of 121st Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. 48 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 49 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Principled supplier relationships Public outreach Corporate governance A relationship of mutual trust with our suppliers is fostered through fair and principled purchasing practices We work to honor and respect the local culture of each community where our operations are based, and to based on regulatory compliance and respect for the environment and human rights. maintain effective dialog and communication with community members. The Asahi Kasei Group Purchasing and Focus on CSR in purchasing and Dialog and interaction Plant tours Procurement Policy procurement Measures for community dialog and interaction include We offer plant tours to provide better understanding of our Purchasing departments throughout the Asahi Kasei Group In fiscal 2012, Asahi Kasei Group asked major suppliers of regularly held forums and meetings with representatives of operations and the measures we implement for the regard suppliers as important partners and work to build materials and construction services to participate in a CSR local governments and members of local residents environment and safety. (Tours are not available at all Compliance relationships with them based on sincerity in accordance survey. Items covered included CSR promotion systems, associations, as well as the opening of gymnasiums, sports plants.) with our Group Philosophy. To this end, we are placing compliance, environmental safety, risk management, fields, parking lots, and other facilities for public use and greater emphasis on CSR in accordance with our product safety, human rights and labor, and information enjoyment, and the hosting a variety of events. Procurement Policy which was revised in fiscal 2011. security management. The survey helped to promote Community dialog meeting understanding of our efforts for CSR, and we are with local residents association in Suzuka encouraging suppliers to consider CSR issues in their The Asahi Kasei Group Purchasing and Procurement Policy dealings with the Asahi Kasei Group. Basic Policy 1 Compliance Supplier relations at production sites We uphold all laws relevant to purchasing transactions as Safety seminars are periodically held at our principal Responsible Care well as the Asahi Kasei Group s internal regulations. production sites to discuss accident prevention and 2 Fairness and impartiality exchange information with suppliers. Kurashiki City, Okayama Prefecture Selection of bids and conclusion of contracts are performed in a fair and impartial manner. 3 Open door principle We provide fair opportunities to any potential supplier, both domestic and overseas. 4 CSR-focused procurement We perform purchasing in close coordination with our group-wide activities for CSR. Local residents at the Summer Festival event in Izunokuni The Nobeoka Exhibition Hall Corporate citizenship 5 Partnership We strive to deepen mutual understanding and build relationships of trust with our suppliers. Neighborhood clean-up and planting Local emergency response initiatives greenery In Nobeoka, Miyazaki, we have a disaster volunteer Employees at our main production sites periodically clear organization consisting of our personnel and retirees to the plant vicinities and nearby areas of litter, rubbish, and perform disaster drills and emergency response support for Green procurement in the electronics industry̶adding a CSR perspective weeds as part of our interaction with the surrounding the local community. communities. We also actively participate in a variety of Asahi Kasei Chemicals has installed independent Procurement for electronic devices involves dealing with a wide range of parties, including projects for planting of trees and greenery. drinking water supply systems at four Asahi Kasei Group plant sites: Moriyama, Suzuka, Nobeoka, and Kawasaki. Respect for employee individuality suppliers of raw materials, packing materials, and secondary materials, as well as trading companies and product manufacturers. The systems utilize our microfiltration membranes to purify Asahi Kasei Microdevices has long given preference to raw materials and secondary deep well water. While serving to supply drinking water to materials with low environmental impact from the perspective of “Green Procurement.” personnel working at these sites on a daily basis, these Starting in 2005, we have also performed an annual survey to confirm the state of systems also provide a vital independent backup as a secure environmental preservation and CSR performance at our suppliers, as well as confirming what source of safe drinking water for local communities in the chemical substances are contained in products. The survey is based on the Electronic Industry event of a disaster. Citizenship Coalition (EICC) standards for compliance in the global electronics industry as Toshikazu Goshima Training to use an automated external well as the Asahi Kasei Group’s CSR initiative. Department of Risk Management Neighborhood clean-up defibrillator (AED) in Kawasaki To make it simpler for suppliers to provide responses, in fiscal 2012 we reorganized the and Coordination Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Environmental and safety data survey into two sections of Environmental Preservation and Corporate Social Responsibility, used simple, clear expressions, and provided multiple choice answers. For the section on chemical substances contained, we applied the JAMP1 format so that respondents could easily confirm the most recent applicable regulations. With such improvements, the survey return rate increased to over 90%. Asahi Kasei Microdevices plans to use the survey results to further heighten the effectiveness of its CSR procurement. We will work to deepen understanding of CSR procurement among our personnel through seminars and other efforts. Cleaning the Lake Biwa shore Independent drinking water supply system in Moriyama 1 See p. 47. 50 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 51 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Holding exhibits and sponsoring science-related events Community fellowship Corporate governance The Asahi Kasei Group provides sponsorship for scienceAgency’s high-school chemistry tournament, which began related events that give children and their parents an in fiscal 2011. In this tournament, representative high The Asahi Kasei Group is involved in a wide range of community-focused activities in accordance with its opportunity to learn about science and chemistry in a fun school students from each of Japan’s prefectures compete in Basic Framework focused on the three themes of Nurturing the Next Generation, Coexistence with the way. In fiscal 2012, we exhibited at a children’s chemistry chemistry knowledge and skills. We recognized excellent Environment, and Promotion of Culture, Art, and Sports, under our Community Fellowship Policy. experiment show and the 2012 Science Festival for Youth. students with an Asahi Kasei Award. We again sponsored the Japan Science and Technology Community Fellowship Policy Effective utilization of our human resources and Basic Framework Compliance technologies to advance community fellowship 1 based on the unique characteristics of the Asahi Kasei Group. Nurturing the Next Generation Exhibit at the children s chemistry Exhibit at the 2012 Science The award ceremony at the high-school experiment show in Tokyo Festival for Youth in Okayama chemistry tournament in Hyogo Striving for meaningful community fellowship 2 actions with a constant awareness of our Coexistence with the Environment Sponsoring a university course Miraikan corporate partnership objectives and effectiveness. The Asahi Kasei Group sponsors a course at Fuji Tokoha Since fiscal 2008, the Asahi Kasei Group has been a Supporting and nurturing participation in Promotion of Culture, Art, and Sports University in Fuji, Shizuoka. In fisal 2012, our scientific corporate partner of the National Museum of Emerging community fellowship by employees, personnel gave lectures in the course entitled “Modern Science and Innovation (Miraikan) led by scientist and 3 Society and Scientific Technologies,” for which we former astronaut Dr. Mamoru Mohri. As a corporate Responsible Care encouraging volunteerism and individual initiative. dispatched seven personnel for nine lectures. partner, we work together with Miraikan to help cultivate interest in science and technology among children and other visitors. In 2012, Asahi Kasei Group Fellow Masaya Yamashita took part in the Miraikan’s “Scientist Talk” event, speaking on his Nurturing the next generation development of electronic compass technology which was awarded the 2012 School visits and science lab for students Lecture at Fuji Tokoha University Imperial Invention Prize. Corporate citizenship To promote understanding and heighten interest in science science and technology and on environmental issues. We Dr. Yamashita at the Scientist Talk event and technology among elementary, junior high, and high also support career development with occupational lectures school students, we visit schools and host visits by students and problem-solving training. Sponsoring educational programs on science and the environment by newspaper companies to factories to give explanations and demonstrations of The Asahi Kasei Group sponsors educational events organized by newspaper companies that provide children an opportunity to learn about science and the environment. Supporting the Japan Student Science Planet Earth Classroom Awards We again provided sponsorship in fiscal 2012 for “Planet Earth The Asahi Kasei Group was Classroom,” a series of environmentally themed events for again the sole sponsor of The elementary school students planned and managed by the Asahi Respect for employee individuality Yomiuri Shimbun newspaper’s Shimbun newspaper. We supported the events by editing an Japan Student Science Awards environmental study textbook for distribution to elementary for fiscal 2012, including the schools nationwide, Asahi Kasei Award, which are giving lectures at Nobeoka, Miyazaki Moriyama, Shiga Fuji, Shizuoka given in recognition of elementary schools, outstanding study of science at and dispatching junior high schools and high personnel as schools. instructors for environmental study Environmental study textbook events for families. An environmental study event for Asahi Kasei President Taketsugu Fujiwara presenting the Asahi Kasei Award at the Japan Student Science Awards in Tokyo elementary school students in Tokyo Environmental and safety data Kurashiki, Okayama Sagamihara, Kanagawa Saitama, Saitama Training programs for school teachers Asahi Kasei Group participates in a program by the Japan Institute for Social and Economic Affairs to provide school teachers with training at private-sector firms. In fiscal 2012, five teachers from an association of private schools in Tokyo visited our Tokyo corporate headquarters, the housing exhibition site of Asahi Kasei Homes in Minatomirai, Yokohama, and the plant complex of Asahi Kasei Chemicals in Kawasaki. Using a kitchen at the housing exhibition site 52 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 53 Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Coexistence with the Environment Disaster relief Corporate governance Exhibiting at Eco-Products 2012 Workshop at Eco Kids Exploring Party 2012 Support for areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake In December 2012, the Asahi Kasei Group exhibited Asahi Kasei sponsored of “Eco Kids Exploring Party 2012” Science classes in Iwaki High-school lecture original products at “Eco-Products 2012” organized by the held in August 2012 in Tokyo. Personnel of Asahi Kasei From December 2012 to January 2013, former Asahi Kasei Participating in a program of lectures by members of Environmental Management Association for Industry and Homes led a workshop focused on making eco-friendly employees conducted science classes at five junior high society, a researcher from Asahi Kasei Microdevices gave a Nikkei Inc. Our exhibit focused on our environmentally houses of the future. The workshop was based on the schools and two elementary schools in Iwaki, Fukushima, talk about semiconductor development including friendly products and technologies and on our environmental education program “Fun with Heat” an area affected by the disaster in 2011. The classes demonstrations at Iwate environmental activities, emphasizing the Asahi Kasei developed by the company’s Lifestyle R&D Laboratory. focused on themes such as fibers, separation technologies Prefectural Miyako High Group’s commitment to coexistence with the environment. After learning about the properties of heat and ways to and their applications, the composition of seawater, and School on July 11, 2012. conserve energy, participating children built miniature Compliance making tofu to demonstrate substance transformation. houses that would be cool in the summer, warm in the Iwaki is a sister city of Nobeoka, which is a major winter, and environmentally friendly. production base for the Asahi Kasei Group, and the established relationship between the two cities led to the implementation of these classes as part of our post-disaster support activities. Volunteering at Tohoku Support Village Asahi Kasei Group personnel participated as volunteers to help manage the “Tohoku Support Village” event in Tokyo The Asahi Kasei Group exhibit at Ecoon March 29–30, 2013, in support of areas affected by the Products 2012 Great East Japan Earthquake. The event featured a wide Responsible Care variety of booths by companies that received support after The workshop at Eco Kids Exploring Party 2012 the disaster, NPOs, and NGOs from the three affected Exhibiting at Biwako Business Messe 2012 prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi, and Fukushima. The event In October 2012, the Asahi Kasei Group exhibited at included booths with local products and handcrafts for sale, Regional environmental and social activity in and talks and videos on the “Biwako Business Messe 2012,” an environmental business exhibition in Nagahama, Shiga. Our exhibit was Shiga state of recovery from the themed on water environment solutions, showcasing our Asahi Kasei Jyuko Co., Ltd. participates in a regional disaster. products and technologies that protect water quality such as philanthropy network of some 100 companies in Shiga out wastewater treatment system using membrane Prefecture. One program is to recycle PET bottle caps, and filtration, oil leak detectors, oil-water separation filters, and Asahi Kasei Jyuko collects the caps from PET bottles used phosphorus recovery systems. by employees. The collected caps are provided to a special Corporate citizenship workshop that employs people with disabilities to recycle them together with other waste plastic to make planter boxes, and to fill the planter boxes with soil and plant them with flowers. As a partner in this program, Asahi Kasei Community fellowship around the world Jyuko receives the planted flower boxes, and places them at its Shiga Factory. Once a month, the workers with Many offices and production sites of the Asahi Kasei Group in the United States, Europe, China, Korea, Taiwan, and Southeast disabilities come to weed and tend to the flowers, providing Asia, engage in a variety of community fellowship activities as suited to their individual circumstances and locations. These an ongoing opportunity for positive contributions to social include neighborhood clean-up, support for welfare and education, and donation to local organizations and schools. Particular welfare as well as beautification of the local community. focus is placed on activities that support the local environment, and we also value opportunities for international interchange The Asahi Kasei Group exhibit at Biwako between overseas communities and our operations in Japan. Respect for employee individuality Business Messe 2012 Asahi Kasei Water Environment Preservation Forest planting in China Distribution of an ecological lifestyle brochure Foundation Since June 2011, the Asahi Kasei Group and China The Lifestyle R&D Laboratory of Asahi Kasei Homes We established the Asahi Kasei Water Environment Business News, China’s leading business media group, published a brochure on utilizing nature in an energyPreservation Foundation in August 2009 to promote youth have jointly advanced an environmental public service conserving lifestyle. The brochure presents useful education in China with regard to the water environment project to raise awareness in China for the preservation information and tips gleaned from surveys, with friendly and to support research in China related to the water natural forest and water environments. As part of the illustrations and easy-to-understand data. In 2012, this Workers with disabilities tending to flowers in environment. Since 2010 we have presented Water project, we participated in an afforestation program in the publication was widely distributed at housing exhibition Environment Preservation Awards each year to people and Horqin Desert of Inner Mongolia, planting 5,130 trees on the planter boxes sites and community companies that have contributed to preservation of the April 18, 2013. Environmental and safety data fellowship events. water environment in China. In fiscal 2012, the awards were given to 10 groups of individuals, 9 universities, and 42 Chinese companies. The 2012 Water Environment Preservation Award Ceremony Forest planting in China Ecological lifestyle brochure 54 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 55 Corporate citizenship Respect for employee Corporateindividuality citizenship Plant tour for overseas students Corporate governance In September 2012, Asahi Kasei Construction Materials hosted 15 students from the School of Architecture at the University of Montreal, Canada, at its Sakai Plant in Ibaraki Prefecture. The students were given a description of the Respect for employee individuality company’s AAC (autoclaved aerated concrete) panel business and an overview of the plant, and shown the The Asahi Kasei Group considers fulfilling and satisfying working conditions and process for manufacturing AAC panels, a type of workplace culture, in which personnel feel motivated to achieve and take pride in construction material not used in Canada. Students from the University their career, to be a key to business performance. of Montreal at the plant tour Compliance Promotion of Culture, Art, and Sports Message from the Executive for Human Resources Corporate sports activities In fiscal 2012, we implemented a variety of measures as part of our commitment to respect diversity and individuality in accordance with our Human Resources Principles. These included holding “One Asahi Kasei has long supported athletic activity and Track and judo lessons Asahi Kasei Area Meet” training sessions to reinforce our Group Philosophy among overseas maintains top-tier track and judo teams, with nearly 40 Asahi Kasei’s track and judo teams hold lessons for personnel and to develop human resources in overseas operations, launching a trainee program to employees having competed in the Olympics over the children in the city of Nobeoka, where the teams are based. develop global human resources, enhancing our overseas study program, and increasing the hiring of years. Support for sports and athletics also includes In fiscal 2012, track lessons were held nine times with a non-Japanese employees and women. sponsorship of the Golden Games in Nobeoka, a notable total of some 200 elementary school students participating, Holding “performance” as a key aspect of our human resources action plan, we expanded on the long-distance track competition in Japan, and provision of Responsible Care and judo lessons one time with some 70 participants. These measures implemented last fiscal year by increasing the hiring of people with disabilities at Asahi track and judo lessons for local students by members of our lessons help to promote sports in the local community, and Kasei Ability Corp., supporting the careers of older workers up to the age of 65, and supporting the corporate track and judo teams. a number of the participating children have taken part in Yoshihiro Wada Director careers of female employees (an Outside Director was elected as our first female Director). national tournaments. Lead Executive Officer Asahi Kasei Corp. Human Resources Principles The Human Resources Principles of the Asahi Kasei Group are a distillation of the values and beliefs held in Corporate citizenship common by all employees, a key aspect of a corporate culture where personal growth and corporate development are mutually reinforcing. The Golden Games in Nobeoka Judo lesson for students Corporate Commitment Basic Expectations Expectations of Leaders The basic commitment to human resources • Enterprise and growth through • Building the team, heightening is to provide the venue for a dynamic and challenge and change performance and achievement Promotion of sports in the local community Asahi Kasei Himuka Cultural Foundation fulfilling career as a part of a lively and • Integrity and responsibility in action • Going beyond conventional boundaries, growing corporate group. • Respect for diversity in thought and action Asahi Kasei Junior Volleyball Tournament The Asahi Kasei Himuka Cultural Foundation was • Contributing to mutual development and The Mizushima Works of Asahi Kasei Chemicals in established in 1985 to enrich the environment of day-to-day growth Kurashiki held the Asahi Kasei Junior Volleyball life and culture in Miyazaki Prefecture, the cradle of Asahi Established in March 2006 Respect for employee individuality Tournament in October 2012. Some 60 members of boys Kasei. A wide range of cultural activities include musical volleyball teams from 5 junior high schools in Kurashiki and dramatic events, support for local cultural promotion, Human resources development participated in a volleyball lesson and competed in a and fostering familiarity with and understanding of folk tournament. A former member of the corporate volleyball culture. In fiscal 2012, the foundation sponsored the May 3 The human resources development program in the Asahi Kasei Group is structured with heightening basic team led the lesson, including demonstrations of main program and the May 6 special program of the skills through OJT and heightening professional skills as a two-layer foundation, with three pillars of cultivating techniques. Miyazaki International Music Festival, bringing a management leaders, heightening specialist skills, and fostering global human resources. magnificent and elegant world of music to the local community. Two-foundation, three-pillar structure Fostering world-class management leaders who will guide the future 1 growth of the Asahi Kasei Group Fostering personnel who demonstrate outstanding specialist skill in Environmental and safety data 1 2 3 2 particular fields and who are held in the highest regard within those fields, both internally and externally Cultivating Heightening Fostering management specialist global human Fostering personnel with the knowledge and skill to work internationally, leaders skills resources 3 with an understanding of different cultures and appreciation of diversity Raising professional skills and knowledge related both directly and 4 Heightening professional skills 4 indirectly to work in specific fields to the highest levels Fostering the ability of young personnel to push forward, develop Volleyball lesson for students Violinist Akiko Suwanai in the main program 5 Heightening basic skill through OJT 5 solutions, and work cooperatively as fundamental skills (Photo by Yukan Daily) 56 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 57 Respect for employee individuality Respect for employee individuality Career development training and support business development, and therefore we are reinforcing Expansion of opportunities for women Employment of persons with disabilities measures to create better, more vibrant workplaces for them Corporate governance We established EO Promotion in 1993 as a corporate organ Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. was established in 1985 for the A wide range of training programs as well as examining programs that provide a wide range of to ensure equal opportunity (EO), and have proactively employment of disabled persons, performing a wide range Employees are given a wide range of training to develop the career opportunities to enable their personal and increased the proportion of women hired and expanded the of services for the Asahi Kasei Group, including data entry, skills needed to successfully advance their careers. A professional growth. distribution of job assignments for women. In 1993, only digitizing documents, website design, printing of business regular program of training is applied throughout the Asahi five employees at the rank of manager or above were cards, document printing and binding, dispatch of sample Kasei Group at key career steps—upon hiring, promotion to Independent study women. This has risen to 370 in June 2013, and the variety products, cleaning, copying, and planter box gardening. manager, promotion to department general manager, In October 2003, the Asahi Kasei Group instituted a of posts where women are assigned continues to expand. On April 1, 2013, the legal minimum proportion for promotion to division general manager, and assumption of program to support independent study by employees. To employment of persons with disabilities was revised an executive position. Other individual training programs encourage employees to acquire high level specialist or upward from 1.8% to 2.0%. As of June 1, 2013, the Number of women as managers* such as for global management are implemented according technological ability, the company will pay part of the cost proportion for applicable companies of the Asahi Kasei to business need. Each core operating company also of attending courses or lectures. 400 Group stood at 2.12% (497.5 persons), exceeding the legal Compliance 370 implements training programs to support the development 344 requirement. of employee skills required for its specific field of business. Available position postings 300 317 The 15 applicable companies are Asahi Kasei Corp., 281 In October 2003 we began a system for business units to 252 Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Group Masters Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction post available positions on the corporate intranet. The Asahi Kasei Group employs a “Group Masters” 200 Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Personnel in other business units who are eligible for program to recognize employees who have developed and Kasei E-materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., Asahi transfer can apply. In the nine and half years since its exercised extraordinary expertise and skills that hold Kasei Medical Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Amidas Co., Ltd., inception, a total of 166 employees have been transferred 100 universal value, and to facilitate their application Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp., Asahi Kasei Electronics through this system to other divisions and departments throughout the Group. As of April 2013, 118 Group Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei Microsystems Co., Ltd., Asahi Kasei within the Asahi Kasei Group. Masters are designated: two as Group Fellows, 31 as Senior 0 09/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 Home Construction Corp. (newly added in April 2012), Group Experts, and 85 as Group Experts, with rank and Responsible Care and Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. remuneration commensurate with division general * Results as of June 30 each year for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi We continue recruitment activities to further increase the manager, department general manager, and section employment of persons with disabilities at other Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Position postings and transfers* Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp., Asahi Kasei manager, respectively. （%） (persons) Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. subsidiaries and affiliates as well. 100 100 Development of global human resources To support the expansion of world-leading businesses 80 80 Rate of employment of disabled persons at applicable Preventing sexual harassment Group companies* under our medium-term management initiative “For 61 Tomorrow 2015” from the perspective of human resources, 60 57 60 Sexual harassment is clearly prohibited in the Asahi Kasei （%） Group by our Corporate Ethics – Code of Conduct and by 50 2.2 we are implementing measures such as internship programs 47 our corporate employment regulations. Prevention is 40 2.12 for young personnel, expanding overseas study programs, 37 40 Corporate citizenship 30 reinforced through training at each level of promotion in 2.1 appointing new personnel and managers at overseas 23 21 19 subsidiaries and affiliates, and holding “One Asahi Kasei 20 15 14 13 13 20 rank, and through periodic company-wide training within 2.0 each core operating company for conformance with 9 2.0 Area Meet” training sessions for managers at overseas 5 1.94 1.98 subsidiaries in Europe, the US, and China. 0 08 09 10 11 12 0 corporate ethics. 1.9 1.97 Fiscal year EO Promotion in Human Resources serves as a central 1.91 Development of engineers and technical Applicants (right scale) Successful applicants (right scale) point for consultation about related issues and concerns in 1.8 specialists Percentage of successful applicants (left scale) the Asahi Kasei Group. Under “For Tomorrow 2015,” we are accelerating the * Results for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Training and consultation are also provided for staff from 1.7 placement agencies and employees of affiliated companies, Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., creation of new businesses which provide new value for Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices 09/6 10/6 11/6 12/6 13/6 as part of a comprehensive effort to prevent the occurrence Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. society. Engineers and technical specialists in R&D and for FY08, and by Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. in addition to these Asahi Kasei Group Legal minimum manufacturing are essential human resources for successful companies from FY09. of sexual harassment. Respect for employee individuality * Results as of June 1 each year at applicable Group companies. Calculation based on total employment of 23,456.5 persons in the 15 applicable companies. As of June 1, 2013, the number of disabled persons employed by Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. stood at 295.5 of the total 497.5 disabled employees. Calculated in accordance with the Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities. Valuing human rights and diversity Basic policy Fiscal 2013 hiring Corporate HR & Labor Relations leads the effort to ensure In April 2013, 393 new graduates were hired: 323 men and that there will be no unreasonable discrimination on the 70 women. In addition, 110 persons were hired in midbasis of gender, nationality, age, or otherwise, to maintain a career between April 2012 and March 2013. Environmental and safety data lively workplace culture which enables personnel to perform at their best, to advance employment of persons with disability, and to rehire personnel after mandatory retirement. 58 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 59 Respect for employee individuality Respect for employee individuality Competing in the 33rd National Abilympics Main provisions to support balance in work and family life Corporate governance Six employees of Asahi Kasei Ability competed in the 33rd Pregnancy Delivery Child-rearing One Two Three Entry to elementary End of third grade Family care National Abilympics held in Nagano in November 2012. year old years old years old school The employees competed as prefectural representatives of Time off for Miyazaki, Okayama, and Tokyo, in the DTP, database, morning sickness Maternity Plus 14 days Up to April 1 Leave of after child absence for website creation, and word processing competitions. Our 42 days leave 56 days off before/after delivery reaches three family care representatives of Miyazaki and Okayama also served as years of age (one year in total) Time off/leave flag-bearers for their teams. Parental leave Time off for family care Seven employees also qualified to compete in the 2013 National Abilympics, one employee from Nobeoka as a Expanded application of unused paid days off to care for family members (up to 40 days) representative of Miyazaki, four employees from Mizushima as representatives of Okayama, and two Ms. Shinobu Araki bearing the flag for the Miyazaki team Time off for family illness Compliance employees from Fuji as representatives of Shizuoka. Shortened working 介護短時間 hours for family care Shortened working hours for child-rearing 1 (one year in total) “Kids Support” shortened working Flexible working Others hours for hours for child-rearing family care Financial assistance for employing babysitters/caretakers Women only Mr. Hidenori Igarashi, representative of Tokyo, Ms. Kayoko Shinohara, at the database competition representative of Okayama, at Responsible Care the DTP competition Shortened working hours for child-rearing Support for family care Personnel are able to utilize shortened working hours for In fiscal 2012, seven personnel utilized leave of absence for Balancing work and family life rearing preschoolers, with the working day shortened by up family care. Our personnel are allowed to take leave of up to two hours until the child enters elementary school. In to one year for the purpose of attending to any family September 2007, a provision called “Kids Support” was member who requires care. Enhanced provisions for days Basic policy Parental leave added to enable personnel with children in the first and off and flexible working hours are also available to help We encourage personnel to reevaluate their working habits Our parental leave is available through the fiscal year in second grades to work shortened hours as well. These personnel continue working while providing care for family from the perspective of balancing work and family life, to which the child turns three years old. In fiscal 2012, 454 provisions may be used concurrently with a “flex-time” members. Information about these provisions and how to raise productivity to enable excessive working hours to be personnel utilized parental leave. This is included 242 system for flexible working hours. balance work and family care is provided through our avoided and paid days off to be utilized. In fiscal 2010 we men, 40% of those who were qualified, and 212 women. enhanced corporate intranet as well. Corporate citizenship adopted a system for paid holidays to be used in two-hour Utilization of shortened working hours and Kids In January 2013, we distributed a booklet on balancing units, allowing personnel to utilize paid leave more Employees using parental leave* Support for child-rearing* work with care for family members. We also brought in an flexibly. 300 350 outside expert for a seminar on family care in February 250 3 2013, following a similar seminar in fiscal 2011. 240 242 300 1 236 57 55 226 53 212 0 Helping employees balance work and family 200 190 250 30 2 1 179 life 159 157 200 1 35 1 We encourage personnel to take advantage of a full 150 complement of provisions and benefits to enable the 100 100 197 172 230 236 256 Respect for employee individuality flexibility to maintain a career while raising a family. The corporate intranet is used to raise awareness of the available 50 provisions and benefits, and to support managers whose 0 0 personnel utilize them. 08 09 10 Fiscal year 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Fiscal year Women Men * Results for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Shortened working hours (women) Shortened working hours (men) Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Kids Support (women) Kids Support (men) Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. for FY08, and by Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. in addition to these * Results for personnel employed by Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals companies from FY09. Corp., Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei Booklet on balancing work with care Pharma Corp., and Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. for FY08, and by Asahi for family members Kasei E-materials Corp. in addition to these companies from FY09. Environmental and safety data Kurumin certification mark In 2013, we received the Kurumin certification mark from the Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare in recognition of our proactive support for the development of the next generation. Communication between management and labor This certification was previously received in 2007 and 2010.* Discussions between management and labor union between management of the holding company and labor * Certification received for Asahi Kasei Corp., Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp., Asahi Kasei Homes Corp., Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp., Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp., Asahi Kasei Pharma representatives are held on a regular basis to ensure that a union representatives. Discussions between management Corp., and Asahi Kasei Home Products Corp. Certification for Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. was received in 2012. constructive partnership based on mutual understanding is of the core operating companies and representatives of the maintained. In July 2012, annual discussions were held labor unions are also held on a regular basis. 60 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 61 Environmental and safety data Environmental and safety data Environmental performance data Corporate governance JEPIX performance1 Environmental and safety data Million EIP 60,000 ¥/EIP 150 50,723 50,000 120.1 125 40,000 100 91.5 89.5 74.5 30,000 68.4 75 Compliance 22,703 1 20,000 19,230 50 Japan Environmental Policy Index, developed by teams under the leadership of Prof. Expenditure for environment and safety 17,470 17,570 Nobuyuki Miyazaki at the Japan Science and Technology Agency and Sustainable Management Forum Japan. Environmental performance data are converted to an 13,878 environmental impact point (EIP) scale and aggregated to determine total environmental Investments in modification for environmental protection and safety in fiscal 2012 were as shown below. 10,000 25 impact. Eco-efficiency is determined by dividing an economic indicator, in our case 23.6 consolidated net sales, by total EIP. Eight aspects of environmental impact (including chemical releases, greenhouse gas emissions, landfill wastes, and COD load) are evaluated. Investment in environmental and safety modification FY 2012 environmental investment 0 0 A new accounting policy is applied to fiscal 2011 net sales. ’01 ’08 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 250 20 Soil pollution 1% Planting greenery 1% Fiscal year Noise 1% Chemical substances 1% Environmental impact Eco-efficiency 200 16 Others 17% Energy conservation 35% Cumulative (¥ billion) JEPIX-method ecoefficiency Per year (¥ billion) Responsible Care 150 12 Total Atmosphere 14% Fiscal year 2001 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ¥3.97 billion 100 8 Environmental impact (million EIP) 50,723 22,703 19,230 17,470 17,570 13,878 Wastes 8% Water 22% Sales (¥ million) 1,195,393 1,553,108 1,433,595 1,598,387 1,573,230 1,666,640 50 4 Ecoefficiency (¥/EIP) 23.6 68.4 74.5 91.5 89.5 120.1 0 0 ’70 ’75 ’80 ’85 ’90 ’95 ’00 ’05 ’10 ’12 Fiscal year Treatment and disposal of industrial waste* by business unit (thousand tons) FY 2012 safety investment Cumulative Per year Waste Volume Volume Final Others 6% generated Recycling reduction Landfill Effluent Recycling reduction disposal Explosions 11% Asahi Kasei Chemicals 240.6 49.2 27.2 0.0 164.1 158.9 3.8 1.3 Corporate citizenship Asahi Kasei Homes 6.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 6.6 6.6 0.0 0.0 Breakdown of investment (¥ billion) Workplace safety 39% Asahi Kasei Pharma 0.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.6 0.4 0.2 0.0 Fiscal year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total Earthquakes 20% Environmental 3.18 2.98 1.96 2.18 3.97 ¥4.10 billion Asahi Kasei Medical 5.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 5.4 5.4 0.0 0.0 Safety 6.74 4.55 3.63 2.08 4.10 Asahi Kasei Fibers 39.2 3.8 0.0 0.0 35.4 35.3 0.0 0.1 Total 9.92 7.54 5.59 4.26 8.07 Outmoded equipment 24% Asahi Kasei Microdevices 4.4 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.4 4.4 0.0 0.0 Note: Sums may not equal totals due to rounding, also with other tables hereinafter. Asahi Kasei E-materials 18.6 0.0 0.0 0.0 18.6 18.4 0.2 0.0 Asahi Kasei Construction Materials 71.7 45.9 0.0 0.0 25.8 25.5 0.1 0.3 Environmental accounting Notable measures in fiscal 2012 included the curtailment of release of PRTR-specified substances to air, curtailment Others 0.8 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 0.6 0.0 0.2 We classify the cost of our measures for environmental of VOC emissions, and energy conservation. Notable Respect for employee individuality FY2012 387.9 99.0 27.2 0.0 261.6 255.4 4.4 1.8 protection in accordance with cost classification standards results included reductions of VOC emissions by 1,200 tons FY2011 441.8 105.1 73.5 0.0 263.1 254.1 7.8 1.3 promulgated by the Ministry of the Environment. The and of greenhouse gases by 940,000 tons CO2 equivalent. results of our environmental accounting for fiscal 2012 are FY2010 474.0 99.9 74.5 0.0 299.6 286.6 11.8 1.3 We also advanced the use of renewable energy sources such compiled in the table below. as biomass fuel and solar power. FY2009 315.7 47.9 73.1 0.0 194.7 179.7 10.1 4.8 FY2008 251.9 33.0 10.0 0.0 209.0 186.4 15.2 6.2 Environmental accounting FY2000 361.9 3.5 187.5 0.1 170.8 122.0 21.9 26.8 Asahi Kasei Chemicals Asahi Kasei Fibers Asahi Kasei Microdevices Asahi Kasei E-materials Others * Not including waste generated from non-recurring events such as dismantling closed plants or waste generated from dismantling old homes when constructing new homes. Cost class Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense Investment Expense (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) (¥ million) Combined operating area 2,375 5,263 299 1,795 112 104 325 484 247 191 Environmental and safety data Pollution prevention 1,351 3,960 224 1,179 76 92 88 261 15 106 Global environmental protection 730 300 15 152 35 6 213 56 101 57 Resource circulation 293 1,004 61 464 2 6 24 167 131 27 Upstream and downstream 12 37 0 6 0 0 0 95 0 0 Management 77 1,191 0 40 0 5 0 64 12 1 Research and development 39 471 0 32 81 13 378 1,739 0 0 Community outreach 9 46 3 9 0 0 0 0 0 0 Environmental damage 2 230 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total 2,514 7,239 302 1,882 194 122 703 2,382 259 192 62 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 63 Environmental and safety data Environmental and safety data FY 2012 off-site final disposal by category of waste* FY 2012 release and transfer of PRTR-specified substances (tons) Greenhouse gas emissions by fiscal year FY 2012 greenhouse gas emissions by business unit (thousand tons CO2 equivalent) (thousand tons CO2 equivalent) Controlled Release to: Sludge Plastic waste mixed Debris Others Total Core operating company Sites Substance Total Transfer Baseline* 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei waste Air Water Soil Construction Others Total Carbon dioxide 5,060 4,650 4,520 4,590 4,470 3,740 Chemicals Homes Pharma Medical Fibers Microdevices E-materials Corporate governance Materials Volume 1,1-Dichloroethylene Nitrous oxide 6,820 650 910 460 380 190 0.7 0.2 0.0 0.1 0.9 1.8 (vinylidene chloride) 28 0 0 28 188 Carbon dioxide 2,890 10 20 140 330 110 90 110 30 3,740 (thousand tons) Methane 0 2 2 2 2 0 Nitrous oxide 190 0 0 0 3 0 0 0 0 190 Chloroethylene HFCs 160 30 30 20 30 20 Percent of total 40.2 8.4 1.8 7.1 42.5 100.0 Nobeoka (vinyl chloride) 10 0 0 10 50 Methane 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 PFCs 10 130 160 150 140 130 HFCs 20 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 20 * Excluding waste generated at the construction sites of Asahi Kasei Toluene 6 1 0 7 2 Sulfur hexafluoride 0 20 30 30 30 30 Homes. PFCs 0 0 0 2 0 130 0 0 0 130 Total 12,060 5,480 5,650 5,260 5,050 4,110 Boron compounds 0 8 0 8 0 Sulfur * FY 1990 for carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide, and methane; FY 1995 for HFCs, 0 0 0 0 0 30 0 0 0 30 hexafluoride Final disposal of industrial waste generated at Asahi Kasei Chemicals Styrene 22 0 0 22 28 PFCs, and sulfur hexafluoride. Note: Our target is to maintain average greenhouse gas emissions at 50% of Total 3,100 10 20 150 330 270 90 110 30 4,110 construction sites of Asahi Kasei Homes n-Hexane 112 0 0 112 6 the baseline level from FY 2008 2012. Figures for past years have (thousand tons) Mizushima been revised to reflect business transfers, revisions of the CO2 Molybdenum and its compounds 0 24 0 24 2 emissions coefficient, and other relevant changes. All figures except Fiscal year 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 those for methane are rounded to the nearest ten thousand. Figures Vinyl acetate 6 0 0 6 4 for methane are rounded to the nearest thousand. New construction 16.6 1.6 0.1 0 0 0 Dismantling 39.1 12.7 9.6 8.6 11.8 12.3 n-Hexane 66 0 0 66 11 Unit energy consumption Estimated FY 2012 CO2 emissions by overseas affiliates Compliance Kawasaki Total 55.7 14.4 9.8 8.6 11.8 12.3 Methyl methacrylate 17 0 0 17 1 Fiscal Energy consumed Product output, as Unit energy Change from Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei Asahi Kasei year (million L crude oil converted to benchmark consumption previous year Business Unit Chemicals Medical Fibers E-materials Total Xylene 10 0 0 10 0 equivalent) product (thousand tons) Asahi Kasei Homes Shiga 2011 1,380 4,800 0.287 1.01 Energy consumed (thousand GJ) 2,495 42 342 229 3,109 ALC trimmings recycled by Asahi Kasei Toluene 10 0 0 10 0 2012 1,290 4,190 0.307 1.07 CO2 emissions (thousand tons) 270 10 80 50 400 Construction Materials (tons) Asahi Kasei Fibers Nobeoka Water-soluble copper salts 0 9 0 9 0 Note: Calculated in accordance with the Energy Conservation Law. Note: The figures above are for 18 overseas affiliates with production plants, and the calculation is based (except complex salts) on the amount of consumption of fuel, electricity, etc. using Japan s CO2 emission coefficient. Fiscal year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Dichloromethane Hebel™ panels 620 740 460 450 530 Nobeoka (methylene chloride) 6 0 0 6 0 CO2 emissions from product shipment Asahi Kasei E-materials Cement material 5,900 4,700 4,300 4,700 4,200 Dichloromethane FY 2009 FY 2010 FY 2011 FY 2012 Moriyama (methylene chloride) 12 0 0 12 0 Core operating companies Shipment volume CO2 emissions Shipment volume CO2 emissions Shipment volume CO2 emissions Shipment volume CO2 emissions Lightweight artificial soil 110 54 20 0 0 (million ton-km) (tons) (million ton-km) (tons) (million ton-km) (tons) (million ton-km) (tons) Asahi Kasei Medical Nobeoka N,N-dimethylacetamide 3 19 0 23 708 Total 6,600 5,500 4,800 5,200 4,720 Asahi Kasei Chemicals 827 45,500 903 48,900 932 50,400 741 42,800 Note: Substances listed are those of which total release was 5 tons or more. Amounts are rounded to the nearest ton. Asahi Kasei Homes 161 19,100 171 20,000 193 22,900 187 23,400 Asahi Kasei Pharma 7 800 7 700 7 700 6 700 Responsible Care Release and transfer of PRTR-specified substances Asahi Kasei Medical 24 1,200 31 1,700 23 1,100 24 1,200 by fiscal year (tons) VOC1 emissions Asahi Kasei Fibers 46 3,300 48 3,700 50 3,900 47 3,600 Asahi Kasei Microdevices 5 6,100 5 5,400 2 1,000 2 800 Fiscal year 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2000 Fiscal year baseline 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Asahi Kasei E-materials 8 1,700 15 1,800 6 1,200 6 1,200 Air 4,720 270 250 620 580 390 Release to: year Asahi Kasei Construction Materials 98 9,100 112 10,600 116 10,900 112 10,800 Water 170 66 42 58 94 90 Volume (tons) 10,400 3,900 4,000 2,800 2,500 1,300 Total 1,176 86,800 1,292 92,800 1,329 92,100 1,125 84,500 Soil 0 0 0 0 0 0 Reduction rate (%) ̶ 63 62 73 76 88 Lost workday injury indices (calendar year) Low-pollution vehicles* Total 4,890 340 300 680 680 480 1 Volatile organic compound. Although the term generally applies to any organic compound 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Fiscal year 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Transfer 2,100 3,700 1,600 4,400 4,200 3,200 which is in gaseous state at the time of release, regulations for the control of their release exclude methane and some fluorocarbons which do not form oxidants. Asahi Kasei Group 0.16 0.19 0.27 0.23 0.24 Low-pollution vehicles 957 927 1,024 1,047 1,029 Frequency Used on rate Chemical industry, Japan 0.84 0.72 0.72 0.88 0.85 public roads Other vehicles 167 133 105 116 89 Manufacturing industries, Japan 1.12 0.99 0.98 1.05 1.00 Subtotal 1,124 1,060 1,129 1,163 1,118 Release of air and water pollutants by fiscal year FY 2012 release of air and water pollutants by site Asahi Kasei Group 0.070 0.008 0.006 0.003 0.31 Low-pollution vehicles 521 452 417 447 251 Severity Chemical industry, Japan 0.07 0.13 0.04 0.04 0.12 Used within Other vehicles 346 287 267 251 448 Corporate citizenship Unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Unit Nobeoka Mizushima Moriyama Fuji Ohito Kawasaki Others Total rate plant grounds Manufacturing industries, Japan 0.1 0.08 0.09 0.08 0.10 Subtotal 867 739 684 698 699 SOx2 tons 7,600 6,200 6,800 8,100 5,800 SOx tons 5,300 210 0 11 3 5 230 5,800 Note: Results for the Asahi Kasei Group are revised from fiscal year to calendar year. Low-pollution vehicles 1,478 1,379 1,441 1,494 1,280 NOx3 tons 4,500 4,000 4,300 4,700 3,700 NOx tons 2,000 1,400 74 15 22 120 77 3,700 Total Other vehicles 513 420 372 367 537 Total vehicles 1,991 1,799 1,813 1,861 1,817 Soot and dust4 tons 170 160 230 250 180 Soot and dust tons 80 69 2 1 0 17 7 180 Used on public roads 85 87 91 90 92 Proportion of Waste water Waste water million m3 * Hybrid-electric vehicles, low-emission effluence million m 3 210 200 210 210 210 effluence 130 37 11 10 0 18 7 210 vehicles, fuel-efficient vehicles, and low-pollution Used within plant grounds 60 61 61 64 36 vehicles (%) Total 74 77 79 80 70 COD5 tons 1,200 1,000 1,200 1,000 850 COD tons 580 98 9 11 0 120 36 850 all-electric vehicles. Nitrogen tons 5,800 5,400 6,500 6,500 6,200 Nitrogen tons 5,600 260 10 64 1 220 6 6,200 Third-party awards and recognitions in fiscal 2012 Phosphorus tons 30 24 27 27 25 Phosphorus tons 14 3 2 3 0 3 0 25 Award Awarded/certified by Recognition Recipient* 2 Sulfur oxides are formed when crude oil, fuel oil, or coal containing sulfur are used as fuel, or when industrial wastes containing sulfur are incinerated. Sulfur dioxide (SO2) is most Asahi Kasei, 2012 National Commendation of Japan Institute of Invention and The Imperial Invention Prize for technology to automatically adjust electronic compasses common, but some sulfur trioxide (SO3) also forms. The term SOx is inclusive of both of these. Asahi Kasei Microdevices Invention Innovation (JIII) 3 Nitrogen oxides are formed in nature and during combustion at thermal power plants, factory boilers, internal combustion engines, and incinerators. The term NOx is inclusive of both Award for Distinguished Contribution for Driving the Invention into Implementation Asahi Kasei Respect for employee individuality nitric oxide (NO) and nitrogen dioxide (NO2). 3rd Chunichi Newspaper Chunichi Shimbun Co., Ltd. Award for Excellence in the General Newspaper Category Asahi Kasei 4 Soot and dust are fine particles formed in the combustion of fuel and other materials. Advertising Awards 5 Chemical oxygen demand. An indicator of water pollution by organic substances, COD is expressed in terms of the amount of oxygen required by an oxidizer to chemically oxidize the Green & Sustainable Chemistry Japan Association for Chemical Manufacturing process for carbonic ester using direct activation of carbon dioxide Asahi Kasei Chemicals Encouragement Award Innovation (JACI) organic substances contained in the water. IEEE Medal Institute of Electrical and Electronics IEEE Medal for Environmental and Safety Technologies for development of the lithium-ion battery Asahi Kasei Engineers (IEEE) SOx emissions NOx emissions Soot and dust COD of effluent Effluent water volume International Law Office/ Association of Global Counsel Award 2012 Award for an individual in the area of litigation Asahi Kasei emissions Corporate Counsel State Administration of Foreign Experts (tons) (tons) (tons) (tons) （million m ） 3 Friendship Award Affairs, China Technical support and operational guidance for starting up a salt electrolysis plant Asahi Kasei Chemicals 40,000 20,000 4,000 8,000 300 Grand Prize for newspaper ad series A story about houses designed for a family living with their 61st Nikkei Advertising Awards Nikkei Inc. parents and an unmarried sibling Asahi Kasei Homes Good Disclosure Award 2012 Security Analysts Association of Japan First ranking in chemicals/fibers category (9th consecutive year) Asahi Kasei The 51st Business Advertising 30,000 15,000 3,000 6,000 Fuji Sankei Business Eye Versatile Ad Gold Award Asahi Kasei Award 200 Fiscal 2012 TPM Excellence Japan Institute of Plant Maintenance TPM Sustained Excellence Award Kawasaki Works, Asahi Kasei Chemicals Award Mizushima Works, Asahi Kasei Chemicals Awarded to executives of foreign companies that made a significant contribution to employment, Environmental and safety data 20,000 10,000 2,000 4,000 Bronze Tower Order of Industrial Government of South Korea transfer of advanced technology, import substitution, and increasing exports through an investment Asahi Kasei Chemicals Service Merit in South Korea Kanto Area: Encouragement for Invention Prize for ion-exchange membrane with delta shape Asahi Kasei Chemicals 100 Local Commendation for Japan Institute of Invention and Invention Innovation (JIII) Chugoku Area: Prize of the Okayama Prefectural Governor for core-shell metal-nickel oxide 10,000 5,000 1,000 2,000 Asahi Kasei Chemicals nanoparticle catalyst to produce methyl methacrylate Asahi Kasei Plastics North America, Inc. The 42nd SPE Automotive Society of Plastics Engineers Winner in Materials Category for register vanes made of Leona™ 90G60 (received jointly with Ford Motor Co., TRW Innovation Awards Automotive, and Key Plastics LLC) 0 0 0 0 0 Home & Environment Advanced Design Superior construction materials or products that contribute to the creation of well-built, long-lasting ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 HEAD Best Selection Award Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Association homes (high-performance phenolic foam insulation panel) Fiscal year Fiscal year Fiscal year Fiscal year Fiscal year Manufacturer of the Year 2012 Pittsburgh Business Times Best manufacturer in the Pittsburgh area (category of 400 to 999 employees) ZOLL Pittsburgh Best Mother Awards in 2013 NPO Japan Mothers Society Best Kitchen category award for Ziploc™ Asahi Kasei Home Products Corp. Nobeoka Mizushima Moriyama Fuji Ohito Kawasaki Other sites Permissible level 1st Techno-Economics Japan Techno-Economics Society Minister of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology Award for solutions business Asahi Kasei Innovation Award (electronic compass) that combines hardware and software technologies in the field of sensor devices Note: At some sites, regulation by total pollutant amount applies for some pollutants in addition to concentration limits. Permissible levels shown are the sums of gross emission The 59th Annual Okochi Technology Award for the development of a genetically-engineered thrombomodulin agent for the limits where they apply and concentration limits times the amount of discharged water where they do not. Permissible levels therefore fluctuate from year to year with Okochi Memorial Foundation Asahi Kasei Pharma Memorial Technology Prize treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) fluctuations in production volumes. * Some awards were received by organizations or individuals within the companies shown. 64 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 65 Environmental and safety data Environmental and safety data Organizations implementing Responsible Care Prefecture Location Operating Company Plant, laboratory, or department Main products/business line Prefecture Location Operating Company Plant, laboratory, or department Main products/business line Segment Segment Miyagi Ishinomaki Electronics Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Fab 5 Semiconductor assembly and testing Shiga Moriyama Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Moriyama Power Supply Dept. Utilities (electricity, steam, water) Corporate governance Gunma Ota Chemicals Asahi Kasei Pax Corp. Gunma Plant Molded plastic containers Fibers Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. Spunbond Plant Spunbond Ibaraki Kasama Chemicals Asahi Kasei Metals Ltd. Tomobe Plant Aluminum paste Roica Plant Elastic polyurethane filament Asahi SKB Co., Ltd. – Shotgun cartridges, igniters, civil engineering materials R&D Lab. for Applied Product Apparel and industrial functional textiles R&D Sakai Construction Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. Sakai Plant Autoclaved aerated concrete panels Electronics Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Electronics Materials Plant Photosensitive polyimide Materials Neoma Foam Plant Phenolic foam insulation panels Hipore Plant Microporous membrane Construction Materials Lab. Improvement of construction materials and development of new products Asahi-Schwebel Co., Ltd. Moriyama Plant Glass fabric Sakai Kako Co., Ltd. – Construction materials processing Others Asahi Kasei Amidas Co., Ltd. Moriyama Office Contract work Tochigi Mibu Chemicals Asahi Kasei Color Tech Co., Ltd. Mibu Plant Plastic coloring & compounding Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. – Development, design, installation, inspection, and maintenance of equipment and systems Saitama Kamisato Chemicals Asahi Kasei Techno Plus Co., Ltd. Saitama Plant Molded plastic products Higashiomi Homes Asahi Kasei Jyuko Co., Ltd. Shiga Plant Steel frames Ageo Chemicals Asahi Kasei Pax Corp. Ageo Plant Film lamination Mie Suzuka Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Suzuka Plant Cling film, plastic foam and film Yamanashi Fujiyoshida Fibers Fuji Seisen Co., Ltd. – Dyeing and finishing of yarns and fabrics Suzuka Sun Business Co., Ltd. – Plastic processing Chiba Chiba Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. PMMA Prod. Dept. Acrylic resin Sundic Inc. Mie Plant Polystyrene sheet Chiba Power Supply Dept. Utilities (electricity, steam, water) Wakayama Gobo Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Wakayama Plant Acrylic latex, performance paper Compound Prod. Coordination Dept. Development of compound production technology, support for processing facilities Osaka Osaka Chemicals Asahi Kasei Finechem Co., Ltd. Osaka Plant Specialty chemicals Compliance Performance Plastics Dev. Dept. Applied research for performance plastics and plastic processing Others Asahi Kasei Trading Co., Ltd. – Sale of Asahi Kasei Group products Asahi Kasei Color Tech Co., Ltd. Sodegaura Plant R&D for plastic compounding technology Hyogo Ono Chemicals Asahi Kasei Pax Corp. Ono Plant Molded plastic containers PS Japan Corp. Chiba Plant Polystyrene Okayama Mizushima Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Monomers Prod. Dept. 1 Ethylene, cyclohexanol Asahi Kasei Energy Service Corp. – Operation of power plant of Nakasode Clean Power Corp. Monomers Prod. Dept. 2 Acrylonitrile, methacrylonitrile, sodium cyanide, acetonitrile, styrene, polycarbonatediol Electronics Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Plastic Optical Fibers Dept. R&D for plastic optical fiber Polymers Prod. Dept. 1 Acrylonitrile-butadiene-styrene, styrene-butadiene latex, epoxy Asahi Kasei EMS Co., Ltd. Chiba Plant Plastic optical fiber Polymers Prod. Dept. 2 High density polyethylene, low density polyethylene, polyacetal Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Fab 4 Semiconductors Polyolefins Development Dept. Research on polyolefins Tokyo Tokyo Chemicals Asahi Kasei Geotechnologies Co., Ltd. – Sale of civil engineering materials Power Supply Dept. Utilities (electricity, steam, water) Asahi Kasei Home Products Corp. – Development and sale of cling film and other household products Chemistry & Chemical Process Lab. Research on chemical processes and functional products Electronics Sun Delta Corp. – Sale of synthetic resin products Catalyst Lab. Research on monomers and catalysts Construction Asahi Kasei Foundation Systems Co., Ltd. – Installation of piles PS Japan Corp. Mizushima Plant Polystyrene Materials Asahi Kasei Extech Corp. – Installation of exterior wall panels Mizushima Sun Business Co., Ltd. – Subcontracting Others Sun Associates Co., Ltd. – Patent-related subcontracting Electronics Asahi Kasei Epoxy Co., Ltd. Mizushima Plant Epoxy Sun Trading Co., Ltd. – Sale of fibers, chemicals, and medical devices Others Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. – Development, design, installation, inspection, and maintenance of equipment and systems Asahi Kasei Create Co., Ltd. – Management and sales of real estate, insurance agency, subcontracted office work Yamaguchi Iwakuni Construction Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. Iwakuni Plant Autoclaved aerated concrete panels Responsible Care Asahi Kasei Amidas Co., Ltd. – Personnel placement, agency, and training; ISO consulting Materials Kyowa Kogyo Co., Ltd. – Construction materials processing Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. – Printing, bookbinding, and office work Fukuoka Chikushino Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Chikushino Plant Metal cladding Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. – Plant, equipment, process engineering, and related work/development Oita Oita Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Oita Plant Explosives Asahi Research Center Co., Ltd. – Information and analysis Japan Elastomer Co., Ltd. Oita Plant Synthetic rubber Asahi Kasei Benefits Management Corp. – Company housing, recreational facilities Health Care Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. Sepacell Plant Leukocyte reduction filters Asahi Kasei Trading Co., Ltd. – Sale of Asahi Kasei Group products Planova Oita Plant Virus removal filters Kanagawa Kawasaki Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Monomers Prod. Dept. Acrylonitrile, methyl methacrylate, cyclohexyl methacrylate, acetonitrile Dialysis Products Plant Artificial kidneys and other medical devices ABS & SB Latex Prod. Dept. Styrene-acrylonitrile resin, styrene-butadiene latex Therapeutic Apheresis Plant Therapeutic apheresis devices Synthetic Rubber Prod. Dept. Synthetic rubber, utilities (electricity, steam, water) Kumamoto Amakusa Fibers Kyuasa Co., Ltd. – Stockings and innerwear Acrylic Plastics Prod. Dept. Polymethyl methacrylate Miyazaki Nobeoka/ Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Atago Plant Nitric acid, caustic soda, chlorine, hydrochloric acid, vinylidene chloride resin and latex Ion Exchange Membranes Prod. Dept. Ion-exchange membranes Hyuga Electrolysis Systems Tech. Dept. Electrolyzers for chlor-alkali R&D units Creation of new high performance materials, R&D for performance products and systems, Ceolus Plant Microcrystalline cellulose applied research for plastics and plastic processing Leona Plastics & Materials Plant AH salt, adipic acid, hexamethylenediamine, polyamide 66 PS Japan Corp. R&D Dept. Polystyrene R&D Fastening Prod. Planning & Tech. Dept. Resin anchors Electronics Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. New Business Dev. Development of energy-related materials Corporate citizenship Hyuga Chemicals Plant Coating materials Others Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. − Development, design, installation, inspection, and maintenance of equipment and systems Nobeoka Power Supply Dept. Utilities (electricity, steam, water) Atsugi − Asahi Kasei Corp. Synergistic Solutions Initiative Establishment of new solution-oriented businesses Asahi Kasei New Port Terminal Co., Ltd. – Receiving and storage of fuel and feedstocks Homes Asahi Kasei Jyuko Corp. Atsugi Prod. Dept. Assembly of steel frames and processing of insulation for homes Nobeoka Plastic Processing Co., Ltd. – Polyamide 66 compounding Shizuoka Fuji Chemicals Asahi Kasei Chemicals Corp. Microza Plant Filtration membranes and modules Asahi Chemitech Co., Ltd. – Resin anchors, detonator housings/leads Fuji Power Supply Dept. Utilities (electricity, steam, water) Asahi Kasei NS Energy Corp. – Electricity and steam Asahi Kasei Clean Chemical Co., Ltd. − Environmental chemicals, water treatment equipment Asahi Kasei Finechem Co., Ltd. Nobeoka Plant Specialty chemicals Homes Asahi Kasei Homes Corp. Housing Tech. R&D Labs. Long Life Home R&D Nobeoka Pharmaceuticals Plant Bulk pharmaceuticals Health Care Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. Fuji Pharmaceuticals Plant Bulk pharmaceuticals Kayaku Japan Co., Ltd. Tohmi Plant Industrial explosives Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. Bioprocess Div./Product Dev. Dept. Development of filters and absorbents for separation and purification in manufacture of Detonator Plant Detonators biopharmaceuticals Health Care Asahi Kasei Aime Co., Ltd. − Contact lenses Electronics Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Operation Tech. Ctr./Fuji Plant Photosensitive polyimide, photopolymer Asahi Kasei Medical Co., Ltd. Tsunetomi Plant Artificial kidneys and other medical devices Electronics Interconnecting Materials Photosensitive dry film Plant Okatomi Plant Artificial kidneys and other medical devices New Business Dev. R&D for semiconductor and packaging materials EV Plant Hollow fiber for artificial kidneys and plasma component separators WGF Project Display materials Planova Plant Virus removal filters Respect for employee individuality Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. R&D Ctr. R&D for compound semiconductors Medical Material Lab. R&D for medical materials Fab 3 Hall elements Fibers Asahi Kasei Fibers Corp. Leona Filament Plant Nylon 66 filament Asahi Kasei Epoxy Co., Ltd. Fuji Plant Epoxy curing agent Bemberg Plant Cuprammonium rayon, nonwoven cellulose filament Others Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. − Design, construction, and development of facilities and development of information Nonwovens Plant Artificial suede, melt-blown and spunlace nonwovens systems R&D Lab. for Fibers & Textiles Tech. R&D for new fibers Sun Business Services Co., Ltd. − Subcontracting Asahi Kasei Eltas Co., Ltd. – Spunbond Asahi Kasei Benefits Management Corp. − Management of benefits Asahi Kasei Fibers Nobeoka Co., Ltd. – Cellulosic filament, synthetic nonwovens Toyo Kensa Center Co., Ltd. − Measurement, evaluation, analysis Asahi Kasei Leona Filament Co., Ltd. – Nylon 66 filament – Asahi Kasei Corp. Central R&D Labs. Development of advanced new interdisciplinary technology Asahi Cord Co., Ltd. – Processing of nylon 66 filament Analysis & Simulation Ctr. Analysis and computer simulation Nobeoka Kakoshi Co., Ltd. – Subcontracted work at Nonwovens Plant Advanced Battery Materials Dev. Ctr. Development of battery materials Asahiozu Corp. – Processing of nonwoven cellulosic filament Advanced Energy Materials Dev. Ctr. Development of energy materials Electronics Asahi Kasei E-materials Corp. Hipore Hyuga Plant Microporous membrane Corporate Prod. Tech./Fuji Maintenance of equipment and facilities Asahi Kasei Microdevices Corp. Fab 1 Hall elements Maintenance Management Dept. Fab 2 LSIs Ohito Health Care Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. Ohito Pharmaceuticals Plant Pharmaceutical intermediates Environmental and safety data Asahi Kasei Technosystem Co., Ltd. Nobeoka Plant Plant diagnostic and environmental surveillance devices Ohito Diagnostics Plant Diagnostic enzymes, diagnostic reagent kits Asahi Kasei EMS Co., Ltd. Hyuga Plant Fine-pattern coils Pharmaceuticals Research Ctr. New pharmaceuticals R&D Nobeoka Plant Pellicles Others Asahi Kasei Benefits Management Corp. – Management of benefits Others Asahi Kasei Kankyoujigyou Co., Ltd. – Disposing of Asahi Kasei Group industrial waste Toyo Kensa Center Co., Ltd. – Measurement, evaluation, analysis, clinical testing Asahi Kasei Office One Co., Ltd. – Utilization of Asahi Kasei Group assets, subcontracting Asahi Kasei Create Co., Ltd. – Management and sales of real estate, insurance agency, subcontracted office work New Asahi Services Co., Ltd. – Insurance agency, cellular phone sales, bowling center Aichi Miyoshi Health Care Asahi Kasei Pharma Corp. Nagoya Pharmaceuticals Plant Pharmaceuticals Asahi Kasei Engineering Corp. – Development, design, installation, inspection, and maintenance of equipment and systems Gifu Hozumi Construction Asahi Kasei Construction Materials Corp. Hozumi Plant Autoclaved aerated concrete panels Materials Toyo Kensa Center Co., Ltd. Nobeoka Office Measurement, evaluation, analysis Hozumi Kako Co., Ltd. – Construction materials processing Asahi Kasei Benefits Management Corp. – Company housing, recreational facilities Fukui Echizen Fibers Kyokujitsu Textile Mills Co., Ltd. – Woven fabrics Asahi Kasei Ability Corp. – Printing, bookbinding, and office work Asahi Kasei Networks Corp. – IT-related business Cable Media Waiwai Co., Ltd. – Cable TV 66 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 67 Environmental and safety data Environmental and safety data Correspondence with GRI 3.1 and ISO 26000 Corporate governance ISO26000 Core Subjects ISO26000 Core Subjects Category Indicator Corresponding page Category Indicator Corresponding page and Issues and Issues 1 Strategy and Analysis ASPECT: Energy Statement from the most senior decision maker of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of EN3 CORE Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. 32 1.1 2-3 6.2 sustainability to the organization and its strategy. EN4 CORE Indirect energy consumption by primary source. 32 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2-3, 10-13, 14-23 6.2 EN5 ADD Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 33-34 2 Organizational Profile 6.5, 6.5.4 ADD Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these EN6 34 2.1 Name of the organization. 5 initiatives. 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 4-5, 8-9, 14-23 EN7 ADD Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved. 34 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 4-5, 6-7, 24-25, 66-67 6.2 ASPECT: Water 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. 5, Back cover EN8 CORE Total water withdrawal by source. 32 6.5, 6.5.4 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the ASPECT: Biodiversity 2.5 6-7 sustainability issues covered in the report. CORE Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value EN12 37 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 5, 24, Back cover outside protected areas. 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 6-7, 8-9, 14-15 EN13 ADD Habitats protected or restored. 37 Scale of the reporting organization, including: EN14 ADD Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. 37 • Number of employees; ASPECT: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste Compliance • Number of operations; 2.8 5-7 EN16 CORE Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 32-34, 64-65 • Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations); 6.5, 6.5.5 • Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations); and EN18 ADD Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 32-34, 64-65 • Quantity of products or services provided. EN19 CORE Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not applicable Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership including: EN20 CORE NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. 32, 36-37, 64 2.9 • The location of, or changes in operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; and Not applicable • Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organizations). EN21 CORE Total water discharge by quality and destination. 32, 64 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. 65 EN22 CORE Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 35-36, 63-64 6.5, 6.5.3 3 Report Parameters EN23 CORE Total number and volume of significant spills. Not applicable CORE Weight Report Profile of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and EN24 Not applicable percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. 1 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). 1 EN25 ADD discharges Not applicable 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 of water and runoff. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 1 ASPECT: Products and Services 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Back cover EN26 CORE Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. 18, 34 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 Report Scope and Boundary EN27 CORE Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. 35, 63-64 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 Process for defining report content, including: ASPECT: Compliance • Determining materiality; 3.5 • Prioritizing topics within the report; and 1, 12 EN28 ADD Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Not applicable 6.5 Responsible Care • Identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. ASPECT: Transport 3.6 Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 1 EN29 ADD Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, and transporting 33-34 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 1 members of the workforce. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect ASPECT: Overall 3.8 1 comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. EN30 ADD Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 62 6.5 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the Labor Practices and Decent Work 3.9 62-67 compilation of the Indicators and other information in the report. Disclosure on Management Approach 40, 57 6.2, 6.4, 6.3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/ ASPECT: Employment 3.10 Not applicable acquisitions, change of base years/periods, nature of business, measurement methods). LA1 CORE Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. 5 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. Not applicable 6.4, 6.4.3 LA2 CORE Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. 58 GRI content index LA3 ADD Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of operation. 57-58, 60-61 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. 68-69 LA15 CORE Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender. 60 Assurance ASPECT: Occupational Health and Safety Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the 3.13 sustainability report, explain the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. Also explain the relationship between the reporting 70 7.5.3 LA7 CORE Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. 41 6.4, 6.4.6 organization and the assurance provider(s). CORE Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, LA8 41, 42 4 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement regarding serious diseases. 6.8.8 Corporate citizenship Governance LA9 ADD Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 40 6.4, 6.4.6 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting ASPECT: Training and Education 4.1 24-25 strategy or organizational oversight. ADD Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career LA11 57-58 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number and gender of members of the highest governance body that are independent endings. 4.3 24-25 and/or non-executive members. ASPECT: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body. 26 LA13 CORE Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group 59 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 24-25 membership, and other indicators of diversity. Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees, Human Rights 4.7 24-25 6.2 including any consideration of gender and other indicators of diversity. ASPECT: Security Practices Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance Inside cover, 10-15, 26, ADD Percentage 4.8 of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to and the status of their implementation. 28, 48, 50, 52, 57 HR8 Not applicable 6.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, 6.6.6 operations. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social ASPECT: Indigenous Rights 4.9 performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and 12-13 principles. HR9 ADD Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Not applicable 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, 6.6.7 ASPECT: Remediation Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social 4.10 24-25 HR11 CORE Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. Not applicable performance. Commitments to External Initiatives Society Respect for employee individuality 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 12-13, 26-27, 28-31 Disclosure on Management Approach 48 6.2, 6.6, 6.8 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 13, 18, 45-47 ASPECT: Local Communities Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: SO1 CORE Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. 51-56 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, 6.6.7 • Has positions in governance bodies; 6.2 ASPECT: Corruption 4.13 • Participates in projects or committees; 28, 45-46 • Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or SO4 CORE Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not applicable • Views membership as strategic. ASPECT: Anti-Competitive Behavior Stakeholder Engagement SO7 ADD Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. 26 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 12, 48 Product Responsibility 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 48 Disclosure on Management Approach 43 6.2, 6.6, 6.7 6.2 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and ASPECT: Customer Health and Safety 4.17 48-56 concerns, including through its reporting. CORE Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products PR1 43 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 5 Management Approach and Performance Indicators and services categories subject to such procedures. ADD duringnumber Economic Total of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR2 43 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5 Disclosure on Management Approach 10-11 6.2, 6.8 their life cycle, by type of outcomes. ASPECT: Economic Performance ASPECT: Product and Service Labeling CORE Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, CORE Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community PR3 44 Environmental and safety data EC1 5 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 requirements. 6.7.9 investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC2 CORE Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. 32-34 6.5.5 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, PR5 ADD Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. 49 6.7.9 EC3 CORE Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. Not applicable ASPECT: Marketing Communications EC4 CORE Significant financial assistance received from government. Not applicable CORE Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and ASPECT: Market Presence PR6 49 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 sponsorship. EC6 CORE Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant locations of operation. 50 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, PR7 ADD promotion, and Not applicable 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 EC7 CORE Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of significant operation. Not applicable 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 sponsorship by type of outcomes. ASPECT: Indirect Economic Impacts ASPECT: Customer Privacy PR8 ADD Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. Not applicable 6.7, 6.7.7 CORE Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, 6.8.5, EC8 engagement. 51-56 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 ASPECT: Compliance Environmental PR9 CORE Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Not applicable 6.7, 6.7.6 Disclosure on Management Approach 28-31 6.2, 6.5 Note: This table is provided for convenience based on correspondence between GRI G3 and ISO 26000, as there is no formal correspondance between GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000. ASPECT: Materials EN1 CORE Materials used by weight or volume. 32 6.5, 6.5.4 EN2 CORE Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials. 35 68 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 69 Independent Review [translation [translation from Japanese] from Japanese] Asahi AsahiKasei Kasei Group Group CSRCSR Report Report 20132013 Independent Independent Review Review July 1, July2013 1, 2013 Taketsugu Taketsugu FujiwaraFujiwara President President JunjiJunji Takase Takase Kasei Kasei Asahi Asahi Corporation Corporation Chief Chief Director Director Responsible Responsible Care Verification Care Verification CenterCenter JapanJapanChemical Chemical Industry Industry Association Association ■ ■ Objectives Objectives of Verification of Verification Responsible Responsible Care Report Care Report Verification Verification was performed was performed by the by the Responsible Responsible Care Verification CenterCenter Care Verification with respect with respect to to the Asahi Asahi Group the Kasei Kasei Group CSR Report CSR Report 2013 Edition 2013 Edition (the “Report”) (the “Report”) prepared prepared by Asahi Kasei Corporation, Asahi Corporation, by Kasei with the with the objective objective of expressing of expressing an opinion an opinion as a chemical as a chemical industry industry specialist on theon specialist the matters matters as stated below.below. as stated 1) Reasonableness 1) Reasonableness of methods of methods of calculation of calculation and aggregation and aggregation of performance of performance metricsmetrics (numerical (numerical values), and and values), the accuracy the accuracy of numerical of numerical values.values. 2) Accuracy 2) Accuracy of reported of reported information information other than values.values. than numerical othernumerical 3) Evaluation 3) Evaluation of Responsible of Responsible Care (RC) Careand (RC) and Corporate Corporate Social Social Responsibility (CSR)(CSR) Responsibility activities. activities. 4) Characteristics 4) Characteristics of the Report. of the Report. ■ ■ Verification Verification ProcedureProcedure ● At the head office: Examination of the reasonableness of methods to aggregate numerical values reported from ● At the head office: Examination of the reasonableness of methods to aggregate numerical values reported from each each site site (office, (office, plant) andplant) and examination examination of the accuracy of the accuracy of reportedof reported information information othernumerical other than valuesvalues than numerical were performed were performed through through interviewsinterviews of responsible partiesparties of responsible and compilers and compilers of the Report as wellas of the Report aswell as receipt receipt of of internalinternal documents documents and explanations and explanations thereofthereof from each fromofeach the responsible partiesparties of the responsible and compilers. and compilers. ● At the Mizushima Works of Asahi Kasei Chemicals: Examination of the reasonableness of methods of ● At the Mizushima Works of Asahi Kasei Chemicals: Examination of the reasonableness of methods of calculation calculation and aggregation and aggregation of the accuracy of the accuracy of reported of reported informationinformation other than valuesvalues than numerical othernumerical were performed were performed through through interviews interviews of responsible partiesparties of responsible and compilers and compilers of the Report, of the Report, receiptreceipt of internal of internal documents and and documents explanations thereofthereof explanations from eachfromofeach of the responsible the responsible partiesparties and compilers, and compilers, and cross-check and cross-check of reported of reported information information with supporting with supporting materials. materials. ● Numerical values and reported information were verified by sampling. ● Numerical values and reported information were verified by sampling. ■ ■ Opinion Opinion 1) Reasonableness 1) Reasonableness of methods of methods of calculation of calculation and aggregation and aggregation of performance metricsmetrics of performance (numerical (numerical values); values); accuracyaccuracy of numerical of numerical valuesvalues ● Numerical values at the head office and the Mizushima Works have been calculated and aggregated using a ● Numerical values at the head office and the Mizushima Works have been calculated and aggregated using a reasonable reasonable method. method. ● It is noteworthy that the company uses an Environmental Performance Data Collection System through its ● It is noteworthy that the company uses an Environmental Performance Data Collection System through its intranet intranet to collect to collect data, and data, and aggregation aggregation and checking and checking for input input errors forerrors are performed are performed efficiently. efficiently. ● Numerical values within the scope of our examination have been calculated and aggregated accurately. ● Numerical values within the scope of our examination have been calculated and aggregated accurately. 2) Accuracy 2) Accuracy of reported of reported information information othernumerical other than than numerical valuesvalues ● Information contained in the Report was confirmed to be accurate. Some issues related to appropriateness ● Information contained in the Report was confirmed to be accurate. Some issues related to appropriateness of expression of expression and ease andofease of understanding understanding were identified were identified draft stages, in thestages, in the draft but these thesebeen but have been revised haverevised in in the present the present Report. Report. 3) Evaluation of RC of 3) Evaluation and RC CSR CSR activities andactivities ● The ● The Kasei Asahi Asahi Group Kasei Groupsteadily steadily implementsimplements RC and RC CSRandactivities CSR activities throughout throughout all fields fields all of of business, business, and sets and sets specific specific goals. goals. ● Asahi ● Asahi Kasei Chemicals, Asahi Kasei E-materials, and the head office cooperatively participate in the Kasei Chemicals, Asahi Kasei E-materials, and the head office cooperatively participate in the Implementation Implementation Panel of Panel of the chemical the chemical industry’s industry’s Japan JapanInitiative Initiative of Product of Product Stewardship (JIPS),(JIPS), Stewardship continuing continuing to to contribute contribute to the preparation to the preparation of guidelines of guidelines and confirmation and confirmation of risk of risk assessments. assessments. ● Asahi ● Asahi Kasei Group company Asahi Kasei Jyuko participates in local community activities in Shiga Prefecture Kasei Group company Asahi Kasei Jyuko participates in local community activities in Shiga Prefecture supporting peoplepeople supporting with disabilities with disabilities who perform who perform environmental environmental beautification beautification each month. each month. ● The Asahi ● The Kasei Asahi Group’s Kasei Group’sMoriyama Moriyama RegionRegion is working is working to remove foreignforeign to remove species species native native and protect and protect species species of fish of fish based based on a vision on a vision of being of the being the world’s world’s best factory best factory site located site located near freshwater near freshwater a of a partasofpart fish, asfish, program program to protect to protect the natural the natural water environment water environment of LakeofBiwa. Lake Biwa. ● The ● The Mizushima Mizushima WorksWorks is working is working intensely intensely to achieve to achieve zero accidents zero accidents and zero zero injuries andinjuries with “bottom with “bottom up” up” initiatives initiatives supportedsupported by an original SafetySafety by an original Booklet Booklet which which has thehas keythe key concepts concepts of “greetings,” “dress“dress of “greetings,” and and code,” code,” “handrails” “handrails” on theon the cover, cover, and a Safety and a Safety Calendar showsshows which which Calendar past accidents. EnergyEnergy past accidents. conservation effortsefforts conservation are are conductedconducted at the ethylene at the ethylene plant,a with plant, with goal aofgoal of reducing reducing energyenergyconsumption by the by consumption the equivalent equivalent of 1,000 of 1,000 kiloliters kiloliters of crude of oil crudeper oil per year. year. 4) Characteristics 4) Characteristics of the Report of the Report ● The ● Asahi Asahi Group Kasei Group The Kasei has a wide has arange wide range of community of community fellowshipfellowship which which activities, activities, are described in a in a are described separately separately publishedpublished brochure. brochure. ● The ● The Corporate Corporate Citizenship sectionsection Citizenship features features rich content. rich content. 70 Asahi Kasei Group CSR Report 2013 ASAHI KASEI CORPORATION CSR Office 1 -105 Kanda Jinbocho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 101-8101, Japan Phone: +81-3-3296-3083, Fax: +81-3-3296-3164 www.asahi-kasei.co.jp/asahi/en/csr/ Published November 2013
