Responsibility Communication on progress 2013 THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF GLOBAL COMPACT THE UN HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2 Contents ............ 4 Global energy ............ 5 CEO statement ............ 6 Strategy and stakeholders ........... 10 Human rights ........... 16 Labour ........... 22 Environment ........... 29 Anti-corruption ........... 30 Future focus areas 3 Global energy Our services and solutions include: • Project management An international project engineering • Engineering and design company dedicated to the global energy • Procurement sector, Semco Maritime facilitates the design, • Construction and fabrication fabrication, service and maintenance of our • Installation and commissioning customers’ assets, providing comprehensive • Yard and workshop facilities project management across all phases of • Upgrades and refurbs energy projects. From turnkey engineering • Maintenance, modification and solutions to operation support and delivery servicing of components, systems and solutions – we • Products, components and make sure our customers and partners in the technology energy sector experience safe, cost-efficient • Operation support operations. Liable management Headquartered in Esbjerg, Denmark, our Steen Brødbæk, President & CEO dedicated employees work offshore and Jørgen Devantier Gade, President & CFO onshore from our subsidiaries in Norway, the UK, UAE, Singapore, Vietnam, Australia, Third-party certified according to: Central America and the USA. ISO 9001 We believe in setting the bar high, challenging ISO 14001 our people to deliver solutions of the highest OHSAS 18001 quality, anywhere in the world. ISO 3834-2 Assessments: Achilles First Point Assessment PQAN Certificate 4 CEO statement how we should interact with our customers, employees, suppliers, and the communities We continue to develop Semco Maritime and the environments in which we work. with a strategic approach to cost-effective We are all responsible for raising the bar and and sustainable models that differentiate us setting our expectations a little higher, so we from our competitors, create value for our constantly monitor our actions and develop customers and keep our focus on Corporate new initiatives to keep pace with our changing Responsibility (CR). We see a growing trend world. from our customers demanding focus on developing a clear CR policy. In 2007, Semco Maritime joined the UN Global Compact initiative. We are committed The markets in which we operate continuously to aligning our operations and strategies with demand high quality projects delivered at the the ten universally accepted principles in the right time, the right price and at the right cost. areas of human rights, labor, the environment Our expanding global presence means more and anti-corruption. Our progress within these stakeholders – and a greater environmental areas is reported and published annually. impact – and we strive to meet each new challenge in an environmentally, ethically and Semco Maritime uses the UN Global Compact socially responsible way. as a platform for our Corporate Responsibility (CR) activities and as an incentive for suppliers Our motto, ‘Dedicated people, exceeding to support the principles of CR. The UN Global expectations’ is reflected in our projects, Compact constitutes a good common frame solutions and manpower services for the of reference and core values, which form the global energy sector. We have formalised basis of the cooperation between Semco our corporate values; commitment, Maritime’s departments, as well as with responsiveness, reliability and inspiration in suppliers and other business partners around our Corporate Responsibility strategy, which the globe. focuses on four areas: the community, the environment, people and sustainability. Our Steen Brødbæk Corporate Responsibility initiatives define CEO 5 Strategy and stakeholders Corporate Responsibility It has been important for us, that the building Strategy Responsibility (CR) initiatives is above average, when it comes to working encourage organisations to take responsibility environment. There will be high standards for their actions. These initiatives range from for indoor climate, and most of the building protecting the environment, ensuring good standards meet the Danish “BR 20”, which are working conditions for employees and caring standards supposed to be the norms for 2020. for the local community. The building meet the standard on the floor, There are a number of factors that influence roof, windows and exterior walls supplied a company’s CR strategy. As production with solar cells on the roof. The owner will networks expand around the globe and ensure that the building score a silver certifiinformation moves faster and faster and cate DGNB Denmark.(Green Building Council). becomes more easily accessible, organisations are becoming more transparent – and We expect to move into the new domicile in stakeholders are demanding an insight January 2016. into how companies affect their social and environmental surroundings. Corporate Responsibility survey 2013 To collect information on three stakeholders Our CR strategy focuses on four areas: the perspective on Semco Maritime’s Corporate community, the environment, people and Responsibility a survey was conducted with sustainability. It is formalised in our business the following target groups: strategy and is in line with our motto, “Dedicated people, exceeding expectations.” • Customers To chart our progress, we have • Suppliers developed step-by-step plans for each area. • Employees Following topics created the basis for the Construction of new domicile meeting questions: strong Danish demands for building code • Climate change, compliance, corruption 2020 and bribery, community, environment, In 2013 Semco Maritime decided to build a ethical profile, human rights, safety and new head office in Esbjerg. In cooperation working environment. with Pension Danmark, who will be the owner of the building, we have designed the The survey was conducted to collect knowdomicile to more than 700 workplaces. ledge on whether Semco Maritime’s work and It will be placed in the northern part of the focus level was in sync with our stakeholders harbour in an area the local authorities will expectations. Further it gave the company develop in the coming years. guidelines on the direction of our future work with CR. 35 customers responded to the CR survey, which was an add on to the yearly customer satisfaction survey. 27 suppliers and 398 employees completed the survey. w 6 strategy and stakeholders Visualised by GPP Arkitekter 7 Strategy and stakeholders The overall conclusion was: Stakeholders • Overall, the three stakeholder groups shared We wish to pursue an active dialogue with the same view on the industry and on our stakeholders in order to develop and Semco Maritime as a whole strengthen the company. Our primary stakeholders are our customers – the foundation • The three groups mainly agreed and of our business. To serve them as best as we responded favourably to the CR work can, we depend on qualified employees, good performed by Semco Maritime partners and sustainable political decisions. We value a close and healthy relationship with • There is agreement in the stakeholder our stakeholders and are always interested in groups regarding the importance and the their opinion. Our annual customer satisfaccontribution of CR work. tion survey, provides a valuable insight into how customers perceive our company and we Semco Maritime management team is use this information to target our resources to decided to continue the CR work at the specific areas. level, the company has fulfilled during the past years. The company CR performance meets the stakeholders expectations, and Semco Maritime will continue to act as a responsible partner for customers, employees and suppliers. w 8 strategy and stakeholders 9 Human rights At the start of 2014 the Corporate Procurement department will introduce an We support and respect the protection of improved self-assessment system which is internationally recognised human rights. We broadly aligned with the Oil and Gas industry observe the law and wish to instil values and Achilles JQS Supplier Self-Assessment process, attitudes that support a responsible dialogue with both being inspired by NORSOK S-006 with our stakeholders (customers, owners, standard. end-users, suppliers, employees, national organisations, grass-root movements and local The purpose of the process is to classify and community). evaluate existing and new potential suppliers To strengthen the company and improve The assessment process will evaluate the our business strategy, we wish to develop a supplier’s responses against criteria regarding responsible ethical profile. This will link our Corporate Responsibility, Health and Safety vision with our values and attitudes and with (OHSAS 18001), Environment policies (ISO our motto “Dedicated people – exceeding 14001), Quality Risk Management (ISO9001) expectations.” We must share our success and where applicable ISO 3834-2 for Welding stories – big as well as small – so that we can and Heat Treatment motivate and learn from one another. Although each supplier is evaluated on an Code of conduct individual basis, the recommended level for A code of conduct is a set of ethical guidelines approval against the different criteria is based that outlines responsibilities and best pracon Business Criticality groupings. tices in relation to human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption issues. The suppliers are put into different evaluation All our employees, partners and suppliers are groups dependent on their influence on obliged to know, understand and comply with Semco Maritime’s business. The business our code of conduct, as well as the values criticality is ranked from “High” to “Low” upon which it is based. dependent on the type of product or service supplied, the influence this can have on Supplier evaluation Semco Maritime or our end customers and Semco Maritime’s ability to operate our the business criticality of the relationship. business in line with our corporate value at the standards is impacted by the products and After assessment by the Procurement and services we purchase for external suppliers HSE&Q departments, the supplier will be and the standards they set corporately for register as follows: their business. We therefore need to continually strive to ensure that we understand the Approved: Supplier meets expected criteria principles and policies of our external supplier for business type, Registered: Supplier does and therefore have a procedure for supplier not meet all expected criteria levels, however evaluation. no fundamental issues for continued use are foreseen, Blocked: Supplier does not meet Our supplier evaluation process forms the expected criteria and is not deemed suitable basis of our partnership with our major supfor use or Expired: Supplier is no longer active pliers and is a key element of our Corporate & therefore no assessment is needed. A Procurement Strategy. supplier can also be classified as Not Assessed if the nature of the commercial relationship The Corporate Procurement Department does not warrant it. underlined the importance of this process by setting a target for 2013 that the majority of The approval of the supplier is valid for 3 the money we spend should be with suppliers years and all information will be stored in the who have gone through the supplier registracorporate ERP system. Prior to the expiry of tion process. This was achieved with 81% the approval, the procurement department of the external spend in 2013 at registered will contact the supplier to start the resuppliers. approval process. 10 By the end of 2011, 11 suppliers were registered. By the end of 2012 there were 121 registered suppliers and by the end of 2013 this number was 412 cooresponding to 81% of the value of procurement being spent at registered suppliers. respect and responsibility 11 Human rights A hospital hlown is a clown not a child and not an adult Semco Maritime has supported 83 For that reason alone, a hospital clown can charity and humanitarian projects help the child in a whole different way than in 2013. Below we have listed a the rest of us might. selection of the projects: A Hospital Clown can mirror the child’s emoDanChurchAid aim is to strengthen the tions such as fear , anger and powerlessness world’s poorest people in their struggle for a and thereby making these feelings acceptable. life in dignity. STUDIECYKEL.DK a social economic underA hospital clown can make fun of us the taker company to help students in Denmark authorities and thus make life in the hospital and Africa. more human and acceptable. A hospital clown can, at least for a while, ease the sorrow and Roseliv charity concert supporting muldiscomfort and make way for the joy of life . tiple sclerosis. The job of a hospital clowns is to provide Aflastningstjenesten providing care and the child compassionate attentiveness. A attentive, compassionate assistance to vulnerable, seriously ill and dying people. hospital clown does not have any projects to be implemented they are just present along Familier med kræftramte børn support to with the child and on the terms of the child. families with children with cancer. A hospital clown never does anything Hospital clowns spread joy among children unpleasant. A hospital clown is often a clumsy in hospitals. person with whom the child can laugh or scold. But the hospital clown is also a friend Stafet for Livet community awareness, information and collection for the fight against with whom the child can trust and maybe talk cancer. to about things that it’s hard to talk to others about . June Skaale jupitervænget Hus vulnerable children Danish Red Cross humanitarian aid organisation. 12 respect and responsibility 13 Human rights Traffic education An intensive campaign about traffic safety, not just to drivers but also to the pedestrians Give, support and recycle has been carried out. In Guatemala through a non-lucrative organisation, DAR (Donate, Support, Recycle), The campaign covered safety talks, training, it’s possible to ensure the collection of the review of the controls (driving policy, maintewaste that can be recycled and this enables nance logbooks, driving licenses), weekly camthe support of social responsibility activities paigns, safety wall collage (with the picture of oriented to homeless people, nursing homes the relatives of the workers). for old people, studding support for children and others. This activity in particular touched the lives of the employees although they were working Semco Maritime had beeng supporting this cross borders colleagues. project since August 2013 up today, recycling more than 200 pounds. Effects of the alcohol abuse In October the campaign in the Termopuerto Sexual transmitted Power Plant was informed about the awarediseases and HIV/AIDS Awareness ness of the effects of the alcohol abuse in the During September of last year The Termopuersociety, in the family, in the personal life and to Power Plant operated by Semco Maritime in at work. El Salvador promoted an intensive campaign about sexual transmitted diseases and HIV/ The campaigns were supported by a doctor AIDS awareness among the employees. from the Salvadorian Social Insurance Institute, to explain the health effects and by a psyAs part of the campaign different talks were chologist to explain the psychological effects given during the month to the employees on the person and the environment in which about the topics mentioned above. The staff he/she is living. from the 4 different shifts of the operation The different activities of the campaign were and maintenance participated and supported supported by all the employees. the campaign. The talks were given as part of the annual The talks were given by a doctor from the safety training schedule. Salvadorian Social Insurance Institute, as part of the annual safety training schedule. 14 respect and responsibility 15 Labour and in all departments are treated equally, and are guaranteed the same opportunities We respect the right to collective bargaining. and terms of employment with regard to We do not discriminate, or in any other way education, salary, allowance, promotion, leave make decisions that are affected by employee of absence and job content /tasks etc. We affiliations with trade unions or other asbelieve that difference and diversity fosters desociations, nor do we interfere in which trade velopment and change and it is important to unions or other associations are formed in the use the resources of each individual optimally workplace. to develop the business. This policy applies to all employees across the organisation. We do not use force, threats or disciplinary means to force people to work, or withhold Social counsellor identification papers or wages from employOn August 1, 2007 Semco Maritime created ees to force them to work. All employees have the position of a social counsellor based on individual contracts, made and approved in the staff’s wish for increased focus on human accordance with international, and national values. legal requirements. In some countries, howThe position covers working areas in the ever, where required by law, Semco Maritime company social inclusion, job satisfaction, holds both working permits and passports job retention by disease and counselling and during the period of employment. We do not coaching the employees and their families. employ nor support the use of child labour. A few examples of initiatives concerning job satisfaction are the job satisfaction survey The purpose of our personnel policy is to onshore in Denmark, where all the employees create an attractive workplace where each get a presentation of result and time to employee has the opportunity to develop both choose focus areas for them and their team to personally and professionally, and where the increased job satisfaction every day. Another knowledge and attitude of each employee initiative is that the employees can contact the contributes to a creative and inspiring working social counsellor if they have problems with environment. their job satisfaction and get counselling, so they can regain the job satisfaction. There Equal opportunities are also job satisfaction groups in some We support diversity and equal opportunities. departments. In these groups management We do not expose any person to discriminaand employees discuss steps that result in tion based on gender, race, colour, religion, increased job satisfaction at the work place. political opinion, sexual orientation, national The social counsellor has a coordination funcextraction, social origin, ethnic origin, age or tion in cooperation with Semco Maritime. The handicap. No person is subject to discriminafocus area is job satisfaction of the employees, tion in hiring, dismissal, transfer, promotion, which has continued unabated since 2007 and wage setting, and setting of working still is in focus. conditions or competency development. All decisions regarding employment, promotion, Competency assessment dismissal, wages and other working conditions Each employee and the company have a muare based on relevant and objective criteria. tual obligation to develop in order to create results and add value to the company and the Our equal opportunities policy ensures that individual. To strengthen competencies within both female and male employees at all levels the company and to ensure our strategic w 16 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 17 Labour performance and deliver high quality solutions to our customers. development, competence assessment will be Semco Maritime strives to be a learning implemented at all levels: company, business organisation and therefore we find the units and divisions. learnings in Non Conformances Reports, Employee, education and training needs are Health, Safety and Environment incidents and identified in an annual appraisal, and a plan Improvement Proposals of utmost importance. of action is prepared for the coming year. We Our global registration system helps us sharing also record employee educational qualificaknowledge across departments, divisions tions so that qualified resources are matched and country boarders, and enables Semco to the right tasks. The company is following Maritime to raise the bar and create value for a group strategy “First Choice 2015” and it our customers. Furthermore, the electronic is important that employees connect their reporting system has saved the amount of individual development plan to the strategy. paper which was used in our old manual We are initiating a competency management system. and development project to identify the Through our Health, Safety and Environment competencies required to live up to our curreporting we are capable of improving the rent strategy. In 2013 we have implemented involved areas, in order to ensure a safe and generic behavioural competencies on all cost efficient workplace. When an incident is positions in Denmark and generated job registered, our HSE department will evaluate descriptions for all positions. the incident and take actions to ensure the The work will continue in 2014 focusing on safety of our employees and improve the adding functional competences and rating working conditions, fulfilling our motto: “No employee competence level vs. required level compromise – we care”. The no compromising at the specific job in order to identify compeattitude is highly relevant, since our employees tence gaps and development need. often operate in extreme work environments. When Non Conformances occur, they are Reporting system helps ensuring safe reported to the manager responsible for the working conditions and continuous involved business area. This provides the improvements managers with a unique overview of which At Semco Maritime we want to ensure type of Non Conformances occur in his/ continuous improvements, especially regardher business area. The manager allocates ing Health, Safety, Environment and Quality. an analyst who is responsible for finding In order to achieve this, we have throughout the root cause of the issue and if needed the year 2013 increased our focus on Non a person is allocated to carry out correcConformance Reporting, Health, Safety and tiveand preventive actions. Before the Non Environment incidents and Improvement Conformance Report is closed, our Quality Proposals. This has resulted in 1822 registradepartment evaluates each case, to ensure tions in 2013 compared to 430 registrations the quality of the Non Conformance handling. in 2012. In order to keep this positive At Semco Maritime Improvement Proposals development, we have set an optimistic are regarded as important as any other target of 1200 registered Non Conformance observations, since an Improvement Proposal Reports in 2014 verses our 730 registrations can prevent Non Conformances or Health, in 2013. The target is set to ensure that every Safety and Environment incidents. Non Conformance is registered in our global reporting system, helping us to improve our w 18 PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 19 Labour The fabrication phase is completed in our own facilities and we are carrying out work place assessment to ensure that the work place All Improvement Proposals are sent to our and machinery is arranged and maintained so Quality department, who assigns an analyst the employees are not put to any risk when responsible for evaluating the improvement carrying out their work. Before any task a risk suggestion. If the suggestion is found assessment is carried out by the employees relevant, a person is allocated to implement involved. the suggestion before our Quality department verifies the implementation and closes the The installation phase is planned very carefully case. Even simple ideas can generate value, for and controlled through work permits or job example an improvement suggestion resulted packages. This in order to ensure that no in 2 sided printing as the default print setting activities are overruling each other and pose on all Semco Maritime printers, in order to a special danger to the involved personnel. reduce paper usage and thereby reduce the Before starting up any work permit or job environmental costs. package a risk assessment comprising the task is made by the employees to perform the Working conditions work. The level of details of the assessment is Our employees are our greatest assets. Our dependent on the specific job. work often takes us to extreme working environments, both on and offshore and we To protect the health and safety of our handle heavy machinery, explosive materials people, our assets and our customers’ assets, and high-voltage equipment on a daily basis. as well as the communities we operate in, In order to prevent our people from getting we insist on adhering to globally approved hurt we make risk assessment in every phase health and safety standards. Semco Maritime from design to installation/commissioning. is certified according to OHSAS 18001. Our staff receives regular training in the latest In the engineering phase it is technical safety health and safety tools and procedures, and that is the key word and we review/assess the we publish our health and safety performance design to ensure that the future fabrication, in annual reports. installation, commissioning and later on the dismantling can take place without any people getting hurt. Neither our own people nor the We constantly develop the processes and future users (client). policies of our work. It is the responsibility of The table below illustrates the number of accidents during the past five years. ACCIDENTS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Lost Time Accidents 13 9 16 10 7 20 the management to create a working environIn addition, all business units are working ment that ensures that we can achieve our strategically with safety. This has led to goals and that policies are observed. numerous new initiatives that have resulted in strategic plans for safety. One initiative is a Accidents can be prevented, so we continustandard safety manual for Semco Maritime ously inform, train and educate employees international sites. This standard safety manual to ensure they know how to work safely. will be used as a template for larger projects Likewise, employees are obliged to ‘raise on sites abroad so that all relevant information the red flag’ if the workplace does not meet is included. safety requirements, report all undesirable incidents and suggest improvements. These initiatives are expected to reduce work-related injuries in the future. Our aim for The past year Semco Maritime has intensified 2014 is to see Lost Time Accidents (LTA) fall to our work to strengthen our safety culture. A zero. In the coming year, we will continue to safe behaviour in a safe environment is of the focus on reducing the number of work-related utmost importance. We need to ensure a safe injuries. workplace to protect the health and safety of our people and our assess. This means a common focus on safe habits and behaviour, which is also an essential part of an organisation which is both observant and is constantly improving. “NO COMPROMISE – we care” is the name of a large scale safety conference hosted by the HSE department. The conference is intended to be a yearly recurring event and subsequently, we will launch campaigns and provide supporting focus areas and activities. PERSONAL FREEDOM and development 21 Environment year due to a major project which required a very large amount of paper. We respect the environment and comply with applicable laws and regulations. However, we In order to continue our focus on reducing place higher demands on ourselves than stiputhe paper consumption we will launch the lated by the law. Semco Maritime is certified following initiatives during 2014. according to ISO 14001, which means that • We seek to influence our customers by we engage in targeted and systematic efforts sending project documentation electronically, to continuously improve our environmental instead of hard copy performance. We understand ‘a precautionary • Several types of documentation that are approach’ as preventive. normally printed are now scanned and saved We will strengthen employee environmental electronically awareness and responsibility through educa• The ERP system will affect paper consumption and active participation in environmental tion, as numerous working procedures will be work. Our activities must not in any way harm automated, which will reduce paper consumpthe surroundings and we must maintain a tion. positive track record of environmental action • All printers are set up to print on both sides and improvement. We aim to reduce our of the paper. environmental impact by using resources Reduce electricity consumption in the best way possible, reducing energy We continuously seek to reduce our power consumption, and waste and discharge levels. consumption. During 2013, we launched We aim to ensure the best possible energy various initiatives, but despite our efforts efficiency of all purchased energy-intensive electricity consumption was maintained nearly equipment. We will maintain an efficient at the same level as 2012. However, despite waste separation system to ensure maximum a general increase in activities in 2013, our waste recycling and the best possible electricity consumption has maintained at the separation of the remaining waste, as well same level as the previous year. as strengthen the development and use of In 2014 we will focus on the following environmentally friendly technologies around initiatives: the world. • Ongoing campaigns will be launched to save Reduce paper consumption electricity in all business units worldwide In 2013, our goal was to reduce the paper • In the production areas, various initiatives consumption by 10 percent. This goal was not will be launched in order to reduce the power achieved at all as the consumption ended up consumption. on more than plus 50 % from the previous The table below illustrates paper consumption during the past five years. CONSUMPTION OF MATERIALS 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Paper consumption 14.8 ton 15.3 ton 14.9 ton 14.6 ton 21.7 ton The figure below illustrates electricity consumption during the past five years. ELECTRICAL CONSUMPTION 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Electricity (kWh) 2,144,023 2,419,783 2,410,288 2,400,024 2,354,430 22 sustainability and stewardship 23 Environment Climate partnership agreement with DONG Energy CO2 neutral website – climate-friendly Semco Maritime is DONG Energy climate surfing partner. A climate partnership includes joint responsibility for the future climate challenges We have joined the CO2 neutral website by setting up targets for Semco Maritime’s initiative in order to neutralise the emissions climate efforts, carry out energy conservation originating from our website and support the production of renewable and our website users. energy. The basic idea behind this climate partnership Nordic swan marking is that DONG Energy assists Semco Maritime Our stationery is manufactured from enviin finding areas where we can save energy. ronmentally friendly materials. At present, all The savings are used to finance more renewstationery and almost all envelopes able energy. carry the Nordic swan-label. The energy consultants from DONG Energy are working in close cooperation with Semco FSC® Maritime around specific challenges and possiSustainability in the forest bilities and together we have identified where FSC stands for The Forest Stewardship Council and how to implement energy savings. The and is an international non-profit label for savings from the reduced energy consumption wood and paper. FSC is your guarantee that is used to finance certified guarantees of the paper used for your printed material origin from wind power, corresponding to the comes from wood in a FSC forest. Here no total electricity use of Semco Maritime. In that more wood is cut than the forest can regeneway we can contribute to more renewable rate. FSC is also a guarantee that animals and energy projects in Denmark. plants are protected and that forest The climate partnership is the long-term workers are guaranteed education, investment, which is based on a common security and decent wages. climate vision, mutual confidence and a strategy for achieving the planned targets. 24 sustainability and stewardship 25 Environment a platform in the North Sea and is awaiting commissioning. We expect the system to SemCoMem, produced water start-up in summer 2014. We have met solutions – the next generation considerable interest in efficient water treatTogether with the Danish company, Liqtech, ment solutions like SemCoMem. Besides the we have been working on an environmenNorth Sea, we are trying to penetrate the tally friendly solution for the treatment of oil-sand market in Canada and the markets in produced water. As the only fully automated the Middle East. system, for challenging produced water, SemCoMem offers the lowest OPEX of any As part of a long-term future strategy, solution on the market. we have engaged the assistance from the University of Aalborg. With their expertise All offshore oil producing installations need within calculation of flow and turbulence, they water treatment systems. Oil fields produce up helped verify the design of our new design. to 90 percent water during operations. When most of the oil has been separated from the All in all there is substantial global market water, the produced water still contains too potential for this environmentally friendly much oil to be pumped back into the ocean, solution. and too many particles to be re-injected into Waste separation the well. Our new product, SemCoMem, Waste is one of our most significant envireduces the dispersed oil and brings the ronmental impacts, particularly combustible produced water back down to oil concentrawaste. In general, we produce less waste, tions below 5mg/l. recycle more and incinerate less waste than Every existing installation already has a we did previously. produced water system. However, in some cases these systems, based on conventional In 2013 our waste levels were kept at the gravitation separation, cannot comply with same level as previous year and our goal to the environmental regulations for discharge of recycle at least 80 percent of the total amount oil, because of the complexity of the water. In of waste was met as we recycled 89 percent. these cases SemCoMem provides a solution However, waste separation is dependent on that requires very limited man power and has the ability to always comply with environmenthe local infrastructure in the countries where tal legislation. we operate. Our future SemCoMem solution will be even We will keep the focus on waste separation in more efficient and space-saving than the 2014, and aim to maintain the recycle percent present system which has been installed on at 80 % of the total amount of waste. The figures below illustrate the various types of waste produced during the past five years. TYPE OF WASTE (KG) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Combustible waste 26,832 58,582 58,790 78,710 88,410 Recycling 328,704 438,725 560,683 550,763 977,655 Deposit waste 5,710 45,136 40,636 26,542 27,300 Specially treated waste 1,619 1,650 962 1,182 3,424 Total amount of waste 362,865 544,093 661,071 657,197 1,096,789 Recycling degree compared to total amount of waste 90 % 81 % 85% 83% 89 % 26 sustainability and stewardship 27 Windpower engineering and design department handles everything from specialised studies to the Rapid growth in renewable energy projects. detailed design and specification of substations, accommodation modules, seafastening Semco Maritime is among the market leaders and installation equipment. Our teams have in electrical infrastructure for offshore substaalso been involved in projects to upgrade tions and offshore balance of plant. installation vessels, install wind farms, Tetra communication systems and test equipment We believe that the renewable energy market for wind turbine manufacturers. will continue to grow, and we are marketing Semco Maritime as a viable choice for develWith focus on bringing down the cost of opers of offshore wind farms. energy, engineers and designers focus on the functionality of each element and its integraOriginally a provider of services for the oil and tion into the overall design and our work gas industry, our business has increasingly continues to break new ground. turned toward renewable energy. A logical step, as many of our core competencies from many years in the oil and gas business are easily applied to offshore wind. We design and engineer electrical infrastructure systems for wind farms, including construction of the on and offshore substations. We are one of the leading operation and maintenance suppliers to wind farms in Denmark, the UK and Germany. Our safety and quality-conscious staff operate and/or maintain substation modules, offshore accommodation modules, wind turbine foundations and land-based substations. Our dedicated Semco Maritime has participated in the following offshore wind projects: Burbo Banks Nordse Ost Robin Rigg West of Duddon Sands Innogy 1 Lillgrund Walney I Borkum Riffgrund I Princess Amalia (Q7) Walney II Anholt Nysted Northwind Rødsand B London Array Gunfleet Sands 28 Anti-corruption 3) Risk assessment • By evaluating as applicable the risks As a signatory to the UN’s Global Compact associated to our potential and current since 2007, Semco Maritime is committed to projects with regard to the risks inherent the highest standards of integrity, with: honesty, and fairness in all internal and (i) geography and (ii) industry sector external relationships, in accordance with all (iii) nature of transaction and (iv) applicable laws and regulations, including, but scope and nature of the necessary not limited to, anti-bribery and anti-corruption partnerships laws. • By when necessary devoting Semco Maritime A/S’ employees shall not specific resources (Legalas commercial) directly or indirectly accept, solicit or offer to identify potentially risk agreements bribes, kick-backs, facilitation payments or related to: any other unjustified advantages in order supply (from simple Purchase Order to improperly influence or to gain an unfair to full-blown EPC contract with business advantage from any governmental or Operation and Maintenance), private entity. purchasing, agents and consultants We have built our anti-bribery and corruption 4) Due diligence: policy’s foundation “Prevent – Monitor – • By inserting an anti-bribery clause in React” on the basis of the 6 principles of the internal Contract Review Guidelines across Bribery Act 2010 (UK) as follows: Semco Maritime’s 4 divisions; • By including a specific set of questions 1) Proportionate procedures: on the anti-bribery and corruption policy • By designing and implementing (i) an in our HSE&Q Department’s new set of “anti-bribery policy” and (ii) actual, internal auditing rules; suitable and proportionate “anti-bribery 5) Communication: procedures” to handle risk-exposures in • By bringing focus on the anti-bribery and our markets; corruption policy in introductory courses • By synergizing the necessary resources of for new employees; our CEO, CFO, the Legaland the HSEQ • By making our Code of Conduct departments ensuring the appropriate readily available on our internet site, attention to our anti-bribery and corrupalong with the updated version of our tion policy and procedures; Communication on Progress (“COP”) • E.g. by capping gifts to €350 other report and Global Business Manual promotions and hospitality gestures are including the anti-bribery and corruption regulated in each incident based upon policy and procedures; specific criteria; • By training, through our Contract Review 2) Top-level commitment: Guidelines course, all Semco Maritime • By having our CEO and CFO and employees involved in contract negotia“owning” the anti-bribery policy. tions will be aware of counterparts on • By having a Culture & Development bribery clauses; internal program and Group General 6) Monitoring and review: Counsel proactively sponsoring the policy, • By having established either a Business when necessary; Ethics Committee or another suitable • By having our Senior Vice-Presidents legal internal body to annually review and annually (via for instance the intranet and adjudicate on instances related to our similar internal communication channels) anti-bribery and corruption policy and make employees aware of the policy/ procedures; procedures; • By regularly modifying, updating and adding to the anti-bribery and corruption policy and procedures during reviews and monitoring conducted by our HSE&Q Department. 29 Future focus areas Supplier evaluation Working conditions Continually evaluate and approve the key Continued focus on prevention of accidents, suppliers to Semco Maritime to maintain the concentrated on three issues: behaviour, majority of our external spend with suppliers safety and vigilance that meet our expectations in terms of Lost time accident frequency (LTA) shall be 0 Corporate Responsibility, Health and Safety, Increased focus on NCR and HSE reporting to Environment policy and Quality process. focus on on-going improvements. Equal opportunities Environmental consumption Introduce equal opportunity policy to all • Reduce paper consumption employees in all departments. • Reduce electrical consumption • Focus on waste disposal and recycled waste Competency assessment • Initiate activities in the climate partnership ”In 2013 we have implemented generic agreement with DONG Energy. behavioural competencies on all positions in Denmark and generated job descriptions for Technologies all positions. The work will continue in 2014 Focus on developing climate and environmenfocusing on adding functional competences tally friendly technologies. and rating employee competence level vs. required level at the specific job in order to Ethical guidelines identify competence gaps and development Anti-bribery and corruption policy courses for need.” selected employees. Our strategy “First Choice 2015” -gives the direction and guidelines that we should achieve: • To be our customers’ First Choice • To be the First Choice as a workplace for employees • To be the First Choice as a benchmark baseline on execution Vision: To be the energy sector’s first choice for safe solutions that consistently exceed expectations Values: Commitment, Responsiveness, Reliability, Inspiration 30 looking ahead to a brighter future 31 Head office: Semco Maritime A/S Stenhuggervej 12-14 DK-6710 Esbjerg V Denmark Tel.: +45 7916 6666 Fax.: +45 7515 6580 Mail: semco@semcomaritime.com Semco Maritime is an international company with branches around the world. For further information, addresses, e-mail addresses, fax and phone numbers, please see our website: www.semcomaritime.com semco Maritime Dedicated people – exceeding expectations www.semcomaritime.com April 2014
