Date: 12.09.14 GCPL’s Commitment & Continued Support to UN’s Global Compact Programme Company Profile Company name: Global Calcium Private Limited Address: Plant: 125 & 126 Sipcot Industrial Complex Hosur – 635 126 Tamil Nadu, India. Phone: 91 – 4344 – 406000 Fax: 91 – 4344 – 276359 Email: chandrasekar@globalcalciumpharma.com Corporate office: No. 1, 2nd floor 17th Main, 100 feet Road Koramangala 5th Block Bangalore – 560 095, India. Phone: 91 – 80 – 40554500 Fax: 91 – 80 – 25530807 Web Page: www.globalcalcium.com Brief description of nature of business: Global Calcium Private Limited (GCPL) – is one of the world's leading producer and supplier of high quality calcium and other mineral salts (gluconates, citrates, ascorbates, lactobionates, malates, pyruvates, orotates, lactates, etc.) catering to the pharmaceutical, nutraceuticals, food and beverage sectors world wide. GCPL is an environment friendly company in all its activities, products and services besides providing safe and healthy working environment to all its stakeholders. The company is accredited to International standards viz – ISO 9001: 2008 certification for Quality Management Systems, ISO 14001: 2004 certification for Environmental Management Systems, HACCP certification for Food Safety Management Systems, WHO – GMP, etc., Statement of Continued Support: Global Calcium Private Limited – Hosur: agrees to support the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and has participated in the Global Compact since October 2007. Details can be found on the websites of the Global Compact. Network: WEB http://www.unglobalcompact.org We have been audited successfully by: 1. M/s Novartis during October 2008 for CSR activities. 2. M/s GAIN during June 2009 for CSR activities. 3. M/s AstraZeneca during August 2010 for CSR activities Practical actions taken are summarized as under: Support and respect for the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights – by notifying our policies on Anti – Sexual Harassment, Child Labour, Collective Bargaining, Employment & Health. Supportings for the cited policies are detailed below:  Anti – Sexual Harassment – details of implementation in case of any harassment are laid out in the HR policy and guided by the principles laid down by the statutory authorities. GCPL has not faced any such complaint since its inception in 1979.  Child Labour – it is also incorporated into the agreements signed off with our contractors and the policy is prominently displayed at the main Security for information to all visitors. GCPL does not employ child labour in any form.  Collective Bargaining – GCPL signs off a negotiated settlement governing the terms and conditions of employment of its unionized workmen every four years. This settlement is also registered with the Government authorities.  Employment – GCPL employs persons based on the requirements of the job. The job profile is based on age, education, relevant previous experience and merit. GCPL does not discriminate on sex, colour, creed, race or nationality. In addition, the cited CSR audits have thoroughly investigated these aspects which included a one on one personal interview to verify authenticity of the implementation.  Health – a regular annual medical check up is conducted by qualified occupational health expert in our factory premises. There has been no adverse report. In addition, the statutory authorities periodically conduct surprise visits to our factory.  Environment, Health & Safety – we continue to be covered under ISO 14001; certifying body periodically conducts audits and we comply all the requirements. We have also recently started verniculture composting and nursery for growing plants.  GCPL generates wind energy through its own windmill and this is equivalent to about 100 % of our energy requirements and we are also a zero discharge company.  Quality & Food Safety – we continue to be covered under ISO 9001 & HACCP, certifying body periodically conducts audits and we comply all the requirements.  Anti corruption – it is incorporated into the agreements / Purchase orders etc... Signed off with our contractors and the policy is displayed at the main Security for information to all visitors. GCPL does not entertain bribery / corruption in any form.  As part of its on going CSR activities – GCPL has during the period Nov 2013 to Oct 2014 supported the following activities – poor feeding, books & uniforms to school children, medical aids for poor, donation to hospitals, blood donation, old age homes eye camps, etc., (M. Chandrasekar) Director – Technical Global Calcium Private Limited (GCPL)
