Gentle care for life Overview of the Unicharm Group ● Company profile ● Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Corporate Name Unicharm Corporation UNICHARM CORPORATION Japan Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. Date of Establishment February 10, 1961 Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. Capital 15,992 million yen (as of March 31, 2014) Cosmotec Corporation Number of Shares Issued 206,944,773 (as of March 31, 2014) Unicharm Mölnlycke K.K. Headquarters Sumitomo Fudosan Mita Twin Bldg. West Wing, Overseas United Charm Co., Ltd. (Taiwan) 3-5-27 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo, Japan Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Registered Headquarters 182 Shimobun, Kinsei-cho, Shikokuchuo-City, Ehime, Japan Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Number of employees 12,795 (on a consolidated basis as of March 31, 2014) LG Unicharm Co., Ltd. (Korea) Listed Exchange First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange PT Uni-Charm Indonesia (Indonesia) Business Lines Manufacture and sales of: Uni.Charm Mölnlycke B.V. (Netherlands) Baby and child care products Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Feminine care products Uni-Charm Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) Health care products Unicharm India Private Ltd. (India) Clean & fresh products Unicharm Australasia Pty Ltd. (Australia) Pet care products The Hartz Mountain Corporation (United States) URL http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ Diana Joint Stock Company（Vietnam） http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html Other 31 companies (as of March 31, 2014) ● Production and Sales Areas Unicharm has a business presence in about 80 countries and Netherlands regions around the world. Korea Russia China Myanmar Japan United States India Egypt Taiwan Thailand Philippines Vietnam Saudi Arabia Malaysia Singapore ■ Sales Areas Brazil Indonesia Australia Production and Sales Bases Sales Bases *As of April, 2014 ● Main Business Indicators ■ Consolidated net sales ■ Consolidated operating income ■ Number of group employees (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: 100 million yen) (Unit: person) 5,994 672 14,000 6,000 700 12,795 4,957 873 Other 594 600 12,000 10,855 2,027 Other 5,000 519 10,287 4,283 696 500 450 465 10,000 2,120 4,000 3,568 3,769 540 2,563 2,064 401 394 1,891 Asia 400 8,000 7,108 7,317 7,774 3,000 1,453 1,410 960 1,184 6,000 1,277 5,726 300 5,196 Asia 2,000 2,778 2,887 200 4,000 2,370 2,558 2,207 2,191 2,290 1,000 Japan 100 2,000 2,994 3,053 3,020 3,027 3,009 Japan 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2 unicharm CSR report 2014 Contents ● Editorial Policy Preparation of the CSR Report 2014 This document has been prepared as Unicharm Groupʼs Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) report. This report reaﬃrms that our CSR is the fulﬁllment of our corporate philosophy “NOLA Overview of the Unicharm Group .................. 2 & DOLA”*, and presents how we practice CSR through our business activities. In particular, the social problem of a superEditorial Policy/Contents ................................. 3 aging society and the progress of responses to the global issues in the current ﬁscal year, including Making Life Better for People Message from the President .......................... 4 Living in Asia by Reducing the Burden of their Daily Life, can be Unicharm Group s CSR ................................. 6 found in the Feature Topic sections of this report. Introduction of Business Activities ................. Furthermore, as for our global report, we refer to the UN Global Compact, the UN Millennium Development Goals, 8 ISO26000 and GRI Guidelines throughout the whole report. Feature We will continue to accommodate the requests of our Topic 1 Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life ........................................ 10 stakeholders to the greatest extent possible. We welcome your frank opinions and comments. Feature * NOLA&DOLA: “Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities”. From Topic 2 Responding to a Super-Aging Society newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may ........................................................ 14 be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. Continue to provide support to the disaster● Contents affected areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake ................................................... 18 Areas Covered Business operations, CSR vision, activity goals, organizational Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes structure, business performance, accounting data, etc. and Major Indicators (KPI) ..................... 20 This report presents details of results for FY2013 as well as the latest information for the early part of FY2014. Organizations Along with Our Customers .......................... 24 Unicharm Group companies are shown on a consolidated basis. Details of companies mentioned in the environmental Along with the Environment ........................ 28 activity report can be found on the Unicharm website. Intended Audience Along with Our Employees .......................... 32 All Unicharm stakeholders inclusive of customers, employees, business partners, shareholders, and society in general Along with the Society ................................. 36 Period Along with Our Business Partners .............. April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 (including some activities prior to and after the above period, as well as future targets) 38 Along with Shareholders and Investors ..... Reference Guidelines ● GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 39 ● 2012 Environmental Reporting Guidelines of the Ministry of the Environment Management ................................................ 40 ● ISO26000 Date of issue Third Party Assurance Report ................... 42 June 25, 2014. Next date of issue: March 2015 Available at List of Contents/ ● CSR & Environmental Information on the Unicharm website (all items reported) List of Awards and Commendations ● Booklet “CSR Report 2014” (Digest Report） Received in Fiscal 2013................................ 43 Role of this report For more information about our CSR activities, CSR Report Interest of stakeholders please contact: Corporate Social Responsibility Department TEL: +81-3-6722-1041 (Direct Line) FAX: +81-3-6722-1018 Print version For general corporate information, please contact: Web version Public Relations Group, Corporate Planning Division TEL: +81-3-6722-1019 (Direct Line) Importance to Unicharm Group ・For investor relations, please visit: This report focuses on topics of concern that the company would like to http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ir/index.html particularly share with its readers and stakeholders in this yearʼs edition. http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/ir/index.html Please refer to our website for the full report. unicharm CSR report 2014 3 Message from the President Continually Dedicated to Realizing a Symbiotic Society through Our Business Activities Unicharm s CSR is the Realization of Our Corporate Philosophy of NOLA & DOLA Advancements in IT and globalization have brought about various changes around the world that have exceeded even our wildest imagination, creating a new normal where change is now the norm. At the same time, social issues facing the world today have grown more diverse, from the declining birthrate and aging populations facing Japan and other developed countries to global environmental issues, and poverty and health issues in developing countries. Helping to resolve these myriad issues through our core business will be one and the same as the fulﬁllment of our corporate philosophy of NOLA & DOLA, which represents Unicharmʼs corporate social responsibility. NOLA & DOLA stands for Necessity of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, which embodies our commitment to provide people, from newborn infants to the elderly, with products that physically and psychologically support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens and their dreams may be fulﬁlled. For feminine hygiene products, one of our oldest and original business segments, this means reducing the discomfort of menstruation as much as possible, and for diapers, this means lessening the burden placed on mothers raising children. In other words, our mission is to support consumers so that they can live as oneself for as long as possible. In particular, when it comes to Japanʼs aging population today, one of the most important themes facing Unicharm is how we can enable seniors to continuously live as they have President and CEO always lived. Unicharm Corporation Takahisa Takahara Aiming to Realize a Symbiotic Society Japanʼs population of seniors in age of 65 and older has surpassed the 30 million mark. The next society to face an aging population will undoubtedly be Asia itself. Once this occurs the most ideal form of society will be a symbiotic society, I believe. A symbiotic society refers to a society where all generations of people help one another and live together in harmony. It will be important that such a society does not involve mutual support that ends up being a burden for both parties, but rather encourages independence, respects 4 unicharm CSR report 2014 individuality, and oﬀers communities where both youth Tackling Social Issues Globally and seniors alike can live together naturally. Since it entered the adult diaper business in 1987, Unicharmʼs overseas expansion began back in 1984 Unicharm has continually proposed new ways of doing with the establishment of our local subsidiary in Taiwan. things when it comes to nursing care. In 1988, we During the 1990s we expanded predominantly in the introduced the Lifree Urine Suction Pad, which when Asia region and today we supply diapers and feminine used together with an adult diaper on the outside hygiene products to consumers in some 80 countries changed everyoneʼs belief that diaper changing is a labor and regions around the world. Capitalizing on our intensive aﬀair. In 1995, we launched Lifree Rehabilitation long-standing product development and marketing Pants with the clear message of eliminating bed ridden capabilities cultivated in Japan, our approach in each seniors. This product changed consumer views that country is carefully aligned with local lifestyles and seniors should not move their bodies more than they customs, which has helped to spur on a rapid expansion have to and that laying down and being less active in our footprint overseas. In the midst of this expansion is more beneﬁcial. Today, we carry this product in an we announced our participation in the UN Global assortment of diﬀerent types so that seniors will be able Compact in 2006 and our support for the UN Millennium to select the right product for the condition of their Development Goals, both of which continue to this day. health and physical abilities. We are constantly seeking Additionally, our past initiative that supported womenʼs out ways to help resolve customer issues, particularly advancement in Japanese society is now being promoted reducing the burden of continence care for both internationally with a new, upgraded format. In October caregivers and patients alike, including helping increase 2012, our initiatives in the Middle East/North Africa and opportunities to get out of the house by expanding Asia regions to create employment opportunities for the lineup of pads and liners for mild incontinence and women and supply aﬀordable feminine hygiene products jointly developing together with Hitachi, Ltd. a urinewere recognized for inclusion in the Business Call to suction robot called Humany that can automatically Action (BCtA) lead by the United Nations Development detect and suck in any discharge of urine. Program. Also, our initiatives to support the social Similar to humans, the worldʼs pet population is also advancement and provide employment opportunities seeing a steady rise in aging. We ﬁrst entered the pet to women through the establishment of an exclusively care market in 1986, and with the aim realizing a society womenʼs only plant in Saudi Arabia received the top where families and their beloved pets can live happily prize in the business category at the Second Nikkei Social together, we launched a new pet diaper in 2001. Living Initiative Awards in June 2014. All of our employees felt a with a pet is known to positively aﬀect oneʼs mental and great sense of pride and joy from this recognition which physical health, and for this reason we plan on being a has served to motivate them even more. partner to pet owners to help provide a great sense of Moving forward, Unicharm will build a sustainable and joy in peoplesʼ lives. robust organization in which each and every employee Unicharm carries products that are used by every plays a role in “management with resonance,” and generation and member of the household, from infants through its business activities, help to resolve various to seniors, men and women, and even pets. We are social issues facing the world today, such as the further committed to continually creating products and services advancement of women in society and ensuring the that will help in the realization of a symbiotic society sound and healthy growth of children. We will also going forward. continually contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by oﬀering only the ﬁnest products and services, which deliver comfort, impression and satisfaction to people around the world. Your continued understanding and support will be greatly appreciated. unicharm CSR report 2014 5 Unicharm Group s CSR Unicharm Group s CSR is to Implement the Integrating CSR with Our Businesses Unicharmʼs corporate philosophy is “NOLA & DOLA”. Our concept of NOLA & DOLA: Necessities of Life with Activities & Dreams of Life with Activities, contains our hope that “from newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulfill their dreams.” Our CSR is embodied by our commitment to achieve this aspiration through our business activities and to help resolve social issues in the process. ◆ Unicharm s Corporate Philosophy System From newborn infants to the elderly, Unicharm aims to provide people with Corporate Philosophy products that provide physical and psychological support through gentle NOLA& DOLA care so that they may be free of their burdens to fulﬁll their dreams. The Unicharm Ideals 1. We contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone by oﬀering only the ﬁnest products and services to the market and customers, both at home in Japan and abroad. 1. We strive to pursue proper corporate management principles which combine corporate growth, associate well-being and the fulﬁllment of our social responsibilities. 1. We bring forth the fruits of cooperation based on integrity and harmony, by respecting the independence of the individual and striving to promote the Five Great Pillars. (Established in 1974) “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action “Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action CSR Promotional Structure ● Established cross-organizational ◆ Cross-organizational structure to support and promote Unicharm s CSR CSR structure Unicharm has established a structure Chairman of the CSR committee: President Takahara to implement and promote smooth Committee's secretariat: CSR Department CSR activities in order to meet our stakeholdersʼ expectations. Our “CSR ISO26000 Organizational governance, human rights, labor practices, the environment, fair Committee” is a cross-organizational Core Subjects operating practices, consumer issues, community involvement and development structure for the support of CSR, Compliance, risk management, respect for human rights, employee-friendly workplaces, chaired by our president. The Core Themes occupational health and safety, human resource utilization, CSR procurement, environmentallyfriendly product development, environmental management, product quality improvement, committee meets four times a year customer satisfaction improvement, social contribution activities to discuss and share CSR-related activities. Reference Framework for Unicharm s CSR Strategy At Unicharm, we operate our global business activities in awareness of the voices of our stakeholders and by referring to various international guidelines. We support the ten principles of the “UN Global Compact”, and have participated in the compact since May 2006. UN Global Compact UN Millennium Development Goals Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary the protection of internationally approach to environmental challenges; Human proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Environment environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and Antiin all its forms, including extortion and Labour Corruption bribery. ISO26000 GRI Guidelines compulsory labour; Principle 5: the eﬀective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ISO26000 UN Global Compactʼs 10 Principles 6 unicharm CSR report 2014 Unicharm Philosophy CSR Department General Manager Global Development Division General Manager ● Contribution to super-aging Director, Managing Executive Oﬃcer society Unicharm Corporation ● Decreasing everyday burdens Representative Director and President Resolving of people in Asia Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Social Issues Eiji Ishikawa The Unicharm Ideals, which were established to achieve our Management corporate philosophy of NOLA & DOLA, state, “We contribute Organizational governance, to creating a better quality of life for everyone by oﬀering only Compliance, the ﬁnest products and services to the market and customers, Foundational CSR Quality and Product safety, both at home in Japan and abroad.” Since our founding, we Environmental management, have constantly been aware of the expectations placed on us Social activities, Customer satisfaction, from society under these ideals and have continually devoted CSR procurement, Work safety, and etc. ourselves to customers. As a result, we have received strong support from consumers in many countries around the world. Going forward, to achieve our corporate philosophy, we will Organizational Management with Resonance* deliver value to stakeholders through our core business as a climate and Culture of Pride dedicated manufacturer of non-woven fabric and absorbing materials. By having more customers use our products, * Management with Resonance: To realize our corporate philosophy of “NOLA & DOLA”, we practice business management in which each employee can be a focal point of we will be able to foster joy in childcare, support womenʼ innovation through her or his own labors, each and every movement more greatly s advancement in society and help extend the healthy-life resonates and inﬂuences others company-wide, and each employeeʼs vision can be expectancy of people. actualized. This is the type of corporate culture we foster. Relationship with Stakeholders Unicharm pledges to undertake honest and trustworthy corporate activities toward its customers, shareholders, business partners and society under its “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action, and encourages twoway communication with its stakeholders by providing a wide range of dialogue opportunities. Customers We pledge to earn the full support of customers Pledge by always doing everything we can. Primary communication methods ● Information dissemination using the ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events Internet and the media ● Group interviews ● Customer service center ● Consumer monitoring surveys Society Shareholders We pledge to contribute to the We pledge to distribute industryeconomic and emotional fulfillment Pledge leading returns to shareholders. Pledge of the entire population through our corporate activities. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods ● General shareholders meetings Unicharm ● Disaster assistance ● Small meetings ● Contribution activities in the local community (factory ● Financial presentations tours and events, etc.) ● Information dissemination using the Internet and ● Collaboration with NPOs and NGOs investor relations tools ● Activities in industry organizations ● Dialogue with stakeholders ● Company visits by students Business Partners Employees We pledge to achieve mutual growth by We pledge to achieve the happiness of Pledge Pledge associates and their family members by filling maintaining a fair and equitable relationship. each of them with confidence and pride. Primary communication methods Primary communication methods ● Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session ● Unicharm Kyoshinkan (Resonance Hall) ● CSR procurement (self-checks and investigations of actual conditions) ● Information dissemination using in-house intranet and in-house newsletter ● Quality and environmental audits ● Employee questionnaires ● New product presentation conference ● Employee Satisfaction Survey ● Miscellaneous exhibitions and events ● Employee Consultation and Counseling Hotline ● Family visit day at factories unicharm CSR report 2014 7 Introduction of Business Activities Comfort and Afﬂuence for People All Over Unicharm s five business divisions deliver gentleness We hope that people lead sound and healthy lives from the day they born into this world. To realize this hope, Unicharm s ﬁve business divisions of Baby and Child Care, Feminine Care, Health Care, Clean & Fresh, and Pet Care deliver a wide range of products and services for various generations by utilizing the technologies we have developed in the manufacturing of non-woven fabrics and absorbent materials. Baby and Child Care Business Best lineup of products for fast growing babies and children Business Child-rearing life Product philosophy improvement company lineups Launch of Moony the business 1981 Our Baby and Child Care Businessʼ philosophy is to make social contributions by improving our customersʼ child-rearing experiences through ©DISNEY deep understanding of parent-child relationships MamyPoko and to continue to provide products with new value. In Japan, we receive wide support for two brands: “Moony,” with functional innovations to accommodate growth, and “MamyPoko,” focused on fun. We also provide diapers of our global brand “MamyPoko” for babies overseas from East/Southeast Asia to Middle Eastern countries. ©DISNEY Feminine Care Business We support women s positive activities Business We make womenʼs comfort Product philosophy a science, so that we may lineups create freedom for women Launch of the business 1963 CharmSofy nap Our business philosophy is “making a womenʼs comfort a science so that we may create freedom for women.” Our Feminine Care Business always identiﬁes Center-in womenʼs needs of each era from womenʼs standpoint, and continues to oﬀer high-value hygiene products and services incorporating advanced technology and ideas. In Japan, we produce feminine products with an understanding of womenʼs minds and bodies under the brand names of “Sofy,” “Center-in,” and “Charm-nap.” We actively develop “Sofy” as a global brand overseas, which has received high evaluations from women in various countries including East and Southeast Asia. 8 unicharm CSR report 2014 the World Health Care Business For a society of joyful living, for the elderly and for everyone Business Business philosophy Product philosophy Pursuing the joy of living lineups Lifree for Launch of institutional the business 1987 use Our Health Care Business includes two business areas: Lifree the AI (Adult Incontinence) Business and the mask & medical business. Our AI business respects the dignity and independence of people who experience incontinence, and oﬀers the best products and care system services under the “Lifree” brand in order to improve the QOL (Quality of life) of all people involved in nursing care, whether at home or in a hospital/nursing home. Our mask & medical business oﬀers products with non-woven fabric as the core technology to protect peopleʼs health and contribute to public hygiene, from household use to hospital/ Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask and nursing home and industrial use. Chokaiteki UltraComfort Mask Clean & Fresh Division Creating a comfortable environment for people, things, and places Business Creating a comfortable Product philosophy environment for people, lineups Silcot things, and places Launch of the business 1974 Wave Our Clean & Fresh Business oﬀers cleanliness, hygiene, and a fresh feeling, and creates a comfortable environment with non-woven fabric processing technology as our core technology. Wave is a surprisingly easy cleaning sheet for living rooms, the “Silcot” brand features highly functional premoistened wipes and high quality makeup puﬀs, and “Fresh Master” is a freshness maintaining sheet used Fresh Master for for commercial trays and mats. Our products are loved commercial use by many for their functions and quality. Pet Care Business Making people s life with their pets more comfortable Business Making your petsʼ life Product philosophy comfortable through lineups health and cleanliness Launch of the business 1986 So that your pet can live a long, healthy and active life in a clean environment, among the numerous pet-related businesses Unicharm Pet care focuses especially on “pet food for good health” and “pet Deo-Sheet Deo-Toilet Pet Disposable Aiken (Dog) Diapers toilet products for a clean living environment”. We Genki aim to provide new satisfaction for dogs and cats. We provide various products to contribute to your comfortable life with pets, including pet foods with Hartz good taste and nutrition, “Aiken Genki” and “Neko Genki,”, and pet toilet care sheets and pet disposable Gin no (Silver) Neko (Cat) diapers utilizing our nonwoven cloth and absorbent Spoon Genki material technologies. unicharm CSR report 2014 9 Feature Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Topic 1 Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Unicharm: creating a society that supports women s active participation through our products, services, and working environments. Deployment of our Japanese business UN Millennium Development model throughout the world Goals (MDGs) In the 50 years since the founding of Unicharm, we have The MDGs originated from the Millennium Declaration never wavered in our goal “to realize each personʼs dream of the UN Millennium Summit held in New York in by providing products that physically and mentally relieve September, 2000. The Millennium Declaration describes 8 various burdens, from babies to senior citizens.” goals to be achieved by 2015. Here at Unicharm we have There have been signiﬁcant changes in Japanese been working to achieve 4 main goals. society in past 50 years. Peopleʼs lives have become ﬁlled with abundance, and women have advanced in society. 8 Goals Unicharm has played a role in supporting the social advancement of Japanese women by providing feminine Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger hygiene products with the goal of “transforming womenʼs discomfort to comfort.” We have been oﬀering wide range Goal 2 Achieve universal primary education of products, from disposable diapers for babies to products to assist caregivers, to relieve burdens women face in Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower various aspects of their lives. We are proud that we have women grown in harmony with the progress of Japanese society, and that we have been able to simultaneously contribute Goal 4 Reduce child mortality to its progress. Turning our eyes to the rest of the world, we canʼt help Goal 5 Improve maternal health but be concerned that a number of countries in Asia and the Middle East are still working towards development. Goal 6 Combat HIV/AIDS, malaria and other In October 2012, Unicharmʼs business activities providing diseases baby-care and feminine-care products in the Middle East/ Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability North Africa and Asian regions was recognized as a project responding the Business Call to Action (BCtA) initiative Goal 8 Develop a global partnership for of the UNDP. Our contributions are expected to improve development the lives of 36 million women in these areas. Based on the know-how we have acquired through our activities in Japan, we will promote the empowerment of women in developing countries by providing products, services, and employment opportunities through careful consideration to the speciﬁc characteristics of each region or country. Business Call to Action A global initiative established in 2008, Business Call to Action (BCtA) aims to achieve the UN Millennium Development Saudi Arabia Goals through the core business of private companies. In collaboration with local Unicharm has operated international development agencies a women-only plant in each country, the United Nations in Saudi Arabia Development Programme (UNDP) has since 2012, and has India implemented a support program to aid expanded employment in the construction of business models opportunities for women Unicharm implemented that provide both social beneﬁts for not only in production the “ﬁrst menstruation Indonesia the developing countries as well as but also in administration. education” program in commercial beneﬁts for the companies 2013. The program has since spread from rural Unicharm has contributed to operating there. the expansion of womenʼs areas to urban areas, and is supporting womenʼs job categories by employing learning opportunities women in many areas, from and social advancements. packagers to equipment operators at our factories. 10 unicharm CSR report 2014 Saudi Arabia Provision of women-friendly working places Under the strict Islamic law, women are not supposed to Women workers wearing abaya (black show their skin or faces to men outside the family; in fact, over-garments) for the they shouldnʼt even be in the same room with or talk to photo shoot. men outside the family. Even though working is allowed, workplaces where women can work in accordance with these strict laws are extremely limited. We decided that by establishing a women-only plant where Saudi women can work without coming into contact with men, Unicharm could support womenʼs social advancement while respecting their cultural practices and religious views. From that idea, a new Unicham production site was established in Saudi Arabia in May 2012, the ﬁrst Delivery location plant of its kind. Saudi Arabia, the home of the holy city of Womenʼs for various Menʼs working working Mecca and known as being a strictly Muslim country, now area documents and area products boasts a women-only plant in its capital city of Riyadh. The eﬀorts we made were not limited to making the production areas where women work oﬀ-limits to men, but Dividing Women-only plant in Saudi Arabia shutter included the creation of a delivery location that is separated by shutters, to accommodate the situations in which female We expanded the employment of women in the oﬃce employees need to interact with men, such as delivering as well as in the production site in 2013, to continue documents and products. supporting womenʼs employment. Furthermore, to create even more employment opportunities, we established a stay-at-home work system for persons with disabilities. The second annual Even in a social environment that places many Nikkei Social Initiative Award restrictions on womenʼs lives, we want to oﬀer help and Winner of the award in the support for women to make business category social advances; with our women-only plant in Saudi Unicharm received the award in the business category of the Second Nikkei Social Initiative Awards, an award Arabia, one of our hopes has to recognize companies and organizations engaged in been realized and continues to noteworthy initiatives to develop social business and solve make progress. various social issues through their business practices. This year, there were 401 entries for the award, and 7 awards were made. Unicharm was highly acclaimed for our contributions to the expansion of employment opportunities for women by establishing a womenA Message from a Female only plant in Saudi Arabia and hiring women not only as factory workers but also as oﬃce workers, as well as for Worker in Saudi Arabia our empowerment of women by providing high-quality Unicharm Gulf Hygienic Industries Ltd. products and services. Supervisor * Unicharm also entered our urine-suction robot “Humany” for the award. Ameena AI Shamari Humany, which promotes independent support for senior citizens and I am very delighted to hear that our people with disabilities, was named as a ﬁnalist. Please see Feature Topic plant received an award in Japan. Unicharm has made a great 2 (pages 16-17) and Continuous Support for 2011 Tōhoku earthquake contribution to the social advancement of women in Saudi Arabia. and tsunami (page 18) for more information on “Humany.” Until quite recently, I didnʼt dream of working nor had I realized how wonderful working is at all! In this country there are still many women who have not gained the opportunities to work, and many The Nikkei Social Initiative people who canʼt aﬀord Unicharm products. I will continue to Awards Ceremony make eﬀorts as an employee of a company that strives to empower women in the world. unicharm CSR report 2014 11 Feature Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by Topic 1 Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life Unicharm: creating a society that supports women s active participation through our products, services, and working environments. India Expansion of our ﬁrst menstruation education program, from rural areas to urban areas Even though India has recently experienced remarkable, rapid development, rural Indian women usually do not use feminine hygiene products, but use old clothing instead. As a result, the fear of leaking often prevents them from going out of the home while menstruating. It is still true that many rural women donʼt use feminine hygiene products simply because they do not have knowledge about menstruation itself or are unaware of the very existence of feminine hygiene products. In urban areas, while many women have started to use feminine hygiene products, they still do not have enough knowledge about how to choose the best items for their conditions or how to use them properly. With this situation in mind, Unicharm started the “ﬁrst menstruation education” program in India in January 2013, in cooperation with Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and local NGOs. The program was implemented in urban areas in Haryana as well as in rural areas. We provide learning opportunities and promote the social advancement of women by providing accurate knowledge about the physical aspects of menstruation and womenʼs hygiene products. Even during their menstrual periods, women can comfortably go about their regular activities while using our products, and eventually our products will generate a positive impact on womenʼs lives. Unicharmʼs hopes for women are starting to be realized in India. Unicharm India Private Ltd. Assistant Manager, CSR Division Gummaluri Anuradha I have been conducting the ﬁrst menstruation education programs for young girls as a staﬀ member in the CSR Division of Unicharm India. We provide a baseline knowledge of menstruation, and advocate for the importance of keeping clean by visiting schools, not only in rural areas but also in urban areas, together with local NGOs. Unicharm India set a CSR goal to establish hygiene awareness in this country. We continue working to educate as many people as possible, by providing maternity and infant hygiene programs and helping people from babies and mothers to senior citizens to lead healthy lives, and by helping as many girls as possible understand menstruation. 12 unicharm CSR report 2014 Indonesia Enhancement of employment opportunities by expanding employment categories It was 1997 when we ﬁrst established our production site in Indonesia. Since that time, we have directly employed many women as packagers. In 2013, we expanded job categories for women and hired women for the ﬁrst time as equipment operators, positions for which we had only hired men before. After receiving training in Japan and Indonesia in order to gain the necessary skills, the ﬁve women who were hired as operators have been rising to the challenge in their new jobs. We at Unicharm support the social advancement of Indonesian women by enhancing employment opportunities as well as by promoting our products. Our production activity in Indonesia is an important hub which provided us with a signiﬁcant awareness in developing overseas business. In 1997, when we ﬁrst expanded our business to Indonesia, we produced and sold the disposable diapers “MamyPoko,” the same product available in Japan. We soon realized, however, that in Indonesia “MamyPoko” was a luxury product, out of reach of the common people. So we conducted detailed surveys by home-to-home visit, sometimes even by home stays, in order to fully understand everyday life in Indonesia, including local climate and culture. We were then able to oﬀer the more aﬀordable product “MamyPoko PantsStandar,” by eliminating and enhancing functions according to their needs. As Indonesian people donʼt generally make bulk purchases, we introduced a system A new woman equipment operator by which they can buy diapers individually, which became Wulan Pertiwi very popular. “I wanted to become an equipment operator because I was seeking some new experiences. I enjoy working as an operator, and my work feels meaningful. I aspire to be the ﬁrst woman to become a member of the maintenance team in Unicharm Indonesia in the future.” A new woman equipment operator Rita Teja Sumiarti “It has been about 6 months since I became an equipment operator. Now I am able to deal with minor troubles. I aim to improve my skills by leaning more technical skills. unicharm CSR report 2014 13 Feature Responding to Topic 2 a Super-Aging Society Along with Nursing Home Staff Pursuing comfort for both care givers and their clients. Since the introduction of Lifree adult diapers in 1987, Unicharm has been a leading company in adult continence-support in Japan, providing a wide range of continence-care products depending on the mobility of each user including pads and absorbent underwear for mild urinary incontinence. This feature section introduces the initiatives undertaken by a nursing home making the most eﬃcient use of our products to deal with day-to-day continence-care issues. Developing various continence-care we managed to introduce our Lifree Rehabili-Pants to products the market. Eventually, Rehabili-Pants became widely Since the introduction of “Lifree” adult diapers in used at nursing-care facilities and also became popular 1987, Unicharm has been a leading company in adult among many individual consumers. The response was continence-support in Japan, providing a wide range of overwhelmingly positive, and many consumers replied continence-care products depending on the mobility of that “we wanted such products!” We believe that we have each user including pads and absorbent underwear for made some contribution to promoting rehabilitation mild urinary incontinence. in order to decrease the number of bedridden senior The most groundbreaking among our products was patients. “Lifree Rehabili-Pants,” introduced in 1995. This slip-on “underwear-like pant-type” continence-care product was Challenging a“Zero-incontinence completely unlike traditional “tape-type diapers.” The Initiative”in a psychiatric pant-type allows wearers to easily use the product by convalescent hospital unit themselves, making it easier for them to use the toilet on their own. As the absorbency of the “Rehabili-Pants” is For example, Meiwa-kai Nishi-Hachioji Hospital, located in the same as the more traditional diaper, users donʼt have Hachioji City, Tokyo, introduced Unicharmʼs continenceto worry about not making it to the toilet in time. It is an care products in February 2012. Based on our “Care ideal product for those who can stand and walk on their Advisor System”, Unicharmʼs specialized staﬀ who are all own, or who are in rehabilitation. qualiﬁed caretakers, nurses, or home-care workers, visit Some in the industry warned that “as this product will the nursing homes and hospitals where our products help many seniors to rehabilitate, the market will shrink are used to explain and demonstrate our products and as the number of seniors who need diapers decreases.” to make suggestions for improved continence care. In In contrast to this attitude, we thought it would be an the case of Meiwa-kai Nishi-Hachioji Hospital, we also absolutely necessary product in creating the “bright conducted seminars for the nursing care staﬀ of each super-aging society” Unicharrm aims to achieve, and hospital unit on choosing the appropriate products for The ﬁrst step towards rehabilitation (from diapers to underwear) Deﬁnition of For independent Maki Nonaka a diaper-user continence care One who excretes in a Lifree Care Advisor diaper and who receives We hope you can use Tokyo area (1st Metropolitan Area diaper-changes in bed, the toilet again Branch, 1st Region), 24 hours a day Professional Care Sales, Because you are Even if only Because we want Sales Division,Unicharm Corporation unable to use during the daytime to help you to use the toilet Even if only for the toilet All of our on-site care givers dedicate themselves to providing defecation Even if only once We don’ t mind tailored, meticulous care for each patient despite their very Please use this instead a day when you fail. of using the toilet Using this, try to use busy schedule and to working to improve continence care and Even if only once a week the toilet again. solving related issues. These eﬀorts from on-site staﬀ inspire us to support them by introducing new products and providing information on overall continence care in order to improve the Toilet substitute Supplementing and Tape-type diapers + complementing toilet use level of care. The passion and expertise of on-site staﬀ and their pads Rehabili-Pants + pads smiles contribute to our energetic everyday activities. 14 unicharm CSR report 2014 Monthly meeting on nursing care “Notice board” to share information Lifree Rehabili-Pants on continence care throughout the each patient's condition and on proper use of our diapers whole hospital unit and incontinence pads. The hospital also held discussions on improving patients who are now able to use Rehabili-Pants have continence care in each care unit, based on the idea become more active. Some of them even started to use that “however excellent the products, hospital staﬀ will fabric underwear,” said Ms. Kobayashi, director of nursing. fail to fully make use of the beneﬁts if they donʼt update These changes have contributed to decreasing patient their attitudes towards continence care.” The South-4 discomfort and diaper rash, have lessened the economic unit, a psychiatric convalescent unit, among others, burden on the patients, and have also led to decreasing implemented a “Zero-incontinence Initiative” aimed staﬀ workload in incontinence care and taking care of the at eliminating reliance on adult diapers by enabling all waste. Ms. Kobayashi also said that the atmosphere of the patients to use the toilet. unit has improved by increasing the conversation level between staﬀ and patients. Enhancement of Rehabilitation by Going forward, the super-aging of Japanese society Information-Sharing and Communication is expected to continue. We hope that as many senior citizens as possible will be able to lead unrestricted, When the initiative began, 20 of 42 inpatients in the unit independent, and self-suﬃcient lives, and that both care used diapers, either all day or just during the night. The givers and their clients can stay comfortable. Unicharm hospital staﬀ discussed further what would be necessary will continue to make contributions to the realization of to get these 20 patients out of diapers, and decided a “bright super-aging society” by providing various useful on collecting and sharing information, and thorough products and information. communication, as overall objectives. Next, check-lists were created to record each patientʼs ﬂuid intake, excretion amounts, and presence or absence of incontinence, in order to analyze and determine each patientʼs urination pattern. With this information, nursing staﬀ promoted “toilet guidance” while actively communicating Ms. Yoko Kobayashi with patients about their need Director of Nursing to defecate or urinate. Meiwa-kai As a result of their Nishi-Hachioji Hospital Checking the status on conscientious eﬀorts, the the “Zero-incontinence Raising continence-care awareness led to the number of patients who are Initiative Participant enhancement of individual care for each patient now able to use RehabiliHistory” With Unicharmʼs instruction, we learned how to select Pants instead of tape-type diapers has increased. “I think proper pads for each patient based on the volume of urine, and how to properly put diapers on, which also fundamentally changed our attitudes towards continence care at the same time. We started our “Zero-incontinence Ms. Chihomi Furuta Initiative” by wondering if our patients really need to use Chief Nurse diapers and if we could help any of our patients to use Meiwa-kai Nishi-Hachioji Hospital the toilet. We started to check if the patient eliminated Attitudes towards continence or not, and began to share the information among the care have changed staﬀ. Gradually, instances of leading a patient to the toilet, “One patient was successfully out as well as communication between patients and staﬀ of diapers, which changed our members and among the staﬀ, increased. Deepening attitude towards continence care the level of communication among us was a meaningful and made us think it would be beneﬁt. We believe it will lead to the enhancement possible for other patients if it was of individual care for each patient by drawing out the possible for one.” motivations and concerns of each patient. unicharm CSR report 2014 15 Feature Responding to Topic 2 a Super-Aging Society Urine-suction robot“Humany” pursues the comfort of both care givers and their clients. “Humany”became one of the ﬁnalists in the business category At Oyumino, a health-care facility for the elderly located in at the Second Nikkei Social Initiative Awards. Chiba city, many people are working on their rehabilitation toward returning home. One of the biggest barriers against home care is continence care. Mr. Sasaki, a care worker, and Mr. Inaba, a care manager, talked about the beneﬁts of Humany, which is considered to be a savior for at-home care. We Realized the Beneﬁts of Humany Realizing Home Care by Lessening after Giving it a Try the Burden of Care “We used to have an inpatient who wanted home care, After a 3-week trial of Humany at our facility, both the but he needed to have his diapers changed at least 3 times patient and his wife mastered its use and returned home. during the night. We couldnʼt decide to discharge him Mr. Inaba, who provided home support before admission because we thought it would be too much of a burden for to and after discharge from the care facility, reported the his wife. Humany was introduced when we were seeking following: a good way to solve the problem,” said Mr. Sasaki. He “There are many people who would like home care but was a little skeptical about the possibility of a machine there are three common problems: meals, bathing, and substituting human care, but soon realized the convenience toilet use. It is possible to use a helper or home-delivery of Humany once he used it. services for meals and day-care service is available for “Changing of diapers is a heavy burden, both physically bathing. But using the toilet requires around-the-clock and mentally, for both nursing care staﬀ and patients. care. If there are no helpers available, the burden for both Especially during the night, there are fewer staﬀ members the patient and family becomes heavy. In this patientʼs in the facility, and also patients who are woken up for diaper case, Humany was a strong support for home care.” changing often have a hard time going back to sleep. But The patient had diﬃculty feeling urge to urinate when with Humany, urine is sent to the tank automatically, so that he was admitted to our facility, but he was able to return care staﬀ only need to exchange the tank, which is much home by using Humany. We heard that eventually he easier for the staﬀ and doesnʼt wake the sleeping recovered enough to go to the toilet by patient. I think our patients can comfortably himself. sleep through the night because Humany doesnʼt allow their diapers to become wet.” Mr. Kentaro Inaba Mr. Masaru Sasaki, Care manager Care worker Health-care facility for the elderly, Health-care facility for the elderly, “Oyumino” “Oyumino” Humany can be used in various situations Night time Day time Frequent Frequent Frequent For For For diaper trips to transfers to commuting to commuting to leisure changes the toilet the toilet work… school… activities… 16 unicharm CSR report 2014 For the Promotion of Humany As shown on the facing page, Humany is a beneﬁcial of diaper changes required. It would be even better product for many people, yet many issues remain to if Humany could take care of defecation too,” said Mr. be solved for the popularization of Humany. Mr. Inaba Sasaki. pointed out that one such issue is that care managers who Mr. Inaba also expressed his expectation for Unicharm create care plans are not aware of the beneﬁts of Humany. to develop “new product lines that can be tailored Even though they might know of the existence of the according to each individualʼs needs.” product and how good the product is, they may not think it as an option when they create care plans because the product has not been used by many people yet. Urine-suction robot“Humany” Mr. Sasaki suspects that attitudes of care staﬀ could Our urine-suction robot “Humany” is an automatic be a barrier, too. There is a persistent belief among care continence-processing device that realizes “self-reliance of a patient.” “Humany” quickly detects urination with givers that care should be provided by human beings. a sensor built into the special urine suction pad, and They also tend to think that using a machine requires sends urine to a tank. Those who require frequent diaper additional work compared to manual care. Such thoughts changes overnight or experience frequent urination will be able to sleep soundly through the night by using Humany. have led to the avoidance of even such a convenient machine. How it works “I hope Humany will be promoted widely because ● Humany’ s Most Important Special Feature it oﬀers major beneﬁts in terms of working time and Urine is received on a suction pad, and is then sanitarian. I think that we, care takers, should change our transferred to a tank away from the user’ s body. attitudes to make positive use of convenient technologies Operation panel including nursing care robots,” said Mr. Sasaki. Main body of Urine suction pad the urine suction robot Suctioned urine travels through the tube Further Improvement of Nighttime and is stored in the tank. Continence Care “I think there are many people who experience sleepless nursing care due to the burden of changing of diapers overnight. The capacity of diapers has been signiﬁcantly improved over the past 10 years, and I expect that further Urine tank *Pads are disposable improvements will continue to decrease the number Connection case My biggest pleasure is hearing“I could sleep well!” As a welfare-device counselor, I provide advice and because they felt guilty about taking “an easy way out.” I recommendations for welfare and medical devices feel that it is necessary to provide tailored advice for each for those who need home care. When Unicharm ﬁrst client and care giver in consideration of their thoughts on introduced Humany to me, I thought that Humany nursing care, not merely to make it more convenient. was a very proactive and innovative product in In terms of the improvement of continence care, I expect tackling continence care, which is considered to be that Unicharm will continue to develop products with a delicate area in nursing care. entirely-new concepts that will help care givers to feel I recommend Humany for those who experience accomplishments and to be more positive. Ms. Yue Takagi sleepless nights as a result of frequent diaper Francebed Co.,Ltd. changes or for those who have trouble changing We interviewed Ms. diapers due to physical size diﬀerences. I have A Humany user and his family at Takagi, who is in seen various reactions from people; many younger the health-care facility for the charge of usersʼ care in people are more positive about using it, but older elderly, “Oyumino” cooperation with welfare people tend to stick with the current way or feel that His strong hope led to improved daily facilities, including it would be diﬃcult to use a machine. Some people “Oyumino,” by promoting life and independent continence, may think the instruction manual alone is diﬃcult and eventually he recovered enough the proper use of welfare to understand, so I visit each patientʼs home to devices. to be able to use the toilet. After demonstrate proper use. I am very glad that many returning home, his appetite was people have told me that they could sleep well enhanced and everyday life in through the night after they started to use Humany. general improved. On the other hand, some people stopped using it unicharm CSR report 2014 17 Continue to provide support to the disaster-aﬀected areas from the Great East Japan Earthquake Unicharm once again extends its heartfelt sympathies to those aﬀected by the earthquake and tsunami that struck Japan on March 11, 2011. We sincerely hope for a speedy recovery from this unprecedented disaster. Since immediately after the earthquake, Unicharm have used the Matching Fund, set up to receive charitable donations from employees, to provide supplies. Through these activities, we will continue to deepen our interaction with local residents and make contributions to local communities. Continuing with our Matching Fund employee dress code was manufactured at an apparel combing disaster assistance with factory in Shirakawa City, Fukushima Prefecture, while disabled persons living at Wakatake Gakuen, a support electricity conservation facility for the disabled located in Miyako City, Iwate Our Matching Fund established to provide disaster Prefecture, which also received a donation of Humany, relief assistance and our Super Cool Biz and Warm Biz created a salmon leather ID card case. Both of these were employee dress codes to promote electricity conservation included in the Matching Fund. are now in their fourth year. The Matching Fund provides Going forward, we stand fully committed to continuing a matching donation for the price of our original polo our support for the disaster-stricken areas and carrying shirt, badge and jacket bought by employees, with the out electricity conservation eﬀorts together with our proceeds having so far been used to purchase a total employees. of 78 Humany urine-suction robots for hospitals and healthcare facilities in the disaster-stricken area. These robots are being used on the front lines of nursing care to help improve the quality of life (QOL) of users. Number of facilities beneﬁted: 47 The original polo shirt used for our Super Cool Biz Number of Humany units donated: 78 (As of April 30, 2014) Social Welfare Corporation Houkoukai Social Welfare Corporation Medical and Haginoe–support facility for the disabled Nursing Care Faculty Research Center (Kitakami City, Iwate Prefecture) Mahoroba no Sato Taiwa–a special assisted living facility for the elderly (Taiwa Town, Kurokawa County, Miyagi Prefecture) Mr. Yuki Haga, Nursing Care Worker Reduced Skin Troubles and More Restful Sleep at Night Mr. Yuki Takahashi, Life Supporter The donated Humany has helped to reduce skin troubles and the number of times pads Lessening Stress and Creating Smiles need to be changed at night for male residents that had The donated Humany has been used for large voids which caused rashes and other skin issues. the daily continence care of a male resident Initially residents were concerned they would not be who has gradually lost his motor functions able to sleep because of the noise of the suction pump, and communication abilities after suﬀering a but there have not been any complaints so far and stroke several years ago. they are actually able to sleep quite peacefully at night. Since losing his mobility, this particular Depending on their voiding we still may have to change resident has had pressure ulcers on his backside and the pad several times at night, but family members have found in increasingly more diﬃcult to use the bathroom, welcomed the Humany since it improves the physical which required a great deal of regular assistance condition of residents. This is why we continue to use the throughout the day to change his adult diaper. About this Humany for night time continence care. time is when Unicharm approached us about the Humany The Humany is a great product that reduces the donation. number of night time changes and improves sleeping After we started using the Humany, all we had to do quality, so I hope it is used by as many people in need was change his pad about twice a day, eliminating the as possible. I believe that making the price a little more need to change his adult diaper every several hours each aﬀordable and expanding the range of applicable users day. In turn, we saw an improvement in his pressure will ensure that more people are able to use this great ulcers. The padʼs sensor quickly detected any urination product. I have great and the Humanyʼs pump automatically suctioned oﬀ the expectations for the urine, which has also relieved the discomfort he felt as future development of well. I think the Humany has helped to reduce the burden and modiﬁcations to the of the care services provided by our staﬀ, but at the same Humany. time it has also lessened the stress felt by the resident each time we had to change his adult diaper. Thanks to the Humany we have seen this particular resident smile a lot more. 18 unicharm CSR report 2014 Main initiatives following the earthquake and tsunami 2011 March 11 The Great East Japan Earthquake strikes ● Crisis Management Team (CMT) established August 31 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm ● Whereabouts and safety of all employees conﬁrmed, head oﬃce to beneﬁt relief assistance including those at the Fukushima Factory and North November 15 ● A total of 1.36 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Japan Branch Masks” donated to children attending daycare, March 12 ● Disaster response framework established kindergarten, elementary school or junior high school ● Assistance eﬀorts launched in collaboration with in municipalities located in the Hamadori district of administrative agencies, other companies in the Fukushima Prefecture industry, and municipalities December 18 ● A total of 1.5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” ● First convoy of vehicles loaded with relief supplies donated to every household of Tanagura Town in departs for the disaster zone Higashi Shirakawa County of Fukushima Prefecture as March 13 ● Five trucks loaded with relief supplies arrive in the well as evacuees living in the town Tohoku region. First relief supplies delivered to the disaster zone 2013 March 18 ● Establishment of “Matching Fund” for charitable donations January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and March 25 ● Product speciﬁcations of MamyPoko Pants partially tsunami reconstruction eﬀort together with Tsuruha modiﬁed (temporary changes made because of Holdings in which Unicharm purchased domestic damage suﬀered by raw materials manufacturer) emissions credits generated from Tsuruha using part of March 26 ● Production partially restarted at the damaged the proceeds from the campaign (ran until March 15) Fukushima Factory January 18 ● “Matching Fund” established for “Warm Biz” employee May 2 ● “Summer Time” work schedule introduced as means to dress code (proceeds used to purchase and donate conserve electricity during the summer Humany for those areas in need) May 9 ● Fukushima Factory becomes fully operational again April 1 ● “Matching Fund” established for ● A portion of disposable diapers for adults were “Super Cool Biz” employee dress temporarily imported from overseas aﬃliates code (proceeds used to purchase ● A total of 2,540 “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask for Kids” and donate Humany for those June 30 areas in need) donated to Tanagura Town, location of the Fukushima Factory August 30 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm ● ”Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief Shikoku Technical Center to beneﬁt relief assistance July 1 (sponsored by the Unicharm Union) assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code ● Launched new “Two-pack Version of Chorittai Ultra November 18 ● “Matching Fund” established combining “disaster August 31 relief assistance” with “Warm Biz” employee dress code 3D Shape Mask,” with 1% of sales donated to disaster (proceeds used to purchase and donate Humany for aﬀected areas those areas in need) September 1 ● Donated 2.68 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Mask” to December 13 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at the Unicharm children attending day care, kindergartens, elementary, head oﬃce to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by junior high, and high schools the Unicharm Union) 2012 December 19 ● Organized nursing care seminar on continence care for the elderly January 16 ● Held campaign in support of the earthquake and tsunami and adult diapers in Tanagura reconstruction eﬀort together with Tsuruha Holdings in Town, Higashi Shirakawa County, which Unicharm purchased domestic emissions credits Fukushima Prefecture generated from Tsuruha using part of the proceeds from the campaign (ran until March 16) March 6 ● Donated 5 million “Chorittai Ultra 3D Shape Masks” to 2014 children attending day care, kindergarten, elementary, March 14 ● Held charity Rakugo performance at Unicharm Nagoya junior high, and high schools in Iwaki City, Fukushima to beneﬁt relief assistance (sponsored by the Unicharm Prefecture Union) April 24 ● Donated pet foods “Aiken (Dog) Genki,” ”Neko (Cat) April 1 ● Commenced “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code Genki” and “Deo-Sheet” (pet mats) as relief supplies Currently implementing the through the Japan Pet Food Association “Matching Fund” campaign May 7 ● “Matching Fund” established combining “disaster relief combining “disaster relief assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” employee dress code assistance” with “Super Cool Biz” (proceeds used to purchase Humany for those areas in employee dress code need) unicharm CSR report 2014 19 Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI) Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2013 Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continuously promote Group-wide environmental impact reduction activities Initiatives to reduce environmental impact environmental protection by applying proprietary and ambitious environmental standards as well as the reduction and more efficient use of resources to all corporate activities. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth Environmentally friendly product development with environmental protection by promoting environmentally friendly manufacturing and Along with the Consider the environmental during the product development stage. activities providing world-first, and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Environment quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world. Contribute to the realization of a sustainable society that balances economic growth with Continually measure / record environmental impact, disclose correct Environmental management environmental protection by building and implementing a PDCA cycle for environmental information and reduce environmental impacts. activities and by reducing environmental impacts. Promote activities that are considerate of biodiversity in all business segments covering Identify issues internally and understand the current in-house situation Biodiversity conservation activities the entire supply chain. including the use of certified forests by the Unicharm Group. Promote marketing that captures changes in society and the environment, QOL improvements market trends, and customer needs. Provide world-first and world-leading products and services in terms of safety and Promote product safety assurance measures quality that deliver comfort, impression, and satisfaction to people around the world, and contribute to a better quality of life for everyone. Improve product quality and ensure product Promote quality control initiatives. safety Promote initiatives to reflect customer feedback in products. Along with Our Customers Leave a lasting impression on customers, deepen relationships with customers and Take steps to improve customer satisfaction based on the results of the Improve customer satisfaction provide satisfaction to customers. customer service satisfaction surveys Promote initiatives to ensure proper product labeling practices are followed. Support customers' independent decisions and selections by correctly and proactively Fair marketing and information disclosure providing appropriate information to customers. Promote disclosure of corporate and product information by expanding the Company's website. Disclose CSR activities in the CSR report. ● Continue to properly hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings Achieve company growth, ensure employee happiness and fulfill social responsibilities ● Implement Corporate governance internal control for sites in both Japan and overseas by maintaining transparent corporate management and actively disclosing information. ● Continue to properly disclose information based on amendments to disclosure ordinances Ensure the Unicharm Way, a systemized specific mechanism for all employees and ● Set up global intranet system Sound corporate culture executives to take action in accordance with the corporate philosophy and corporate ● Hand out booklets to employees and stream president messages (weekly) ethics, is practiced Group-wide. to ensure better penetration of the Unicharm Way Promote company-wide procurement strategy and hold the Quality Policy Fair procurement Fair and equal trade with Achieve co-existence with suppliers by building fair and equitable business dealings with Briefing Session for suppliers practices suppliers suppliers. Provide compliance and governance training to purchasing members. Ensure the Company uses its intellectual properties by protecting the intellectual property rights (important company assets) of the Company and making sure employees protect Ensure the protection and respect of Unicharm and other companies' Protection of intellectual propertie and respect the intellectual properties of other companies and the Company, as noted in intellectual properties the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines. Conduct legal affairs training on violations of the Unfair Competition Comply with laws on competition and trade, and promote correct corporate management Fair competition and trade Prevention Act and Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, by undertaking fair and equitable trade. Etc. to Subcontractors Management Develop and thoroughly implement various guidelines Promote correct corporate management by educating Group companies and affiliates Compliance about the Unicharm Way and guidelines to complying with the Unicharm Way (including insider trading prevention rules and affiliate management rules, etc.). Conduct risk and compliance training at local incorporated subsidiaries overseas Compliance and risk management Internal control based on Japan's Financial Promote correct corporate management by properly analyzing forecast risks and ensuring Strengthen risk management structure and internal control Instruments and Exchange the internal control system functions to prevent and avoid such risks. Act Earn the trust of customers, business partners and society by strictly and securely ● Promote and thoroughly practice information security, including at Group Information security managing received information and building a systems infrastructure that ensures the companies Company can continue to operate as a going concern in the event of a fire or disaster. ● Develop structure to succeed systems operations in Japan and overseas 20 unicharm CSR report 2014 Unicharm Group formulates and implements important CSR activities and KPI together with related departments internally. Going forward, we seek to enhance the quality of these initiatives by implementing the PDCA cycle. Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2013 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2014 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report [Domestic] Energy usage (GJ) / Net sales GJ/million Achieved target by upgrading ancillary factory equipment and conducting Install energy-saving facilities in conjunction with ancillary facility 10.7 10.7 ○ (millions of yen) yen continuous improvement activities. upgrades. P29 [Domestic] Total waste emissions (3 main sites) Continuously implemented UTMSS improvement activities (Reduce product Promote waste reduction and recycling within the Group centered -13 -9 % × *compared to 2000 waste and effectively utilized materials during the production process). on productivity improvement activities. Identified issues at each gate during the product development stage [Domestic] Ratio of environmentally friendly Ensure consistent implementation at each gate of product 65 65 % ○ based on new standards and revised environment-related confirmation p30 products development stage. items. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of items Develop implementation system globally and create environmental 1 1 cases ○ Created manual for industrial waste and began implementing it globally p28 created in global operations manual risk item implementation manual [Domestic and Overseas] Information Shared information and identified issues with purchasing department Establish environmental vision in conjunction with changes to the 4 4 times ○ Online exchange with related departments. regarding the current status of materials procurement Medium-term Management Plan Strived to enhance product value by developing customer insight [Domestic and Overseas] Product likability Conduct marketing focused on public interests by maximizing based on an approach to product development that improves customer indicator 100 109 % ○ customer value and recognizing changes in social environment, p26 satisfaction, and fostered greater trust among customers by providing a *compared to 2012 market trends and customer needs. stable supply of products. Performed safety checks on all materials and products prior to release based Obtain the latest information on laws and regulations in the [Domestic] Number of problems with material 0 0 cases × on laws/regulations, industry standards and voluntary in-house standards countries the Company operates and perform proper safety check or product safety and, as a result, no safety problem occurred during product usage. testing on products. p27 Implemented improvement measures based on information concerning Implement improvement measures based on information concerning [Domestic] Complaint reduction rate -1 +9 % × faulty products. faulty products and activities to ensure improvements are maintained. Discussed product improvement proposals based on customer feedback [Domestic] Achievement rate of product Convey customer feedback in a timely manner at monthly 100 102 % ○ at monthly divisional meetings and managed to make progress which proposals based on customer feedback divisional meetings and swiftly reflect it on products. helped achieve targets. p24-25 Responded quickly, fairly, and faithfully and as a result received strong [Domestic] Customer service satisfaction Continue to perform customer service satisfaction surveys and 90 89 % △ customer satisfaction evaluations for the Company's response but survey: Percentage of satisfied customers further improve the quality of our responses to customers. regrettably did not reach the target barely. Performed conformity checks on all products prior to their release in Continue to abide by laws/regulations, industry standards and Japan for compliance with laws/regulations and industry standards, [Domestic] Number of cases involving product voluntary in-house standards and implement evidence collection 0 0 cases ○ checked labels to prevent improper use and collected evidence for p27 labeling problems activities. Collect the latest information on various laws and product labeling, and, as a result, there was no legal violation in regulations in each overseas country where we operate. advertisement or misleading labels, etc. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of countries 9 10 countries ○ Launched new corporate website in Australia and South Korea Launch new corporate website in Brazil. p26 with website presence [Domestic and Overseas] Number of times 1 1 times ○ Published CSR Report 2013 (print and web editions). Publish CSR Report 2014 (print and web editions). p3 CSR report published [Domestic] Implementation rate of board of Held board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings according to the Hold board of directors' and board of auditors' meetings according 100 100 % ○ p40 directors' / board of auditors' meetings annual plan. to the annual plan. [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate for promoting environment to use the Established environment at the company's new subsidiary in Brazil Establish environment where new overseas subsidiaries can 100 100 % ○ Unicharm Way through expansion of global where the Unicharm Way can be accessed in English. access the Unicharm Way in English. intranet system (English) p40 [Domestic and Overseas] Distribution rate of Distributed paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired employees Distribute paper-edition of the Unicharm Way to newly hired 100 100 % ○ the Unicharm Way pamphlet to employees and mid-career hires. employees and mid-career hires. Held the 2nd Quality Policy Briefing Session in China involving 126 Hold the 11th Quality Policy Briefing Session in Japan (once every [Overseas] Number of times Quality Policy representatives from 46 companies. A presentation was made on 1 1 times ○ 3 years) p38 Briefing Session held for suppliers Unicharm's approach to compliance and governance as well and a Hold the 3rd Quality Policy Briefing Session in China. request was made to continue carrying out fair business transactions. [Domestic and Overseas] Number of training Compliance and governance training was provided to 51 purchasing Hold compliance and governance training for purchasing managers 1 1 times ○ p40 sessions for purchasing members managers and persons in charge at the Global Purchasing Meeting (October). and persons in charge at the Global Purchasing Meeting. Hold study sessions on intellectual property laws and product Held label screening study sessions at marketing departments of [Domestic and Overseas] Intellectual property labeling laws for the marketing departments, development domestic and overseas subsidiaries, for employees being dispatched study session implementation rate (number of 100 100 % ○ departments, employees being dispatched overseas, newly p41 overseas, new marketing department employees, and newly hired times implemented / number of times planned) hired employees, and managers from domestic and overseas employees (100%). subsidiaries where study sessions have yet to be held. Continue to hold legal affairs training for directors, corporate Continued to hold legal affairs training in marketing departments, auditors, executive officers, marketing departments, development development departments, research departments, for employees being [Domestic and Overseas / Group companies] departments, research departments, employees being dispatched 100 100 % ○ dispatched overseas, newly hired employees, and directors, corporate p40 Legal affairs training implementation rate overseas and newly hired employees. Start to conduct legal affairs auditors and executive officers. Started to hold legal affairs training using training for employees at overseas local subsidiaries by working e-learning for managers. with persons in charge of respective local legal department. Held study sessions about the meaning of insider trading and internal Continue to hold training on insider trading for all directors, procedures based on insider trading prevention rules for all directors, corporate auditors, executive officers, managers and employees [Domestic] Insider trading prevention rules corporate auditors and executive officers upon granting of stock options. 100 100 % ○ and hold it for all employees using e-learning. Continue training implementation rate (those targeted) Provided e-learning training to 390 management level employees and monitoring and computerizing employee trading of Unicharm handed out guidelines to all other employees. Completed enhancedstock. monitoring system that computerizes employee trading of Unicharm stock. [Domestic / Group companies] Affiliate Ensured proper reporting to the headquarters in accordance with affiliate Continue to monitor and ensure proper reporting to the headquarters management rules training implementation 100 100 % ○ management rules by utilizing TV conferences with overseas subsidiaries in accordance with affiliate management rules by utilizing TV (affiliates) and legal audits. Monitoring was also performed. conferences with overseas subsidiaries and legal audits. Conducted legal audit at subsidiaries in China, India, Australia, Taiwan, Continue to conduct legal audits primarily in countries not covered [Overseas] Implementation rate of legal affairs Saudi Arabia, and Vietnam, and proposed solutions for remedying in the previous year in accordance with the annual audit plan. p40-41 100 100 % ○ audit plan problems found and taking legal steps to prevent inherent risks facing Propose solutions for remedying problems found and take legal each subsidiary steps to prevent inherent risks facing each subsidiary [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious flaws or deficiencies found in the company● Formulate BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk 0 0 cases ○ ● Formulated BCP covering new risks and set company-wide risk items. wide management evaluation of internal control items. ● Evaluated company-wide internal control (covering entities accounting that should be disclosed ● Evaluate company-wide internal control (covering entities for 95% of consolidated sales). [Domestic and Overseas] Number of serious ● Evaluated operating process internal control (covering entities accounting for 95% of consolidated sales). flaws or deficiencies found in the management ● Evaluate operating process internal control (covering entities 0 0 cases ○ accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales) accounting for 2/3 of consolidated sales). evaluation of operational processes and internal controls that should be disclosed ● Managed customer information on a separate server. ● Continue to manage customer information on a separate server. [Domestic] Number of information divulgation 0 0 cases ○ ● Established system to immediately terminate the ID of lost or stolen ● Continue running system to immediately terminate the ID of lost incidents information equipment. or stolen information equipment. ●Continue to carry out change-over training in case of a disaster p41 ● Completed Internet access environment redundancy ●Continue to improve manuals and operational procedures for disasters [Domestic and Overseas] Number of incidents 0 0 cases ○ ● Completed development of the domestic network of BCP sites ●Visualize where systems failed during a disaster safety of employees, damages and system failures ● Carried out change-over training in case of a disaster using smartphones. unicharm CSR report 2014 21 Related Item Items Where Unicharm is Making Efforts Ideal Vision (Goal) Major Activity Plan for FY2013 Unicharm Group’s Earn the trust of stakeholders by establishing and operating a system to implement the Continue to hold CSR Committee meetings and promote important CSR CSR management CSR PDCA cycle for CSR activities, and disclosing the details of such activities. themes Foster relationship of trust by recognizing stakeholder needs through stakeholder Promote activities that encourage communication with various General engagement and continually reflecting these needs in corporate activities. stakeholders Maintain growth that will earn the trust of shareholders and maintain industry-leading Stakeholder Stakeholder shareholder returns. Proactively disclose important information in a timely manner and Engagement engagement Strive to clarify accountability and improve management competencies in order to continue to hold dialogue in which senior management and persons Shareholders promote correct corporate management. in charge of investor relations meet with people working in the Actively disclose management information and strive to promote trustworthy corporate capital markets. management. Contribute to the realization of a bright society without discrimination by striving to Respect for human rights and prohibition of Continue to utilize and promote the employee consultation and Human Rights educate workplaces about human rights awareness and by promoting a workplace culture discrimination counseling hotline that respects the individual personalities and capabilities of each and every employee. Promotion of employment of persons with Continue to promote the employment of persons with disabilities disabilities Employees working together with respect for and trust of one another regardless of age, Respect for diversity gender, nationality, employment format, or disability. Promotion of rehiring Continue to promote the rehirement of employees after mandatory employees after retirement mandatory retirement ● Continue to conduct the employee satisfaction survey (every ● Foster a corporate culture that provides opportunities for equal self-realization and to year), identify issues and create policy develop self confidence and pride, based on respect for each and every employees' ● Provide workplace environments where diverse human resources Improved workplace environment autonomy. can actively contribute ● Foster the creation of a diverse and open group of persons that respect the values and ● Make efforts to reduce the amount of overtime work (hold time of one another in all situations. company-wide no-overtime days) Along with Our Employees Guarantee of safe Conduct Health & Safety Committee meeting workplace environment Occupational health Give utmost priority to employee health and safety, and guarantee comfortable workplace and safety environment. Promote employee health Implement mental health care training and return-to-work program and mental care Foster employees that are never satisfied with the status quo and always strive for Human resource development / utilization Implement global human resources development training personal development and to tackle new challenges. Under foundation of mutual trust between labor and management, achieve corporate Dialogue between labor and management growth together as well as maintain / improve employee labor conditions and ensuring a Hold discussions with the labor union stable lifestyle. Promote measures across the entire Unicharm Group (Japan: pink Contribute to improved health and hygiene standards for people and a sound and Along with the ribbon activities, child raising support project, provision of paper Social contribution activities dynamic society by constructing relationships of trust through activities that address the Society diapers to Shikokuchuo City, and factory tours for employee family needs of communities and society as a whole. members) (China/Taiwan: pink ribbon activities, etc.) Reconstruction Carry out disaster relief activities (donations of Humany urineAssistance for the Contribute to the safety of people and restoration of disaster-affected areas by providing suction robots by combining Super Cool Biz and Warm biz Disaster relief activities Great East Japan assistance to every extent possible as a manufacturer that provides daily essentials. employee dress codes with disaster support provided via the Earthquake Matching Fund, and the holding of nursing care seminars, etc.) 22 unicharm CSR report 2014 Indicators and Results Location Main Indicators for Achieving Ideal Vision SelfResults of FY2013 Activities Major Activities Plan for FY2014 Mentioned in (Goal) Target* Results Unit assessment CSR Report [Domestic] CSR Committee meeting 100 100 ％ ○ Held CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. Hold CSR Committee meetings according to the annual plan. p6 implementation rate [Domestic] Number of CSR news published on Disseminated information on the Unicharm Group's CSR activities in a Continue to disseminate information on the Unicharm Group's 10 12 times ○ p7 the corporate website timely manner. CSR activities. [Domestic] Financial presentation Senior management presented performance results to investors at 100 100 ％ ○ Hold financial presentation briefings (in Japan). implementation rate (Japan) financial presentations (in Japan). Senior management used overseas investors relations roadshows to [Overseas] IR tour implementation rate 100 100 ％ ○ Hold investor relations roadshows overseas. hold dialogue with major overseas institutional investors. p39 Persons in charge of investor relations met individually with investors [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate on more than 300 occasions both in Japan and overseas to explain 100 100 ％ ○ Hold individual meetings with investors. of meetings with individual investors about the business operations of the Company to persons working in the capital markets. [Domestic] Employee consultation and Responded to all consultations received by the employee consultation Continue to respond to consultations received by the employee 100 100 ％ ○ p40 counseling hot line response rate and counseling hotline. consultation and counseling hotline. Promoted workplaces where employees with disabilities can Promote barrier-free workplaces where employees with a disability [Domestic] Employment rate of persons with contribute their skills and expertise, and making workplaces barrier2 1.8 ％ × can leverage their skills and demonstrate talents. Continue to disabilities free. Proactively continued to promote employment of persons with actively hire persons with disabilities. disabilities. Interviews held between future retirees and their supervisors on their p34 future career options one year prior to mandatory retirement. System Continue to hold training sessions for employees with 58 years [Domestic] Rehirement rate after mandatory established to promote rehirement after mandatory retirement based on of age, mutually confirm employees expectations and roles after 60 79 ％ ○ retirement feedback received from the individual, providing them with the most rehirement through interviews and promote rehirement after appropriate choice and seat. Promoted the rehirement of employees after mandatory retirement using continuous follow up. mandatory retirement. Increased frequency of employee satisfaction survey to twice annually. Continue to implement the employee satisfaction survey, which [Domestic] Number of times employee 2 2 times ○ Confirmed employees' current situation and satisfaction with work and was increased to twice annually last year, and reflect results in satisfaction survey conducted reflected this in various management initiatives. management initiatives policies. Posted maternity and parenting leave guidelines on the intranet. Provided [Domestic] Turnover rate due to pregnancy or Continue to implement current initiatives and promote childcare 8 0 ％ ○ an opportunity at the back-to-work interview for persons on leave to p33-35 childcare leave by male employees. discuss their work format after returning and their childcare needs. Implemented once per month according to annual plan. Employees were [Domestic] No-overtime day implementation 100 100 ％ ○ notified by audio announcements in the office, signed posted notes by Continue to hold once per month according to annual plan. rate division general manager and email. Held once per month according to the annual plan. Held health [Domestic] Health & Safety Committee meeting 100 100 ％ ○ management guidance led by industrial physicians and worked to reduce Hold once per month according to the annual plan. implementation rate employee working hours. Implemented employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. Also Implement employee health check-ups during the fiscal year. [Domestic] Health check-up screening rate 100 100 ％ ○ provided post-exam care and recommendations for employees requiring Also, continue to provide post-exam care and recommendations second screening. for employees requiring second screening. p35 Held mental health training for employees based on their job title as [Domestic] Mental health care and adult onset well as created illness guidelines for individuals and departments to Continue to hold training on mental health care and adult onset disease improvement training implementation 100 100 ％ ○ provide information from diagnosis to after return to work. Held a group disease. Foster an awareness of health management through the rate (for those applicable) and e-learning training program on remedying adult onset diseases and monthly provision of health information. quitting smoking. In addition to special training for new employees and various training [Domestic] Theme-based and rank-based programs based on job title, role and age, providing annual, monthly Continue to hold current training programs. training program implementation rate (for 100 100 ％ ○ and weekly training of thought and action abilities to improve employees' p34 those applicable) abilities to carry out Unicharm's unique business model during their day-to-day work. [Domestic] Number of discussions held with Held a wide range of discussions on employment issues, work hours, Continue to hold discussions once per month and establish 12 12 times ○ p35 the labor union benefits, health management measures, and rules deliberations, etc. schedule for making revisions to policies. Promoted measures across the entire Unicharm Group (● Japan: pink ribbon activities, child raising support project in 'paper city' & provision [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate of baby paper diapers to Shikokuchuo City , excretion care lectures etc. Continue to implement activities promoted on a company-wide 100 100 ％ ○ ● China: pink ribbon activities ● India: providing learning opportunities level. p36-37 of company-wide activities about first menstrual period. ● Taiwan: pink ribbon activities and donations provided to social welfare group, etc.) Continued to provide a series of support efforts to disaster-affected areas (● Great East Japan Earthquake: organized Matching Fund during Super [Domestic and Overseas] Implementation rate Continue to provide assistance to those areas affected by the Great 100 100 ％ ○ Cool Biz employee dress code that donated Humany robots. In FY2013, p18-19 of relief to disaster-affected areas. East Japan Earthquake. initiative was expanded to the Warm Biz employee dress code to promote company-wide activities throughout the year. Held nursing care seminar). *Qualitative goal is set as 100%. Self Evaluation Standards: ○ = Goal achieved; △ = Mostly achieved; × = No Progress unicharm CSR report 2014 23 Along with Our Customers Unicharm will contribute to creating a better quality of life for everyone in the world by Ideal oﬀering world-ﬁrst and world-leading products and services of the ﬁnest quality and safety Vision that will bring comfort, excitement, and joy to its customers around the world. Communicating with customers Initiatives of the Customer Service centers in China, Thailand, Taiwan, Indonesia and other Center countries. Following Unicharm China and Taiwan, At the Customer Service Center, our fundamental goal is Unicharm Thailand and to improve customer satisfaction by responding to the Indonesia declared their selfvaluable feedback we receive from our customers in a conformity with ISO 10002 prompt, fair and sincere manner. In FY2013, the Customer in October 2013 and March Service Center received approximately 46,000 calls. The 2014, respectively, as part feedback we received was in turn shared widely with of our eﬀorts to improve Customer Service Center related departments inside the company and used to customer satisfaction across 89.4% help improve our products and services. the Unicharm Group. In July 2006, Unicharm made a declaration of selfconformity with ISO 10002 international standard customer Customer Complaints Correspondence Management System, and is extending it to our customer service satisfaction ● Main Initiatives of the Customer Service Center Main initiatives Contents We organize training programs to enhance our specialist knowledge, including sessions led by external instructors and 1.Responder training other informative workshops, in order to improve the quality of our response. We share customer feedback with related departments in a timely manner through weekly and monthly report. This 2. Reﬂection in products feedback is used to improve existing products and develop new products, in order to provide customers with products that are safe and convenient. Customer feedback is shared internally in real-time using our centralized customer information management system, or the SMILE system. Report meetings with business departments and product package conﬁrmation meetings 3. Information dissemination (Communication Guarantee Meeting) are also held to ensure feedback is utilized to improve products from a customer standpoint. The Development and Manufacturing departments organize training sessions for new employees and other employees 4. Customer Service Center that wish to participate in order to reinforce understanding of customer inclinations and quality. In FY2013, 796 training employees took part in these training sessions. 5. Strengthen collaboration with The initiatives of our customer service centers located around the world are being shared to help improve customer overseas customer service satisfaction across the entire Unicharm Group, including its overseas subsidiaries. This information is also being used to centers improve our response skills based on ISO10002 complaint response MS and to step up inter-oﬃce collaboration. ● Unicharm Complaint Response Policy （1）Customer feedback will be centrally managed by the Companyʼs customer service centers and addressed in a fair and impartial manner in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) complaint response process manual and ISO10002 complaint response process documentation. Information concerning defects in a product or service will be reported to the President & CEO and steps will be taken immediately to remedy the problem. （2）In the case customer feedback must be redressed, related departments will work together to immediately rectify the situation and prevent future reoccurrences in accordance with the QMS (ISO9001) redress and preventive measure procedure manual. （3）We will strive to reﬂect the valuable feedback of customers in future products and services. We will take customer feedback seriously and exert our best eﬀorts so that each department works together to ensure that customers are satisﬁed. ● Examples of customer feedback reﬂected in our products We also We launched a scented version A request received Silcot Wet tissue as a standard We launched for sales requests for item in September 2013 after a sanitary pad of sanitary scented version receiving a number of requests product for men in pads for of Silcot Wet from consumers following the April 2014 based on men tissues as our introduction of the product as consumer requests. standard item a promotional item. 24 unicharm CSR report 2014 Activities of overseas customer taking into account Along with Our service centers quality, safety and health, cooperative structure ▶Customer service study session in Australia Customers and customer services. The Customer Service Center in Japan and the Global The Unicharm Group Quality Assurance Division carried out a joint customer will further build its service study session with local employees in Australia Customer service cooperative structure and strive to study session in to deepen their understanding of product development, continuously satisfy our consumers. Australia Along with the Feedback from Overseas Customer Service Centers Environment Thailand Customer Service Center India Customer Service Center Cooperating with the related We established our center in India in May 2013, four years departments, Thailand Customer after launching products and appointed a specialized staﬀ. Along with Our Service Center made declaration Although it is common practice in Japan, we introduced of self-conformity with ISO service initiatives such as shipping replacement products 10002 Customer Complaint by courier and thoroughly Employees Correspondence Management implement customer-asSystem in October 2013. We will number-one principle so that be making every eﬀort to provide we can give support to the service with smile to further please well-being of our consumers consumers so that they will support in India. us as number one supplier. Indonesia Customer Service Center Australia Customer Service Center Along with the Society We have improved the quality of customer service based on In Australia, we aim to maintain customer satisfaction by declaring our self-conformity with the ISO 10002 Customer understanding the essential nature of our consumersʼ Complaint Correspondence Management System and would problems and quickly taking proper action. We always like to contribute to further improving consumer satisfaction. approach the process according to Unicharm standards with The result has been that we are wholeheartedly working so honest simplicity and our staﬀ works to deliver consumer Along with Our that our consumers continue voices to other members to use Unicharm products and in our company so that we send us many messages of can continue to improve thanks. Unicharm products and Business Partners services. Along with Letter of thanks from consumers Shareholders and Investors “I was impressed “I feel a sense of with Moony diapers! security and theyʼre I am reassured by comfortable. Management its soft material and Sawayaka Pad allows the rubber stretches me to enjoy life to the well so they are fullest.” easy to put on my child.” unicharm CSR report 2014 25 Communication with customers using various media Insight research, R&D, and marketing As a specialized manufacturer, Unicharm provides Three-pronged approach involving information on continence care, ﬁrst menstruation, and insight research, R&D, and marketing parenting to customers within Japan. In March 2012, a Facebook page for Moony was established to provide We practice a model of manufacturing that closely reﬂects a platform for new moms to communicate with one customer needs by adhering to the motto Maintain another. In conjunction with “Baby Town,” which boasts our No.1 position through continued and dedicated approximately 700,000 members, this social media page service ingrained in our DNA. We thoroughly observe the disseminates parenting information to customers. In lifestyle and consumption style of consumers and pursue April 2013, we revamped our educational website for ﬁrst the true needs that exist in their subconscious. We are menstruation called “First Body Navi”and added additional committed to developing products that exceed customer content. In addition, we have developed corporate websites expectations by leveraging our customer-oriented for overseas locations aimed at strengthening online creativity. In order to promote a more extensive global communication with customers both in Japan and abroad. reach, we are developing products localized to meet the needs of each region and market. While Unicharm products are considered daily necessities, there are some countries where paper diapers are regarded as a luxury or consumers are not accustomed to using paper diapers throughout the day. Taking each country's customs and needs into consideration, we are creating unprecedented new value in our products that balances function with First Body Navi Pre-Mama Town cost, making these products more accessible to all. http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.premama.jp/ We aim to continue girls/ Baby Town developing products http://www.babytown.jp/ that suit the local needs of each region by combining the forces of insight research, research and development, and marketing. Monitoring survey Moony on Facebook Mild Incontinence Care Navi Cooperation between R & D and Engineering http://www.facebook.com/ http://www.nyoucare.jp/ moony.japan Using an organizational structure consisting of research, development, and engineering (R&D&E), Unicharm promotes research and development in an interdepartmental approach that encompasses ﬁve departments. These departments engage in various types of basic research on an ongoing basis while the new technologies and materials they develop continuously provide improvements for existing products and create Continence Care Navi Unicharm Human Care completely new ones as well. In addition, we have set http://www.carenavi.jp/ http://www.humany.jp/ up research centers in key geographic areas, creating an infrastructure capable of developing products that truly meet local needs. India site Australia site Product testing http://www.unicharm.co.in/ http://www.unicharm.com.au/ 26 unicharm CSR report 2014 Quality Management implementation of best practices by way of sister plant Along with Our system between factories in Japan and those overseas. Unicharm’s view of quality assurance *UTMSS: Unicharm Total Management Strategic System and framework Customers To promote quality management at Unicharm, we have aligned our quality policy with our Medium-Term Management Plan and undertake internal and external Along with the audits to conﬁrm the conformity and eﬀectiveness of our systems. We continually strive to improve these by putting in place corrective and preventative measures. Environment All of our business oﬃces in Japan and overseas have acquired ISO 9001. Based on this standard, we have UTMSS Initiative in India implemented a quality management system (QMS) Oral presentations at a throughout our supply chain. It is our intention to push self-study seminar ahead with initiatives for uniform quality improvements in Along with Our the management of our business and operations globally. Employees Product Safety Eﬀorts In consideration of the characteristic of our products and how they are used, Unicharm carries out Human Repeated Insult Patch Tests and a variety of alternative testing methods to conﬁrm the safety of its products. Along with the We also have a mechanism in place at the product Tianjin Factory employees undergo development stage in which our Safety Assessment training in Japan Society Committee operates as a gate check, conducting risk assessments that take into account misuse or chemical Promoting appropriate product toxicity of novel materials and structures. labeling Global Safety Activities In an eﬀort to provide accurate information to our Along with Our customers, we verify that our product labels and We have had a safety-check framework in place in each advertisements comply with relevant regulations as well country since April 2007, which is being implemented by as voluntary industry standards and that they are easy to Business Partners our local subsidiaries primarily in China, Korea, Taiwan, understand to avoid misunderstandings and misuse. We Thailand and Indonesia. In addition, we visit our suppliers, also set up a Communication Guarantee Meeting which testing partners and governments in each country to step eﬀectively functions to verify and evaluate the scientiﬁc up communication in order to deliver safe and reliable basis for product labeling during the product design products to our customers through a joint eﬀort. stage as well as to collaborate across the Group to achieve Along with the most adequate and precise labeling possible. Initiatives at Unicharm Products Shareholders and As an initiative for quality assurance, Unicharm Products is implementing improvements based on information Investors from consumers relevant to defective products or poor services, and for factory-wide improvements using UTMSS.* This system is used for goals such as Management visual control and standardization and for continual improvement in productivity and quality so that we can continue to provide consumers with products of consistent and high quality. We are also disseminating our framework to overseas subsidiaries and assisting with the Communication Guarantee Meeting unicharm CSR report 2014 27 Along with the Environment We will contribute to the sustainable development of a society which maintains a balance Ideal between conservation of the environment and economic growth through the creation of Vision environmentally friendly manufacturing. Promotion framework for environmental activities Our attitude toward the environment All employees of Unicharm are committed to environmental activities following the Basic Most of Unicharmʼs products are consumables essential to Environmental Policy and the Environmental Action a clean and healthy lifestyle, which closely relates to the Guidelines developed based on our corporate environment through our use of resources and emission philosophical framework (Unicharm Ideals, Beliefs and of waste. As we have expanded our operations globally Pledges and Corporate Principles of Action). We carefully centered on Asia in order to provide better products to monitor the impact our business activities have on the consumers around the world, our role and responsibility environment, and we are promoting initiatives to reduce for reducing our environmental impact has also increased our environmental impacts and improve our economic with each passing year. eﬃciency aimed at achieving a sustainable society. Basic Environmental Policy Environmental Action Guidelines As a company that engages in the manufacture ● Abide by all laws and regulations and sale of disposable products, we recognize the ● Make sound choices for the environment extent of our responsibility to the environment. Through our corporate activities we strive to create ● Eliminate waste environmentally friendly products so that we may ● Learn more about environmental issues in the future pass on a beautiful earth to future generations. We are committed to providing goods ● Enhance productivity and services that bring comfort, excitement, and ● Share eﬀorts for helping to improve the joy to people throughout the world and we are environment determined to realize the sustainable development of a society that achieves a balance between ● Reduce the use of natural resources environmental conservation and economic growth. Promotion framework for under the responsibility of the CQO* led by the CSR Committee chaired by the Groupʼs President. environmental activities At the same time, each Group company seeks further The Unicharm Groupʼs environmental activities are improvement by way of PDCA cycle through gate control considered to be an important part of its quality assurance and KPI management as a part of its day-to-day business program as we deal largely with disposable products. processes while aiming to integrate ISO14001 with The Groupʼs environmental activities are implemented ISO9001. primarily by the Global Quality Assurance Department *CQO: Chief Quality Oﬃcer ● Environmental Management Structure CSR Committee and related groups Environmental / ISO Promotion Group, Global Quality Assurance Department Unicharm Product Marketing Purchasing Manufacturing Distribution Sales Value chain development 28 unicharm CSR report 2014 Environmental impact and environmental goals Along with Our Monitoring the environmental impact of responsible manufacturer that utilizes resources, we engage Customers in eﬀorts to improve the environment at every stage of the products during the entire lifecycle supply chain through all of our business activities, from the As a manufacturer of consumer products, Unicharm uses procurement of materials to manufacturing, transport, and resources in various aspects of its business activities. As a disposal of products after use. ● Environmental impact from a lifecycle perspective INPUT OUTPUT Along with the Production Input Materials Discharge Water & Steam 3,734,841tons Environment Resources Transport manufacturer Fluvial Discharge & Raw Materials & Raw Materials & Auxiliary NOx 23.8 tons Auxiliary Materials 47.5 tons Atmospheric Release Materials 249,181 tons SOx Production CO2 204,941 tons Electricity 309,045,000kWh Products Eﬄuent 37,905 tons Heavy oil 4,776kl Outsourced Disposal 438 tons Along with Our Resources Water 4,981,403tons 34,884 tons Eﬄuent outside sites Recycle 34,446 tons Utility gas 1,110,000m3 Solar power generation systems 5,701,000 kWh Incinerated waste 3,021 tons Employees LPG 2,870tons Products 486,814 tons Thermal Recycling Transport Input CO2 40,571 tons Transport Atmospheric Release Resources Diesel 15,210 kl NOx 190 tons Along with the Wholesale & Retail Stores Waste 1,488,000 tons Society Third party Assurance (P42): mark is shown where Consumption Containers and packaging Waste & Incineration applicable. 10,900 tons Company Policies and Standards on Aggregation Aggregation period: April 1, 2013 to March 31, 2014 Scope: Unicharm Group companies in Japan as stated below. Unicharm Corporation (Headquarters, Global R&D Division, Mie Along with Our Factory, Itami Factory, Saitama Factory, Sales Division (Electricity and CO₂ only), Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. (Fukushima Factory, Shizuoka Factory, Shikoku Factory), Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Co., Ltd. (Factory No. 1, Factory No. 2, Factory No. 3, Kokko Plant), Uni Care, Cosmotec Corporation / Peparlet Co., Ltd. / Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Policies and standards: Aggregation based on company rules concerning the management of environmental information in accordance with relevant environmental laws and regulations including the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures, and the Waste Management and Public Cleansing Act. Business Partners Notes: 1. The CO₂ emission coeﬃcient is determined in accordance with the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures. However, the oﬃcially published ﬁgure of 0.571kg-CO₂ /kWh by the Federation of Electric Power Companies of Japan (FY2012 results/before reﬂecting the 2010 Kyoto Mechanisms Credit) is used for electricity. The published ﬁgure of 0.522kg-CO₂/kWh (2011 results) from the IEA CO₂ Emissions from Fuel Combustion Highlights is used for Thailand. 2. Discharge includes industrial waste, general waste from oﬃces, and recyclables. However, this does not include direct transactions between plants involving recycled materials. 3. Figures estimated from incinerator operations at the Fukushima Factory are used for the volume of incinerated waste materials. Environmental Activity Themes meet last minute demand prior to Japanʼs consumption Along with tax hike as well as an increase in waste from adjustments and Goals when relocating and setting up new facilities. We were Shareholders and Regrettably we were unable to achieve our waste able to achieve our goals for all other themes. Going reduction goal for FY2013 because of an increase in forward, we will continue to carry out corporate activities production volume and net sales. The major factors that are considerate of the environment. behind this were a signiﬁcant increase in production to Investors ● FY2013 results and FY2014 goals Theme of the Activity Indicator Base Year FY2013 Goal FY2013 Result Assessment FY2014 Goal FY2016 Goal Management Reducing CO2 emissions Energy use (GJ) / base unit per net sales (millions of yen) − 10.7 10.7 ○ 10.6 10.5 Reducing waste Total emissions at the 3 main factories 2000 -13% -9% × -13% -14% Recycling resources Recycling ratio at the 3 main facilities − Over 99% Over 99% ○ Over 99% Over 99% Development of environmentally Ratio of environmentally friendly products − 65% 65% ○ 67% 75% friendly products ［Assessment］○：Achieved target △：Rate of achievement: 70% under 100% ×：Rate of achievement: Less than 70% unicharm CSR report 2014 29 Environmental initiatives Cats Contributing to the Formation through our products of a Recycling-Oriented Society Unicharm has set a target ratio for environmentally friendly The reuse and recycling of resources is an important products as part of its environmental goals in promoting issue facing Japan because the country has very few the development of environmentally friendly products. natural resources. However, there are still materials that Products are evaluated for whether environmental are diﬃcult to recycle or have reduced quality when impacts are successfully reduced within the life cycle from recycled, such as items recycled more than once or items the baseline ﬁgures of FY2005. In FY2013, we achieved a with shapes that are diﬃcult to recycle. Certain paper ratio of 65% environmentally friendly products, compared materials that are diﬃcult to recycle are being used as to our goal of 65%. We have set a goal of 67% for FY2014 paper sand in cat litter boxes. to further expand our environmentally friendly product Paper products that were once diﬃcult to line. Starting in FY2013 we began regularly conﬁrming the recycle, such as used tickets, stamps, wall paper cuts, eco-friendliness of products under development during and crushed paper pieces from the paper diaper each stage of the product development process. manufacturing process, are now being utilized as a raw Since the inception of our proprietary environmental material for paper sand in cat litter boxes. In addition, label, the Eco Charming mark in 2008, a total of 23 items since paper is used as the raw material, this paper sand have come to bear this label. is much lighter and easier to carry compared to the previous type of materials that used mineral ores. In turn, this has enhanced the product value of cat litter boxes, What is Eco Charming mark? achieving a produce that is eco-friendly in two aspects. Paper sand for cat litter boxes fulﬁlls the criteria Only products that satisfy strict standards for both for an Eco Charming product because of its excellent “reduced environmental impact” and “product value recyclability and contributions to the formation of a enhancements” are eligible to bear recycling-oriented society, since it can be made even the Eco Charming mark. Decisions on from pulp that is typically diﬃcult to recycle. applying the Eco Charming mark to a product are based on an environmental ● Products Created from Recycled Materials standard established in our Eco Label Guidelines. Crushed pulp Eco Charming Materials (collect) mark Tickets, stamps, wall Products that use the Eco Charming mark paper and cut paper, etc. Ticket *Factor: One type of environmental indicator that quantiﬁes the Proprietary hardening and coloring technologies Peparlet environmental burden and value (function, etc.) of a product and compares data for new and old products for assessment purposes. 65% ratio of environmentally friendly products Impact on child-rearing Unicharm has successfully maintained the absorbency of disposable diapers while drastically reducing its pulp use using its proprietary technologies. The thickness of our disposable diaper products has been reduced by approximately 60% in comparison to products from 20 years ago. We performed a trial calculation on the environmental impacts resulting from the use of disposable diapers for the entire duration of child-rearing (roughly three years) and determined the amount of waste equals approximately 200 kg and the amount of CO₂ emissions equals approximately 930 kg. In comparison to our products from 20 years ago, the waste amount has been reduced by about 75 kg, while CO₂ emissions have been reduced by about 580 kg. 30 unicharm CSR report 2014 Initiatives to reduce environmental impacts through our business activities Along with Our Unicharm s Management of Safety Assessment Committee serves as a gate, carrying Customers out various risk assessments based on use and disposal Chemical Substances methods. Unicharm has established measures to control its use In conjunction with our recent global expansion of chemical substances that are harmful to people or centered on Asia, we are now carefully monitoring ecosystems. To ensure consumers can use our products chemical substances for the impacts they have on people that directly contact their skin with peace of mind, as well as ecosystems, based on their use not only in Along with the we carry out inspections in accordance with our Basic Japan but internationally as well. In 2013, we widened our Rules on Quality Control in all processes, from product deﬁnition of harmful substances and began revising our Environment development to equipment development, materials global chemical substance list to make it clearer and more purchasing, manufacturing, and marketing. transparent. We have established guidelines for preventing the Moving forward, we will share our eﬀorts and these use of chemical substances that are harmful to people changes not only within the Unicharm Group but among or ecosystems in the materials procurement stage and suppliers as well in order to ensure rules and regulations a dedicated department investigates the chemicals are followed closely. Along with Our we use in terms of hazards and legal compliance. Our Employees ● Safety screening process Regulations of applicable Disposal (restrictions) country/region Stability/Safety Materials/ ● Labeling/Eﬃcacy ● GMP Overseas ● Safety management/side eﬀect reports Obtain data Toxicity Regulatory products on materials study compliance Safety Approval Launch assessment Japan ● Safety management/side eﬀect reports Ingredients Domestic law, Disposal (restrictions) regulations Along with the ❶ Usage allowed Stability/Safety ❷ No CMR ingredients, PBT ingredients, carcinogenic qualities, mutagenic ❶ Cell toxicity testing ❷ Sensitivity testing ❸ Oral toxicity ❹ Environment (toxicity to marine life) qualities, or reproductive toxicity Test Items ❺ Heavy metals, etc. Society ❻ Odor analysis ❼ Use test results (HUT) ❸ Less than concentration regulation Thailand Commended for Waste The 3Rs Award commended the companyʼs eﬀorts to Reduction Measures improve productivity and Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd., our subsidiary in reduce product loss, while Along with Our Thailand, received the 3Rs Award and the Zero Landﬁll the Zero Landﬁll Waste Waste Achievement Award from Thailandʼs Ministry of Achievement Award was Industry for the companyʼs environmental conservation received after the company Business Partners activities. The companyʼs 10 years of continual eﬀorts completed the elimination of to use resources more eﬀectively and reduce waste all wastes bound for landﬁlls at during the manufacturing process as part of its ISO14001 its plant by means of thorough implementation were also recognized. waste separation and sorting. China Participating in the Shanghai Along with in a timely manner, cooperated with carbon emission Emissions Trading System to inspections carried out by the government and is further Shareholders and enhancing its activity level. Help Prevent Global Warming UCCP has appointed a dedicated department and A trial emissions trading system was launched in Shanghai person in charge of its eﬀorts, and installed the latest under Chinaʼs environmental protection plan aimed at energy saving technologies together with reducing its use Investors realizing a low-carbon society. Uni-Charm Consumer of energy through daily improvements in productivity. Products (China) Co., Ltd. (UCCP), our local subsidiary in It also stepped up its eﬀorts for managing energy China, participated in the trial carbon trading scheme usage, which helped it identify issues and promote along with 191 other companies as a member of society more eﬀective energy saving Management working toward the goal of a low-carbon society. activities. Through these eﬀorts, UCCP, as a participating company of the trial emissions UCCP is more committed than trading exchange, actively rolled out related eﬀorts ever before about contributing in response to the governmentʼs call for uniﬁcation. to a low-carbon society. Speciﬁcally, the company proactively took part in training on reducing CO₂ emissions, submitted company reports unicharm CSR report 2014 31 Along with Our Employees At Unicharm we recognize that a companyʼs growth and development depend on the growth and development of the individuals who make up the organization. Therefore, Ideal we view the training and development of our human resources as among the most Vision important tasks of management. We will not be satisfied with the status quo and will never cease challenging ourselves to excel beyond the current situation. View concerning human resources and respect for human rights Unicharm Group’ s Human Resource Philosophy 1. Human perspective Human Resource Philosophy ◆ We recognize that our employees are autonomous At Unicharm we value the autonomy of each and every individuals, and we respect individual initiative individual, based on Unicharmʼs “Beliefs and Pledges” and based on freedom and individual responsibility. Corporate Principles of Action. We endeavor to provide ◆ We believe that each employee is aware of her/his fair opportunities for our employees to ﬁnd fulﬁllment in respective missions and roles, and that we are all their work and to create a corporate culture that fosters independent, active beings who think and act on the development of conﬁdence and pride. our own. ● Unicharm HR Philosophy Chart 2. The organization and the individual ◆ We, people with common interests and aspirations, “Human beings”as the foundation of our company values will work together in harmony, and together we will In order to support our “company management to serve create a vision of the future and share the joy of our the common good” into the future, we will continue growth as a whole. to be a group of experts who create and disseminate ◆ With market principles as one of our fundamental dynamic staﬃng systems that actualize and motivate our principles, we will pursue the integration of employees, trusted by our employees all over the world. organizational and individual development, and the realization of “the three aspects of wealth.” 3. Growth and creation ◆ By improving the ways in which we learn from each other and the diverse values we all hold, we will continue to pursue the creation of new values. Invariant ◆ We will provide our employees with opportunities principle for growth and will continue to create opportunities for the demonstration of such growth. HR Philosophy Our view of human rights The meaning of our As the “Unicharm Group Action Guidelines” clearly existence state, in order to achieve our “Pledge to Associates” we will never discriminate against people based on race, religion, gender, family background, physical disability, Common values/ or any other factors; that we will not tolerate child labor or forced labor; that we will never engage in acts of criteria for judgment sexual harassment or power harassment; and that we will undertake comprehensive safety and health management in the workplace. ● Human resources data (1: Group data, 2: Japan domestic data, (11)‒(13) applies to employees registered with Unicharm or Unicharm Products, other items apply to employees registered at Unicharm) Index Fiscal Year Unit 2011 2012 2013 (1) Number of employees(consolidated) Persons 10,287 10,855 12,795 (2) Number of employees(Japan) Persons 3,027 3,009 2,994 Employment (3) Average age of employees Age 40.3 40.6 40.7 (4) Employee turnover rate (Excluding retirement at the mandatory age, promotion to ％ 1.9 1.5 1.7 board member, and transfer within the group) (5) Percentage of female employees ％ 21.7 22.1 16.7 (6) Percentage of female management staﬀ ％ 2.6 2.4 4.9 (7) Employment rate of persons with disabilities (annual average) ％ 1.8 1.7 1.8 Diversity, Equal (8) Rehiring rate of retired employees ％ 65 79 79 Opportunity and (9) Health check-up rate ％ 100 100 100 Occupational (10) Employee turnover rate for pregnancy or childcare ％ 0.1 0 0 Safety and Health (11) Use of childcare leave system Total number of men and women Persons 46 57 55 (12) Use of family-care leave system Total number of men and women Persons 4 0 3 (13) Use of shortened work hours system for childcare Total number of men and women Persons 49 45 46 (14) Use of ﬂextime system for personal lifestyle support Total number of men and women Persons 31 50 58 *1 As of March 31 of each year *2 11‒13 applies to permanent employees, contract employees and other items to permanent employees. *3 (4) Employee turnover rate = Number of terminated employees (except for retirement at mandatory retirement age, promotion to board members, or transfer within the group) / Number of employees at the end of each ﬁscal year (March 31) *4 (6) Percentage of female management staﬀ = Number of female management staﬀ / Total number of management staﬀ *5 (8) Rehiring rate of retired employees = Number of rehired employees /Number of retired employees (at mandatory retirement age) 32 unicharm CSR report 2014 SAPS management: Employee survey Along with Our Emphasis on respect for people and We conducted “employee surveys” twice a year at all a sense of accomplishment group companies in Japan and overseas, in order to Customers verify employeesʼ satisfaction/fulﬁllment and sense of The purpose of SAPS management, a system that has accomplishment. This sequential surveying enables us been in operation at Unicharm since 2004, is to foster to implement various measures in management and employeesʼ overall happiness through the recognition human resources, and also encourages employees and that employeesʼ time is valuable and that they will feel organizational operations to be more proactive. more satisﬁed if their time and eﬀorts are focused on Along with the high-priority (high value‒added) issues. To achieve this goal, we put together a company-wide group to work on ● Employee satisfaction index (all full-time employees) and implement the 6 essentials of SAPS management. Environment “Work satisfaction” and “Satisfaction about working for Unicharm” With SAPS management, we aim to respect the autonomy progresses at to high levels Employee survey for second half of FY2013 of individuals with diverse values and to foster that （Unit: points） * Average score on a scale of 5 same sense of respect among all employees so that they 5.0 will share in the joy of the growth of the organization 3.99 4.06 4.11 4.09 4.12 4.11 4.10 4.19 4.24 4.22 4.24 4.25 4.0 as a whole. Through SAPS management, we proceed toward the realization of “the three aspects of wealth”: Along with Our 3.0 “aspiration,” “economy,” and “mind and body.” 2.0 ● 6 essentials of SAPS Management Employees 1. Respect for people 1.0 2. Emphasis on a sense of accomplishment 0 3. Emphasis on time competitiveness Work satisfaction Satisfaction about working for Unicharm (Time-based management) ■ 2010 ■ First half of 2012 ■ First half of 2013 4. Knowledge management ■ 2011 ■ Second half of 2012 ■ Second half of 2013 5. Emphasis on curiosity and entrepreneurship Along with the Society 6. Mentality change Global expansion of management with resonance – The President’ s Award Unicharm established the “Presidentʼs Award,” which may system, honorees share their successful result for the year be awarded to any employee, including overseas group with more than 1,500 employees watching the live report. Along with Our employees, to recognize any individual or team that has The “Presidentʼs Award” is more than an employee awards achieved outstanding results through promoting SAPS program, and works systemically to promote leadership management, based on our philosophy of management development through providing opportunities to simulate with resonance. In a presentation that is broadcast to good practices and encourage presenters and participants Business Partners about 60 bases worldwide through our video-conference to learn from each other. The Presidentʼs Award 2013, Winner of “Gold Prize for Teams” China Indonesia Along with Shareholders and Investors Sofy Pocket-Magic Team, Feminine Care Management Jobodetabek Team, Sales Division Products Division PT Uni-Charm Indonesia Unicharm Consumer Products (China) Co., Ltd. Winning the Gold Prize was the result of cooperation I promised my team members that I would bring among all team members. Going forward, weʼd home the Gold Prize, and Iʼm happy to be able to like to continue to deliver happiness to as many keep that promise. We wonʼt be satisﬁed with status consumers as possible through our products. quo but will try to win the prize again next year. Lv Shengling (Second from the right) Sri Haryani (ﬁrst row on the far right) unicharm CSR report 2014 33 Personnel utilization and training Expansion of education and training programs We have in place a skills-enhancing program to enhance employee abilities to think and take action, consisting of understanding our SAPS management model and practical skills improvement. ● Our distinctive training programs Title Eligible people Summary (1) Transitioning from student life to working life (rewiring) (2) Deepening employeesʼ understanding of the “3 DNAs”of Unicharm (3) First-hand experience and understanding of the three aspects of actual work sites (manufacture, purchase and use) to and For eligible recognizing and persisting in developing a “consumer-oriented mindset.” Training for new employees people (4) Understanding the SAPS management model (5) Experiencing the importance of working as an organization (team selling), and understanding Unicharmʼs persistent emphasis on “target oriented” and “target achievement” approaches (6) Creating your own “10-year career vision and plan” Training is carried out for people in keeping with their respective levels, ages and roles. All training is based on understanding Training at all levels, For eligible our SAPS management model and improving practical skills, providing opportunities and places to enhance the ability to think ages and roles people and take action. For eligible An upskilling program for “leaders/educators” in order to realize and spread our unique business model, the “SAPS SAPS Trainer's CAMP people management model.” For eligible A workshop program for veteran employees in their early ﬁfties to develop action plans by utilizing their accumulated Unicharm Spirits Masters people insightsand skills in order to demonstrate their powers of execution and foster younger employees. Unicharm Spirits Masters For eligible For employees who are on the verge of becoming senior expert employees, this program substantiates goals for future Advance people activities as torchbearers of the Unicharm Spirits. Overseas Business Trip By By accompanying senior members on overseas business trips, participants have the opportunity to observe and learn about Accompanying Program invitation the thoughts and actions of senior management members. Provides employees with the tools and a system for designing and developing individualized 10-year career plans, and for Ten-year career For all completing their own action plans. The tools can also be used for communication with management, in order to support each vision and plan employees employee in achieving her/his own goals. A cooperative training program established by several companies for the purpose of allowing participants to enhance their Workplace Exchange Participation own skills and improve their own issues & weaknesses. Interaction with participants from other companies is expected to Workshop by lottery provide all participants with inspiration and insights that may not be available within a single workplace. Training program for For eligible This training program helps employees prepare for their post-overseas transfer and develop their mindset so they can rapidly employees posted overseas people assume their duties in the new environment and achieve results. Respect for Diversity Various Support Systems We are committed to always improving our work environment so that each and every employee can work to the best of their abilities. ● Various Support Systems to respect diversit System Eligible people Summary Birth Support Leave Program Employees who undergoing fertility treatment Leave for advanced fertility treatment (up to 1 year) Shortened work hours system for For employees who have a child/children up to the third year of Working hours can be shortened to 5 hours a day childcare elementary school For employees who have family member(s) in need of continuous By application, up to 5 days leave/year is available for one family Nursing-care leave nursing care for more than 2 weeks as a result of injury, sicknesses, member, up to 10 days leave/year for 2 or more family members or physical or mental disorders. who require nursing-care. Former Unicharm employees who worked for more than 3 years and They are eligible for re-employment within a ﬁve-year period (from resigned from employment for various reasons such as marriage, Career Recovery System time of resignation), provided that both the former employee and pregnancy, childbirth, childrearing, nursing-care, or accompanying the company reach a certain agreement. spouses on business transfers. The required number of days leave to appear in court as a citizenCivic duties leave Employees who are selected as citizen-judges judge is available by application. Up to 7 business days leave per 1 donation of bone marrow Bone marrow donors leave Employees who wish to donate their bone marrow available by application, for the procedures required for donation to a patient in the working country (except for donor registration). Employment of people proper outcomes from employees with disabilities and promote a corporate cultural environment free of barriers with physical disabilities in all respects. We aim to provide a workplace where employees with disabilities are able to fully exercise their abilities. We have Initiatives for balancing implemented measures such as placing handicapped work and childcare parking in locations on company grounds that facilitate Aiming to create an environment that supports both smooth movement into the workplace and making childcare and work, our childcare leave program allows facilities barrier-free. More than anything else, we expect 34 unicharm CSR report 2014 employees to take up to two years of childcare leave. On discussions between the company and labor union. In Along with Our the day that childcare leave begins and the employee has FY2013, we consulted on working conditions for sales reserve leave remaining, they can receive up to 15 days of people, beneﬁt programs, health management measures leave, receiving salary as they would if they took regular and the like, and continued with eﬀorts to create an easy Customers paid leave, and we have established an environment place to work. in which almost all female employees who have given birth can take advantage of this system. Going forward, we will aim at enhancing initiatives for encouraging Industrial health and safety male employees whose spouses have given birth to take childcare leave by providing them with the necessary Company-wide safety conventions Along with the information, developing the cultural environment, etc. We hold company-wide safety conventions as part of our Hiring of pregnant women Environment eﬀorts to ensure employee safety. The 11th convention We will newly implement the Fresh-Mom Recruitment was held in 2013 at the Central Plant, Shikoku factory, program for hiring new female graduates from FY2015. Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Women who have expressed an interest in working for Mr. Ishikawa, president of Unicharm but are hesitant to accept because they are Unicharm Products Co., Ltd., pregnant or unsure can take part in the Fresh-Mom presented the company's Along with Our Recruitment program to delay joining the company up wish for the safety of all until the age of 30. employees is embodied in the “Sazareishi monument” Unicharm Family Plant Visit Days Employees to all the factories. The 11th company-wide Unicharm holds Family Visit Days at all of our plants safety convention, Unicharm both in Japan and overseas, to welcome the families of Products, Co., Ltd. employees for a tour of the plant. We received comments from participants, such as “I was impressed by how quickly Health and Safety Committee production of the various products was completed,” as Unicharmʼs “Health and Safety Committee” consists Along with the well as from employees, such as “I was happy to show my of industrial doctors and elected commissioners from family my working site.” the company and the labor union. The Committee implements various activities once a month, including Society activities related to improving the working environment and preventing work related accidents. We also promote no-overtime days and reduced working hours as ways to realize a well-modulated way of working. Along with Our Indonesia Factory Fukushima Factory Promoting employee health To ensure a high level of productivity both physically and Business Partners mentally, we proactively carried out health checkups for employees, and 100% of employees had such a health checkup in FY2013. Unicharm also covers the costs of Shikoku Factory Shizuoka Factory gynecological checkups and breast cancer and cervical cancer screenings. For employees who are at risk of Charming Voice (Suggestion System) developing metabolic syndrome, we held seminars for The Charming Voice suggestion system is a mechanism improving lifestyles. Participants created a six-month Along with action plan and worked to achieve the goals set out in Shareholders and that allows any employee to have their voice heard the plan. We also held a tobacco seminar for smokers to by management at any time. Since its start in FY2011, consider their relationship with tobacco, and we have Investors Charming Voice has been one way for us to realize company-wide no-smoking days. “management with resonance” by utilizing the wisdom, We also introduced an employee support program by enthusiasm and hopes of front-line people. It serves as which our employees and an opportunity to promote communication with top their families can consult management through suggestions to improve quality, with external counselors service, eﬃciency and cost-trimming, and leads to the Management about their worries and development of self-reliant employees. troubles, in order to Dialogue between labor and facilitate their realization of management fulﬁlling and healthy lives without worries. We place a great deal of value on mutual trust between A seminar of the lifestyle labor and management, and hold regular monthly modiﬁcation program unicharm CSR report 2014 35 Along with the Society We build trusting relationships with communities and society, contributing to the Ideal realization of a sound and vital society by improving health and sanitation standards Vision through our business activities serving community needs. Our attitude toward social ● Pink Ribbon activities in Asia contributions Japan Unicharm believes that its business activities have a highly positive impact on society. We feel a strong sense of pride and joy in providing comfort, emotion and pleasure to people not only in Japan, but also in Asia and other parts of the world. Through our involvement in a variety of social contribution activities directly related to Pink Ribbon Smile Walk Tokyo Sofy Pink Ribbon our business, we are working to become a company that Whispering Fund makes contributions to the countries in which we operate Taiwan and one that is welcomed and trusted by people in these locales. ● Unicharm s stance toward social contributions Pink Ribbon Walk Social contribution Core businesses activities ● Baby care ● Various charitable activities Community-based social contribution activities (Japan) ● Employee-led social ● Feminine care contribution activities ● Healthcare ● Activities in the ﬁeld of ● Clean & fresh education ● Activities in the Disaster agreement signed with ● Pet care communities where we operate Fukushima Prefecture following Shizuoka Unicharm Product Co., Ltd. signed an Agreement on Procuring the Necessary Goods for Disaster Relief with Fukushima Prefecture in March 2014 to smoothly supply Making contributions to society needed goods upon the prefectureʼs request; the through our core business company will provide disposable diapers, adult diapers, sanitary napkins, wet tissues and masks as needed. After Ongoing participation in Pink Ribbon the experience of the Great Campaign activities both in Japan East Japan Earthquake and abroad in 2011, we believe the establishment of such a The Pink Ribbon Campaign is a worldwide eﬀort for the system with prefectural early detection, diagnosis, and treatment of breast cancer governments will lead to the and Unicharm contributes to campaign activities in China, quick delivery of supplies Taiwan and Japan. in the event of a large-scale In Taiwan, United Charm Co., Ltd. continues to disaster. Working to transport relief participate in an annual Pink Ribbon Walk in Taipei every goods after the Great East year. One participant commented that “This event has Japan Earthquake (2011) helped me exercise regularly, and I think it will help Nursing care course held in protect me against cancer.” In Japan, Pink Ribbon activities are now in their sixth Tanagura, Fukushima year. A Unicharm employee participating in the Pink In December 2013, continence-support researchers Ribbon Smile Walk in October 2013 felt the importance from Unicharmʼs Continence Support Research Institute of participating when approached by a pedestrian. “The served as instructors for a nursing care seminar held by person asked what I was doing, and it felt good to be able the Health and Welfare Section of the Tanagura Town to explain about the Pink Ribbon Campaign.” Unicharm municipal government. The 24 participants were given raised funds for the campaign through the Pink Ribbon an introduction to such care, including how to select the Whispering Fund, which raised money for a related proper type of adult diapers and how charitable organization when consumers clicked on a link to put them on. Participants noted for the Sofy feminine care product website. that “This information will be useful in the future when I need to provide nursing care,” and “It was diﬃcult when I had to nurse someone before, but the information today will be useful.” 36 unicharm CSR report 2014 Sponsored Childcare Festa 2013 China Supporting the reconstruction eﬀort Along with Our in Shikokuchuo City after the Sichuan Earthquake Unicharm Products and Unicharm Kokko Nonwoven Unicharm is proactively involved in the relief and Customers participated in a child raising festival held by the city reconstruction eﬀorts following the April 20, 2013 of Shikokuchuo in 2013. In keeping with the festivalʼs earthquake in Chinaʼs Shichuan Province. Immediately slogan, “The Best Place to Raise a Child in Shikoku,” this after the quake, we donated Sofy, MamyPoko and Lifree event provides an opportunity for parents and children products and called on employees to make monetary to interact with one another and to promote a good donations. Our eﬀorts were widely covered in the childcare environment. Two companies operated a Shanghaiʼs Qingpu District Newspaper. Along with the miniature steam locomotive and distributed pamphlets In addition, donations collected from employees were about the Pink Ribbon Campaign and breast cancer presented during a visit to Environment awareness. the Shanghai Charitable Foundation (SCF) on June 3, 2013. China Ongoing continence-support Along with Our Employees presentation for students Community-based social contribution In May 2013 and March 2014, Senior Researcher Funatsu from the Unicharm Continence Support Research Institute activities (overseas) served as an instructor for students studying nursing care at Shaanxi Labor College, Shaanxi Province, following Indonesia Visit to a foster home up on his previous visit a year before. Students learned Along with the how to choose and use adult diapers; received practical Unicharm employees have been visiting orphanages training on how to provide support for the mechanics and welfare facilities for the disabled in Indonesia on the Society of getting to and going to the bathroom; and learned Saturday closest to July 1 (the date of our founding) since about the functions of diapers and how to change them 2004. Every year we visit two facilities, where employees while the person is in bed. A student commented that present their monetary donations and donations of they learned the importance of reducing the burden of Unicharm products as well as food, clothing and daily both caregivers and user and that cost savings could be essentials that can be used by the facility. Employees are realized, adding that since such pads are not yet common Along with Our always greeted by the in China, “I would like to promote the spread of their use residents. These visits are through education.” helping us to deepen our Business Partners relationship with local communities in Indonesia. Taiwan Provided donations to and held volunteer activities at Along with orphanages Shareholders and Investors In December 2013, the Honghua Childrenʼs Orphanage held a special “hand-holding” event prior to Christmas to encourage interaction with the children and give a tour of the facility. In addition to a dinner party, donations of used clothing, toys, picture books and stationary were also made. To respond to the Management facilityʼs needs, Unicharm Taiwan also presented NT$109,000 in charitable donations collected from employees and supplies. unicharm CSR report 2014 37 Along with Our Business Partners Ideal We will collaborate with suppliers in implementing CSR activities and promote CSR Vision throughout the entire supply chain, in an effort to produce better products. Approach to materials procurement CSR procurement guidelines At Unicharm, we share our philosophy on safety and １. Compliance with laws and social imperatives the environment through close cooperation with our (1) Comply with related laws and social imperatives in suppliers. purchasing activities. At our overseas sites, where we are expanding our (2) Provide fair and equitable competitive opportunities in operations, we strive to establish business relationships purchasing activities, regardless of nationality, size, or with partners that meet our standards in terms of quality, track record. function, safety, environment, and services, in product (3) Strive for the appropriate management of information lines of varying prices in growth markets. In promoting obtained in purchasing activities. these eﬀorts, we make use of our approaches to ２. Procure safe products and materials that provide a successful supplier relationships that we have established peace of mind in Japan. (1) Choose products and materials in purchasing activities In addition to promoting procurement activities with for which safety has been conﬁrmed. a particular emphasis on crisis management, going (2) Choose economical and high quality materials and forward, we aim to establish a sound understanding products in purchasing activities. and dissemination of Unicharmʼs stance and view (3) Emphasize the ability to manufacture and supply on compliance with laws and social imperatives and products that meet requirements in purchasing activities. extending due consideration to human rights in labor ３. Give due consideration to human rights and labor when we commence trading with new overseas partners. (1) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who We will also call for the cooperation of existing partners in place importance on respect for human rights. environmental and ethical areas. (2) Engage in purchasing activities with corporations who give due consideration to inhumane labor practice. Promoting CSR procurement (3) Emphasize engaging in purchasing activities with corporations who promote appropriate employment practices. Unicharm established CSR procurement guidelines and ４. Responsibility to the environment implemented them in 2009. The guidelines incorporate provisions relating to (1) Value corporations who understand the importance of, and promote environmental conservation in purchasing applicable laws, human rights, industrial relations, activities. environment, and product safety, such as “the abolition (2) Emphasize environmentally friendly raw materials in of child labor,” ”the elimination of discrimination,” and purchasing activities in an eﬀort to achieve a recycling“the promotion of measures against global warming,” as oriented society. stated in the Global Compact. ５. Development of relationships of mutual trust Beginning with China in 2009, followed by Thailand, (1) Cultivate a relationship and trust with business partners Indonesia, Taiwan, and Korea, we held brieﬁng sessions for within the scope of social norms. our suppliers in order to ensure cooperation with our CSR (2) Strive to enhance business performance mutually procurement guidelines. We promote CSR throughout through exchange of essential information with business our entire supply chain by having each supplier complete partners. a self-check sheet in order to verify their procurement status. Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session In August 2013, we held our second quality policy quality related to product liability. We also asked them to explanatory meeting in China, attended by 126 people continue cooperating with quality improvement eﬀorts. from 46 suppliers. At this second meeting, we explained our compliance policy, the need for strengthened governance, and our thinking about materials quality and product quality based on these policies. We also expressed our thanks to suppliers for their major contributions in helping us achieve our quality targets for the year covering the second half of 2012 through the ﬁrst half of 2013 in preventing complaints about Quality Policy Brieﬁng Session in China 38 unicharm CSR report 2014 Along with Shareholders and Investors We continue to grow and develop to maintain our shareholdersʼ trust and to ensure the Ideal distribution of industry-leading returns to shareholders. Vision We practice transparency in our management and strive to ensure that our management is considered to be trustworthy. Our basic policy on proﬁt returns to Along with Our our shareholders Customers The “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action outlined in our Unicharm Groupʼs Action Guidelines constitute our pledge to our shareholders which we share with all group employees. Our Corporate Principles of Action clearly state that “We will strive to manage the company in a way that will maintain a level of growth Along with the corresponding to our shareholdersʼconﬁdence, and that Information for investors on our website will enable us to distribute industry-leading returns to shareholders. Based on our Corporate Principles of Action, Environment we ensure stable and continuous return on investment, as well as improvement of our business performance. Our basic guidelines for return on investment are to implement stable and continuous returns while also investing in our own midand long-term business expansion. We distributed 38 yen per share in the ﬁscal Along with Our year ending in March 2014 and have achieved dividend increase for 12 consecutive ﬁscal years. Employees We will continuously view shareholder return as an important management agenda and will strive to Results brieﬁng realize the distribution of industry-leading returns with continuous improvement of our business performance. Information disclosure for our investors Along with the We opened investor relations pages on our websites Society to post timely information including brief notes on the settlement of accounts and ﬁnancial statements. At the same time, we post English translations of important Overseas IR tours information on our English site to disclose information for Along with Our overseas investors. We also position result brieﬁngs and overseas IR tours as important venues for dialogue among company Listed in the SRI Index Business Partners executives and our investors, and strive to improve the disclosure of information in order to help investors to better understand our business activities. Takahisa Unicharm is included in the major international SRI Takahara, the president of the company, visited the (Socially Responsible Investment) indexes “FTSE4GOOD corporate investors in Europe and the U.S. on this yearʼs Index Series” and “Morningstar Socially Responsible overseas IR tour, where he made an appeal for our future Investment Index (MSSRI)”. growth by directly referencing the security of our stable Along with proﬁts in domestic business in Japan and detailing Unicharmʼs mid-to long-term global growth potential. Shareholders and We have been working on improving communication Investors by holding regular individual meetings for the active exchange of opinions with each corporate investor Morningstar Socially Responsible and securities analyst, as well as by holding tours of FTSE4GOOD Index Series Investment Index (MS-SRI) Unicharm Kyoshinkan or Resonance Hall, our building commemorating Unicharmʼs 50th anniversary in February Management 2011, and the Shikoku Technical Center. unicharm CSR report 2014 39 Management We achieve growth and development as a company, the happiness of our employees, Ideal and social responsibility through transparent management and proactive information Vision disclosure. Corporate Governance Compliance Unicharm strives to pursue proper corporate Our attitude towards compliance management through Unicharm Ideals. We recognize the We see compliance as the promotion of sound corporate importance of achieving a sustainable balance between ethics and our corporate philosophy, in addition to increasing corporate value and fulﬁlling our corporate conforming to established legislation. We strive to social responsibilities through business activities promote the Unicharm Group Action Guidelines, which implemented by integrating management and executive express the high level of preparedness and morality divisions. Based on this belief, we are reinforcing our expected of every employee at the Unicharm Group, as corporate governance system as we further strengthen well as ensure legal and fair management. our executive oﬃcer structure through our corporate auditor system. Establishment of Initiatives for increasing an Internal Control System compliance awareness The Unicharm Group formulates our “Basic Policy for Unicharm conducts periodic training and e-learning to Establishing an Internal Control System,” based on the raise the compliance awareness of directors, oﬃcers and Companies Act, and established an “Internal Control employees as well as provides them with knowledge of Committee” to respond to the “Internal Control and laws and business contracts for their respective positions Reporting System (J-SOX)” of the Financial Instruments and work duties. As part of these eﬀorts, we are working and Exchange Act. to ensure that all directors and employees understand The Internal Control Committee conducts an annual that they are prohibited from bribing public oﬃcials, that reevaluation of risks for each company under the facilitating payments are in principle banned, and that it Unicharm Group, reviews target countries for J-SOX is important to uphold antitrust laws and other applicable assessment, and revises business processes requiring laws. We will continue to train our employees through a evaluation. At the same time, the Committee is phased expansion of target areas and companies going committed to achieving reliable ﬁnancial reporting by forward. promoting the establishment and operation of an internal In Japan, employees can consult on compliance issues control system and eﬀective assessments. by phoning our “RingRing Employee Hotline.” In ﬁscal Going forward, we will continue to make improvements 2013, there were 13 consultations. We also operate similar to our internal control system. hotlines in China and Thailand. In addition to RinRin Dial, an internal whistleblowing hotline has been operating since April 2014 to promote compliance management. ● Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Monitor Board of Auditors Audit Board of Directors Accounting Auditor 2 Full-time Statutory Auditors 11 Directors 2 Part-time Statutory Auditors supervise Attend Report Business Plan CSR Committee Report Advisory Board Meetings Corporate Ethics Committee Audit Report President and CEO Attend Business Update Meeting Direct/supervise Report Report Attend Executive Oﬃcers /Deputy Executive Oﬃcers Management Auditing Report Audit ● Business Divisions ● Functional Divisions ● R&D Divisions Department CSR Department Audit Survey Subsidiaries, Aﬃliated Companies Statutory Auditors (Board) Report Strengthening Legal Compliance and Ethics Action Guidelines (“Five Great Pillars” and Associate Principles of Action, “Beliefs and Pledges” and Corporate Principles of Action) 40 unicharm CSR report 2014 Risk management Along with Our Thorough information security Business Continuity Plan (BCP*) To ensure thoroughness in information security, Unicharm has been enhancing its risk control since Customers Unicharm has set out its information security principles ﬁscal 2005. The BCP Manual describes steps to ensure and procedures, such as the Information Security Policy the safety of our employees and their families, deliver and the Information Management Security Rules. We Unicharm products that represent necessities for daily also have Personal Information Protection Rules in place living to people in disaster-aﬀected areas as well as those Along with the to safeguard personal information provided by our who require them at the fastest rate possible, and recover customers, and we strictly manage this information and important corporate functions of Unicharm. In ﬁscal 2013, take precautions to prevent information leaks. To ensure we conducted an e-learning session for all employees to Environment that these rules are strictly observed and to prevent raise awareness and promote proactive measures. For information leaks, Unicharm has established a groupquick conﬁrmation during an emergency, all employees wide Information Security Committee, and carries out carry a disaster response pocket manual; we also held employee education and ongoing monitoring, as well as emergency drills at each location, held basic lifesaving implementing monthly information management day. courses and provide training according to functional divisions as part of ongoing education and training. Along with Our Furthermore, we have established an infrastructure in Protecting intellectual property which all employees carry a smart phone so we can Employees The intellectual property of the Unicharm Group is conﬁrm their safety and continue business functions in centrally managed by the Legal & Intellectual Property the event of an emergency. In March 2014, we held BCP Division, which formulates and executes intellectual training entitled the “3/11 Comprehensive Companyproperty strategies linked to business and development Wide Drill” for a major earthquake directly underneath strategies at Unicharm. Based on our patent application Tokyo or a possible large-scale interpolate earthquake strategy, we have been protecting and using business involving the Tokai, Tonankai and Nankai plates. Firstand development results as intellectual property. response drills with an emphasis on conﬁrming Along with the Strengthening our international patent applications as employee safety and the functioning of disaster response part of our global expansion has brought us to 94th place headquarters were carried out, including checking the Society for international patent applications and into the Top safety of all Unicharm employees in Japan in order to 100 for three consecutive years according to WIPO. We further improve our disaster response measures. are also working to strengthen our intellectual property In addition, for emergencies that represent a crisis portfolio-building activities for our overseas business with situation, we make use of crisis communication based on patents, utility models, designs and trademarks. disclosure of information in order to minimize damage. Unicharm has also applied for and used the trademark By carrying out drills with the related divisions using Along with Our that protects Group brands in more than 160 countries an expected crisis theme of “quality”, we have begun around the world. At the same time, we are also checking the validity of our crisis management manual. actively protecting our rights to proprietary packaging. Additionally, we will strengthen our global risk Business Partners The operational and R&D Divisions cooperate closely management for riots, terrorism, and other emergency with overseas subsidiaries concerning the control of situations so we can respond properly without being counterfeit products both inside and outside the country, caught by the “unforeseen.” and take a ﬁrm stand in protecting the companyʼs products and rights. BCP: Plan for the continued execution and recovery of core business activities soon after an emergency Along with Unicharm is committed to cultivating a corporate culture that promotes the respect and protection of intellectual property rights of Unicharm and other companies, as articulated in the Unicharm Action Shareholders and Guidelines, by conducting employee training through a combination of on-the-job training, oﬀ-the-job training, Investors and e-learning to ensure that employees in Japan and overseas are fully versant in the handling of intellectual 3/11 Comprehensive Company-Wide Drill property rights at Unicharm. Management Disaster planning Portable manual At the Shizuoka Factory drill unicharm CSR report 2014 41 Third Party Assurance Report This English language report is a translation of the original Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report in Japanese on Unicharm Group’s CSR Report 2014 and is for reader’s convenience. Independent Practitioner’s Limited Assurance Report on Unicharm Group’s CSR Report June 3, 2014 To: Mr. Takahisa Takahara, President and CEO Unicharm Corporation PricewaterhouseCoopers Sustainability Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Fudosan Shiodome Hamarikyu Bldg. 8-21-1 Ginza, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 104-0061, Japan We have undertaken limited assurance engagement of the information marked Considering the risk of material misstatement of the Selected Information, we （ ）(hereafter the “Selected Information”) in the Unicharm Group’s CSR Report for performed the procedures included: the year ended March 31, 2014 p.27 Environmental Impact from a Lifecycle perspective (hereafter the “Report” ) .  inquiry with relevant Company management; Our assurance does not extend to information in respect of earlier periods, unless  evaluating the suitability of the Reporting Criteria as the basis for otherwise indicated in the report. preparing the Selected Information;  assessing the risk of material misstatement in the Selected Information Management’s responsibilities due to fraud or error;  responding to the assessed risks as necessary in the circumstances, and; Unicharm Corporation (hereafter the “Company”) is responsible for the preparation of the Selected Information in accordance with the Company’s policies  evaluating the overall presentation of the Selected Information; and standards (hereafter “Reporting Criteria”). The Company’s responsibility includes the design, implementation and maintenance of internal control, relevant  evaluating the design of the key structures, systems, processes and to the preparation of the Selected Information that is free from material controls for managing, recording and reporting the Selected Information. misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. This included visiting the following manufacturing sites and corporate offices selected on the basis of their inherent risk and materiality to the  Establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected group, to understand the key processes and controls for reporting site Information performance data and to obtain supporting information;  Measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on the Reporting Unicharm Corporation Headquarters Criteria Unichram Products Co., Ltd. Shizuoka Factory GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emissions factors and the values needed to Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. combine emissions of different gases. Peparlet Co., Ltd. Main Office and Factories Our Independence and Quality Control  performing limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information at the corporate offices and in relation to four manufacturing We have complied with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by sites to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants, which includes collated and reported. independence and other requirements founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable professional behavior. assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to In accordance with the International Standard on Quality Control, we maintain a the assessed risks. comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures with respect to compliance with ethical requirements, professional The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgment and standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. included inquiries, observation of processes performed, inspection of documents, analytical procedures, evaluating the appropriateness of quantification methods Our work was carried out by an independent team with experience in and reporting policies, and agreeing or reconciling with underlying records. sustainability reporting and assurance. The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. As a Understanding reporting and measurement methodologies result, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we The Selected Information should be read and understood together with the performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express a Reporting Criteriai. The absence of a significant body of established practice on reasonable assurance opinion about whether the Selected Information has been which to base the evaluation and measurement of non-financial information allows prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. for different, but acceptable, measurement techniques. The nature of non-financial information, and the techniques and precision used to determine and This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Company evaluate it, can result in materially different measurements. This may affect in accordance with the agreement between us, to assist the Company in reporting comparability between different entities and periods of time. The Reporting the Company’s sustainability performance and activities. We permit this report to Criteria used is applicable as at March 31, 2014. be disclosed online in respect of the 2013 reporting year, to enable the Company to show they have addressed their governance responsibilities by obtaining an independent assurance report in connection with the Selected Information. To the Our Responsibility fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company for our work or this report except where terms are Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Selected expressly agreed between us in writing. Information based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. Depending on the type of information, we conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with: Limited Assurance Conclusion  International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3410, Assurance Based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained, Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements (“ISAE 3410”) for CO2 nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Selected emission (not including those from logistics) information. Information in this report for the year ended March 31, 2014 is not prepared, in all  International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000, Assurance material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. Engagements other than Audits and Reviews of Historical Financial Information” (“ISAE 3000” revised December 2003) for other i The maintenance and integrity of Company’s website is the responsibility of information which means that electricity consumption, heavy oil consumption, gas consumption, and waste production (not including Company management. Our engagement did not consider matters relating to the after use of products) in the Selected Information. maintenance and integrity of Company website. Accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any errors or changes to Selected Information or Reporting These standards require that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain Criteria when presented on the website. limited assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement. *The above contents have been posted on the website. Web http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/csr/assurance/index.html 42 unicharm CSR report 2014 List of Contents Chapter Title Topic Web Print Page Chapter Title Topic Web Print Page version version version version Company Profile / Promotion framework for environmental activities ● ● P28 ● ● Overview of Primary Consolidated Subsidiaries and Affiliates Environmental impact and environmental goals ● ● P29 the Unicharm P2 Production and Sales Areas ● ● Group Environmental initiatives through our products ● ● P30 Main Business Indicators ● ● Initiative to reduce environmental impacts through Along with the ● ● P31 Editorial Policy ● ● our business activities Editorial Policy P3 Environment Contents ● ● Initiatives for biodiversity ● Message from Environmental Accounting ● Message from the President ● ● P4-5 the President Activity results for FY2013 ● Integrating CSR with Our Businesses ● ● Site data ● CSR Promotional Structure ● ● View concerning human resources and respect for Unicharm ● ● P6-7 human rights Group’s CSR Reference Framework for Unicharm’s CSR Strategy ● ● Personnel utilization and training ● ● Along with Our P32-35 Relationship with Stakeholders ● ● Employees Respect for Diversity ● ● Industrial health and safety ● ● Introduction of Business Unicharm’s five business divisions deliver gentleness ● ● P8-9 Human resources data ● ● Activities Our attitude toward social contributions ● ● Making Life Better for People Living in Asia by ● ● P10-13 Making contributions to society through our core Feature Topic Reducing the Burdens of Daily Life ● ● business Responding to a Super-Aging Society ● ● P14-17 Along with the Community-based social contribution activities P36-37 Society ● ● Continue to provide support to the disaster-affected areas (Japan) ● ● P18-19 from the Great East Japan Earthquake Community-based social contribution activities ● ● Unicharm Group's Primary CSR Themes and Major Indicators (KPI) ● ● P20-23 (Overseas) Initiatives of the Customer Service Center ● ● P24 Approach to materials procurement ● ● Along with Activities of overseas customer service centers ● ● P25 Our Business Promoting CSR procurement ● ● P38 Partners Communication with customers using various media ● ● P26 Quality Policy Briefing Session ● ● Three-pronged approach involving insight research, Our basic policy on profit returns to our shareholders ● ● ● ● P26 Along with R & D, and marketing Shareholders Information disclosure for our investors ● ● P39 Along with Our and Investors Cooperation between R & D and Engineering ● ● P26 Listed in the SRI Index ● ● Customers Unicharm’s view of quality assurance and framework ● ● P27 Corporate Governance ● ● Product safety Efforts ● ● P27 Management Compliance ● ● P40-41 Global Safety Activities ● ● P27 Risk management ● ● Initiatives at Unicharm Products ● ● P27 Third Party Assurance Report ● ● P42 Promoting appropriate product labeling ● ● P27 List of Contents / List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2013 ● ● P43 2014 CSR report questionnaire ● 2013 questionnaire results ● List of Awards and Commendations Received in Fiscal 2013 Month and year Name and description Recipient June 2013 2nd Japan HR Challenge Awards: Winner of Excellence Award, Human Resource Development Category Unicharm Corporation July 2013 Nikkei Business Publications, Inc. 14th Environmental Brand Survey 2013: 150th Unicharm Corporation October 2013 2013 Good Design Awards: Winner of the Good Design Best 100 Award Unicharm Corporation Disposable baby diapers “Moony Air Fit” and “Moony Man Air Fit” October 2013 Thailand’s Ministry of Industry: Winner of the 3Rs Award (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) and the Zero Landfill Waste Achievement Award Uni-Charm (Thailand) Co., Ltd. November 2013 Tanagura Town, Fukushima Prefecture: Recognized as Honorary Benefactor of Tanagura Town Unicharm Products Co., Ltd. Fukushima Plant November 2013 Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s2013 NICES Corporate Ranking: 13th Unicharm Corporation December 2013 CM DATABANK: Selected as Brand of the Year 2013 (winner of award for contribution to earnings with TV commercials for Sofy) Unicharm Corporation December 2013 NPO Japan Mothers’ Society: Winner of the 5th Mothers’ Selection Award in the Best Baby Care Product Category for “Moony Unicharm Corporation Flushable Baby Wipes” January 2014 Nihon Keizai Shimbun’s 17th Environmental Management Survey: 124th Unicharm Corporation February 2014 Interbrand’s Japan’s Best Global Brands 2014: 22nd Unicharm Corporation March 2014 Toyo Keizai’s CSR Corporate Rankings 2014: 69th Unicharm Corporation March 2014 Rakuten’s Employer Rankings for the Class of 2015: 12th overall Unicharm Corporation March 2014 14th Japan Drug Store Show: Winner of the Japan Association of Chain Drug Stores Chairman’s Award – New Product Collection 2014 Unicharm Corporation for its “Ultra 3-D Shaped Mask Super” for pollen. unicharm CSR report 2014 43 http://www.unicharm.co.jp/ http://www.unicharm.co.jp/english/index.html
