SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 ABOUT REPORT 11 ABOUT AKSA 20 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 36 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS 53 ENVIRONMENT 67 EMPLOYEES 87 CONTRIBUTING TO COMMUNITY 93 PERFORMANCE TABLES 101 GRI INDICATORS TABLE 2 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ABOUT THE REPORT This report was prepared to present our stakeholders with an illustration of the sustainability performance realized by Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. together with all its affiliates in Turkey, between January 1st, 2013 and December 31st, 2013. This report, which is the 9th report we have which we are a signatory, is also featured realized with a yearly reporting cycle since as a Progress report. In the forthcoming 2005 when we had published the first GRI period, we commit to the development of referenced report in Turkey, aims to presour reporting practice, which is among the ent to our stakeholders’ views the social, most important practices we have actualeconomic and environmental performance ized in line with our company’s principles of exhibited by Aksa and its affiliates within transparency, responsibility and accountathe scope of their Turkey operations, in the bility, and we aim to enhance our performost comprehensive and balanced manmance in the field of stakeholder communer. Since a significant part of our operanication. tions take place in Turkey, we have limited Aksa Akrilik Sustainability Report 2013 the reporting scope with Turkey operawas printed in a limited number to minitions. mize environmental effects, while the PDF In this reporting practice, we make use of version of the report is offered to the views the G3.1 reporting framework of the Global of our stakeholders at www.aksa.com.tr. Reporting Initiative (GRI) for the first time, Our stakeholders may contact us at aksa@ upgrading our practice to Level B. This aksa.com.tr for their demands, suggesreport, which expresses our commitment tions, complaints and all kinds of feedback to the United Nations Global Compact, of about our reporting performance. 3 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MESSAGE FROM THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Dear Stakeholders, 2013 was a year when the global economic we have raised our profit before interest, crisis was felt all around the world despite tax and amortization to 251,673,000 TL by signs of recovery as against the past years. year-end, thereby recording a 27%increase Both the weak growth numbers of the as against the previous year. global economy and the lack of consensus We have continued, in the reporting peon a financial system in the Euro region reriod, our operational excellence strategy quire us to consider the possibility of a new which we have disseminated in all our valcrisis in the coming period. ue chain. We have realized a number of We are proud of having remained unafefficiency projects and investments and fected by the global economic stagnation revised our business processes in line with in such a sensitive period of transition, our objective of producing higher quality through our sustainable financial strategies acrylic fiber with less cost; we have impleand innovative marketing understanding. mented practices that will improve process In this reporting period, we have actualefficiency and performance. In this context, ized effective practices in the fields of the we have actualized 205 projects during enhancement of customer affinity in marthis period, spending 72,182,000 USD on keting and sales strategies and the preserinvestments. vation of our market share in the domestic We aimed at ensuring customer affinity market, while alsoimplementing successful through effective marketing activities in initiatives to expand our activities in the line with the strategy we formed in order foreign market. In line with the strategies to protect our market share in the domeswe follow, we have continued our sustaintic market. While continuing to enhance able growth, and as a result of our works, 4 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 customer satisfaction with practices such riod, we have also continued our works for as after sale support and technical advisopursuing new markets, along our strategy ry service, we have achieved a significant of increasing our market share in profitable decrease in customer complaints through export markets. our activities within the scope of the Center In the reporting period, 18 specialists and for Learning with the Customer. As a result engineers joined Aksa Family and 162 peoof our works in the field of customer affinple were recruited on the operational levity and a record capacity utilization rate el. As a result of the Ak-Tops merger, the of 98%, we have managed to increase our number of employees of our company sales amount during this period. reached 1,220 by year-end. We continued In the year 2013, 65% of our sales were to to focus on the issues of leader developthe domestic market, while 35% were to ment, career development models, the the foreign market. During this period, we completion of succession plans, employee have considered alternative markets of the engagement studies and enhancing operFar East; implementing production, qualiational productivity through the practices ty and strategic business collaborations we implemented under the leadership of along the objective of achieving the quality our Human Resources Department, in acdemanded by the market in value-added cordance with our long-termed objectives. products in China. As for the Middle EastWe continued to contribute to the Turkish ern markets where political and economic economy and employment, in line with our instability continue, we have sustained our principle of corporate citizenship, while corporate presence in a healthy manner, adding value to social development in our preserving our customer affinity. In this peoperational geography through our social 5 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 “ “ Reaching the textile and industrial textile industries of over 50 countries on five continents with our products and services. responsibility projects. We aim to continafter China. ue the investments we made in our human I would like to express my gratitude to our resources and our society oriented studies employees, who have played the most imwithout slowing down, in the forthcoming portant role in our success since our esperiod. tablishment with their competence and In the time that elapsed since our estabdevotion, our business partners, who give lishment in 1968, we have reached an us strength by putting their trust in us, our annual acrylic fiber production capacity customers and all our stakeholders. of 308,000 tons, we have extended our Sincerely, market share to 16% through the successful performance we have exhibited in the global markets since 1977 and we have become the world’s top acrylic fiber producer. Reaching the textile and industrial textile industries of over 50 countries on Mehmet Ali Berkman five continents with our products and serChairman of the Board of Directors vices, today we make a tremendous effort to make the best of the key role we played in the transformation of Turkey into the second largest acrylic market in the world 6 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MESSAGE FROM THE GENERAL MANAGER Dear Stakeholders, We have left behind a successful period. have further strengthened our solid finanIn this period when we received the fruits cial structure while reinforcing our credible of our 45 years of experience in the sector image before our stakeholders. We started and our sustainability strategy which we the year 2013 at Istanbul Stock Exchange have formed in the light of corporate valat the level of 4.67 TL , we continued to ues which we took over from Akkök Group be the choice of investors during the year of Companies, we succeeded in sustaining through our operational performance, solour steady growth under tough market id financial structure and market leadership conditions in the global competitive enviand we succeeded to close the year with a ronment. We continued to create value for price level of 8.02 TL. During the year when all our stakeholders through active stakethe BIST 100 index dropped from 78,208 holder communication, an understanding to 67,802, experiencing a 13% loss in value, of transparent corporate governance, right we managed to raise our stock value from strategic planning and our sustainable 864 million TL to 1,484 million TL, achievmanagement model which we have genering a 72% increase. alized in our value chain. The investment decisions we made in the In this period when we have increased our reporting period were among the primacapacity utilization rate from 95% to 98% ry factors determining our success. It was and raised our operating profit by 21%, we agreed that Ak-Tops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş. 1 Adjusted price after dividend. 7 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 “ We owe the commercial success and corporate reputation “ we have today, first and foremost, to being a transparent and accountable corporation and to continuously improving our performance in this field. continue its activities under the roof of ty Program conducted by the Ministry of Aksa Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. In accordance with Economics in order to strengthen our presthis decision, Aksa, following the statement ence in the global market and to support a given to the Public Disclosure Platform on positive “Made in Turkey” image with our November 1st, 2013, the acquiring of necproduction quality and diversity. essary permissions and the registration on We continued to take sound steps in line December 31st, 2013, has taken over Akwith our objective of sustainable growth by Tops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş., which has been supporting our vision of operational excelits affiliate since August 2013, with all of its lence with product and process improveassets and liabilities. By means of this dement activities. In the year 2013, we have cision, we have simplified managerial and realized the trial production of pigment operational processes, and increased procolored acrylic filament yarn with our own duction efficiency. The new investments technology, becoming the only producer engaged by Aksa in the reporting period, in the world of this product with such feaas part of its sustainable growth strategy, tures as excellent brightness of colors, high brought about the need for continuous, quality appearance, high imperviousness quality and cost-effective energy. Electrical and self-cleaning ability. and steam energy are needed at the same We have continued to look for ways to detime and place. Based on this necessity, crease our environmental impact and to Aksa has actualized the second phase of produce added value for the society we its power plant project, in 2013. The plant, live in, with the sustainability policy we folwhich produces 100 MW of electricity and low in environmental, social and common 350 tons/hour of steam, was put into use economic issues and with our related pracwith all its stages, in June 2013. In the same tices. While continuing to evaluate the risks period, we were included in the Turquali8 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 and opportunities brought about by cliin the context of the “Suggestion System” mate change within the context of our susthat has been in place since 1996. We have tainability strategy, we proceeded to derealized 191 of these suggestions within sign projects in order to acquire the energy our operations. we need by means of our own resources We continued to support social developand to actualize implementations that will ment through our leading practices in soincrease our control over our carbon footcial and economic fields such as local emprint. In the reporting period, we have actuployment, local procurement, exportation alized the second phase of the power plant and tax. While contributing to the social project with the capacity of producing 100 practices of Akkök Group of Companies MW of electricity and 350 tons/hour of in line with our principle of corporate citisteam. We continue the preliminary works zenship, we also sought solutions for social for the establishment of the ISO 50001 problems through our own social responEnergy Management System, through the sibility practices based on the voluntary control mechanisms we put in place. participations of our stakeholders. In the We have continued, in the reporting perireporting period, we have made donations od, the practices we implement with the and provided social relief, primarily in the aim of providing an equitable, participatory fields of education, culture, arts and sports, and safe workplace for our employees. In amounting to 1,575,941 TL. line with our vision of “Continuous LearnWe owe the commercial success and coring and Development”, which is among our porate reputation we have today, first and most important corporate values, we have foremost, to being a transparent and acprovided our employees with an average countable corporation and to continuousof 59 man-hour training, and we received ly improving our performance in this field. 555 suggestions from our employees with9 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 We have been improving our sustainability commit to improve our reporting practice reporting practice since 2005, when we in the forthcoming period and we aim to published “Aksa Akrilik Sustainable Develenhance our performance in the field of opment Report 2004”, the first GRI referstakeholder communication. enced report in Turkey. We consider this I would like to express my gratitude and practice as a crucial opportunity for effecpay my respects to all our stakeholders tive stakeholder communication. Today, in who accompanied us in our journey of susour 9th sustainability report, we have uptainability, graded our practice to Level B by making use of the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 reporting framework. This report, which also expresses our commitment to the principles of the United Nations GlobCengiz Taş al Compact, of which we are a signatory, Member of the Board of Directors and is also featured as a Progress Report. We General Manager 10 ABOUT AKSA AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa Kimya Sanayii A.Ş., which was established within the body of Akkök Group of Companies in 1968, to meet the acrylic fiber demand in Turkey, is today the largest producer of acrylic fiber in the world with its annual acrylic fiber production capacity of 308,000 tons and 16% market share. The company, which operates in the production area established in a 502,000 square meter field in Yalova, is the only local producer of acrylic fiber in Turkey. The company, which is among the pioneers merged the two companies under the roof of sustainable growth in Turkey, externalizof Aksa, thereby simplifying administrative es in its activities its 45 year experience in and operational processes and increasing the sector and 36 year experience in exproductivity. port, as well as the know-how it has takAksa, which produces and sells B2B proden over from Akkök Group. The company, ucts to all acrylic consuming countries in which also produces electricity and steam, the world, providing products and services besides its core production items, namely mainly in the sectors of tricot, hand-knitacrylic-based tow, top and fiber, can meet ting, carpet, furniture, hosiery, blanket, its own energy need with its energy genersynthetic fur, textile for outdoor use and ation license with a capacity of 142,5 MW. filtration. Aksa, which entered the carbon fiber marAksa, which acts according to its compeket with technological infrastructure investtition policy defined as establishing longments in 2009, has established DowAksa termed customer relations in markets that as a 50% joint venture with Dow Europe will ensure the continuity of its productivity Holdings B.V., in 2012. DowAksa carries out and profitability, aims to achieve targeted its activities with an annual carbon fiber market shares in current markets, to conproduction capacity of 3,500 tons/year. duct up-to-date studies about world marIn August 2013, Aksa acquired the rekets and to make sales by determining tarmaining 40% stake in Ak-Tops, of which it get markets. already owned a 60% shareholding, and 12 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Akkök in Brief Founded in 1952 by the late Raif Dinçkök and operating today in the chemical, energy and real estate sectors, Akkök Group of Companies is among the most well-established corporations in Turkey. Akkök, which owns a total of 17 commercial and industrial enterprises, one of which is overseas, along with 18 production plants, aims to disseminate its corporate culture and sustainability approach in all its sub-companies and its broadest stakeholder network and to continuously improve its position in the global competition. 13 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MISSION VISION To become the world’s To achieve the highest level most preferred company of operational excellence in acrylic-based textile and by investing in technology technical fiber producin order to maintain sustion, through an efficient, tainable profitability and innovative, environmentally to create new end-uses for friendly, customer andocacrylic fiber. cupational health & safety oriented business approach. 14 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CORPORATE VALUES Business Ethics ty and innovation in all our processes. We respect ethical values and work Health, Safety and Environment with individuals and firms sharing a Our approach and practices aiming similar approach. for excellence in occupational health Customer Orientation and safety are externalized in our enWe ensure customer satisfaction by vironment, workplace, products and creating added value through new all production processes. Occupaproducts and services. Our target is tional health and safety is our highest to be the best in terms of quality, serpriority in all processes from design vice, production, price and delivery through to after sales service. time. Continuous Learning and DevelopTeamwork and Cooperation ment We encourage harmony and cooperOur employees constitute our creaation in teamwork. tive and advancing power. We emphasize the importance of employee Creativity and Innovation participation and empowerment, as Our business priority is to understand well as teamwork. We continuously and meet our customers’ changing learn and develop. needs in every area, through creativi15 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 AKSA AT A GLANCE USA Italy Iran China Egypt Tow Staple Tops 16 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 %16 Aksa accounts by itself for 16% of the acrylic fiber produced in the world. Net Sales 308.000 (Thousand USD) Aksa has an annual acrylic 2012 906.841 fiber production capacity of 2013 923.396 308,000 tons. Capacity Utilization Rate (%) 2012 95 2013 98 %67 Aksa produces 67% of the Operating Profit (Thousand USD) acrylic fiber consumed in 2012 81.305 Turkey at its facilities in Yalova. 2013 98.699 A customer portfolio comprising 300 industrial enterprises in 50 countries across 5 continents 17 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE Akkök Sanayi Other* Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. 41,69 39,59 Emniyet Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş. 18,72 As of the reporting period, 39.59% of Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. shares are owned by Akkök Sanayi Yatırım ve Geliştirme A.Ş. and 18.72% by Emniyet Ticaret ve Sanayi A.Ş. The free float rate of the company is 41.69%. In the reporting period, there was no significant change in our capital structure. * As of December 31st, 2013, 37.24% of Aksa’s shares are traded on the BIST. 18 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Affiliates, Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures ParticipaTitle Country Nature of Business tion (%) Akpa Tekstil İhracat Pazarlama A.Ş. Turkey Foreign Trade 13.47 Fitco B.V. Holland Foreign Investment 100.00 Ak-Tops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş.(*) Turkey Textile 100.00 DowAksa Advanced Composites Holding B.V. Holland Foreign Investment 50.00 Aksa EgyptAcrylic Fiber Industry SAE Egypt Textile 99.57 DowAksa İleri Kompozit Malzemeler San. Ltd. Şti. Turkey Chemicals 50 DowAksa Switzerland Gmbh Switzerland Investment 50 DowAksa US LLC USA Chemicals 50 DowAksa Switzerland Gmbh Switzerland Investment 50 DowAksa US LLC USA Chemicals 50 * The company was merged with Aktops Tekstil Sanayi A.Ş., which was already its wholly owned subsidiary, on December 31st, 2013. 19 GOVERNANCE AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The organization and governance structure of Aksa consists of various units, teams and committees based on assignment and voluntariness. The activity of the organizational structure holders and which are formed in line with is continuously controlled through bidirecour objective of creating positive value. tional audit mechanisms that are structured We actualize strategic planning practices, as top-down and bottom-up, while the diswhich help us foresee industry-specific and semination of strategies through commumacroeconomic risks and opportunities. nication channels, which have been proven We rely on globally accepted management effective by years of business experience, systems in all our operations. We implefrom upper levels to lower levels is ensured ment sustainability management policies by way of processes. Aksa leaders personand practices to ensure a positive social, ally attend process improvement studies environmental and economic impact for within formed teams and committees and our corporate actions. We act in line with actively support development works, playour objective to become a reliable corpoing a direct role in the development of the ration through processes concentrating on organization. transparent and active stakeholder comAt Aksa, we comply with Corporate Govmunication, and we encourage the volunernance Principles, which prevent conflicts tary participation of stakeholders in corpoof interest among beneficiaries and stakerate activities. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The corporate and reliable stance of Aksa creating sustainable value for its stakeholdbefore its stakeholders, investors, customers, aims at consolidating its stakeholders’ ers, employees and the society is sustained trust and sustaining its characteristics of through Corporate Governance Principles being a respectable, innovative, hardworkadopted for many years. Aksa, which strives ing, creative and sharing organization, by to become an equitable company while complying with these principles. 22 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The Ethical Rules of Aksa, which are Its active and transparent management grounded on honesty, trustworthistructure, shaped by its 45 year business ness, sense of responsibility and reexperience, constitutes the ground of Akspect for rights in its relations with sa’s corporate strength. At Aksa, the duties employees, partners, suppliers, cusof General Manager and Chairman of the tomers, dealers, other stakeholders Board of Directors are executed by differand the public, are an inseparable ent individuals and there are 4 Independpart of its corporate identity. For ent Members in the Board of Directors. more detailed information regardCommittees supporting the Board of Diing Aksa’s Ethical Rules please visit rectors in the fulfillment of its responsibilhttp://www.aksa.com/tr-TR/Yatities not only contribute to the sustainable irimciIliskileri/KurumsalYonetim/ growth of Aksa with their knowledge, exSayfalar/EtikKurallar.aspx perience and independent character, but Another significant building they also underpin all governance processes which look after the stone of our ethical approach benefits of all stakeholders. At is the “Akkök Group of ComAksa, the chairmen of the Corpanies Business Ethics Prinporate Governance Committee ciples.” The principles, the and the Early Risk Identification preparations of which were Committee as well as all memstarted in 2013, formed by the bers of the Audit Commitopinions of all group compatee are selected among nies and the contributions independent members of the Ethics Committee, of the Board of Didetermine our essential rectors. and indispensable corporate values. 23 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Audit Committee is also responsible for analyzing complaints and notifications communicated by partners and stakeholders in these fields. Audit Committee Corporate Governance The Audit Committee, which is the most Committee authorized authority providing suggesThe Corporate Governance Committee, tions to the Board of Directors in accountwhich ensures the forming and adopting ing, internal control system and independof Corporate Governance Principles withent audit processes, is also responsible in the Company, determines conflicts of for analyzing complaints and notifications interest arising from noncompliance with communicated by partners and stakeholdthe principles and provides remedial sugers in these fields. The committee takes the gestions to the Board of Directors, comnecessary precautions for the active, suffimunicates processes conveyed to Aksa cient and transparent application of exterby stakeholders, claimed to be contrary to nal auditing, selects the independent audit legislation or ethically improper, to the Aufirm and ensure the tracking of processes. dit Committee and ensures the necessary The committee, which also supervises the coordination. operation and activity of Aksa’s internal The Committee, which conducts studies control system, revises the works, organifor the structuring of a transparent system zational structure, assignment and working in the identification, evaluation and training principles of the internal control unit for this of suitable candidates for the Board of Dipurpose; and provides suggestions to the rectors, and the determination of policies Board of Directors. The committee, which and strategies in this respect, evaluates the supervises the operation and activity of the selection of independent members. It evalaccounting system, evaluates the compatuates the structure and productivity of the ibility of financial statements with Aksa acBoard of Directors regularly and provides counting principles and their accuracy. suggestions to the Board of Directors on these matters, determines the approach, 24 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 principles and practices pertaining to the performance evaluation and career planning of members of the Board of Directors and senior executives, as well as the criterion to be used for remuneration, and conducts their supervision. Early Risk Identification Committee The Early Risk Identification Committee, which conducts studies to identify risks that will endanger Aksa’s existence, development and permanency, to implement necessary precautions in relation to identified risks and to manage the risks, meets at the frequency considered necessary for the efficiency of its practices, at least once a year, revises risk management systems and provides suggestions to the Board of Directors. For more detailed information concerning the corporate management structure of Aksa, you can visit our website www.aksa. com, or refer to annual reports which include corporate governance principles and compliance data. 25 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS At Aksa, we make use of management sysand Safety Management System, TS ISO tems, accepted in the sector and world14064-1 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Manwide, in a number of fields ranging from agement System and Safety Management ensuring product and service quality to System which is conducted within the occupational health and safety. Internal auscope of the Regulation for Preventing and dits are planned and carried out periodicalReducing the Effects of Major Industrial ly to ensure the efficiency and continuity of Accidents. The findings resulting from inthe systems we comply with, namely TS EN ternal audits are examined during the year, ISO 9001 Quality Management System, TS action plans aimed at the continuous imEN ISO 14001 Environmental Management provements of systems are generated and System, TS 18001 Occupational Health realized. STRATEGIC PLANNING At Aksa, strategic planning works concernsocial, technological, industrial, logistic and ing the following 5 years are conducted environmental conditions in the world, Turevery year between May and September. key and the industry are reviewed, domesThe Strategic Planning Workshop, which tic and foreign markets are analyzed, also constitutes the first and most important making use of feedbacks from the marleg of strategic planning processes, is orket and customers. With the subsequent ganized under the leadership of the GenerSWOT analysis, the strengths and weakal Manager and with the participation of all nesses of Aksa, as well as the opportunidirectors and managers. At the workshop, ties and threats awaiting the Company are where the changing political, economic, discussed in detail; following all analyses, 26 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 the strategies and strategic targets of Aksa Subsequent to the workshop and other are revised and needed strategy issues are planning processes performed in the reupdated as necessary. When the action porting period, the main strategic themes plans, where strategies are transformed were determined as follows: into yearly business plans, are formed, the 1. Preserving our leading position in the compatibility of Aksa with developments domestic market and changes in the fields of market, prod2. Maximization of profit and operational uct, competitor, raw material supply, techexcellence nology, economics and politics is revised. 3. Development and enhancement of The compliance of determined or changing sources of income strategies of Aksa with its mission, vision 4. Customer affinity and corporate values constitutes the core principle of strategic planning processes. 5. Corporateness in management 27 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Aksa, which has made Turkey into the sustainability policies and practices. We world’s second largest acrylic fiber producact within an active communication strucer after China though its innovative vision ture with auditing and reporting practices and the investments it made since 1971, which comprise all company operations; owes this success to its sustainability unand through the Open Door Policy we derstanding which is part of its corporate ensure both that employees share topics culture and is disseminated throughout its of any nature with managers, customers, stakeholder network. Aksa, which considsuppliers and authorized institutions and ers creating value through its sustainability that stakeholders observe the processes policies and practices conducted in paralof Aksa, first and foremost the production. lel with its operational excellence strategy, Aksa, which is among the prominent playand improving its positive impact in enviers of the chemical industry, externalizes ronmental, social and economic fields as its its environmental sensitivity in all its busiprime target, continues to be an example ness processes, particularly production, for its sector and country with its sustainand conducts awareness-raising activities ability practices transcending legal obligain order to disseminate this understanding tions, based on voluntariness. throughout its stakeholder network. The The principles of transparency and acprinciple of “working in harmony with the countability are externalized in all business environment”, which is observed in all opprocesses and social activities as a signifierations from R&D processes to the transcant part of Aksa’s corporate identity, while portation of products and in time was inalso serving as an important component of cluded in the corporate mission, is seen as 28 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The principles of transparency and accountability are important parts to Aksa’s corporate identity. an expression of our responsibility towards the main elements ensuring the continustakeholders, beside enhancing productivous development of Aksa’s social perfority in all processes. mance. Aksa, which aims at continuously contributing to social developments with The energy need, which became of key imits business sense respectful of human and portance to the sustainability of Aksa as a employee rights and its corporate social reresult of the expanding customer portfolio sponsibility approach, actualizes processes and increasing capacity, was met through which set an example for its sector and the natural gas fuelled power plant taken country with regards to social sustainabilover from Akenerji in 2009 and the coal ity, through pioneering practices in social fuelled power plant project, the investment and common economic fields such as local for which began in 2010 and the first stage employment, local procurement, exportaof which was actualized in 2012. In this way, tion and tax. electricity and steam generation was included among Aksa’s areas of operation, All activities of Aksa in the fields of corpowhile reliable, quality and uninterrupted rate and social sustainability are conductenergy sources were reached in the most ed within the active organizational struceconomical and controllable manner. ture formed in consequence of Aksa’s own sector experience and the corporate acThe operational model, which evaluates cumulation taken over from Akkök Group the impact of operations on the local peoof Companies. We aim to continuously ple and society with a learning and proimprove sustainability performance within ducing organizational culture, is among the organizational model, whose activity 29 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 At Aksa, sustainability topics are prioritized so as to support operational excellence; corporate main strategy, and corporate reputation and continuity principles. is continuously controlled through mulmanagers) audits, and whose performance ti-stakeholder (internal control, independis broached to stakeholders through peent external auditing and the departments’ riodical reporting practices in the most own audits) and bidirectional (from upper transparent manner. levels to lower levels and from personnel to At Aksa, the General Assembly, held well as its sustainability performance. yearly and open to all stakeholders, Performances concerning sustainis the primary process whereby the ability issues, which are distributed business and sustainability perforamong departments directly demance of the senior management is pendent on the General Manager in evaluated. Remuneration practices accordance with their areas of experfor the ‘senior management’, which tise, are transmitted from lower levincludes the General Manager, direcels towards the senior management tors and the Board of Executives, are through reporting practices. Feedrealized in accordance with the “Varibacks and updates regarding perforable Income Principle”; and the variamance results of the material sustainbility is determined according to corability topics are formed following porate and individual performance the evaluation meetings attended by targets. the senior management. Stakeholder feedbacks obtained through various At Aksa, the General Manager is held communication channels constitute responsible before the Board of Dione of the most significant building rectors about the company’s operastones of continuous development in tional and financial performance, as this field. 30 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 At Aksa, sustainability issues are prioritized mance targets of following periods. Based as to support the principles of operationon the subject system prepared in conseal excellence, which is the main corporate quence of an internal stakeholder survey strategy, as well as corporate reputation where all departments were represented, and permanency. The sustainability prioriprioritized subjects were identified under ties achieved as a result of the Sustainabilthe main headings of Sustainable Operaity Workshop, organized for the first time tions, Employees, Environment, Contribin the reporting period, reveals the outline uting to Community and are presented to of this year’s reporting practice and constistakeholders’ views with this report. tutes a road map for sustainability perfor31 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 • Raw Material Supply • Corporate Risk Management • Process and Product • Customer Satisfaction Innovation • Supply Safety • Informing Customers About • Preservation of the Position of Products Sustainable Competitiveness • Ensuring Product Safety • Energy Management • Quality and Safety • Legislative Harmonization/ Management System • Emission Management (Air Harmonization woth Emissions-Greenhouse/ • Operational Excellence International Chemical Other Greenhouse Gases) Industry Regulations and • Water Management Conventions • Waste Management • Emergency Preparedness SUSTAINABLE ENVIRONMENT OPERATIONS CONTRIBUTING EMPLOYEES TO COMMUNITY • Human and Employee Rights • Contributing to Education Management • Open Door Practices • Occupational Health and Safety • Local Collaborations • Improvement of Working Conditions • Collaborations with NGOs • Employee Engagement • Collaborations with Universities • Employee Satisfaction • Employee Development • Incorporation of Skilled Workforce 32 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 STAKEHOLDERS All individuals, institutions and organizacomplaints concerning corporate activtions affected by and having an impact on ities are of great importance. The corpoAksa’s activities are considered as Aksa’s rate and reliable identity of the company stakeholders. Active and transparent comis preserved and the requirements of the munication and participation channels are principle of accountability are met through created for stakeholders, whose right to communication channels which are contindemand reliable information are protectuously developed in line with stakeholder ed, and whose suggestions, demands and feedbacks and technological innovations. 33 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa considers its strong communication and makes better and more accurate inwith stakeholders and the participation of vestments. In consequence of reputation stakeholders in corporate activities one of surveys realized by Akkök Group of Comthe building stones of its sustainable sucpanies through independent institutions, cess. By conducting communication activtarget stakeholder groups are identified, ities with varying frequency and methods improvement areas regarding communifor every stakeholder group, it promotes cation are asserted and action plans are itself and its products in the best possideveloped. ble way, fulfills its social responsibilities 34 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Stakeholder Group Communication Methods Fiscal Reports, Sustainability Reports, Customer Satisfaction Customers Surveys, Corporate Website, Activities Sustainability Reports, Open Door Practices, E-mail, Employee Loyalty Surveys, Trainings, CSR Projects, Aksa HR Portal, Employees Organizations of AKEK and AKSET, Representative Committee, Suggestion System, OHS Committee, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Suppliers Face-to-face Meetings, Auctions, Corporate Website, Audits Annual Reports, Sustainability Reports, Investor Relations Line, Investors Corporate Website Annual Reports, Official Correspondence, Audits, Sustainability Public Institutions Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Annual Reports, Official Correspondence, Sustainability Reports, Local Authorities Open Door Practices, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Joint CSR Projects, Sponsorships, Sustainability NGOs Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Open Door Practices, Sustainability Reports, Face-to-face Meetings, Local Community CSR Projects, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Industrial Sectoral Association Memberships at Different Levels, Industrial Associations Meetings Education SANTEZ, TEYDEB, Research Projects, Contribution to MS and PhD and Research Studies, Face-to-face Meetings, Visits Institutions Akkök Group of General Assemblies, Portakal Portal, Periodical Reporting Practices, Companies Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Press Releases, Press Conferences, Media Sustainability Reports, Corporate Publication (Aksa Haber) Corporate Website, Sustainability Reports, Annual Reports, Sector Competitors Researches 35 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 CORPORATE Acrylic Based Composite, Advanced Material and Technology Producers’ Association Undersecretariat of Maritime Affairs Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association (Turmepa) Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) American Council (Mehmet Ali Berkman) Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEİK) European Council (Ahmet Dördüncü) İMEAK Chamber of Shipping Istanbul Chamber of Industry Istanbul Chamber of Commerce Turkish Textile and Apparel Exporters’ Association (ITKIB) Ltd. Eskihisar Gebze Water Products Cooperative Turkish Quality Association Kalder Yalova Chamber of Commerce and Industry Turkish Chemical Industrialists Association Turkish Statistical Institute(TÜİK) Turkish Port Operators CIRFS European Man-Made Fibers Association Turkish Textile Employers’ Association Yalova Industrialists’ Association Yalova Sanayiciler Derneği 36 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OPERATION CHART SUPPLY Land Route & Sea Route Raw Material Supply Energy Supply to Sister Companies and Grid Circuit PRODUCT USE AREAS Clothing Household Linens Outdoors Industrial Use 38 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PRODUCTION Chemistry Fields Textile Fields Solvent Recovery PRODUCTS Tow Tops Bumps PRODUCT DELIVERY 39 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 SUSTAINABLE OPERATIONS Aksa has continued its operational excelabout 500 users, in both Istanbul and Yallence strategy, adopted and extended in ova, connect to the network on related all its operations, in 2013. Aksa, which aims servers for applications such as ERP, Office for better quality acrylic fiber with less and Mail. The data centers in Istanbul and cost, focused in 2013 on efficiency projects Yalova back each other up, for this large a and investments devoted to this end. In this structure not to be interrupted in case of context, business processes were revised, a predicament. In 2013, the data centers and studies that will enhance process efwere arranged so that in case any of the ficiency and productivity were conducted. data centers is unavailable, the other would step in with a 30 second delay. Studies for Business continuity is an important elebusiness continuity were started in 2013 ment for Aksa in all studies aimed at inand still continue. Corporate information is creasing productivity. Aksa makes use of kept in servers located in the data centers the data centers in Istanbul and Yalova, berather than user computers and this data longing to Aktek Bilgi İletişim ve Teknoloji is regularly backed up as Daily/Weekly and A.Ş., an Akkök group company. A total of Monthly. 40 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 What is Acrylic Characteristics of Latest Areas of Fiber? Acrylic Fiber Usage for Acrylic Fiber Acrylic fiber is the wooli• Easily washable and est among synthetic fibshape retaining Clothing: Slipovers, ers. There are two kinds hosiery, plush, circular of acrylic fibers, name• Resistant against knitting, sportswear and moths, oil and chemicals children’s wear ly textile and technical. Textile fibers are used in • Excellent dye affinity Household Linens: clothing and home texfor bright colors Carpets, blankets, rugs, tile, and technical fibers furnishings and corduroy • High fastness against clothes are used in industrial masunlight chines and materials, as Outdoors: Car tops, boat well as outdoors. • Wooly naturalness and covers, canvas, outdoor warmth in appearance and feel furniture Industrial: Dust filter, strengthening fill material in building construction, car batteries 41 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 QUALITY Aksa, which passed to quality management to customers) realized at the Headquarters from quality control in the early 1990’s, acin Istanbul and the production facilities in quired the ISO 9002 Quality Management Yalova are within the scope of TS EN ISO System Certificate in 1993, switched to 9001:2009. 9001 in 1999 and has ensured the continuAksa has formed its mission and vision in ity of the certificate by updating its scope 1998 by revealing its common purpose as necessary for over 20 years. which is one of the basic concepts of Total Processes and activities (transferring raw Quality Management. In 1999, it has joined material from the port facility to the storthe National Quality Movement. In 2008, age area as part of the port operations, the it has crowned its studies towards quality packaging of all products within the scope with the National Grand Prize of Quality, summarized as “design and production of and in 2010, it has acquired the CompetiAcrylic Ecru and Dyed Tov, Tops and Stativeness Award as well as the Hall of Fame ple” dispatched from the factory finished Award given to the most successful comproduct storehouse in order to be shipped panies in realizing strategies. Operational Excellence at Aksa Aksa has secured its sustainable production through its operational targets supporting its “Operational Excellence Strategy”, set forth at a higher standard every year. With the Operational Excellence strategy 42 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa, which adopts continuity in improvement as a principle, plans to identify new projects to be realized with the 6 Sigma methodology and to raise new Green Belts in its ever growing team. put into practice in 2011, we have controlled losses by systematically implementing “Planned Maintenance” practices in the production system, reached our targets for efficiency and quality indicators and raised our Capacity Utilization Rate from the average levels of 86% in the past, to the level of 98% by minimizing unplanned interruption losses. In line with these principles aiming to ensure the continuity of production, it has actualized improvements up to 90% in important indicators threatening production in terms of quality and quantity. The 6 Sigma methodology, practiced by ed budget and in a short time through 14 leading firms, was used in continuous imshort-term projects selected among these provement studies starting in 2003, and it opportunities. The results of long6σ continues with the 8th Wave practices, in termed projects conducted by the 2013. Aksa, which conducts studies in the newly raised 6 Sigma Green Belts 8th wave, aimed at the philosophy of ‘lean’, are expected to be seen in 2014. also within the 6 sigma method; has revised Aksa, which adopts continuity in the processes of all departments focused improvement as a principle, plans on waste and determined the long-termed to identify new projects to be realimprovement opportunities to be realized ized with the 6 Sigma methodoloby Aksa. gy and to raise new Green Belts in its ever growing team. It has realized improvements with a limit43 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 PROCESS/PRODUCT INNOVATION Our general policy is to create new end-usand impact classes of the chemicals to be es for acrylic fiber. Our aim is to increase used are determined, these are controlled our market share through these products against internationally recognized banned and to fulfill customers’ expectations. As chemicals lists and studies are continued part of being an environmentally friendly in case there are no problems. The R&D producer, we work for designing new prodinvestment budget for the year 2013 is ucts according to this understanding. Dur3,369,197 TL. A 102,038 TL grant was reing studies for new products, the hazard ceived from TÜBİTAK. 44 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa Akrilik in the Turquality Programme Aksa Akrilik, which is the largest acrylic fiber producer in the global acrylic fiber industry with its 16% market share, joined in the Turquality Programme in order to subsist in the international competition environment, ensure the continuity of its development and contribute to a positive “Made in Turkey” image overseas. Aksa Akrilik, which was evaluated within the scope of the program according to 10 criteria, namely strategic planning and corporate performance management, brand management, new product development, corporate management, information systems, human resources, marketing, customer and trade management, as well as supply chain management, financial performance and human resources management, qualified to be included in the Turquality Programme as a result of the report presented to the Ministry of Economics, in July 2013. 45 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 “ In Aksa, official projects are pursued within the scope of business plans. In the upcoming periods, we plan to maintain our market leadership in acrylic fiber, as well as to launch “ new products in special fiber and we realize our investments in this regard. 46 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Harmonization with International Standards in Product Safety We act in compliance with European Union Directives, REACH and national legislation in the use of chemicals. For this purpose, methods and substances, aimed at taking increased precautions about human health and environment in the stages of product development and production, are researched. Aksa products are produced compatibly with Oeko-Tex 100, an internationally accepted standard concerning the consistence of textile products with human and environmental health. Since 1995, products are passing Category 1 compliance tests, and their Oeko-Tex 100 certificates are renewed. Within the context of these practices, the production of Aksa products without any harm to human health and the environment is ensured through certificates and auditing. 47 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 * %31 SUPPLY CHAIN Aksa is constantly in communication with mances of supplier firms, which procure its suppliers and dealers within the principroducts or services for Aksa, as part of ple of transparency. Various meetings and purchasing processes and makes choictrainings are organized in order to underes in accordance with these evaluations, stand the expectations of stakeholders in in product and service purchases. In this the supply chain. Besides, suppliers and way, it contributes to the quality of the fidealers are expected to manage business nal product, business profitability and proprocesses with an ecological approach. duction planning. In this scope, companies are chosen through an examination of their Aksa’s criteria for the selection of suppliers policies and approaches in terms of the enand performance tracking include environvironment and OHS, and their certificates. mental approach and policies, ethical valBesides, Aksa shares the product usage ues, institutionalism, reference, reputation, safety guide it has prepared with all its cusetc. Ethical values always have an importomers and transporters, informing them in tant role in the determination of supplier relevant matters. competences. Along with all these approaches, suppliers are expected to have In line with the understanding of contribmanagement systems certificates. This uting to society, Aksa aims to contribute to matter is an important criterion for supplier the development of the local communities. selection and performance tracking. As Aksa operates in Yalova, the suppliers in Yalova occupies a significant share in its Aksa systematically evaluates the perforsupplier portfolio. * During the reporting period, the total purchase rate from suppliers in Yalova, where our production facility is located, was realized at 31%. 48 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OUR CUSTOMERS Aksa emphasizes the importance attributically under the management of this unit. ed to ensuring customer satisfaction with At these meetings, all demands and comits understanding of Customer Oriented plaints from customers are discussed. Approach, which is included in its mission. The technical team pays regular visits to We ensure the satisfaction of our customour customers. All complaints received ers by providing them with new products from customers are dealt with individually, and services which add value to our custhey are examined by concerned experts tomers, with our principle of Customer and response letters are composed. These Orientation which is among our corporate complaints are statistically examined and values. Being the best in quality, service, every year, targets regarding rates and production, price and delivery time is our number of complaints are set on a departpermanent target. In line with our main mental and individual basis. objective in our quality policy, we aim for unconditioned customer satisfaction with Also, we regularly conduct Customer Satan understanding of continuous developisfaction Surveys, every two years, among ment. our domestic and foreign customers through an independent surveying instituThis awareness was raised in the whole ortion. The customer satisfaction evaluation ganization in order to ensure compliance result for domestic customers was deterwith the specified policies. In this respect, mined as 75%. The customer satisfaction there is, in our organization, a Customer evaluation result for foreign customers was Services unit only responsible with replying determined as 74%. All issues regarding to the needs, demands and complaints of development in the survey reports were customers. Customer Satisfaction Comreported. We are taking actions for the immittee meetings, attended by authorities provement of these issue. in all the organization, are realized period49 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa pays regular visits to its customers in order to provide technical support. In line with our Technical AdWe Always Stand By visory Service, we investigate Our Customers the operating conditions of our customers on site, compose detailed reports including recommendations and present it to them. Customer Learning Center (CLC) Our customers have the opportunity to visit Aksa on site, get acquainted with processes and pursue their research and development studies together with the technical team of Aksa. This practice we call Center for Learning with the Customer aims for problematic and emerging issues to be discussed with customers in order to create a synergy. 90 visits were realized by 2013 year-end, as part of the practice continuing since 2008. 50 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Complaints about our products, commuThere are many new products we have nicated to us by our customers, are examactualized in line with customer demands. ined in detail and individual responses are Besides this, we also conduct studies for composed. We make visits about the comthe development of our existing products. plaints, in order to make investigations on Also, process changes, variations in packsite. All sample sent by our customers for aging, changes in tags and warning labels us to research are analyzed and shared. We are also made by taking customer dealso provide technical support in this sense. mands and suggestions into account. In 2013, we made 104 Complaint/Technical Support visits to our customers. Our Objectives for Customer Relations in the Next Period Entering new markets Reducing customer complaint rates Increasing sales volume Developing special products and preparing launching files specifically for these products Increasing CLC practices Increasing the number of routine visits 51 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 During the reporting period, no complaints the ISO 27001 ISMS works in the next reregarding breaches of customer privacy porting period, thereby installing a system were received. Works for the installation in compliance with international standards, of ISO 27001 Information Safety Managewith no effect on business continuity, takment System, which started in the reporting the maximum precautions for informaing period and is planned to continue in the tion belonging to stakeholders with whom next years, continue. We plan to complete we cooperate and our company to be safe. 52 ENVIRONMENT AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The understanding of “being an employee 1995. The importance attached to enviin harmony with the environment” is one ronment is not limited to fulfilling legal obof the significant aspects of operational ligations and therefore includes practices sustainability as far as Aksa is concerned. implemented through efficiency studies Due to the importance attached to this undertaken within the scope of operationunderstanding, the studies for environal excellence strategy and stakeholder exmental quality protection were committed pectations along with practices based on as part of the “Quality Policy” prepared in volunteering. Our Quality, Environmental, OHS and Energy Management Policy is available on http://www.aksa.com/en-US/Corporate/Pages/ ManagementSystemPolicy.aspx The Environmental Management Unit is Apart from the Environmental Manageresponsible for environmental impact sument practices implemented within the pervision, protection and efficient use of company, Aksa is active on the “AKÇEVRE natural resources during all business proBoard” (AKEnvironmental Board) startcesses at Aksa. The issues related to this ed by the sister organizations affiliated responsibility are constantly monitored by with AKKÖK Holding, namely Ak-Kim ve the related unit and are effectively manDowAksa companies, in an effort to create aged with the support and under the susynergy in coordinating environmental oppervision of the higher management at the erations and come up with common solu“Management Review” meetings chaired tions. At the monthly meetings held within by the General Manager and held every the scope of the board studies, the board three months in addition to the weekexchanges information on issues such as ly meetings held by the directorates and environmental practices, legal obligations, managers. Moreover, internal and external relations with the local authorities and imaudits implemented within the scope of the provement studies underway while also “Integrated Management Systems” and Enundertaking joint studies. All Aksa facilities vironmental Internal Inspections constantly and locations boast ISO 14001 Environmonitor the process of compliance with the mental Management System certificate. environmental aspects. 54 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 During the reporting period, we provided 762,5 man*hour of environmental training for our employees. 762,5 manXhour Aksa has been continuing ISO 14001 Environmental Management System certificate practices within the scope of ISO 14001 external audits held by the Turkish Standards Institute (TSE). Our performance, which has been an immaculate success with “zero non-compliance” level since 2002, continued in 2013. Environmentally Friendly Information Technology Practices We support the Environmental Management practices of Aksa through our environmentally friendly information technology practices. For instance, in 2013 Aksa replaced the old printers at the company with printers using new technology and are more sensitive to the environment. Within the scope of this practice, the number of printouts taken was reduced too while printers using less energy and fewer toners were introduced. As for servers, they were consolidated through VM (Virtual Machine) as much as possible thereby saving on energy and cooling. In the period ahead, thin clients are planned to replace the desktop computers wherever possible in order to save more on energy. 55 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 ENERGY MANAGEMENT Energy Management is vital for Aksa to at Aksa and all Aksa employees take part operate with a high performance. In order in “Energy Management” process. to ensure operational continuity and meet The Energy Management Board comes its need for reliable, quality and uninterup with projects to increase efficiency and rupted power, Aksa produces electricity reduce the environmental impact while and steam. Aksa has the license to genertaking energy consumption under control. ate 142.5 MW of electric power. Using the Process efficiency is reviewed at the Enerelectric power and steam it produces in all gy Management Meetings held every two its own processes, Aksa also provides them weeks along with at the weekly held Enerfor Ak-Kim and Dow Aksa while selling the gy Coordination meetings and the necesexcess energy generated to the network. sary actions are taken. Energy Management is dealt as a process 56 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa implemented the second phase of the energy 100 MW power plant project in 2013. Producing 100 MW ELECTRICITY electricity and 350 ton/hour steam, the power plant became functional with all its phases during the 350 ton/hour reporting period. STEAM Within the scope of energy management, sis and check compliance with those goals. steam and electric power consumption Meanwhile, as far as all main processes are goals of the company and the main proconcerned, energy consumption goals are duction processes are set on an annual included among the individual goals of basis and are monitored daily. The total enthose responsible for the processes. ergy consumption amounts and per prodAksa seeks to obtain ISO 50001 Energy uct consumption amounts are monthly Management System Certificate during the reported while the consumption goals are next reporting period thanks to all these reviewed every three months. These pracpractices. tices implemented take the goals set as baSpecific Electric Power Consumption (Index, Basis, 2011, 100) kWH/ton tow) 100,84 99,79 100 2013 2012 2011 57 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 When compared with 2011, specific heat energy consumption between 2011 and 2013 declined by 2.73%. The decline achieved in the waste heat generation implies the true economy enjoyed goes in fact beyond 2.73%. Specific Heat Energy Consumption (Index, Basis: 2011, 100) 99,59 100 92,27 2013 2012 2011 Waste Heat Generation Amount (Index, Basis: 2011, 100) 100 82,9 75,1 2013 2012 2011 58 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The increase in the direct energy use 35,60% with regards to basis year 2011. amount during the reporting period stems Aksa has continued its operational exfrom the increase in the current capacity cellence practices in energy efficiency in use when compared with the previous pe2013. With the energy efficiency studies riods. 3% transfer loss is estimated in the conducted in energy production units and energy required for the generation of the subsystems, 100,000 GJ of energy and energy generated from a primary non-re8,000 tons of water saving were realized newable source and consumed indirectly. on an annual basis. In a similar fashion, the studies carried out to make up for the During the reporting period, the electric shortcomings of insulation, and optimipower received from the network to meet zation of the monomer recovery colons the energy need of the campus, whereon the polymerization unit led to saving by sister companies Akkim, Aktops and 65.478 GJ on heat energy. DowAksa also reside, has decreased by Energy Power Plant Optimization through Advanced Process Control Solutions In 2014 all the units located within in the energy power plant will be optimized through advanced process control solutions controlling many variables. The project seeks to enhance the boiler efficiency by optimizing the combustion air while increasing the steam temperature thanks to the ability to control the steam pressure and temperature, hence increasing efficiency in electricity generation and maximizing the power production at the plant. 59 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 EMISSION MANAGEMENT Aksa acts with the awareness of its responcording to the international standards. sibility regarding climate, which is a global The fact that Aksa is the very first industriproblem. In line with this understanding, al organization to obtain the ISO 14064-1 Aksa monitors its greenhouse gas emisStandard for Quantification and Reporting sions, which cause climate change, and of Greenhouse Gas Emissions reinforces their control in a strict fashion. The greenthe emphasis we place on this issue. An house gas emissions amounting to the enindependent audit company certifies our ergy used by Aksa for its own processes greenhouse gas emissions with a reasonaand sold to sister companies as well as to ble assurance. the network are tracked and calculated acGreenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2-e) 2012 2013 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 806.943 857.737 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 27.455 20.507 TOTAL 834.398 878.224 60 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The reason for the increase in the greendust are monitored online constantly behouse gas emissions during the reporting cause of the coal power plant introduced period when compared with 2012 is due to in 2012. As a result of the flue gas purificathe fact that the second phase of the coal tion systems on the coal power plant and power plant became active. The CO2-e the water injections systems on the natural greenhouse gas emission generated equals gas power plant, our flue gas emissions reto the energy provided for Aksa, the sismain considerably below the limits set by ter companies and sold to the network. In the regulations. 2014 September the related implementations are planned to be audited within the During the reporting period, the emission scope of ISO 14064-1. values from the coal and natural gas flues remained below the legal limits set by the Thanks to a project undertaken in cooperregulations and were as follows: ation with Aktek in 2012, inventory calculations were taken to a digital environment thereby ensuring regular data feed and VOC* 0,84 kg/saat security. As a result of this practice, greenSO2** 140 mg/m3 house gas emissions can be calculated on product and department basis at desired NOx** 137,5 mg/m3 periods of time. Consequently related reToz** 5 mg/m3 duction goals could be set and projects foCO** 8,73 mg/m3 cused on these goals could be developed. *Emissions caused by acrylic fibre process Parameters such as CO2, SO2, NOx and ** Emissions caused by the power plants 61 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WATER MANAGEMENT Ensuring efficient use of natural resources pact report is prepared for all the investto ensure environmental sustainability as ment projects materialized. well as sustainability of our business is one Wastewater is another important issue of the indispensable priorities for Aksa. In monitored within the scope of water manline with this understanding, water management. The water collected at the Aksa agement performance is monitored in a Wastewater Treatment Facilities is consensitive fashion just like the other environstantly monitored and are kept under conmental issues. The use of municipal and litrol. The facility treats all the domestic and censed well water are monitored daily and industrial wastewater in line with the reguthe related goals are set. lations and the related obligations and disAksa operations do not exert a negative charges the treated water to the Marmara impact on the sites qualified because of Sea without harming the environment in their biodiversity value as well as wetlands, line with the related regulation and within water resources etc. to a disruptive nor a the scope of the Environmental Permission diminishing scale. An environmental imobtained. 62 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The main reasons for the increase both dustrial wastewater from the Aksa, Ak-Kim in water consumption and wastewater and Aktops production facilities, which amount in 2013 are the increase in the caare located in the same region, and treat pacity of the power plant along with the and manage the wastewater from them in increase in production capacity usage rathe same facility. Before that, those three tio. Assessments are planned to be made companies each had their own wastewater within the scope of the Life Cycle Assesstreatment facilities. ment studies in the next reporting period to bring down this rate. Wastewater Discharge by Years (m3) The Joint Wastewater Treatment Facility 2011 2012 2013 project launched during the reporting period seeks to treat all the domestic and in2.445.500 2.463.750 2.950.507 Located in Yalova region, the Aksa production facility is selected for a pilot project called “KIYITEMA” (Determining Harmful Substances in Coastal and Transitional Waters and Ecological Coastal Dynamics). Implemented in cooperation with the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs besides Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey (TÜBİTAK), the project includes Aksa, Akkim and İpek Paper companies. Samples are taken periodically from the wastewater treatment facility entry and exit points as part of the project. The project is predicted to last for five years and seeks to set new environmental quality standards for discharging wastewater. 63 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 WASTE MANAGEMENT Waste management is crucial for Aksa in erated is periodically monitored and imterms of reducing our environmental improvements are implemented according pact. The main goal of Aksa in the related to the goals set. Moreover, the related disprocesses is to reduce waste at the source closures about the waste are made to the and dispose of the waste in line with the related public organizations regularly. regulations. In that context the waste genOur waste management system is based on the following aspects: Reduction of the amount generated, Determining preventing Monitoring the the source points pollution amounts and and preparing changes waste maps Recovery, reuse or disposal alternatives Documenting the organizations made and the systems estabMeasures to lished reduce costs and increase revenue Providing suitable waste containPlanning ers, vehicles/equipprocesses of sifting at ment for collecting the source, collecting, waste and temporary temporary storing and storage sites transfer 64 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 91% recycling, energy production and reusing practices The waste is separated as hazardous and on the field and then sent to the recycling non-hazardous waste and as household company. Our waste from the processes junk at Aksa in line with the regulations. is delivered to the disposal facility so that The domestic waste from office uses and they are incinerated to generate energy for cafeterias are sent to the sanitary landfills they have high calorific values. The other of the municipality. The waste that could be types of waste are transferred over to the recycled such as packaging, paper etc. are waste disposal companies authorized by collected according to their types in difthe official agencies. ferent waste containers in the offices and During the reporting period, the waste information depending on the waste type and disposal method are as follows: Hazardous Non-HazardTotal (kg) (kg) ous (kg) Sent for recycling (packaging waste, 7.690 269.841 277.531 electronic waste etc.) Waste incinerated to generate power 1.138.077 6.184.460 7.322.537 Waste disposed by incineration 2.047.160 2.047.160 Waste re-used as raw material additive 6.070 32.163.880 32.169.950 Waste sent to sanitary landfills 1.778.770 1.778.770 TOTAL (kg) 3.198.997 40.396.951 43.595.948 91% of our total waste generated during the reporting period is disposed with recycling, energy production and reusing practices. 65 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 66 EMPLOYEES AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 We invest in people at Aksa and, in an atand believing in teamwork and cooperatempt to achieve our goals, seek to gain tion. For this purpose, we utilize efficient responsible, creative, engaged, self-confirecruitment practices and support our emdent, self-development oriented and happy ployees’ occupational and personal develemployees for our organization. We pursue opment via the right choice of career develour efforts to spread our developing and opment practices. The goal of establishing productive organization culture among all a healthy and safe workplace pushes us to our internal stakeholders and continue our pursue a vision of improving the working activities with competent human resources conditions consistently. Apart from creatcomposed of talents that can contribute to ing communication channels whereby our our future successes. employees can participate in corporate activities, we aim to raise employee satisAt Aksa, we strive to recruit a creative, infaction continuously through a human renovative and qualified workforce, open sources policy respectful of human rights to continuous learning and development, and employee rights. adopting customer-oriented behaviour, Employee Breakdown by Age 2 116 116 98 92 798 734 619 756 Male 2010 2011 2012 2013 Female 2 As of the end of 2013, the number of employees working directly at Aksa is 896 and the employees working for Aksa through sub-contractor operations is 123. 68 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 HUMAN RIGHTS AND EMPLOYEE RIGHTS MANAGEMENT It is our main task to provide our employtion models to the supplementary benefits ees with a working environment respectgiven to the employees, making an effort ing and protecting human dignity. In that to spread the same approach throughout respect, we act as a corporation respectful our whole value chain. of human rights and employee rights, and In order to fulfil our commitment to recarry out operations, which are exemplaspect human rights as a corporation by ry for our sector and country, through our putting our tenets into practice, we propractices going far beyond legal obligavide a discrimination-proof workplace for tions. We do not allow discrimination in any our employees and implement practices of our work processes from the recruitto raise their awareness in that respect. In ment process to career development pracaccordance with the United Nations Globtices, from the evaluation and remunera69 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 al Compact we signed, we do not conduct stead, the criteria such as the responsibility any operations bearing the risk to employ assumed in the scope of the work definichild labour or forced labour, and we take tion, seniority status and employee perforthe necessary steps to establish this prinmance form the basis of pay determination. ciple in the whole of our value chain. In the All our employees benefit from private reporting period, no discriminatory events health insurance besides the health seroccurred during Aksa operations and vices provided by the health units at the 1,792 man*hours of human rights training workplace. Casual leaves are sanctioned was given to all our internal stakeholders. in cases of birth, marriage, death etc, and Aksa complies with an objective and transalso financial support, specifically defined parent pay and supplementary benefits for each force majeure, is made available model, based on the principle of workfor our employees. Apart from those benbased remuneration and the principle of efits provided for all the employees, the equality and justice, in line with the reality employees working at specific positions of the national and international business are offered special supplementary benefits world. In the scope of the system we call such as company-supplied vehicles, cell Job Evaluation and Remuneration Model, phones or notebook computers in line with gender or other differences are deemed the definition of the tasks they assume. irrelevant in the remuneration process, inAksa conforms to legally defined notice periods when important operational changes, affecting the employees in a direct manner, are concerned. 70 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 TALENT MANAGEMENT Employing qualified workforce at Aksa were offered 360-degree feedback and is one of our primary business goals. This evaluation centre practices. One-to-one is why we always abide by the right-perfeedback was given in the light of the reson-for-the-right-job principle, implement sults. practices to support all the employees’ ocThe recruitment processes at Aksa are cupational and personal development after managed pursuant to the five-year and recruitment, and utilize the most objective annual Workforce Needs Plans we create. modern evaluation systems throughout Among the criteria we take into considerathe recruitment and placement processes, tion while evaluating the job candidates are which ensure that our corporate interests behavioural and technical competencies are followed in decision-making processes defined in diverse ways for various levels, in the best possible way. Through the efand compliance with our corporate culficient performance evaluation practices, ture apart from possessing the necessary we measure the knowledge, skill, compeinfrastructure for the position. We use diftency and experience level of each person ferent recruitment tools, which we have dein our workforce and give him feedback veloped over many years, to consider the apart from devising career development candidates applying for engineering and processes our employees actively particispecialist positions, on the one hand, and pate in. This process is managed together operational positions, on the other hand. with Akkök Group. Moreover, in 2013, the We follow the local employment policy in requirements for critical positions were all job openings at the corporation starting identified in cooperation with Hay Group. with operational vacancies. Specialists and those in higher positions 71 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Those employees who are recruited for a job and residing in a different city are given the possibility of accommodation up to 6 months. Induction activities are organized for the newly recruited personnel throughout the whole corporation apart from the orientation programs held with the guidance of the Human Resources department. The employees who obtain positive results at the end of their first line managers’ performance evaluation in the 2nd and 6th month after they start work are recruited as regular employees on a continuing basis at Aksa. Employee Distribution by Education Level Master’s Degree Bachelor’s Degree 2,87 13,77 High School Vocational Tecnical High High School School 13,44 18,72 PhD 0,16 Elementary School 12,62 Associate’s 22,3 72 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 BEST OF THE YEAR The performance evaluation practices we perform with a focus on the business results our employees achieve and the competencies they possess ensure that personal goals are evaluated in an integrated manner with department, directorship and company goals, enabling us to attain the expected business results through continuous development. Our employees and first line managers can monitor the goals and competencies defined personally and on the team level, organizing periodic meetings in that regard, with the help of the Revision and Feedback processes managed by our Human Resources unit. We reward the employees and teams financially when the targets set for a related calendar year are met, and relate to the We reward our successful emPerformance Management System results ployees through practices such as a fundamental reference point during as the Manager of the Year, the promotion, job vacancy and other career Most Active Environment Health planning processes. We identify training and Safety Supervisor of the Year, needs simultaneously with system results, the Exemplary Staff Member of helping our employees to take more sound the Year, the Seniority Plaque decisions regarding their careers through and Aksa School Awards for their the feedback we provide. performance, introducing the During the reporting period, 864 employawarded employees to the rest of ees, comprising 96% of our workforce, the organization via internal comwent through a performance evaluation. munication channels. 73 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 We plan training and personal developAksa Training Process Flowchart ment activities and implement the most efficient practices to enhance the skills and Needs Analysis talents of the self-confident and engaged workforce working in line with our policies and strategies while accommodating Demand for Training them to developing new technologies and business models. Among the issues taken into consideration while identifying the Creation of the Training Scheme training and development needs of all our employees are legal obligations, voluntarily committed practices, Aksa policies and Selection of the Internal and External Trainers strategies, personal development areas, HR strategies and technical development Evaluation of the Training Activity areas specific to different functions. We pursue efforts to continuously improve the training processes developed in the light of Organization of the Training our corporate experiences. The principal body of organization supportAnnouncement of the Training ing the Human Resources department in carrying out training processes is the Aksa Training Council (AKEK) composed of the Registration for the Training members of the Representative Committee and a member from each department Training Report at Aksa. Holding a meeting every three months, AKEK evaluates the demands and suggestions made for particular training activities and confirms the training needs 74 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Average amount of training hours per employee was 59 Man X Hours with a potential to contribute to the develwhich are delivered by internal or exteropment of our employees’ behavioural and nal trainers, also include overseas training technical competencies. The Human Reevents and e-learning training packages sources unit, on the other hand, prepares formed in order to provide our employees an annual training plan in the light of these with the possibility of training at more flexfacts and submits the plan to the annual ible hours and in a more comfortable envibudget approval. All training processes are ronment. After each training event, training revised and continuously improved in conactivity evaluation surveys are organized sideration of the feedback obtained from which are effective in deciding whether AKEK, the Representative Committee and the same training will ever be repeated our employees apart from the training acagain. In the reporting period, the average tivity evaluation results. amount of training hours per employee was 59 man*hours. The training activities for Aksa employees, Employee Training Activities Held during the Reporting Period by Source (manXhours) Internal Training Total 22.534 36.584 %31 %50 External Training 11.697 Training Abroad E-learning %16 310 2.043 %0 %3 75 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The portal, which ranks first among our the induction training program, forms, most important employee communication announcements, e-learning training packtools, includes the annual plan, calendar, ages, the training catalogue, the qualities demands, reports and records regarding of the training classrooms and the relethe training activities; the information and vant training visuals apart from the other performance results concerning the trainfunctions it serves. Apart from the portal, ers; the calendar and the minutes of AKEK our employees benefit from the library, armeetings; and the information regarding chives and periodicals available at BBTM. Aksa School The aim of Aksa School, which we established in 1982 and conduct a part of our training activities in, is to enhance the competencies, technical knowledge and personal development of our employees working at lower than specialist positions. The trainers of the program are selected out of our company personnel and the activities are carried out in accordance with a certain curriculum in the scope of the program. The employees who successfully complete the program are handed their certificates. We consider it important for our employthe practices and bodies of knowledge ees to follow current developments in their available in different business areas. While specialties, encouraging them to participroviding performance feedback to our pate in congresses, panels, seminars, exhiemployees who take part in teamwork as bitions, workshops and other similar events required by the definition of the tasks they in that regard. In an attempt to assist their assume, we also evaluate their teamwork occupational development, we enable skills, urging them to participate in team them to take part in matrix-like organizaand council activities on a voluntary basis. tional structures such as project teams, We deliver leadership training to high-poand, through interdepartmental rotations, tential employees, helping them to get prewe ensure that they become familiar with pared for managerial positions. 76 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Leadership Training Being a Team, Developing a Team, The Leader’s Guide to Management, Competency-based Interviewing Techniques, Stress and Time Management, Emotional Intelligence and Effective Communication, Effective Presentation Techniques. 77 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 INTERNAL COMMUNICATION AND EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION We acknowledge that creating media The innovative communication channels whereby our internal stakeholders can give used by our employees to convey their direction to company operations has an imsuggestions, demands and complaints not portant impact on our corporate sustainonly enables us to listen to the valuable ability and employee satisfaction at Aksa views of our employees, who have the best and, therefore, we strive to establish the knowledge of our business, but also helps most active communication and engageus lay the foundation for practices to develment channels for our human resources. op the social life at the workplace. “AKSA HABER” (AKSA NEWS) – The corporate publication of Aksa Akrilik Aksa Haber is the corporate internal communication publication through which Aksa Akrilik gives news on the implemented projects, future company targets and Aksa employees. Aksa Haber is composed of 12 pages in total and is published every three months. The interviews carried out by professional correspondents for the publication focus on the views of two Aksa employees every month. Apart from Aksa employees, Aksa Haber is regularly distributed to the public agencies as well as the non-governmental organizations in Yalova. 78 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Besides the AKEK (Aksa Training Council) participation in corporate governance. The and AKSET (Aksa Social Activities Team) Open Door Policy we implement helps our Meetings through which Aksa employees employees share all kinds of issues with the can directly communicate with the senior managers, customers, suppliers and public management, we utilize structures such as authorities. We organize social activities to the Representative Committee, the Sugbuild communication and cohesion among gestion System and the OHS Council in the employees as well. order to facilitate our internal stakeholders’ What is AKSET (AKSA Social Activities Team)? The activities to boost employee motivation and attachment at AKSA are conducted by voluntary AKSA employees. AKSET (AKSA Social Activities Team) consists of 21 AKSA employees volunteering to organize parties, concerts, trips, courses, seminars and other similar activities. A special budget for AKSET is determined by the General Manager annually and the activities to be held during the year are organized by the AKSET members in accordance with the employee demands received. The activities carried out by AKSET in 2013 included diving, tennis and model airplane training events in addition to the various theatre performances, concerts, trips and parties organized. An employee attachment survey is carried out at Aksa every two years, measuring our internal stakeholders’ attachment, satisfaction and eagerness levels. The previous attachment survey was conducted in 2012 and the next one will be held in 2014. 79 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Our main internal communication tools cesses are carried out. Thanks to the ininclude the intranet platform named “Pornovation we introduced in the reporting takal” serving AKKÖK group companies, period by switching to the Electronic Aksa AKSA HR Portal, bulletin boards, monthly Integrated Management System, suggese-bulletins, daily news and our corporate tions are now transferred to the electronic periodical “Aksa Haber” which we startenvironment via kiosks instead of being reed to publish in 2013. The Suggestion corded on paper. In the scope of the trainSystem has been effective at Aksa since ing activities organized for entering the 1996, delivering our employees’ suggessuggestions into the system, we also offer tions regarding every issue including the Lean Manufacturing 7 Wastes training operations they take part in particular, and to our employees, seeking to bring them assisting in the implementation of good new opportunities for improvement in the suggestions after relevant evaluation procourse of their routine tasks. Evaluation Steps in the Suggestion System Preliminary Suggestion ManagSubmitting Consideration er’s Approval/GuidSuggestion (First Line ance (Functional Manager) Manager) Action Action Approval/ Finalization Planning Implementation (First Line (Suggestion (Action Manager) Supervisor) Supervisor) 80 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Number of Employee Suggestions by Year 2011 2012 2013 Number of Suggestions 817 605 555 Average Number of Employees 954 789 854 Number of Suggestions Accepted 325 215 191 With the objective to assist our employees ing our employees together outside of the in achieving work-life balance, we protect workplace. Furthermore, AKSET (Aksa Soemployee and work balance through ancial Activities Team) members, composed nual workforce plans we prepare, monitor of volunteering Aksa employees, organize overtime work on a monthly basis, and enactivities such as trips, theatre performancsure that the workforce is distributed evenes, parties, concerts, picnics apart from ly throughout the operations by conductconducting diving, tennis, photography ing permanent staff studies if necessary. and other similar courses throughout the The cocktail parties we organize for those year. A New Year’s Party is held with all Akwho start work and the exemplary staff kök companies while Welcome to Summer members apart from the social activities and Farewell to Summer Parties are organwe hold on special days are aimed at bringized at Aksa. 81 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We consider occupational health and safeEnvironment and Quality Management are ty to be the top priority in all our operations risk evaluation studies (HAZOP, Bow-Tie, from the design phase to the sales point FMEA, FTA, ETA etc), training activities, delivery, and implement the relevant pracEHS (Environment, Health and Safety) tices to ensure that all the elements of our meetings, OHS Council meetings, change value chain act responsibly in that regard. management and internal/external audits. Striving to create a healthy and safe workWe constantly monitor our OHS perforing environment for our human resources, mance and identify the necessary measwhich make up the fundamental capital of ures to enhance it, including the measures our corporation, we deliver a performance in our business plans and implementing beyond the legal requirements and standthem. We also utilize studies such as sugards, analyse the potential dangers and gestion development and improvement risks that can arise during our operations, systems in an attempt to encourage our take the necessary measures to prevent employees’ participation in these processaccidents, evaluate the possible states of es. The periodic maintenance and control emergency and prepare the necessary acof our production area is conducted by the tion plans. accredited bodies through the processes managed by the Directorate of MainteThe main practices coming to the forenance. We guarantee our performance in front in the scope of the OHS processes that regard through the EHS Directorate we carry out in an integrated manner with audits. There have been no incidents of work-related fatalities and occupational diseases during the reporting period. 82 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Aksa is identified as a “top level organizamodelling practices, planning for drills and tion” according to the Regulation Regardmaintaining their continuity. ing the Control of Large Scale Industrial Accidents published by the Ministry of EnIn the reporting period 3,447 man*hours vironment and Urban Planning in line with of training was delivered in the scope of the European Union SEVESO II Directive. the SEVESO II Directive practices. One of As of 2011, studies were launched to fulfil the aims of all the Directorates is to fulfil the requirements of the aforementioned the requirements of the related regulation regulation. Among the practices covered with the help of the knowledge and skills by the studies were enterprise safety, proacquired thanks to the SEVESO II training cess safety, maintenance safety, prepaactivities, and to complete the Safety Reration for states of emergency through port by the end of the year. A fire started in the Manufactured Goods Warehouse where our acrylic fibre products were stored at Aksa Yalova Plant on 27 January 2013. The plant’s fire crew immediately responded to the fire, at the same time calling the fire brigades in the neighbourhood. The fire was taken under control when it was finally put out at night time on the same day. The most important source of consolation for us is the fact that all kinds of precautions were successfully taken during the fire incident to avoid any negative effects both on Aksa personnel and on the fire fighters. During the following day, the site was cooled down and the production line was put into use in a controlled manner, transferring to the normal production routine. Aksa overcame the incident with the least impacts in the shortest span of time thanks to its emergency state management as a corporation and the knowledge it has accumulated over many years. The incident occurred only in the warehouse where the acrylic fibre products were stored and did not spread to the other storage and production parts of the facility. The Aksa lab and an independent accredited environmental lab simultaneously carried out measurements on the ecosystems inside the facility and around the residential areas with the purpose of identifying the possible negative impacts on the atmosphere, soil, plants, surface water and groundwater during and after the incident in the area where the facility is situated. The measurements have demonstrated that the limits set by the regulation were not violated and no evidence of a threat against human and environmental health was found because of the fire. In that regard, the scientific reports regarding environmental and human health prepared by the public authorities after handling the measurement results and the fire incident as a whole were shared with all our related stakeholders. 83 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The Environment, Health and Safety Mansentatives elected by our employees and agers (EHS) and the OHS Council are the they represent the whole of our blue-collar main committees assisting in monitoring workforce. The founding members of the the employee health and occupational council are the employer representative, safety programs at Aksa. The EHS Manoccupational safety specialist, workplace doctor, Human Resources Manager, civil defence expert, Administrative Affairs Manager and foreman while all the managing directors of the company are classified as honorary members of the council. As Aksa, we especially pay attention to the agers assume the issue of states of emergency preparation operational responsibility for the OHS-redue to safety concerns. With the objeclated activities at the company and ensure tive to ensure the continuity of our busithat on-site practices comply with the ness and prepare our personnel for various OHSAS 18001 Standard and Safety Manforce majeure incidents, we hold emergenagement System. While the practices led cy drills and exercises and pursue efforts by the OHS Specialty and the Workplace to develop our performance continuousMedicine Department enable to distribute ly in that regard. In the reporting period, all related responsibilities among all level we organized 49 fire crew drills, 4 general employees, the proper training is delivered evacuation drills for each shift, 4 general to the personnel to help them fulfil their refire training events and fire fighting drills, sponsibilities pursuant to the OHS policy. 1 ISPS drill and 1 Port Drill in line with the The OHS Council consists of 20 people Act No. 5312. in total including the 5 employee repre84 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 The OHS audits are implemented on the tion) audits are carried out as required by contractors on the basis of the related laws the Act No. 5510 every two months. Apart and regulations. While general employfrom these practices, a meeting with the ee audits take place every three months, contractor and sub-contractor company document and SSI (Social Security Institurepresentatives is held once every month. Our OHS Performance by Numbers3 2010 2011 2012 2013 Accident Frequency 5,9 6,5 3,2 4,87 Rate Accident Severity 116,7 223,8 254,7 125,25 Rate Injury Rate 43,6 42,66 26,44 19,49 Absence Rate 905,8 1217,9 .933,2 1.484 Number of Days Lost 1002,3 1.390,3 2.187,9 1.609 3 Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents /(Total Number of Days with Accrued Premium *8)*1.000.000 Accident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents /((Total Number of Days with Premium *8)*1.000.000 Total Number of Days Due to Work Accidents = (Temporary Incapacity Durations) + (Amount of Permanent Incapacity Levels*75) + (Number of Fatality Cases *7500) Injury Rate = Number of Work Accidents *1.000.000 /Total Work Hours 85 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Hedef ler Targets 2013 Achievements 2013 • To achieve 20% improvement in the ac•getWeregarding have not been able to realize our tarthe accident frequency rate cident frequency rate on company level in comparison with 2012. on company level. We aim to achieve the aforementioned improvement through the • To achieve 40% improvement in the acrisk evaluation studies, audits and training cident severity rate on company level in activities to be conducted in the next pecomparison with 2012. riod. • We have achieved a 50% improvement in the accident severity rate on company level in comparison with 2012. OHS Training The Occupational Health and Safety training activities are implemented in the framework of the integrated studies covering the environment and quality issues as well. In the scope of the OHS Training, we provide the personnel, who carry out different tasks, with operation-specific training opportunities through basic awareness-raising training activities such as regulations training, risk evaluation training, fire and emergency response training. In the reporting period, our employees benefited from 28,630 man*hours of training. 86 CONTRIBUTING TO COMMUNITY AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Apart from assessing the impact of our activities. We seek to implement practices operations on the local people, communithat will set an example to Turkey while ty and acting accordingly, Aksa also seeks our CSR strategy is focused on increasing ways to create added value for our corawareness of the local people and protectporate social responsibility activities going the environment. ing on under the main titles of education, culture and arts. We develop solutions to Support for Education the problems of all individuals besides the Thanks to the long-term support we have local people in our operation geography provided for education, we contribute to through our active communication strateraising individuals that will be the future of gy. We design our practices in ways to inour country, and try to create and active, crease the participation of volunteers and transparent dialogue educational organimplement the projects, which we shape izations, which are one of our key stakeup within the framework of a conscious holders, through our cooperation with unicommunity dream, in way sensitive to peoversity and research institutes. ple and the environment. Aware of the fact that sustainability in While supporting the CSR projects undercommunity development could only be taken by our parent Akkök Group of Comachieved through educated, well-equipped, panies, we also implement a series of praccultured generations that can take initiative tices that focus on the local people in our and are sensitive to environment as well as operation geography too. Believing firmly to the community, Aksa feels the responsiin the significance of acting in a transparent bility of this and in 1992 established Aksa fashion in all our business processes, we Technical and Industrial Vocational High strive to create direct and indirect commuSchool in Taşköprü – a town located in Çiftnication channels that will inform our stakelikköy, a borough in Yalova. holders in our operation geography on our 88 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 and various organizations apart from the constant maintenance, repair and graduAs of 2013, the school has 30 teachers and ation ceremony organization support we 350 students in total and educates qualilend for the school. In the same period, fied technical employees who can work we also supported the Yalova Lightning in the industrial areas. The “Process” deBug Mobile Education Unit, started in copartment of the high school, which seeks operation between AKKÖK and Education to meet the technical employee needs of Volunteers Foundation of Turkey (TEGV). the plants around, is only available at Aksa While meeting the demands for donaTechnical and Industrial Vocational High tions and assistance received from various School among all the other vocational and schools, we have opened the doors of our technical education organizations. production facility to certain schools within During the reporting period we continued the scope of the Open Door Visits. our support for Aksa Technical and InOpen Door Visits dustrial Vocational High School, which we started in 1992, through library support Organized in line with our principle of trans89 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 parency, Open Door Visits enable us to welOrganized two times every year in coopercome NGOs, local people, schools, families ation with Yalova Red Crescent Branch, the of our workers, customers, benchmarking “Blood Drive Campaign” is held with the teams and visitors from Turkey and abroad voluntary participation of our employees. to our production site. Enabling our various stakeholder groups to observe Aksa opSupport for Yalova Orthopedicalerations and enjoy the opportunity of bely Disabled Sports Club ing informed onsite, the practice is held at Within the scope of a practice started by various times every year and we also get Akkök Group of Companies in 2012 and significant data for devising our improvecontinued during the reporting period, we ment strategies through the surveys we kept lending our support for the Yalova Orhold following the visits paid by our stakethopedically Disabled Sports Club (YOSK). holders. During the reporting period, 420 The sponsorship practice we do in line with of our stakeholders visited our production our commitment to community developsite within the scope of the Open Door Visment has brought us the pride of witnessits organized. ing the successful sports performance of Since 1999, over 19.000 visitors have visthe club not only in Turkey but also in Euited AKSA as part of the Open Door Visits rope. and are informed on our operations. Akkök Children’s Festival Cooperation with the Red CresWe support Akkök Children’s Festival in cent line with our corporate culture attaching great value to arts, and we seek to help Regarding social responsibility as an eschildren in Yalova have fun in different acsential part of our corporate culture, we tivities while producing a collective work of strive to make this understanding become art every year during the festival. widespread among all our stakeholders. 90 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Reforestation Studies Donations and Social Aid Apart from implementing effective pracWe seek to create value everywhere our tices to minimize our environmental imname is mentioned and organize donapact during our production processes, tion and social aid campaigns in an effort we undertake reforestation studies and to give more educational opportunities for regard this practice as an opportunity for the local people and increase their cultural communicating with the stakeholders. We capital. Believing firmly in the fact that sohave distributed the plants and saplings cial development is only possible through we grow in our own greengenerations that can take initiahouse since 1968 to our tive and are educated, equipped, volunteering stakeholders cultured, sensitive to the envivisiting our facilities for ronment and community, we free. During the reportstrive to increase our investing period, 2.,470 saplings ments made for achieving that were distributed to the purpose to a higher level every lovers of nature while our year. In that respect, during the employees have planted reporting period Aksa spent 5,000 saplings in Hasan1,575,941 TL in total for “Donababa Çınarcık within the tions and Social Aid, composed scope of the Energy Power mostly of educational, cultural, Plant Project in 2013. arts and sports activities. Amount (TL) Associations, Foundations and Municipalities 71.666 Education 1.504.275 Total 1.575.941 91 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 92 PERFORMANCE TABLE AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Key Financial Indicators KCONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET SUMMARY 31.12.2013 31.12.2012 ([1]) (Thousand US$) (Thousand US$) ASSETS 848,805 873,419 Current Assets 401,625 388,342 Cash and Cash Equivalents 109,267 79,363 Trade Receivables 171,202 178,657 Inventories 86,77 92,525 Other Current Assets 34,386 37,797 Non-Current Assets 447,18 485,077 Trade Receivables *2,519 Financial Investments 1,103 744 Investments Accounted for by the Equity Method 114,842 127,758 Property, Plant and Equipment 317,908 346,704 Intangible Assets 4,653 2,704 Good Will 2,806 3,36 Other Non-Current Assets 5,867 1,287 LIABILITIES 848,805 873,419 Short Term Liabilities 288,879 240,994 Financial Liabilities 105,824 95,589 Trade Payables 159,821 137,141 Taxes on Income 4,89 3,311 Other Short Term Liabilities 18,343 4,953 Long Term Liabilities 69,14 87,759 Financial Liabilities 58,387 72,437 Derivative Financial Instruments *967 Provision for Employment Termination Benefits 7,186 9,063 Deferred Tax Liabilities 3,395 4,736 Other Long Term Liabilities 171 556 Shareholders’ Equity 490,787 544,665 [1] US$ currency conversions shown in the consolidated financial statements are provided for informational purposes only; the closing exchange rate TL 2.1343 (December 31, 2012: TL 1.7826) was used in calculating the balance sheet items 94 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Human Resources Performance Tables Employee Distribution by Gender 2010 2011 2012 2013 Men 734 756 619 798 Women 116 116 92 98 Total 850 872 711 896 Employee Distribution by Status 2010 2011 2012 2013 Blue Collar 719 734 591 727 White Collar 131 138 120 169 Total 850 872 711 896 Employee Distribution by Age Groups 2010 2011 2012 2013 <30 349 358 257 277 30-50 509 539 476 584 50< 52 53 44 35 Total 910 950 777 896 Employee Distribution by Contract Type and Region4 İstanbul Yalova Toplam Board of Directors 8 0 8 Regular 30 825 855 Regular Retired 2 7 9 Contract 1 12 13 Contract Retired 3 8 11 4 All employees are citizens of the Turkish Republic. 95 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employee Distribution by Employment Type and Region İstanbul Yalova Total Full Time 44 850 894 Part Time 0 2 2 Employee Distribution by Education Level Total Associate Degree or Lower 721 Undergraduate Degree or Higher 175 Total Number of Employees Recruited and Who Left the Job by Age Groups Staff Recruited Staff Who Left Job <30 94 27 30-50 90 35 50< 5 12 Total Number of Employees Recruited and Who Left the Job by Gender Staff Recruited Staff Who Left Job Men 181 62 Women 8 12 Total Number of Employees Recruited and Who Left the Job by Region Staff Recruited Staff Who Left Job İstanbul 6 7 Yalova 183 67 96 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Top-Level Managers5 2010 2011 2012 2013 Men 16 23 19 14 Women 3 4 1 1 Total 19 27 20 15 2013 30-50 7 50< 8 Mid-Level Managers6 2010 2011 2012 2013 Men 36 38 38 34 Women 5 8 9 7 Total 41 46 47 41 2013 <30 2 30-50 27 50< 12 2013 Associate 1 Degree or Lower BA 32 MA 8 5 Board of Directors, GM and Directors are categorized as top-level managers. All top-level managers are citizens of the Turkish Republic. 6 Managers are categorized as medium-level managers. All medium-level managers are citizens of the Turkish Republic. 97 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Employee Trainings Provided during the Reporting Period (man*hour) 2013 Internal Training 22.534 External Training 11.697 E-learning 2.043 Trainings Abroad 310 Total 36.584 Number of Employees Receiving Performance Feedback by Employee Categories Blue Collar White Collar Regular Retired 4 5 Regular 708 147 Our OHS Performance in Numbers7 2010 2011 2012 2013 Accident Frequency Rate 5,9 6,5 3,2 4,87 Accident Severity Rate 116,7 223,8 254,7 125,25 Injury Rate 43,6 42,66 26,44 19,49 Absentee Rate 905,8 1.217,90 1.933,20 1.484 Number of Days Lost 1.002,30 1.390,30 2.187,90 1.609 7Accident Frequency Rate = Number of Work Accidents /(Total Number of Days with Premium *8)*1.000.000 Accident Severity Rate = Total Number of Days Lost Due to Work Accidents /((Total Number of Days with Premium *8)*1.000.000 Total Number of Days Due to Work Accidents = (Temporary Incapacity Durations) + (Amount of Permanent Incapacity Levels*75) + (Number of Fatality Cases *7500) Injury Rate = Number of Work Accidents *1.000.000 /Total Work Hours 98 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Environmental Performance Tables Greenhouse Gas Emissions (ton CO2e) 2012 2013 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions 806.943 857.737 Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions 27.455 20.507 TOTAL 834.398 878.224 Emissions 2013 VOC* 0.84 kg/hour SO2** 140 mg/m3 NOx** 137.5 mg/m3 Toz** 5 mg/m3 CO** 8.73 mg/m3 Water Consumption Amounts by Years (m3) 2011 2012 2013 Municipal Water and 2.724.455 2.983.616 3.847.412 Well Water Wastewater Discharge by Years (m3) 2011 2012 2013 2.445.500 2.463.750 2.950.507 99 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Waste by Type and Disposal Method (kg) Hazardous NonTotal Hazardous Sent for Recycling (Packaging Waste, 7.690 269.841 277.531 Electronic Waste etc.) Waste Incinerated to Generate Power 1.138.077 6.184.460 7.322.537 Waste Disposed by Incineration 2.047.160 2.047.160 Waste Re-Used as Raw Material Addi6.070 32.163.880 32.169.950 tive Waste Sent to Sanitary Landfills 1.778.770 1.778.770 TOTAL 3.198.997 40.396.951 43.595.948 100 GRI INDEX AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Profile Disclosure Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting 1. Strategy and Analysis Message from the 1.1 Chairman of the 4-5 Fully Board Message from the 1.2 4-5 Fully General Manager Message from the 1.3 Chairman of the 7-10 Fully Board Message from the 1.4 7-10 General Manager 2. Corporate Profile Back 2.1 Contact Fully Cover 2.2 About Aksa 11-19 Fully Corporate 2.3 22-25 Fully Governance Affiliates, Subsidiaries and 19 Joint Ventures Back 2.4 Contact Fully Cover 2.5 About the Report 3 Fully Affiliates, Subsidiaries and 19 Joint Ventures Shareholding 2.6 18 Fully Structure 2.7 Aksa at a Glance 16-17 Fully Quality 42-43 2.8 About Aksa 11-19 Fully Performance 94-97 Tables Shareholding 2.9 18 Fully Structure 102 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Affiliates, Subsidiaries and 19 Joint Ventures About Aksa 11-19 GRI Indicators No awards have been received during the 2.10 103 Fully Table reporting period. 3. Report Parameters 3.1 About the Report 3 Fully 3.2 About the Report 3 Fully GRI Indicators Date of publication for the previous report 103 Table was February 2013. 3.3 About the Report 3 Fully Back 3.4 Contact Fully Cover 3.5 About the Report 3 Fully Sustainability 28-32 Management 3.6 About the Report 3 Fully 3.7 About the Report 3 Fully 3.8 About the Report 3 Fully 3.9 About the Report 3 Fully 3.10 About the Report 3 Fully 3.11 About the Report 3 Fully GRI Indicators 1023.12 Fully Table 114 GRI Indicators The content of this report has not been 3.13 103 Fully Table subject to independent external audit 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Corporate 4.1 22-25 Fully Governance Corporate 4.2 22-25 Fully Governance 103 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Corporate 4.3 22-25 Fully Governance 4.4 Stakeholders 33-35 Fully Sustainability 4.5 28-32 Fully Management Corporate 4.6 22-25 Fully Governance http://www.aksa.com/tr-TR/ Aksa Ethic Rules YatirimciIliskileri/KurumsalYonetim/ Sayfalar/EtikKurallar.aspx Corporate 4.7 22-25 Fully Governance http://www.aksa.com/ en-US/InvestorRelations/ Annual Report 44-46 FinancalStatementsAndReports/Lists/ AnnualReports/Attachments/9/FR%20 2013%20Eng.pdf Corporate 4.8 22-25 Fully Governance Sustainability 4.9 28-32 Fully Management Corporate 22-25 Governance Sustainability 4.10 28-32 Fully Management Process and 4.11 44-47 Fully Product Innovation 4.12 About the Report 3 Fully Corporate 36 Memberships Corporate 4.13 36 Fully Memberships 4.14 Stakeholders 33-35 Fully 4.15 Stakeholders 33-35 Fully 104 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting We consider all private and legalentities have an impact directly or indirectly on our activities and affected by our activities as a GRI Indicators part of our stakeholder network. Through 105 creating the most correct communication Table channel for each stakeholder group, we make efforts for the purpose of forming an effficent and transperent decision-making mechanism. 4.16 Stakeholders 33-35 Fully We realize a vast number of stakeholder participation practices with varying frequencies depending on their types. We realize practices which are a part of a particular system or process like surveys, GRI Indicators researches and applications in specific 105 periods. Statements announced to public Table are performed per quarter or annually. In some special cases, we also use instant communication tools. Other participation practices are performed for moment when the need arise 4.17 Stakeholders 33-35 Fully Our Customers 49-52 Open Door Visits 89-90 Internal Communication 78-81 and Employee Satisfaction 105 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Disclosure on Management Approach Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting DMA EC Economic Key Financial 94 Fully performance Indicators 56-59, Annual Report 90, 91, 97 Message from the Chairman of the 4-5 Board Message from the 7-10 General Manager Emission 60-61 Management Human Rights and Employee Rights 69-70 Management Market Supply Chain 48 Fully presence GRI Indicators 110 Table Indirect Contributing to economic 87-91 Fully Community impacts Our Customers 49-52 Support for 88-89 Education DMA EN Materials About Aksa 11-19 Fully Quality 42-43 Energy Energy 56-59 Fully Management Water Water 62-63 Fully Management Water Biodiversity 62-63 Fully Management 106 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Contributing to 87-91 Community Emissions, Emission effluents and 60-61 Fully Management waste Water 62-63 Management Waste 64-65 Management GRI Indicators 111 Table Products and Process and 44-47 Fully services Product Innovation GRI Indicators Compliance 111 Fully Table Emission Transport 60-61 Fully Management Overall Environment 53-55 Fully DMA LA Employment Employees 68 Fully Performance 95-96 Tables Human Rights and Employee Rights 69-70 Management Labor/ GRI Indicators management 112 Fully Table relations Human Rights and Employee Rights 69-70 Management Occupational Performance health and 98 Fully Tables safety Occupational 82-86 Health and Safety 107 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Bulunduğu Raporlama Gösterge Sayfa Açıklama Bölüm Seviyesi Training and Talent 71-77 Fully education Management Performance 98 Tables Diversity Performance and equal 97 Fully Tables opportunity Equal Human Rights and remuneration Employee Rights 69-70 Fully for women and Management men DMA HR Investment and Human Rights and procurement Employee Rights 69-70 Fully practices Management NonGRI Indicators 112 Fully discrimination Table Freedom of association GRI Indicators 112 Fully and collective Table bargaining Human Rights and Child labor Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management Prevention of Human Rights and forced and Employee Rights 69-70 Fully compulsory Management labor Security GRI Indicators 112 Fully practices Table Indigenous Contributing to 87-91 Fully rights Community Corporate Assessment 22-25 Fully Governance GRI Indicators Remediation 112 Fully Table 108 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Bulunduğu Raporlama Gösterge Sayfa Açıklama Bölüm Seviyesi DMA SO Local Contributing to 87-91 Fully communities Community Corporate Corruption 22-25 Fully Governance GRI Indicators Public policy 113 Fully Table AntiGRI Indicators competitive 113 Fully Table behavior GRI Indicators Compliance 113 Fully Table DMA PR Customer GRI Indicators health and 113 Fully Table safety Product Process and and service 44-47 Fully Product Innovation labelling GRI Indicators 113 Table Our Customers 49-52 Marketing GRI Indicators communica113 Fully Table tions Customer GRI Indicators 113 Fully privacy Table GRI Indicators Compliance 114 Fully Table 109 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Performance Indicators Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Economic Key Financial EC1 94 Fully Indicators http://www.aksa.com/ 56-59, en-US/InvestorRelations/ Annual Report FinancalStatementsAndReports/Lists/ 90 AnnualReports/Attachments/9/FR%20 2013%20Eng.pdf Message from the EC2 Chairman of the 4-5 Partially Board Message from the 7-10 General Manager Emission 60-61 Management Human Rights and EC3 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management http://www.aksa.com/ en-US/InvestorRelations/ Annual Report 90 FinancalStatementsAndReports/Lists/ AnnualReports/Attachments/9/FR%20 2013%20Eng.pdf http://www.aksa.com/ en-US/InvestorRelations/ EC4 Annual Report 91, 97 FinancalStatementsAndReports/Lists/ Fully AnnualReports/Attachments/9/FR%20 2013%20Eng.pdf The lowest wage is equal to minimum EC5 GRI Indicators Table 110 wage within Aksa operations. Fully EC6 Supply Chain 48 Fully All mid-level and senior managers are EC7 GRI Indicators Table 110 T.R. Citizens. Fully Talent Management 71-77 Contributing to EC8 87-91 Fully Community EC9 Our Customers 49-52 Fully Support for 88-89 Education 110 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Environmental Energy EN3 56-59 Partially Management Energy EN4 56-59 Partially Management Energy EN5 56-59 Fully Management Energy EN6 56-59 Fully Management Energy EN7 56-59 Fully Management EN8 Water Management 62-63 Fully EN11 Water Management 62-63 Fully EN12 Water Management 62-63 Fully Contributing to EN13 87-91 Partially Community Emission EN16 60-61 Fully Management Emission EN20 60-61 Fully Management EN21 Water Management 62-63 Fully EN22 Waste Management 64-65 Fully No incident of spill has taken place EN23 GRI Indicators Table 111 within our operations during the Fully reporting period. There is no water body or natural EN25 GRI Indicators Table 111 habitat affected by water discharge Fully occured through our operations. Process and Product EN26 44-47 Fully Innovation There has been no sanctions for EN28 GRI Indicators Table 111 noncompliance with environmental Fully regulations during the reporting period 111 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1 Employees 68 Partially Performance Tables 95-96 LA2 Performance Tables 95-96 Fully Human Rights and LA3 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management There are no unionized employees LA4 GRI Indicators Table 112 working at Aksa Fully Human Rights and LA5 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management Occupational Health LA6 82-86 Fully and Safety LA7 Performance Tables 98 Fully Occupational Health LA8 82-86 Partially and Safety LA10 Talent Management 71-77 Partially Performance Tables 98 LA11 Talent Management 71-77 Fully LA12 Talent Management 71-77 Partially LA13 Performance Tables 97 Fully Human Rights and LA14 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management Human Rights Human Rights and HR3 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management No incidents of discrimination have HR4 GRI Indicators Table 112 taken place during the reporting period. Fully Human Rights and HR6 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management Human Rights and HR7 Employee Rights 69-70 Fully Management 112 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting In accordance with the legislation, HR8 GRI Indicators Table 112 trainings on human rights are provided Fully to all security staff. No grievances related to human rights HR11 GRI Indicators Table 112 have been received during the reporting Fully period. Society Contributing to SO1 87-91 Partially Community Corporate SO2 22-25 Partially Governance Aksa does not contribute to lobbying SO5 GRI Indicators Table 113 activities. Fully Aksa does not make donations to or SO6 GRI Indicators Table 113 support political parties. Fully No legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly SO7 GRI Indicators Table 113 practices have taken place during the Fully reporting period. There has been no significant nonmonetary penalty fined due to failure SO8 GRI Indicators Table 113 to comply with the laws and regulations Fully during the reporting period. Product Responsibility There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR2 GRI Indicators Table 113 voluntary codes concerning health and Fully safety impacts of products and services during the reporting period. Process and Product PR3 44-47 Fully Innovation There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR4 GRI Indicators Table 113 voluntary codes concerning health and Fully safety impacts of products and services during the reporting period. PR5 Our Customers 49-52 Fully There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR7 GRI Indicators Table 113 voluntary codes concerning health and Fully safety impacts of products and services during the reporting period. 113 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Location of Level of Indicator Page Notes Disclosure Reporting No complaints have been received regarding breaches of customer privacy PR8 GRI Indicators Table 113 and losses of customer data during the Fully reporting period. There have been no incidents of non-compliance with regulations and PR9 GRI Indicators Table 114 voluntary codes concerning health and Fully safety impacts of products and services during the reporting period. UN Global Compact Progress Statement Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of international69-70 ly proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. abuses. 69-70 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 112 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 69-70 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and 69-70 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occu112 pation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 53-55 challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 53-55 and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 53-55 technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 22-25 extortion and bribery. 114 AKSA SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 HEADQUARTERS: Miralay Şefik Bey Sk. Ak-Han No:15 34437 Gümüşsuyu / Istanbul Tel: +90 212 251 45 00 Fax: +90 212 251 45 07 FACTORY: Denizçalı Köyü Yalova-İzmit Yolu Caddesi No:34 P.K.114 77600 Taşköprü-Çiftlikköy/YALOVA Tel: +90 226 353 25 45 Fax: +90 226 353 33 07 aksa@aksa.com LEGAL DISCLAIMER Sustainability Report (“Report”) is prepared by Aksa investment decision. As of the period comprised by this Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. (“Aksa”, “Company” or “Aksa report, all the contained information and the related docAkrilik”). This report is prepared for information purposuments are believed to be accurate and the information es only and is not intended for constituting basis for any is disclosed in good faith and based on reliable sources. 115 Aksa Akrilik Kimya Sanayii A.Ş. Miralay Şefik Bey Sk. Ak-Han No:15 34437 Gümüşsuyu/Istanbul Tel: +90 212 251 45 00 Fax: +90 212 251 45 07 www.aksa.com
