UN GLOBAL COMPACT REPORT Lantrade Global Supplies Ltd Communication on Progress 2014 Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support 3 The 10 Principles of the Global Compact 4 Human Rights 4 Labour Standards 5 Environment 7 Anti-corruption 9 Summary 10 Conclusion 12 Page | 2 Statement of Continued Support Lantrade Global Supplies (LGS) has been providing professional solutions to all aspects of the electoral process for over 20 years and is a regular supplier of competitively priced, high quality products and procurement services across the globe. We continue to operate as a responsible corporate citizen, passionately committed to providing a streamlined and cost-effective supply chain for overseas projects run by international organisations. After several years of consolidation through the difficult economic circumstances of recent times, LGS has emerged with a newly invigorated team structured across several continents, to provide a virtual network of global access. Recessionary conditions worldwide have provided opportunities for us to explore new business in emerging markets in Africa and the Middle East. As the profile of our team has changed, so too have we grown and developed our understanding of our responsibility as a community-based entity in providing a positive influence on the extended communities we work for across the globe. We remain dedicated to working with international organisations in the management of increasingly complex risk situations and opportunities in the environmental, social and governance realms. We continue to develop, with pride, our practice of the principles laid out in the UN Global Compact and look forward to a continued phase of new growth in the next few years. Lynda Scott-Tomlin LGS Managing Director Page | 3 The 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally acclaimed human rights. As part of a worldwide supply management chain, LGS operates in a number of different regions where widely differing cultures and laws prevail. Our teams are required to operate with sensitivity, using local knowledge and insight to ensure that human rights are upheld in the context of our operations. By ensuring our practices comply with international human rights guidelines, we aim to stimulate economic interaction at local level that is both credible and reliable. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. As part of our commitment to complying with international human rights guidelines, we demand rigorous adherence to the self-governance of nonengagement with any economic partner who might be complicit in the violation of human rights. This means that every member of our staff has committed to ensuring that we endeavour never to do business with any organisation involved in the infringement of the guidelines set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We practice this on a personal level as well, within the organisation, by respecting diversity and disability and providing a working environment that is favourable to all stakeholders in the business. Page | 4 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: The business should uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. While LGS remains a small company and thus unable to form a trade union, we encourage freedom of association and communication at all levels of the business. Each individual member of the team is encouraged to take ownership of his or her role; to take responsibility for innovating new business and new systems. To this end, communication between all members of the company is encouraged without reference to rank, and without retribution for constructive criticism. The spirit of collective bargaining is recognised in the sense that we strongly believe that effective communication leads to good business, benefiting all round. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. In the global context LGS recognises it can be difficult to eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labour and so we take preventative measures where ever possible, by randomised unprompted personal visits to site and by employing representative members of the communities we work in. We believe that by employing people who share the same language and culture as our chosen manufacturers, their insight and understanding can help to ensure that employees are protected from any such transgression. Page | 5 LABOUR STANDARDS (continued) Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. In keeping with our passionate commitment to upholding the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we abide by the guiding principles of the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Wherever possible, LGS strongly encourages the use of positive economic influence to combat child labour among suppliers. We practice a zero-tolerance response on nonadherence to minimum age provisions in national labour laws and regulations. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LGS employs a multi-national team, which we believe fosters effective communication with all our suppliers. Our team includes Chinese, French, South African, Dutch, English, Bulgarian and Romanian workers, and we embrace the philosophy of an all-inclusive hiring policy, stimulating diversity and bonding widely varying cultures. LGS strongly encourages equal opportunities; relevant qualifications, skills and experience are the only criteria for individual success in our organisation. Page | 6 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. LGS keeps abreast of global environmental challenges, and we prioritise environmentally friendly options when sourcing goods through our supply chain.  We are strategically selective in our choices regarding freight travel;  We encourage environmentally sound practice among our suppliers;  We practice environmentally friendly administration, recycling and disposal in all our operating environments both on site and in the office. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. LGS addresses its environmental responsibilities through two key initiatives;  Continuous evaluation of existing interactions with the environment, constantly seeking ways to implement more strategically sustainable practices;  Training all our staff and stakeholders to seek environmentally friendly innovations, with constant reinforcement of the guiding principles of the Global Compact. Page | 7 ENVIRONMENT (continued) Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. LGS takes every opportunity to evaluate and research markets to source technologies that contribute to environmental sustainability. As part of our materials and supplier sourcing program, we keep abreast of technology innovation. Our teams, and our suppliers, are encouraged to monitor trends and report on market innovations, with a view to constantly bettering our offering in this regard. Page | 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. By the very nature of our business, LGS is required to demonstrate the very highest level of good governance, and we practice value-centred leadership in all our transactions. Part of our commitment to this ethos includes support for the Howard League for Penal Reform, a charity that focuses on encouraging less crime, safer communities and fewer people in prison. Our internal training and development programs require all staff to: learn and understand the global nature of the problem;  offer insights into best practice, both at personal and corporate level;  constantly keep up to date on national and international related legislation;  commit to zero-tolerance of any form of bribery or corruption. We adhere to a rigorous program of zero-tolerance towards any forms of extortion, corruption or bribery in our industry. Page | 9 Summary Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy Support and respect the Implementation of appropriate internal and Knowledgeable, culturally and legally To constantly refine our protection of internationally external recruitment and training programs. sensitive interaction with communities in understanding and practice of the acclaimed Human Rights order to provide sustainable, credible and guiding principles of the Universal mutually beneficial economic growth for Declaration of Human Rights all parties. Non-complicit in human rights Constant evaluation, innovation and A corporate environment free of fear, Ongoing re-evaluation of our abuses reinforcement of the guiding principles functioning transparently and honourably business practices, in order to Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the communities we trade with. ensure we best reflect and enact the CRC. these guiding principles Uphold freedom of association Structured communication forums across the Employees and partners who feel To continue empowering our staff and effectively recognise the right organisation, and with stakeholders, empowered to take responsibility at a and stakeholders, enriching their to collective bargaining including suppliers, partners and personal level for positive corporate insight and understanding of the manufacturers. citizenship within the communities we guiding principles. work. Uphold the elimination of all Regular personal presence on site. A corporate environment free of fear, Become more active as a positive forms of forced and compulsory Engaging positive influences in culturally functioning transparently and honourably influence against forced and labour sensitive environments. in the communities we trade with. compulsory labour. Uphold the effective abolition of Rigorous adherence to a zero-tolerance Knowledgeable, culturally and legally Explore opportunities to invest in child labour policy towards child labour. sensitive interaction with communities in child-related charities supporting the order to provide sustainable, credible and communities in which we operate. mutually beneficial economic growth for all parties. Page 10 Current Company Action Outcome Future Aims Policy Eliminate discrimination in Implementation of appropriate internal and The provision of a working environment Continue our program of internal respect of employment and external recruitment and training programs. that offers equal opportunities for skills training and evaluation, in order to occupation Provide suitable and appropriate working and advancement in the most fully best identify strengths and environments which meet Health and Safety inclusive manner to a diverse and allweaknesses, and focus on correct standards, and which secure our investment inclusive staff complement. any potential imbalance. in duty of care for our staff. Support a precautionary Ongoing research to keep abreast of global The provision of economically beneficial To continue empowering our staff approach to environmental environmental challenges. services in a manner that supports the and stakeholders, enriching their challenges protection and sustainability of the insight and understanding of the environment. guiding principles. Undertake initiatives to promote Constant evaluation of existing interactions. The provision of a cost-effective yet Continue our program of internal greater environmental Strategic selection of sustainable practices. environmentally sound business model. training and evaluation, in order to responsibility best identify strengths and weaknesses, and focus on correct any potential imbalance. Encourage the development and Constant research, networking and The provision of a constantly improving Selectively focus on key methods to diffusion of environmentally evaluation of innovations and opportunities offering, one which meets the need for the improve the information and friendly technologies in technological advancement. sustainability of global environments. research channels. Work against corruption in all Application of rigorous standards of The provision of a transparent service to Refine and develop our recruitment forms, including extortion and compliance internally, with a zero-tolerance our clients and our stakeholders, in which and training methods, internally and bribery policy towards corruption, extortion and all parties strive to achieve best practice externally, to provide a better bribery. and responsible corporate citizenship. universal understanding of the problem, and the solutions. Support for the Howard League for Penal Reform. Page 11 Conclusion Lantrade acknowledges that our commitment to the 10 Principles outlined in the UN Global Compact requires constant vigilance and revision of our own practices, and those of our stakeholders, economic partners, suppliers and manufacturers. We have established a program of self-governance that involves a program of self-assessment, building awareness of the key issues among our staff and suppliers, and constant training to reinforce best practice. This has evolved somewhat organically in the organisation and, in recent years, has become more structured. After each major project, we have structured a debriefing program within our organisation that allows us to review our performance, identify key weak points, and work on innovating improvements for future business. Part of this process includes refining our adherence to the 10 guiding Principles of the UN Global Compact. It is our privilege to be a part of this growing integrity in the business community, as with the advent of appropriate social co-operation and responsible corporate citizenship, the opportunity arises for us to grow sustainable and innovative business models for the benefit of all stakeholders, at both local and international level, in the long term. 12
