HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 03 Dear Readers, Change as Chance! This is the motto of HELOG´s Report on Progress 2013. HELOG has partly changed business and reduce its own flight operations to spend more capacities on the new projects. Apart from the reduced but remaining flight operation mainly for Medevac task HELOG is since 2013 aknowledged as an international education institute for vocational training from the Federal Ministry of Education and Research and listed under the program “iMove”. Currently HELOG establishes an academy for the apprenticeship of industrial mechanics on the airport ground of Roberts International Airport in Monrovia, Liberia. After having successfully completed the basic training the students have the opportunity to specialize in Helicopter Mechanics Assistants or Mechatronic Technicians. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 04 Naturally, our new project also conforms to the 10 principles of Global Compact. We have committed ourselves to the international principles of the United Nations Global Compact and I am proud to confirm HELOG’s continued support to this important initiative. Apart from the location of our headquarters, all of our operations are conducted in Africa and we are thus deeply involved in the globalization process. We still work in critical areas but we see it as a challenge to sustain there and to implement the principles into our daily business. One of our important and challenging issues is the fight against corruption in the countries where we operate and in the business where we generate our revenues. The safety and health of our people is a core aspect of our business. In this report we describe how we identify and prioritise our key sustainable issues and how we manage them, especially during this changing time, while we change our business. It is a main challenge for us that we develop our new operations accordingly to the 10 principles, right on from the beginning. Many improvements and changes brought us closer to the core values of the Global Compact and our intention is to pass all our experience to the new projects and the people, especially the youth, with whom we work together. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 05 I want to thank all of you: our employees, contractors, donors and friends for the ongoing support in achieving the Global Compact objectives. Last but not least I also want to say thank you to the Global Compact and its 10 principles. Together we can go on to save lives and make the impossible possible. HELOG Aviation KG Wolfgang Zagel CEO HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 06 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally claimed human rights In Germany, the rule of law and the protection of human rights are taken for granted, but we as a global player in Africa are confronted with the fact that basic human rights are not being enforced in developing and emerging countries. This is why we see it as our highest target, to pass on to Africa what is taken for granted in Germany. The reason for corruption and inhumanely behaviour is also an educational question. That’s why HELOG interprets the educational mandate as to impart and live social manners along with the technical education. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 07 Health and Safety To ensure health and security, HELOG works together with the West African Rescue Association, in short WARA. WARA provides professional services around ground and air rescue & emergency medical services respectively accident transportation and stationary patient-centered care. WARA supports blood collections for the benefit of the patient-centered care, which is often in shortage. Furthermore WARA provides concrete measures in the area of health education and training for advanced medical staff, informal medical workers and the local population especially the youth and women. WARA pursues two new projects since 2013: WARA Flying Doctor (in short: WAFD) and WARA Remote Clinic Network (in short: WRCN). For the WRCN project WARA builds container clinics in rural areas, which are only reachable via airplanes because of bad road conditions. This is where HELOG stands in by providing helicopters and pilots. WARA intends to use also the HELOG campus to establish a training academy for EMT – Emergency Medical Technicians. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 08 The new HELOG campus in Liberia (Construction work already started)  On operation site we provide clean and comfortable workplaces with suitable temperature, ventilation and lighting, good washing and sanitation facilities.  Our employees are all certified in First Aid, our base stations are all equipped with high standard First Aid kits and equipment. Furthermore, with our partner West African Rescue Association we have a specialist on site all the time and standby in case of medical emergencies. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 09 Hours, Wages and Leave  For the administration personnel HELOG established a system to plan, record and monitor hours worked by each employee in order to control the limit of working hours per day and week as well as requested breaks by law.  It is HELOG’s company policy to provide employees with a living wage sufficient to meet human requirements; even a higher rate is paid. Local personnel on our bases in Africa are paid above average according to the standard in the respective country.  All of HELOG employees are registered with the Social Insurance Authority of each respective country. The social insurance contributions for each employee are paid by HELOG.  Salary Tables have been revised and adapted to personnel qualifications and operational needs.  HELOG provides paid holidays according to law requirements; sick leave is not deducted from employee’s vacation time. Our freelance personnel is scheduled 4–6 weeks on/off, which ensures a guaranteed off time after each duty period. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 010 Fair Treatment To ensure fair treatment for all, HELOG follows the subsequently listed principles:  The Code of Conduct  The Sphere Standards  Transparency International  The Guidelines of Global Compact  EUWhistleblowing-Policy  Anti-Corruption Codex All these guidelines are written in the HELOG Operation Manual, which is available to all staff members. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 011 Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in Human Rights abuses As HELOG is working in countries where there is a permanent risk of violation against human rights, HELOG expresses a strong commitment to avoid that employees become complicit or involved in any breach of our standards. HELOG has an effective reporting system implemented in every country where operating. In case of a reasonable suspicion it immediately becomes a matter of the CEO of the company. We accept the challenge in this complex subject and are very happy that we have already had some success. It is our conviction that training helps to create a better future and provides many new perspectives and chances in life. Our education projects help to make learning a reality for young people. It prepares for tomorrow’s world of employment in a practice oriented manner and in an atmosphere that makes learning a pleasure. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 012 It is HELOG’s conviction that responsible business practices not only have to contribute to the well being of stakeholders, but they have increasingly become a long term value for business itself. Thus, by introducing the HELOG Academy it is our aim to include the human resources offered by the African continent in a qualification process to cope with the challenges of the future. Next to their schooling our trainees learn to be responsible and acquire the necessary self-confidence to leave the “circle of poverty” which exists in many Least Developed Countries (LDC). HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 013 LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining All personnel, whatever the qualification, level or nationality may be, are entitled to form and join trade unions as long as they operate in compliance with local regulations. Up to now there has been no request or initiative by the employees to form a union or association. According to regulations in Europe HELOG cannot exert any influence. Any initiative in our operating countries would be supported by HELOG. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 014  HELOG recognises the rights of our employees for freedom of association and to bargain collectively.  The company management meets regularly in order to discuss work related problems and any grievances employees may wish to raise, such meetings are held in the headquarter in Germany as well as on the operation bases mentored by the base managers.  Confidential and anonym comments can also be inserted and communicated via our new established Safety Management System software. All inserts are being treated with high priority and sensitivity. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 015 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour In the HSE (Health, Safety and Environment) Manual, HELOG insists in maintaining the standards which apply in Germany also for the foreign bases. Local management is required to monitor those regulations and report any violation to the CEO. HELOG has always taken all necessary measures to ensure that it does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, by  providing employment and freelance contracts prior to starting work for the company as well as staff regulations clearly defining company / operation procedures, notice and trial periods, working hours, etc.  ensuring that it does not collaborate with personnel leasing companies involved in human trafficking or other forms of bonded labour.  Salary payments to our local staff is being monitored very carefully by our base managers on site and double proved by our Human Resources Department in Germany. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 016 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor HELOG does not tolerate any kind of child labour. The influence of HELOG in that issue is very limited. However, the rejection of any kind of child labour within HELOG assists the general campaign. Also the management on the foreign bases is instructed not to employ children for any kind of work. Employees are requested to report any violations on the part of our suppliers. It is up to the management to react according to HELOG standards and to convince the suppliers to follow the policy of the principle. HELOG also operates in so-called weak governance zones . So far, we have been able to pursue our business activities without restrictions or limits in these areas. We are also aware that the numerous problems of the weak governance zones cannot be resolved quickly. This is where the input of neighbouring countries, the UN and other international organizations is needed. On the other hand, we can improve the local situation with our investments, even though they are simply measures for fair pay or the disapproval of child labour and discrimination that will not take effect nationwide. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 017 We believe that a company’s commitment in these areas doesn’t automatically mean that they are accomplices. We still think that our actions will provide chances and possibilities for the workers and business associates, which they wouldn’t have had. However, we cannot estimate how much these initiatives will influence the improvement of the overall development. Nevertheless, the following also applies here: “Constant dripping wears away the stone”. Education instead of child labor Children have to be safe from exploitation. They must not be groomed to do dangerous tasks or any work harmful to their health, for example work which hampers the physical, psychical, mental, ethical or social development. Every single child has a unrestrained right to education. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 018 The human rights for all children of the world are firm defined with the UN th Convention on the Rights of the Child from November 20 of 1989. Unfortunately, it isn´t still a rarity that these rights are being disregarded. To warrant youth a vocational perspective, HELOG has founded the HELOG Academy. HELOG developed a concept to train young people in Industrial Mechanics offering them a genuine chance to earn their living and enhance a sustainable development in their country. For the training as Industrial Mechanic we introduced a dual education concept HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 019 “The Dual System” – based on the integration and synergy of theoretical and practical training – is well proven in Germany and many countries see it as the model for the future. The contents of teaching comply with the training curriculum of the Federal Law Gazette of Germany for vocational training. This is in line with international standards for TVET training. The education concept “The Dual System” is well established, not only in Germany, but also on the international market, as the most efficient education concept perfectly combining theoretical knowledge and practical on-the-job training. The Structure Training in Workshop: The practical education forms the basis of the dual system. The working concept for the trainee is “learning-by-doing” for half of his apprenticeship within a company, based on an apprenticeship mode of learning practical and mechanical skills on site. For this practical training, properly selected and thoroughly briefed companies will be contracted to work with HELOG Academy in providing practical training and appropriate field experiences. The selected companies will sign a Technical Partnership and Industrial Cooperation Agreement to support the training and job placement of the trainees. Theoretical training in school: In addition to the practical training on site the trainees will gain knowledge of all theoretical topics and tools, specially tailored to the education for Industrial Mechanics. This knowledge will further be extended in our own training workshops. In total, including vacation, instruction will take 18 months. The training is free of charge for the trainee. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 020 Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation In meetings with the employees HELOG promotes the policy of non-discrimination with regard to occupation, employment, nationality, race, gender or age. We have realized that cultural diversity with respect to sex, age, ethics/origin, sexual orientation, religion, ideology, career, prospects and lifestyle not only involves improvement of image, but definitely also raises the business profile. The target of the HELOG management is to raise and benefit from the potential created by differences and similarities among the employees of our organisation. Cultural diversity has proven to be a great advantage, despite the challenge in terms of language, behaviour and integration. The results of this diversity of different cultures are synergies, which have lead to a strengthening of the entire company. The cultural diversity in relation to gender, age, ethnicity/origin, sexual orientation, disability/illness, religion, ideology, career, lifestyle and performance not only improves a company’s image, but will certainly increase the company’s potential. The goal of the management of HELOG is to increase and take advantage of the potential, which is a result of the differences and similarities within the workforce. It is very important for us at HELOG, that our employees consider and live by the regulations of sustainability and CSR. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 021 Further measures have been established to improve our working conditions and procedures in respect of non-discrimination:  Each job position has a written description stating the salary level and the qualifications required for that job category.  Employment advertisements do not reference discriminatory criteria, such as race, gender or age (unless legal requirements ask for in the position concerned)  Job applicants are not asked to give information about their marital status, pregnancy, intent to have children or similar information that may lead to discriminatory hiring decisions.  Any incidents of workplace discrimination can be anonymously reported in our Safety Management System and will be followed seriously by our SMS Manager.  Our suppliers and business partners are further proved in respect of their labour standards by regular audits of our Quality Management. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 022 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges The environmental issue is a huge problem in almost all of the countries where we are working. Most of the people are not yet aware of, nor were they educated to maintain a certain sustainability level in order to protect the environment. We begin with fundamental directives, like waste separation or enlightenment about the fact, that plastic waste has to be disposed of the right way. It is not productive to make it like the most people – to careless dump it in the environment. The students on their work places will often be in contact often with waste, possibly even with noxious substances. The danger and peculiarities of these substances will be pointed out. All HELOG employees are required to exemplify high standards regarding waste management in our operation. From experience, this approach is very effective and HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 023 mind changing. It has to be reviewed regularly and is also an issue in the general audit plan.  HELOG is still evaluating the project for the installation of solar energy technology and wind power technology in order to reduce the consumption of electricity, which is currently produced by diesel generators.  Our foreign operation bases are asked to keep the operating hours of the generator as low as possible and to turn them off during day time.  The plan for our operation in Freetown for 2014 is to generate the power need during daytime by wind turbines. Only by this measure we will save approximately 50 litre Diesel per day, just in this small operation in Sierra Leone. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmentally friendly technologies Environment-friendly technologies make a huge contribution to preserve our world. The connected issues climate change and environment protection are two of the most important points of our time. HELOG wants to contribute with solar energy for the new campus. Solar energy is one of the renewable and clean energies. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 024 Contrary to the fossil energy sources like gas or coal solar energy is unlimited available, the resource inexhaustible – and good for the environment. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion or environmentally friendly technologies Within the frame of the theoretical education it is a part of the training schedule to teach eco-friendliness and sustainability. What is self-evident (or at least should be so) for western youth, is new for most of the youth in Africa. That’s why they get a considerable insight in climate protection and what devastating consequences brings the climate change with it, by what it is caused and finally, how we could prevent it. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 025 ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In the African daily business HELOG is often faced with business practices which do not correspond with HELOG principles of doing business. In our operations we are frequently confronted with unfair and corrupt methods. But it is our intent to avoid and prevent corrupt methods and stand up for a better future, because only without corruption will it be possible to take a step forward towards fair and equal market conditions for everyone and therefore our commitment towards this objective is an ANTI CORRUPTION CODEX. The codex is a framework of regulations to help HELOG avoiding all forms of corruption because laws alone are not enough to stop this dilemma. As a result HELOG has created an ANTI CORRUPTION CODEX to prevent and avoid methods which inevitably lead to economic, social and political damages. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 026 The basis of this anti-corruption codex is “information”. By informing our employees of what is considered to be a corrupt business practice and how to work against it, everyone at HELOG is made aware of how to avoid corruption. Here you can see a short excerpt from our ANTI CORRUPTION CODEX: “First of all the question of what is considered to be a “corrupt business practice” needs explaining. A business practice is considered ʻcorruptʼ if other than normal legal methods are used to achieve an objective, especially if someone is bribed. According to § 334 StGB together with the Law Against International Bribery (IntBestG), the fight against bribery is defined as follows: Bribery is liable to prosecution when:  Foreign officials, judges and soldiers or officials who work for international organizations (e. g. the United Nations other European Union) or  Foreign politicians or Members of Parliament or members of international organizations, are bribed, for example, to  Obtain a contract, or  An authorisation for a new product, a company, a subsidiary, etc., or  In order to achieve any other kind of economical or financial advantage.” HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 027 Final Words Measurement Because of the changes in the HELOG operations a numeral measurement wouldn´t be meaningfully. But at these principles where a measurement can apply, we proudly confirm a significant progress and a higher level has been established. We verify that we align ourselves with the Principles of the Global Compact and all other Human Rights and environment protection principles, even more they are a fix component in our daily business. . Every day HELOG gives the best to make the world a better place. Last but not least we want to thank all our staff members, partners and officials who make our work successful and give HELOG the spirit which we are known for. HELOG // COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 028 CONTACT Business address: HELOG Aviation KG Am Kraftwerk 3 83435 Bad Reichenhall Germany Operation Bases Africa HELOG Aviation Ltd Ocean Office Complex Lumley Beach Road Freetown Sierra Leone HELOG Liberia Ltd Jacob´s Town Saint Francis School Road Paynesville City Montserrado Country Liberia
