www.s-oil.com S-OIL is committed to remaining a responsible S-OIL 2013 corporate citizen by meeting the expectations of S-OIL 2013 Sustainability Report Sustainability Report diverse stakeholders. Established as Korea’s first joint venture between an oil producer and an oil consumer in 1976, S-OIL has grown into one of the most competitive refiners in the Asia-Pacific region. Corporation Overview No. of Officers and Employees 2,792 Total Assets KRW 11.9 trillion Business Sites Head Office : Marketing, Finance, General Services Onsan Refinery : Production and shipping 12 Product terminals/Depots : Product storage and shipping 3 District Business HQs/22 Domestic and 4 Overseas Sales offices : Product sales Affiliated Companies S-OIL Total Lubricants Co., Ltd. (STLC): a 50:50 joint venture with France’s TOTAL S-International Ltd. : a 100%-owned overseas subsidiary Production Capacity Sales Crude Refining 669,000BPD Fuel Business 25.5 Bunker-C Cracking 148,000BPD KRW trillion Bunker-C Desulfurization 149,000BPD Diesel and Kerosene Desulfurization 120,000BPD Benzene 560,000 tons/year Petrochemical Business Paraxylene Propylene 1,800,000 tons/year 200,000 tons/year KRW 3.9 trillion Ultra-S Base Oil 29,000BPD Lube Business Super Base Oil Premium Base Oil 5,100BPD 8,600BPD KRW 1.8 trillion Head Office S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, 121-805, Korea Sales revenues in 2013 Onsan Refinery 68, Onsan-ro, Onsan-eup, Ulju-gun, Ulsan, 689-892, Korea This report is printed on FSC certified paper with soy ink. TM TM (Forest Stewardship Council ) KRW 31.2 trillion About This Report Sustainability Management Scheme Reporting Scope C.E.O. Expectations and Corporate Mission Since 2008, S-OIL has published an annual sustainability report. This is the seventh Sustainability management activities at S-OIL are centered on understanding and sustainability report covering our business activities from January 1 to December meeting the expectations of what we call C.E.O.—Customers, Employees, and Own31, 2013. The reporting scope followed the stipulations as provided in the GRI G4.0 ers & Other stakeholders. The Company strives to achieve its mission of sustainable, Guidelines1) In principle, all performance indicators and related data cover three-year profitable growth, while reflecting the expectations of all stakeholders in the Comtrends, from 2011 to 2013. Important management initiatives include data that extend pany’s policies that prioritize the C.E.O.’s economic, environmental and social values. into 2014. Data that is subject to frequent changes, such as information on human resources, was reported as of December 31, 2013, the last day of the fiscal year, with S-OIL Grand Vision 2020 footnotes provided in special cases. Financial performance data was compiled under S-OIL will be the most profitable and integrated energy company encompassing reseparate criteria and is compliant with Korean International Financial Reporting Stanfining, lube, and petrochemical businesses with excellence in operation, quality, and dards (K-IFRS). G4-17, 23 customer partnership. To that end, S-OIL will focus on: Guidelines • Further enhancing facility competitiveness to maximize production value The 2013 S-OIL Sustainability Report was compiled based on the Company’s Seven • Proactively expand business territory globally Management Principles and in accordance with the AA1000APS2) (2008). GRI G4.0 • Prudently seeking new competitive business opportunities where S-OIL can fully Guidelines and IPIECA·API Guidance3) have also been used to highlight important leverage the Company’s core competencies with strengthened R&D capabilities indicators and separate notes have also been included to indicate cases where the Company’s management standards have been applied. The Report was checked ‘MaStrategic Framework teriality Matters’ by GRI. S-OIL has established a strategic framework with three aspects to it that will allow the Company to accomplish its mission. The first is the Company’s strategic direction, which sets long-term growth directions for the future of S-OIL. The second involves strategic imperatives. These refer to Management Principles that will keep Assurance S-OIL on the right path to realize optimum outcomes no matter which strategic direcThe reliability of the report was verified by an independent and objective assurance tions it chooses to pursue. The final is performance management, which ensures that group based on the AA1000AS4) (2008) and ISAE30005) international assurance stanthe above two aspects are implemented effectively. With that strategic framework in dards. The assurance report can be found in the appendix to the report. place, the C.E.O.’s expectations of S-OIL and the Company’s responsibilities in meeting them and achieving sustainable growth are embodied in S-OIL’s Seven ManageCommunication with Stakeholders ment Principles. S-OIL’s sustainability management has its roots in interactive communication with stakeholders. S-OIL runs surveys to learn about stakeholder concerns and expectaSeven Management Principles tions of the Company, with top management providing feedback on stakeholder concerns through corporate management policies. Achieve Operational Excellence Further Information/Suggestions This report and additional information on S-OIL’s sustainability management can be viewed via various media. C Customers Enhance Customer-Centric Management Homepage Sustainability Management Team Contribute to Society www.s-oil.com 02-3772-5237, sustainability@s-oil.com Android. IOS Application E Employees Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 1) GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4.0 Guidelines provide sustainability report guidelines that were written and revised by the GRI in 2013. The GRI was established by CERES and UNEP. Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 2) AA1000APS (2008) provides a framework for an organization to identify, prioritize and respond to sustainability challenges.  3) IPIECA/API (International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association/American Petroleum Institute) 4) Guidance refers to sustainability report guidelines governing the performance of companies in the petroleum industry. O Owners & Other Stakeholders Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency AA1000AS provides international verification standards used to evaluate the inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness of sustainability reports. Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 5) ISAE3000 provides international verification standards governing the reliability of information other than financial data. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 contents Corporate Overview 1 CEO’s Message 2 Value Chain & Stakeholder Engagement 4 Materiality Test 6 Key Sustainability Performance Results 8 Special Report 1. 10 Upgrade of Strategic Framework Special Report 2. 14 Leading a Good Safety Culture, S-OIL Special Report 3. 18 Beyond Legal Compliance in Corporate Culture Achieve Operational Excellence 22 Enhance Customer-Centric Management 28 Contribute to Society 34 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 40 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 46 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 52 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 58 Appendix Independent Assurance Statement 64 GRI G4.0 Index 66 UNGC Index 69 Recognition of S-OIL and Association Memberships 70 Readers’ Opinions 71 contents 1 CEO’s Message “ The ultimate goal of S-OIL’ s sustainability management lies in maintaining a balanced Dear valued stakeholders of S-OIL, triple bottom line of sustainability in economic, It is a great pleasure to present to you the 7th sustainability report of S-OIL. social and environmental aspects. As expected from all of the Company’s stakeholders, S-OIL has committed itself to We will also remain steadfast in our commitment genuine sustainability management in order to promote values that not only benefit our to sustainability management and keep stakeholders but also the economy, the environment and communities at large. interactive communication channels open S-OIL set “the most profitable and integrated energy company encompassing refining, with all of our stakeholder groups.” lube and petrochemical business” as the Company’s new vision. The Company developed strategic initiatives and upgraded its performance management system to make this vision a reality. Today, S-OIL is preparing to take the next step forward and overcome uncertainties in the business environment and drive sustainable growth. To this end, we are bolstering our competitive edge in existing businesses and keeping a close eye on changes in the business environment, while securing new growth engines. The cracked oil tank incident at S-OIL’s Onsan Refinery in April 2014 was a wake-up call to remind all of us at S-OIL about the magnitude of the impact our business activities can have on the environment and local communities. The Company took counteractions in a timely manner by faithfully observing risk management procedures with which we held regular drills, thus leaving no casualties or marine pollution. All officers and employees at S-OIL are clearly aware of the expectations stakeholders have for the Company’s role in keeping communities safe and the environment clean. As a responsible corporate citizen, S-OIL will fulfill all of its roles and responsibilities to ensure communities and the environment to be sustainable. The ultimate goal of S-OIL’s sustainability management lies in maintaining a balanced triple bottom line of sustainability in economic, social and environmental aspects. We will also remain steadfast in our commitment to sustainability management and keep interactive communication channels open with all of our stakeholder groups. At the same time, S-OIL will continue to comply with its social responsibilities and related international norms, including the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles, while proactively participating in a worldwide commitment to address climate change, thereby boost universal value of the global village. In closing, I would like to reiterate my appreciation to all those stakeholders who have contributed to S-OIL’s sustainability through their invaluable feedback and suggestions. Moving forward, we will continue to heed your opinions on S-OIL’s business activities as we grow stronger encouraged by your ceaseless support. Thank you Nasser Al-mahasher Representative Director and CEO S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 2 CEO’s message 3 Value Chain & Stakeholder Engagement G4-24, 25 Purchasing Costs Labor Costs KRW 30,085 billion KRW 325.1 billion S-OIL shares in the economic value generated from its business activities with all stakeholders. Procurement Production Crude Oil 상압 PX Paraxylene 나프타 MEROX 석유화학부문 Petrochemical 정유부문 Paraxylene, Benzene 상압 BTXBenzeneLPG 동경유 Business Propylene Propylene LPG Naphtha Gasoline, Premium Gasoline, Kerosene·Diesel Fuel Business Diesel, Kerosene, Jet Fuel, Marketing & Sales Revenue 감압 아스팔트 윤활기유 LPG, Bunker-C Oil, Asphalt Sales KRW 31,158.5 billion Asphalt Lube Base Oil Lube Business 휘발유, 고급휘발유,Lube Base Oil윤활기유 Stakeholder Engagement 경유, 등유, 항공유, LPG, S-OIL runs a variety of C.E.O. engagement channels 중질유, 아스팔트 customized to each group’s characteristics in order to identify what their expectations are. We then establish action plans to fullfill these expectations in line with the Company’s strategic directions. Ultimately, the results are reflected in the following management plans and activities through analyses VALUE Waste & and reviews. DISTRIBUTION Recycling Social Contribution Dividends Tax and Dues Environmental Investments Customers Employees KRW 12.3 billion KRW 154.9 billion KRW 112 billion KRW 40.7 billion Owners & Other Stakeholders customers employees owners & other stakeholders Individual Service Stations·Dealerships Corporations Employees Business Partners Local Communities Shareholders & Investors Government·NGO·Media Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels Communication Channels VOC Handling System, Customer Service Stations Support Presentations, Strategic Cooperation Meeting, Customer Meetings with CEO, Top Management’s Technical Exchange Meetings, Public Hearings, Seminars, Conferences, General Meeting of Shareholders, Public Hearings, Seminars, Conferences, Satisfaction Survey, Customer Monitoring Visit to Service Stations, Service Station Appreciation Days, Dinners for Customers, Visit to Production Sites, Employee Occupational Risk Evaluation Workshop, Visits to the Refinery, Associational Telephone/e-mail Consultations, Website Information Sharing Meetings, Surveys Group (Supporters), Magazine, E-Newsletter, Corporate Brochures, Visiting Customers, Workshops Satisfaction Survey, Grievance Health & Safety Education/Trainings, Activities, Sunshine Sharing (CSR Postings, Investor Relations, Conferences, Communication Organization Customer Suggestion System, Call Magazine, Champions Club Committee, Monthly Employee Meeting, Waste Treatment Training, E-procurement Activities), External Evaluations/ Investor Meetings, Meetings with Communication Organization Government Affairs Team, Environment Center, Bonus Card Website (and App.), Labor-Management Conferences, System, Site Visits to Business Partners Assessments Analysts, Visits to Financial Institutions, Communication Organization Corporate Sales Team, Refined Product Affairs Team, PR Team, Sustainability Marketing Idea Contest Employee Suggestion Program, Corporate Credit Rating Meetings Customer Service Team, Brand Marketing Marketing Strategy Team, Light∙Heavy Communication Organization Communication Organization Management Team Magazine, Intranet Communication Organization Team, Network Upgrading Team, Sales Product Export Teams, Refined Product Procurement Team, Refinery Procurement Accounting & General Affairs Dep’t, Communication Organization Membership Marketing Team, Brand Offices, Agent Sales Team, LPG Team, Operation Team, Petrochemical Marketing Communication Organization Team, Management Coordination Team, Operation Support Team, Gov’t & Public IR Team, Management Coordination Marketing Team, Customer Service Team Quality Assurance Team, Transportation Strategy Team, Petrochemical Sales Team, HR Policy Team, Personnel Team, Safety & Health Dep’t, Environment Affairs Team, Sustainability Management Team, Finance Planning Team, Treasury Team Petrochemical Operation Team, Lube HR Development Team, Labor Management Team, Mechanical Facility Team Operations Team, Project Financing Team Marketing Strategy Team, LBO Export Cooperaion Team, IR Team, Management Management Dep’t, E&I Facility Team, LBO Domestic Sales Team, Lube Coordination Team, Personnel & Welfare Management Dep’t Operation Team, Lube Technology Team, Dep’t Overseas Office S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 4 Value Chain & Stakeholder Engagement 5 Materiality Test G4-18, 19 This sustainability report encompasses the most important concerns of customers, employees, and owners & other stakeholders from economic, environmental, and social points of view. The report is also prepared in accordance with global guidelines for such publications and the Company’s Seven Management Principles. In addition, we ran a material test (as shown in the flowchart below) to identify 21 key issues with a significant influence on our sustainability management activities, and included them with detailed descriptions in this report. Materiality Matrix Significant impact on stakeholders STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Report Identification Prioritization Verification Topic Aspects Sustainability Context Materiality Completeness Disclosure on Management Stakeholder Engagement Approach (DMA) + Indicators STEP 4 Review Stakeholder Sustainability Context Inclusiveness Significant impact on S-OIL Materiality Test Process G4-26 Material Issues by Management Principles (21) Step 1 Listing sustainability issues Step 2 Stakeholder survey Step 3 Finalizing key issues Achieve Operational Excellence Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency • Efforts to enhance energy efficiency • Fair performance evaluation and compensation • Systematic risk management • Environmental management principles and systems • Fringe benefits • Managing and distributing resources for sustainable Identifying Stakeholder concerns and current Selecting key sustainability issues • Compliance with environmental regulations • Corporate culture growth sustainability issues status of listed issues through top management review and materiality test matrix Enhance Customer-Centric Management Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 1. Selecting 40 sustainability issues after Survey : selecting key issues with a significant Pursue Global Best Practices of benchmarking global sustainability management influence on the Company and stakeholders from 57 • Efforts to maximize consumer utility Corporate Governance • Sustainability management vision and strategies Top management participation in materiality standards listed issues • Activities to enhance brand value • Establishing transparent corporate governance • Building competitiveness to achieve sustainable analysis by reviewing selected issues list 2. Selecting 11 additional issues from media research Participants : 4,551 stakeholders drawn from • Compliance management system growth Materiality test matrix analysis and conclusion of on 715 news articles covering the Company by 10 customers, employees and partner groups Contribute to Society • Transparent disclosure on management information • Reinforcing R&D efforts 21 key issues major Korean newspapers throughout 2013 Period : two weeks (January 20-February 2) • Reducing carbon emissions • Company-wide strategic social contribution • Efforts toward shared growth with partner companies 3. Adding six new issues after benchmarking industry Survey media : corporate groupware and e-mail • “Sunshine Sharing” activities peers at home and abroad surveys • Cultural · Artistic sponsorships S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 6 Materiality Test 7 Key Sustainability Performance Results Economy 2011 2012 2013 Environment 2011 2012 2013 34,723,291 Sales(KRW million) 31,913,863 34,723,291 31,158,528 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Scope I 7,269 7,038 6,399 Operating Income(KRW million) 1,697,503 781,764 366,044 (1,000 tons CO2e) Scope II 878 945 894 31,913,863 31,158,528 Net Income(KRW million) 1,192,426 580,015 289,306 Scope III1) 25 24 23 Total Liabilities(KRW million) 7,977,747 7,120,050 6,565,330 Energy Use (TJ) Scope I 79,044 85,164 79,329 Total Stockholders’ Equity(KRW million) 5,226,354 5,371,991 5,349,605 Scope II 18,424 20,732 19,634 Dividend Per Share Common(KRW) 4,800 2,650 1,330 Scope III1) 348 341 322 Preferred(KRW) 4,825 2,675 1,355 Air Pollutant Emissions SOx 4,620 3,656 3,450 5.40 3,574 8,172 8,007 7,316 Return on Equity(%) 24.51 10.95 (Onsan Refinery) (tons) NOx 3,753 3,820 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio(%) 152.64 132.54 122.73 Dust 116 105 82 Total Amount of Purchases(KRW million) 554,153 424,800 521,289 Air Pollutant Discharge SOx (ppm) 180.0/77.5 180.0/60.2 180.0/60.1 Total Amount of Local Purchases(KRW million) 89,084 78,042 187,881 Density2) (Onsan Refinery) NOx (ppm) 150.0/79.5 150.0/76.9 150.0/78.4 Volume of Crude Oil Processed(1,000 barrels) 218,714 232,812 216,246 (Legal Limit/S-OIL) Dust (mg/Sm3) 30.0/3.8 30.0/2.9 30.0/2.8 2011 2012 2013 Production Fuel 188,128 197,720 185,143 Water Pollutant BOD 10.0/2.7 10.0/2.5 10.0/4.0 (1,000 barrels) Lube 14,234 13,125 10,904 Discharge Density3) (Onsan Refinery) COD 40.0/7.1 40.0/7.4 40.0/8.5 Sales (KRW million) Petrochemcial 21,252 25,467 23,582 (ppm) (Legal Limit/S-OIL) SS 10.0/2.8 10.0/2.5 10.0/2.6 Sales Fuel 195,491 205,274 198,802 Marine Oil Spills (Onsan Refinery) 0 0 0 31,158,528 (1,000 barrels) Lube Petrochemical 13,662 16,908 12,597 20,324 10,945 18,738 Water Use (Onsan Refinery) (1,000 tons) Water Reuse (Onsan Refinery) (1,000 tons) 21,451 1,683 20,775 1,928 20,248 1,775 2011 2012 2013 Wastewater Discharge (Onsan Refinery) (1,000 tons) 10,002 9,552 9,128 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Designated Waste (Onsan Refinery) (tons) 16,096 14,908 11,972 (1,000 tons CO2e) General Waste (Onsan Refinery) (tons) 15,380 14,161 14,692 Waste Recycled (Onsan Refinery) (tons) Environmental Investments (KRW million) 23,069 14,589 17,880 24,445 14,972 40,722 7,316 Society 2011 2012 2013 1) The current Scope III calculation includes only vehicle-based downstream transportation. 7,149 11,713 12,258 2) TMS Heater/Boiler, average annual rate Number of Employees Total 2,661 2,713 2,792 3) BOD data is based on the Company’s own water analysis, with TMS data used to measure COD and SS Executives 39 42 43 Regular Employees 2,491 2,523 2,613 Non-regular Employees 131 148 136 11,376 12,071 21,823 Number of New Employees 181 137 158 Number of Retirees 109 85 79 Safety 130 158 222 Percentage of Female Employees(%) 7.1 7.3 7.6 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of Disabled Employees(%) 1.8 1.9 1.8 Number of Injured Employees 0 2 2 Percentage of Outside Directors on the BOD(%) 54.5 54.5 54.5 Occupational Injury Rate of Employees* 0 0.12 0.10 Average Annual Training Hours per Administrative Employee 52 58 52 Occupational Injury Rate of Employees* at Partner Companies 0.04 0.19 0.19 Ratio of Education · Training Cost to Labor Cost(%) 1.4 1.7 1.4 Number of Lost Work Days 0 87 56 2011 2012 2013 Ratio of Fringe Benefits to Labor Cost(%) 62.5 51.4 38.3 Accidents Due to Regulation Violations 0 0 0 Labor Disputes 0 0 0 Safety Management Number of Trainees 11,376 12,071 21,823 Donations (KRW million) Donations (KRW million) 7,149 11,713 12,258 Training for Employees Number of Training Sessions 130 158 222 12,258 Employee Volunteer Hours Amount of Green Purchases (KRW million) 28,823 4,531 30,828 25,326 29,877 40,738 Safety Management Training for Partner Companies Number of Trainees Number of Training Sessions 14,424 336 7,910 313 18,413 342 2011 2012 2013 Trainees Training Sessions * Injury Rate = Number of Injured Employees X 200,000 / Total Working Hours Safety Management Training for Employees (Number of Trainees, Number of Training Sessions) 21,823/222 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 8 Key Sustainability Performance Results 9 Early on, S-OIL had made preemptive investments in upgrading facilities and its residue upgrading facilities today boast far greater excellence compared with those of its competitors. Production capacity of high value-added PX and lube base oil has also been expanded to the world’s highest level among single plants, allowing for a highly profitable performance. However, the business environment of the refining industry is undergoing drastic changes, ranging from aggressive facility expansion and facility upgrading by competitors at home and abroad to a huge upheaval in the energy and petrochemical industries caused by a shale gas revolution in North America, slowing the growth of global oil consumption amid protracted low growth in the global economy, and tightening environmental regulations. In order to achieve sustainable growth in such a volatile business environment with growing uncertainties, the Company needs to clarify its strategic direction and rework its strategy implementation framework to create greater results. Grand Vision : The Most Profitable and Integrated Energy Company As such, S-OIL set a “Grand Vision” in 2013 that it will become the most profitable and integrated energy company encompassing refining, lube, and petrochemical businesses with excellence in operation, quality, and customer partnership. To attain this vision, the Company is making constant efforts to maximize production value by improving facility competitiveness, expand its presence across the world and develop new growth engines such as high value-added petrochemicals that are built upon its core competences and R&D capabilities. Refining Grand Vision Lube Petrochemical S-OIL will be the most profitable and integrated energy company encompassing refining, lube, and petrochemical businesses with excellence in opera­tion, quality, and customer partnership. Upgrade of Strategic Framework Early on, S-OIL had made preemptive investments in upgrading 9 Corporate Initiatives and KPI System : Upgrade of facilities and its residue upgrading facilities today boast far greater Companywide Strategies and Implementation Framework excellence compared with those of its competitors. Production In order to realize the Company’s Grand Vision, S-OIL developed capacity of high value-added PX and lube base oil has also been nine Corporate Initiatives (CI) as midto long-term initiatives based expanded to the world’s highest level among single plants, allowon the results of an extensive analysis of its business environing for a highly profitable performance. ment. The nine CIs are essential tasks for the Company to achieve Upgrade of Strategic Framework However, the business environment of the refining industry is unwithin two to three years by concentrating all resources and capabilities of its management and employees, including the CEO. The dergoing drastic changes, ranging from aggressive facility expanIn order to achieve sustainable growth amid the fast-changing business environment, nine CIs are grouped into four categories: 1) strengthen the refinsion and facility upgrading by competitors at home and abroad to a S-OIL has clearly defined the strategic direction of its business management and ing business, the source of S-OIL’s competitiveness, and develop huge upheaval in the energy and petrochemical industries caused reorganized its framework to implement these strategies. new growth engines are based on it; 2) stabilize the consumer by a shale gas revolution in North America, slowing the growth of base both at home and abroad by strengthening customer loyalty; global oil consumption amid protracted low growth in the global 3) secure industry-leading efficiency in facilities operation and proeconomy, and tightening environmental regulations. In order to duction cost competitiveness; and 4) upgrade management infraachieve sustainable growth in such a volatile business environment structure to a performance-based one. with growing uncertainties, the Company needs to clarify its strategic direction and rework its strategy implementation framework Any top system or strategy will remain only an empty slogan if it is to create greater results. not properly put into action. As a result, S-OIL has revised its Key Performance Indicators (KPI) as a practical means of implementation. Grand Vision : The Most Profitable and The nine CIs were specifically allocated to the Integrated Energy Company KPIs of all officers, and their accomplishAs such, S-OIL set a “Grand Vision” ments on KPIs will be monitored on a in 2013 that it will become the regular basis. If necessary, catch-up most profitable and integrated plans will be established. As such, energy company encompassing the Company has revamped the refining, lube, and petrochemientire process of strategy implecal businesses with excellence mentation, from setting stratein operation, quality, and cusgies to implementation, monitortomer partnership. To attain this ing and further to evaluation and vision, the Company is making compensation. constant efforts to maximize production value by improving facility competitiveness, expand its presence across the world and develop new growth engines such as high value-added petrochemicals that are built upon its core competences and R&D capabilities. Refining Grand Vision Lube Petrochemical S-OIL will be the most profitable and integrated energy company encompassing refining, lube, and petrochemical businesses with excellence in opera­tion, quality, and customer partnership. Upgrade of Strategic Framework SPECIAL REPORT 1 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 10 section 13 11 Work Sites Prioritizing Safety At S-OIL, every employee participates in the Company’s Safety and Health Management System to prevent industrial disasters and create a pleasant work environment. While setting clear goals aimed at enhancing their safety and health, associated organizations, duties, and procedures are articulated to efficiently distribute and manage the Company’s physical and human resources. By continuously improving upon this system, S-OIL is playing a leading role as a responsible corporate citizen in promoting a culture of safety and establishing an accident/disease free working environment that improves the health of its workers. Top management’s commitment to safety control is imperative to enhancing the safety culture within the organization. As part of S-OIL’s practical activities to promote safety culture, all meetings in the Operations begin with a safety talk. In addition, bi-weekly meetings attended by the CEO and executive officers begin with presentations on safety tips, followed by a lively discussion on the subject to reaffirm top management’s commitment to safety management. Chief Safety Council & Subcommittees At S-OIL, safety is of paramount importance in all business activities. Thus, S-OIL’s top management sends a clear and consistent message to the entire workforce concerning the promotion of safety culture. In 2013, the Chief Safety Council (CSC), which is chaired by the CEO, was created to set long-term safety management goals and reflect safety issues in major business policies. The CSC spearheads three subcommittees—a Safety Steering Committee (SSC), Incident Investigation Review Committee (IIRC) and Safety Audit Committee (SAC)—to support its activities and encourage all members under the Operations to further build upon their commitment to safety. Declaration of Safety Golden Rules on Oct. 1 With the aim of becoming one of the world’s top safety leaders, SOIL has in place numerous safety protocols and procedures. A safe workplace can only be realized when every safety regulation and procedure is strictly adhered to. Keenly aware of this, S-OIL has singled out the eight most important negligence factors which can lead to severe consequences. The Company then proclaimed Safety Golden Rules to prevent such violations, reiterating its commitment to top safety practices. Safety & Health Education S-OIL is engaged in continuous training activities with the belief that safety-conscious workers constitute a safe work site. For a more effective training, the Company offers online training courses to all employees through the SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) system, as well as safety and health courses provided by specialized external training institutions. Additionally, the Company developed and then implemented turnaround (T/A) curriculum which is tailored to the job functions of specific employees and offers special safety training courses for each type of high-risk job in which Leading a Good Safety Culture, S-OIL Work Sites Prioritizing Safety potential risk needs to be prevented. Furthermore, S-OIL has proAt S-OIL, every employee participates in the Company’s Safety and duced and distributed special safety training video clips focusing Health Management System to prevent industrial disasters and create on major high-risk jobs as a reference material for employees of a pleasant work environment. While setting clear goals aimed at enthe Company and partner companies. hancing their safety and health, associated organizations, duties, and procedures are articulated to efficiently distribute and manage the Prevention of Oil Spills Leading a Good Safety Company’s physical and human resources. By continuously improving upon this system, S-OIL is playing a leading role as a responsible corOil spill incidents and the resultant marine pollution not only have an environmental impact but also lead to tremendous economic losses, Culture, S-OIL porate citizen in promoting a culture of safety and establishing an accirequiring a great deal of time and effort to clean up. Thus, the prevendent/disease free working environment that improves the health of its tion of oil spills is crucial. As part of its preemptive measures to adworkers. Top management’s commitment to safety control is imperadress this issue, S-OIL has adopted a vetting system which bans any Putting safety at the top of the priority list in its operations, tive to enhancing the safety culture within the organization. As part vessels that fail to meet the Company’s strict safety requirements by of S-OIL’s practical activities to promote safety culture, all meetings in S-OIL is establishing a ‘safety-first’ culture at the workplace through calculating all the risk factors associated with a vessel. Furthermore, counseling and continued education. the Operations begin with a safety talk. In addition, bi-weekly meetS-OIL has mandated that all oil tankers be double hulls (a tanker that ings attended by the CEO and executive officers begin with presentahas a double-layered hull plate surrounding the cargo tank) to minitions on safety tips, followed by a lively discussion on the subject to mize the risk of any oil leakage should there be a vessel accident. In reaffirm top management’s commitment to safety management. fact, S-OIL implemented this requirement well ahead of the Korean government’s enactment of the related law. It also makes use of Chief Safety Council & Subcommittees tugboats for smaller tankers, and became the first Korean refiner to At S-OIL, safety is of paramount importance in all business activities. Thus, adopt a protection system (radar, current measurement, and mooring S-OIL’s top management sends a clear and consistent tension measurement system) in single buoy moormessage to the entire workforce concerning the ing (SPM), which is an onshore mooring piece promotion of safety culture. In 2013, the of equipment for VLCCs, to prevent largeChief Safety Council (CSC), which is scale marine pollution accidents. chaired by the CEO, was created to In addition, S-OIL holds annual set long-term safety management safety workshops for ship owners goals and reflect safety issues and shippers, offering training in major business policies. The and discussion sessions on the CSC spearheads three subCompany’s safety management committees—a Safety Steering policies as well as any develCommittee (SSC), Incident Inopments in the government’s vestigation Review Committee maritime safety policies. This has (IIRC) and Safety Audit Commitallowed the Company to establish tee (SAC)—to support its activities a win-win system based on mutual and encourage all members under understanding concerning the importhe Operations to further build upon tance of safety management and mututheir commitment to safety. al trust. Oil spill drills are another example of S-OIL’s commitment to oil spill prevention. Declaration of Safety Golden Rules on Oct. 1 Aimed at enhancing its emergency response capabiliWith the aim of becoming one of the world’s top safety leaders, Sties, these drills are based on the company-wide anti-marine pollution OIL has in place numerous safety protocols and procedures. A safe response procedure which was originally established on the advice of workplace can only be realized when every safety regulation and prospecialists in the field. In the unlikely event of an emergency, S-OIL cedure is strictly adhered to. Keenly aware of this, S-OIL has singled also has a collaboration network in place with all related organizations out the eight most important negligence factors which can lead to nearby, including the Korea Coast Guard, Korea Marine Environment severe consequences. The Company then proclaimed Safety Golden Management Corporation and refiners (SK Energy and KNOC), to enRules to prevent such violations, reiterating its commitment to top sure swift recovery measures. safety practices. In April 2014, S-OIL ran a company-wide drill simulating the response Safety & Health Education to an oil spill accident. The objective of the drill was to conduct effecS-OIL is engaged in continuous training activities with the belief tive recovery of an oil spill and subsequent pollution based on close that safety-conscious workers constitute a safe work site. For a communication between the Head Office and the Refinery. This drill more effective training, the Company offers online training courses was extremely beneficial in that it helped employees internalize their to all employees through the SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) roles and responsibilities in responding to an emergency situation. system, as well as safety and health courses provided by specialized external training institutions. Additionally, the Company developed and then implemented turnaround (T/A) curriculum which is tailored to the job functions of specific employees and offers special safety training courses for each type of high-risk job in which Leading a Good Safety Culture, S-OIL SPECIAL REPORT 2 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 12 14 section 13 17 Company-wide Consensus on Compliance Management Although a relative latecomer to the refining industry, S-OIL has continually been expanding its market power with high-quality products. Legal compliance with occupational safety & health, environmental protection and fair trade are also integral to achieve sustainable growth and earn the trust and support of all stakeholders, including customers and shareholders. As a company that is clearly aware of legal compliance, everyone at S-OIL agrees that legal compliance should be firmly established within its corporate culture. CEO’s Message (Jan. 23, 2013) “I firmly believe that a legal compliance system is a key part to the sustainability and transparency of the Company’s business activities…The Legal Compliance Officer I appoint from among our employees will have an excellent understanding of our business operations to ensure the legal compliance system is operated in line with the Company’s business plans and directions. Ultimately, this will allow us to achieve both sustainable and profitable growth, as well as transparent compliance management.” Legal Compliance System On January1, 2014, S-OIL officially launched a Legal Compliance System (LCS) after a two years of preparation. Based on extensive interviews with officers and employees at the Head Office, the Onsan Refinery, District Biz. HQs, sales offices and terminals, the Company developed a profile on all related laws and regulations, checklist for self-checks, guidelines describing key regulations in detail, and a monitoring module on laws and regulations that are to be enacted or revised. The LCS includes five key activities that encompass prevention, detection and response measures to ensure seamless cooperation at every stage. Further to that, the system helps all employees practice legal compliance through self-checks in their fulfillment of day-to-day duties. Five Key Activities Regulation Information Education & Training Management (Compliance Self-Checks (Institution & Education) Revision) Communication Monitoring & (Compliance Culture) Reporting Beyond Legal Compliance in Corporate Culture Company-wide Consensus on Compliance Management Enforcement of Legal Compliance Management Regulations Although a relative latecomer to the refining industry, S-OIL has conAs of January 1, 2014, S-OIL put into force Legal Compliance Managetinually been expanding its market power with high-quality products. ment Regulations as guidelines for company-wide legal compliance in Legal compliance with occupational safety & health, environmenaccordance with Paragraph 13, Article 542 of the Korean Commercial tal protection and fair trade are also integral to achieve sustainable Act. The regulation is aimed to ensure fair and transparent work and growth and earn the trust and support of all stakeholders, including business activities in compliance with all related laws conducive to Beyond Legal Compliance in customers and shareholders. As a company that is clearly aware of delivering growth and earning customer trust. legal compliance, everyone at S-OIL agrees that legal compliance Corporate Culture should be firmly established within its corporate culture. Message from the Head of the Legal & Compliance “We will be able to steer clear of any significant legal, social and Legal compliance has always been an integral part of business activitiesCEO’s at S-OIL. Message (Jan. 23, 2013) economic risks or impact on the Company or its employees when we The Company has established a concrete legal compliance system to make sure that that a legal compliance system is a key part to “I firmly believe faithfully abide by the Legal Compliance Management Regulations compliance is fully embedded in the corporate culture. the sustainability and transparency of the Company’s business and internalize the Legal Compliance System (LCS). This will also activities…The Legal Compliance Officer I appoint from among facilitate our efforts to coordinate the legitimate interests of the Comour employees will have an excellent understanding of our busipany’s customers, suppliers, shareholders and others.” ness operations to ensure the legal compliance system is operated in line with the Company’s business plans and directions. Ultimately, this will allow us to achieve both sustainable and profitCompliance Officer & Legal Compliance Team able growth, as well as transparent compliance In November 2013, S-OIL appointed a Compmanagement.” liance Officer who is responsible for LCS operations. The following month, a dedicated team was launched to Legal Compliance System support the Compliance Officer’s On January1, 2014, S-OIL offilegal compliance activities. The cially launched a Legal Compliup-and-running LCS organization ance System (LCS) after a two has allowed for the practical years of preparation. Based support for all Company memon extensive interviews with bers to check legal risks in their officers and employees at the activities. The main duty of the Head Office, the Onsan RefinCompliance Officer is to estabery, District Biz. HQs, sales oflish the LCS and all compliance fices and terminals, the Company management practices within the developed a profile on all related laws corporate culture. and regulations, checklist for self-checks, guidelines describing key regulations in detail, Compliance Management Practices in and a monitoring module on laws and regulations that are to be Corporate Culture enacted or revised. The LCS includes five key activities that enWhile establishing the compliance infrastructure throughout the Comcompass prevention, detection and response measures to ensure pany, including relevant regulations and a compliance-dedicated team, seamless cooperation at every stage. Further to that, the system S-OIL understood that the organizational consensus on compliance helps all employees practice legal compliance through self-checks management was integral to establishing compliance management in their fulfillment of day-to-day duties. practices within the corporate culture. To that end, the Company has given the entire workforce LCS training to raise their awareness of Five Key Activities compliance management and to help them utilize the LCS with selfRegulation check mechanisms. Customized training courses are also being develInformation Education & Training (Compliance Self-Checks oped to address different needs by job functions and positions. Going Management (Institution & Education) forward, S-OIL will make every effort to develop more systematic Revision) compliance training programs in order to fully embed legal compliance within its corporate culture. Communication Monitoring & (Compliance Culture) Reporting Beyond Legal Compliance in Corporate Culture SPECIAL REPORT 3 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 18 14 section 21 15 Achieve Operational Excellence Voice of Stakeholders Cost reduction through higher efficiency is essential to creating sustainable profit in a deteriorating business environment. What does S-OIL do to improve energy efficiency? Environmental Investments Fines Imposed for Violation of Annual Saving on Energy Expenses Bong-Soo Park, Executive Vice President, Head of Operations Environmental Regulations Operational excellence is one of the most critical management activities, as it is directly linked to KRW 40.7 billion 0 KRW 70 billion the creation of constant profit and ensuing reinforcement of competitiveness. S-OIL makes every effort to optimize the production process so as to maximize profitability and Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 competitiveness. To that end, we carry out R&D activities to generate additional profits, apply IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 innovative ideas to production lines, and constantly work on facilities improvement. the S-OIL) Environmental Management Environmentally-Friendly Overall Principles and Systems Management System (Within the S-OIL) Local Communities, Employees In 2013, S-OIL generated an additional profitability of KRW 120 billion by creating added value. In particular, 38 energy conservation projects contributed to a 2.5 percent improvement in energy efficiency and KRW 70 billion in cost savings. Environmental Management Compliance with Practices for the Benefit of Compliance Local Communities, Environmental Regulations Society (Within the S-OIL) Employees, Government Going forward, S-OIL will continue to hone its competitiveness through consistent and innovative activities for profit generation and energy efficiency improvement. Local Communities, Efforts to Enhance Energy Efforts to Enhance Energy Energy Employees, Government, Efficiency Efficiency (Within the S-OIL) Partner Companies Emission (Within the S-OIL) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 22 Achieve Operational Excellence 23 1.1 Why Is This Important? Today’s highly advanced technologies have enlarged business environment, and constantly develops and improves its Environmental Management System Environmental Performance Evaluation Results* (Unit : scores) accelerate its efforts with its green management practices. tion. While allowing real-time monitoring of the Company’s environmental impact, the Integrated (EMS). With the introduction of the ISO 14031, the Monitoring System facilitates a prompt response Environmentallythe size of production facilities significantly. The enCompany’s EMS has successfully taken root within Environmental Accounting (EA) System For a upon detection of any abnormal signs, proof of SFriendly vironmental impact of operating these facilities has the organization, which is also publishing annual 116.3 128.8 134.4 more systematic analysis and operation of enviOIL’s strong commitment to environmental preserManagement increased in proportion to their growing size. When SHE (safety, health, and environment) report and ronmental investments in line with its environvation. coupled with diverse external/internal factors, a sustainability report. The Company is now further mental management system, S-OIL has develslight mistake can lead to environmental incidents, developing its EMS and has recently implemented oped its own Environmental Accounting (EA) Education to Enhance the Environmental impeding upon the sustainable growth of a coman independent Environmental Accounting (EA) syssystem under guidelines provided by the Korean Awareness pany. tem. In 2013, its terminals in Incheon, Yeongcheon Ministry of Environment. The 2013 environmenS-OIL provides annual environmental training to all To prevent environment-related incidents from ocand Gunsan obtained the ISO 14001 certificate, tal accounting results show that the Company’s its officers and employees and those of its partner curring, S-Oil has established an environmental completing full and comprehensive EMS control environmentally-friendly management resulted in companies. In addition to the legally mandated trainmanagement system that can efficiently manage over the Company’s entire production process. a decrease in its environmental cost, from KRW ing programs for environmental technicians, it also the environmental impact of its business activities. 178 billion in 2012 to KRW 164.5 billion in 2013, encourages employees to attend diverse technology 2011 2012 2013 As its entire value chain—from handling feedstock Working-level Environmental · Safety Council S-OIL while environment · energy investments surged seminars and holds its own seminars on environ*Evaluations based on 2010 Performance and production to transportation and distribution has clarified the roles and responsibilities of enviResults (2010 : 100 points) from KRW 24.4 billion in 2012 to KRW 40.7 billion mental technologies to help enhance their capabiliof its products—is highly exposed to various environmental · safety activities to enhance efficiency in 2013. The Company will continue to keep track ties and have them better respond to external and ronmental risks, the Company makes every effort in company-wide SHE operations. Working-level of its environmental management performance. internal environmental issues. In particular, SHE to minimize its environmental impact and pollutEnvironmental · Safety Council, which consists of training management system is in place to update ant discharge from all its operational procedures. environmental · safety officers from the Head OfEnvironmental Accounting Results (Unit : KRW million) training results and training materials. S-OIL EnviAdditionally, S-OIL has in place an environmental fice and the Onsan Refinery, allows for a companyronmental Management Handbook, which is the enCategory 2013 Remarks performance assessment system that adheres to all wide integrated response and approach to any environmental training materials covering updates on Environmental 164,535 Post-treatment facilities, ISO 14031 criteria, and an environmental accounting vironmental · safety issue. The Council reviews and environmental management and policies published Costs Operating costs system for the transparent and accountable mandeliberates various environmental issues that can and distributed to partner companies, has signifiEnvironmental 133,087 Energy savings, agement of its environmental activities and investarise at each stage of the value chain, from producBenefits Sales of by-products cantly contributed to advancing the Company’s enviments. tion, distribution · logistics and sales to marketing Environmental 40,722 Investments in environmental & ronmental training system. The monthly newsletters and purchasing, based on which it sets relevant polInvestments Energy-related facilities is another means in which officers and employees Our Commitment icy directions. Its main functions are to proactively can have access to information on the environ• Environmental Management System (EMS) put the Company’s commitment to environmental Key Environmental Investment Results (Unit : KRW million) ment. Furthermore, all managerial-level employees • Education to enhance the environmental · safety management into action at each and every in Onsan Refinery are required to take collective Category 2011 2012 2013 awareness of its business sites. More importantly, the Council environmental training sessions for more effective Air · Odor · VOC* 2,556 9,491 5,565 speaks for the Company in the Korean governenvironmental training. Water Quality 1,464 6,288 3,559 ment’s policy-making procedures. Environmental Monitoring System Our Response Energy Savings · Technical Support 10,254 8,654 31,239 Soil · Others 315 12 359 Environmental Management System Environmental Performance Evaluation System Measure Description Total 14,589 24,445 40,722 S-Oil puts preemptive green management prac(ISO 14031) S-Oil established a standard EnviOn-Site Measurement Regular on-site measurement and * VOC : Volatile Organic Compounds tices at the top of its environmental policy list. As ronmental Performance Evaluation (EPE) system analysis it continues to innovate its processes and environTMS Real-time measurement and under ISO 14031 guidelines in order to objectively ment-related facilities, the Company also adopts Integrated Monitoring System As part of its premonitoring of concentration of assess its environmental investments and activities, air · water pollutant emissions new techniques to produce eco-friendly products emptive green management practices, S-OIL mobiand to reflect assessment results in subsequent SHE System Oversees the company-wide on a continual basis. In fact, it has been introducing lizes diverse monitoring systems to ensure the least environmental management plans. EPE refers to environmental management program desulfurization and denitrification facilities, cuttingpossible impact on the environment. procedures that range from listing environmental LDAR* Monitoring fugitive emission sources edge wastewater treatment facilities, and precipitaindicators and regularly collecting and analyzing Established in 2012, S-OIL’s integrated monitoring Odor Monitoring System Continuous automatic odor tion facilities for years. environmental data to reviewing and improving system combines an atmosphere · water qualmeasurement · control system Integrated Monitoring TMS and odor real-time monitoring In 1996, S-OIL acquired the ISO 14001 (certification environmental performance to reflect all results in ity Tele-Metering System (TMS) with odor data, System for Environmental Management Systems) on all its future decision-making by top management and enabling real-time monitoring without access to a * LDAR : Leak Detection and Repair production processes for fuel oil, lube base oil, and stakeholders. In 2013, the Company posted tangible separate computing system. The dual monitoring petrochemical products. Since then, the certificate results with increased environmental/energy investsystem concurrently displays all related data on the has been renewed five times. S-OIL practices highments, reduced emissions of air and water pollutCompany’s air/water quality and odor, management level environmental management through regular ants, and less Toxic Release Inventory (TRI) and waand environmental issues, as well as the Company’s reviews in accordance with the Company’s unique ter consumption. Moving forward, S-OIL will further PR video clips and business-related video informaS-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 24 Achieve Operational Excellence 25 1.2 Why Is This Important? As the Korean government heightens its regulations Responses to Changes in Environmental Regulations Hydrofluoric acid leaks at Gumi and other incidents protect the environment and maintain close ties with them. In recognition of its consistent commitment change and reduce GHG emissions. S-OIL is now working to enhance its competitiveness through efwhere toxic substances were leaked sent an alarmto preserving the environment of local communities fective management of energy use, while fulfilling its Environmental and penalties on environmental issues in tandem ing sign, prompting the Korean Ministry of Environthrough monthly clean-up campaigns at the Daeuncorporate social responsibilities in addressing climate Management with growing social concerns over environmental ment to proclaim revised Toxic Chemicals Control Act cheon Stream in Ulsan since 2003, the Ulsan municichange issues. that Reaches responsibilities of companies, environmental manwith stricter standards on toxic chemical controls and pal government singled out S-OIL as the outstanding Communities agement has become an integral part of business penalties to prevent recurrence of such incidents. performer of the “2013 One-Company, One-Stream Our Commitment activities. S-OIL maintains all its environmental faciliThe Ministry also plans on strengthening environClean-up Campaign.” ties at the highest level of reliability and implements • Target  at reducing energy use by an annual mental regulations on toxic chemical substances and various measures to achieve the targets that it has average of 1.5 percent Voluntary Agreement air pollutant emissions. In proactive response to the Addressing Environmental Complaints Upon recepvoluntarily set for reduction on its pollutant discharge. • Diverse efforts to enhance energy efficiency pending revision, S-OIL is preparing appropriate countion of any complaints on environmental issues reVoluntary agreement to Additionally, the Company continuously enhances its termeasures and working hard to enhance its environlated to our Ulsan refinery, S-OIL promptly deals with conduct soil ontamination environmental management practices through facility Our Response tests and restoration mental management practices by improving facilities issues at site. All questions and inquiries made to the activities innovation and stricter regulations, while proactively and heightening controls. Head Office regarding the Company’s environmental Energy Conservation Target In an effort to achieve its (2003-2023) responding to enactments and revisions of environpolicies or practices are answered by e-mail or by vision of becoming the most profitable and integrated mental regulations. S-OIL is making every effort to Conducting voluntary soil Voluntary Environmental Management Agreement phone. While adopting an odor monitoring system energy company, S-OIL has strived to reduce energy contamination tests and soil adhere to environmental management as it maintains (VA) S-OIL is an ardent proponent of the Korean govfor the systematic control of odors—a frequent subuse in all ways. With the clear goal of reducing energy clean-up activities every three diverse communication channels with stakeholders to years or less ernment’s environmental policies. As part of its strong ject of complaints at our refineries and plants—the use by an annual average of 1.5 percent, the Commake sure their thoughts do not go unheard. commitment to environmental preservation, S-OIL Company provides objective data to claimants and pany is enhancing energy use practices and making has signed a number of Voluntary Agreements (VA) takes appropriate measures in consideration of the investments to achieve the highest energy efficiency Voluntary green Our Commitment in the Asia-Pacific region. purchasing agreement in relation to s-oil pollution prevention, air pollutant wind direction and weather conditions to effectively (2005~2016) • Compliance with environmental regulations reduction, green purchases and other environmental contain the sources of odor. When it is required for • Voluntary Environmental Management initiatives. By renewing its voluntary agreement on environmental management practices, related stakeEnergy Efficiency Enhancement and Energy Cost Promoting the production, distribution and purchase of Agreement air pollutant reduction (which expired in 2012), the holders are invited to visit the site in person, which Conservation Plans S-OIL has set an energy consergreen products • Internal/External communication to reinforce Company reaffirmed its steadfast commitment to enalso serves as an opportunity to communicate with vation target for efficient energy use and has adopted environmental management vironmental policies in Ulsan, which was designated people on its outstanding environmental managea system that allows real-time monitoring and analysis • Addressing environmental complaints by the Korean government as a special air pollutant ment practices. of energy use and production process company-wide Second voluntary control zone. In 2013, it renewed the existing VolunIn 2013, more than 38 energy-saving projects were 1.3 agreement on air pollutant controls Our Response tary Agreement on soil environment preservation Why Is This Important? completed during the comprehensive turnaround (T/A) (2012~2016) which expired that same year and added VA on reducperiod, improving energy efficiency by more than 2.5 Compliance with Environmental Regulations At The entire process of refining crude oil and producing ing chemical substance (benzene) emissions, systempercent or KRW 70 billion in annual energy costs. S-OIL, the SHE Integrated Management Policy puts petroleum products out of it consumes a great deal Reducing the total emissions of air pollutants such as dust, forward “Preemptive Green Management” as its atically carrying out voluntary soil pollution tests and Enhancing Energy In 2014, the Company is continuing its efforts to realof energy sources, including fuel oil, fuel gas, electricSO2, NOx, and VOC by 16 environmental management guidelines in preemptive clean-up activities as well as reducing its discharge of Efficiency to Mitigate ity and steam, which are all counted in the cost of ize the highest energy efficiency in the Asia-Pacific repercent compared to the base year (2008) response to environmental regulations. All facilities at chemical substances. Climate Change production. Today, competition has intensified in pegion by consulting with an external specialized agency S-OIL adopt these optimal preventive systems right troleum product markets of gasoline and diesel. As a and adopting the advanced technologies of leading from the construction stage. Furthermore, the ComInternal and External Communication S-OIL applies global refiners. In order to ensure that the entire result, efficient management of energy costs, which Voluntary agreement on stricter standards on its environmental management the reduction of chemical pany applies stricter environmental standards beyond account for 70 percent of the cost of production, has workforce is in synch with this energy conservation substance emissions legal requirements in order to minimize environmenactivities and maintains continuous communication initiative, the Company motivates employees to parbecome the premise to competitiveness in the global (2013~2017) tal impact of its business activities. In particular, a volwith diverse external stakeholder groups, such as ticipate in the company-wide energy saving campaign market. untary environmental management system has taken the government, mass media, and academia. At the with energy conservation incentives. Furthermore, Reducing the total emissions of benzene by 31 percent same time, it keeps abreast of industrial and global In fact, the growth in the production of shale gas in root in the corporate culture, with daily inspections its Onsan Refinery has been reusing the waste heat compared to the base year North America lowered energy costs for local refinand swift measures to improve or review inadequatrends and the latest developments related to dofrom nearby LS-Nikko Copper since 2008 to produce (2009) mestic environmental laws and regulations in order ers. In meeting the ever-competitive global market, cies. As a result, S-OIL steered clear of any environlow-cost steam, more than 40 tons per hour, saving to keep its environmental management system up to where the Middle East and Chinese competitors mental violations in 2013. In the future, the Company KRW 12 billion in energy costs annually. Buoyed by Agreement on date. Additionally, the Company improves its environare growing with high-efficiency plants equipped will build on its improvements and investments in this accomplishment, the Company plans to adopt participating in a joint with state-of-the-art technologies, low-cost and highenvironmental management and operate the highest mental management practices by sharing information more low-cost steam initiatives from Korea Zinc. Korean Auto-Oil Program on environmental management with local residents quality products are critical to ensure a competitive (2011~2015) quality discharge facilities. Through these efforts, the Going forward, S-OIL will do its best to optimize its and related organizations, and by reflecting their feededge over competitors. Furthermore, the Greenhouse Participating in joint research Company will continue to meet community expectaenergy efficiency and spread its energy optimization back on its environmental management practices. Gas (GHG) emissions trading scheme takes effect as projects with the government, tions by further strengthening its environmental manefforts to neighboring companies and local communiautomakers, and fuel suppliS-OIL also participates in environmental prevention of 2015 in Korea, which is part of the government’s ers to reduce air pollution and agement standards. ties, contributing to the national GHG reduction drive. GHG emissions activities organized by local communities in a bid to commitment to global endeavors to mitigate climate S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 26 Achieve Operational Excellence 27 Enhance Customer-Centric Voice of Stakeholders Management What kind of strategies does S-OIL implement to enhance its brand value? S-OIL needs to raise its top-of-mind awareness, thereby branding S-OIL as customers’ first choice in service stations. Domestic Market Share for Retail Top of Mind Awareness in Ad No. of Bonus Card Members Yul Ryu, Executive Vice President, Head of Marketing & Sales Light Oil Products As a pioneer in upgrading the quality of petroleum products, S-OIL maximizes customer value by 20.4 64.4 6.8 million providing the highest quality products at economic prices. % % In a bid to improve customer accessibility to S-OIL’s services, we are continuously expanding our national network of service stations, while also using the GOODOIL character as an integrated means for marketing communication with customers. S-OIL made strategic use of the GOODOIL character in approaching customers with more familiarity, earning heartfelt support from customers. Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 the S-OIL) As a result, the Company saw record-high performance results in 2013, capturing a 20.4 percent share of the domestic market in the sale of retail light oil products and becoming the first Korean Efforts to Maximize Customer Efforts to Maximize Customer Customer Relationship Utility Utility (Within the S-OIL) Customer, Government refiner to win the Presidential Prize at the Korea Brand Awards that same year. Although firmly rooted in the domestic market, S-OIL’s leading brand image has become widely Activities to Enhance Brand Brand Management Value Enhancing Brand Value (Within the S-OIL) Customer recognized around the world. In fact, the Company now exports more than 60 percent of its products to 30 overseas markets. Through diverse activities to establish firm relationships with customers, S-Oil has continued raising its brand recognition and become a reliable partner to them. In the future, S-OIL will do its utmost to realize the highest customer satisfaction as it raises its brand value from the customer’s perspective. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 28 Enhance Customer-Centric Management 29 2.1 Why Is This Important? Customer-centric management is essentially about Corresponding to Government Policy on Oil Price Stabilization Committed to stabilizing oil prices, the Korean government is taking various measures to reQuality Control for the Highest Customer Satisfaction The Trustworthy Service Station Program In reabundant experience in maintaining quality control, providing dealers with feedback and detailed information on the problem-solving process. Since 2012, The Highest Quality maximizing customer value by timely satisfying cusvamp the domestic oil distribution structure. These inisponse to rising customer concerns over quality conS-OIL has been operating a Quality Inspection Team Products and tomer expectations based on a clear understanding tiatives include expanding a national network of Thrift trol, S-OIL runs a Trustworthy Service Station program and has increased the number of quality inspections Customer Services of their needs. In today’s oversupplied markets, cusService Stations, promoting e-commerce for trading to meet customer needs for safe and reliable prodat all service stations, conducting them to the highest tomers apply higher standards to the products and petroleum products, and allowing brand service staucts, which in turn enhances customers’ trust in the level in the industry. It has also introduced gasoline services they choose. Consequently, meeting these tions to sell competitors’ products. As of the end of Company’s product brands. Based on agreements and diesel labeling in order to make it easier to detect expectations has become the primary mission of all 2013, 881 Thrift Service Stations, or 8 percent of all with Trustworthy Service Stations, S-OIL guarantees adulterated oil products and begun quality inspection businesses to maximize customer utility. At S-OIL, Service Stations nationwide, were in operation, with the quality of all products sold at these service statests at LPG filling stations. Results from these inwe make every possible effort to provide differentiattaxes and trading regulations reconfigured as of July tions. In fact, the Company takes full responsibility spections are announced on the spot, enhancing the ed, high-quality products at reasonable prices so as to 2013 to invigorate the participation of oil refiners in efor any damage or loss to customer property due to speed and reliability of the inspections. ensure the greatest customer utility of our products. commerce. To support mixed brand offerings at brand defects in its products, offering very fair compensaIn addition to these quality control systems, S-OIL service stations, the government organized a council tion in these cases. Since the second half of 2011, Our Commitment plans on monitoring all on-the-spot operational informato oversee this initiative and received applications for S-OIL has signed Trustworthy Service Station agreetion and inventories of service stations from 2014. This • F  air prices mixed brand selling by service stations across the ment with only qualified service stations that pass will facilitate timely countermeasures against alleged • Corresponding to government policies nation. In proactive response to these government its rigorous quality inspection as part of an effort to attempts to sell adulterated oil products by immedion oil price stabilization policies, S-OIL won the business rights to supply its satisfy growing customer needs’ on quality. Since ately running quality tests at alleged stations. Any de• Consistent quality control system products to Thrift Service Stations in certain regions 2012, the Company has been regularly checking up tection of such an attempt is not tolerated and swiftly in 2013, offering the Company’s high-quality products on signatory service stations’ quality control pracaddressed. Furthermore, the Company has developed Our Response to end users at fair prices. Moreover, the Company tices, and immediately terminates its agreement with key performance indicators to track detection records Product Prices Maximizing Consumer Utility encouraged e-commerce in oil trading and completed those that fail to meet the Company’s high standards. of adulterated oil products, and reflect these results in Fair Prices S-OIL always remains steadfast to its fair a review and revisions on contracts related to mixed Through systematic management and support, S-OIL performance evaluations of sales offices, which ultipricing policy. S-OIL’s pricing system for domestic oil brand sales at service stations. is continuously working hard to expand its network of mately heightens our quality control activities. products accounts for all variables, such as internaTrustworthy Service Stations. S-OIL will continue to provide quality products at fair tional oil prices, foreign exchange rate fluctuations, prices and faithfully observe government policies, internal supply conditions, domestic market trends Heightened Quality Control S-OIL’s Quality Managethereby bringing customer utility to the highest level and other objective data, all of which guarantee comment System ensures that service stations facilities possible. petitive prices. From its years of experience in the have been thoroughly inspected so as to guarantee international oil business, S-OIL has learned that a quality control. Quality managers promptly respond consistent pricing policy at a fair and competitive level to customer complaints concerning product quality that customers can agree with plays a pivotal role in and make full use of their extensive knowledge and the Company’s long-term growth. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 30 Enhance Customer-Centric Management 31 2.2 Why Is This Important? In order to secure customer loyalty in today’s extravel in an effort to bring about a more positive image of the Company. Two S-OIL TV spots were among Top of Mind Awareness: S-OIL vs. Other Korean Refiners (Unit : %) public about the importance of environmental protection with quizzes on endangered species. This public Events·Promotions for Greater Customer Satisfaction the highest ranked TV advertisements according to service advertisement campaign has been well reSports Marketing S-OIL is building a high-end brand Creating the Best tremely competitive business world, companies are an online TV evaluation carried out between June and ceived to date by consumers, and won the Excellent image that is both dynamic and familiar through sevBrand Value with engaged in a wide range of marketing activities aimed August 2013. Additionally, S-OIL was the overwhelm57.2 58.8 64.4 Advertisement Prize at the Consumer Choice Advereral sports event sponsorships as we continue to Customers at establishing their own brand value, and one that is ing winner in the Top of Mind (TOM) survey on the tisement Awards after consumers and consumerhelp promote sports in Korea. Since 2007, we have unique from the competition. High brand value tends refining industry. As we move forward in the future, related civic groups alike weighed in with their votes. been hosting the annual KLPGA Tour S-OIL Champito improve customer acceptability of corporate marwe will continue to make full use of the GOODOIL In the future, S-OIL will continue to build upon its imons Invitational and sponsoring several professional keting campaigns while helping secure a customer character in all of our brand and consumer marketing age as a sincerely compassionate company that comgolfers. The Company also invites customers to its base with a high level of brand loyalty. The resultant campaigns and advertisements. 11.5 10.9 7.1 municates with the public through highly creative and Pro-am Golf Tournaments and other sports events, reprice premium leads to increased profits and larger unique advertising initiatives. alizing higher customer satisfaction with its premium market share. This then forms higher entry barriers services. As S-OIL continues to expand its sports against competitors and eventually contributes to New Marketing Idea Contest for Prospective Custommarketing, it will further raise its brand recognition higher corporate value. Aware of such benefits, S-OIL 2011 2012 2013 ers As a means of communicating with university among customers and potential customers. makes use of diverse marketing channels to commustudents, who represent potential customers in the nicate with customers. This includes advertisements, S-OIL future, S-OIL held its 4th marketing idea contest, the GOODOIL Giveaway To further enhance customer promotions and credit card marketing initiatives to Other domestic refiners’ average 2014 S-OIL Brand Awards, for three months from Nosatisfaction through premium benefits, S-OIL held build upon its brand value and realize higher customer Ad Tracking Survey Results by Korea vember 2013. The contest invited university students a giveaway event at its service stations on July 15value. Research to submit strategic ideas for practical sales increases 31, 2013. During the event, 800,000 customers took in four different categories, including a comprehenhome practical items such as eco-friendly dishwasher Our Commitment GOODOIL TV-CF sive marketing communication campaign, S-OIL detergent. S-OIL will continue to run various forms of • E  nhancing TOM with effective advertisements bonus card, S-OIL mobile app, and eco-promotion. A promotional activities tied to giving practical benefits in • Strengthening brand marketing by utilizing Presidential Prize at the 2013 Korea Brand Awards total of 392 teams made up of roughly 900 individuals the future to ensure the highest customer satisfaction. the GOODOIL character S-OIL was awarded the Presidential Prize at the 15th took part in the contest. S-OIL will reflect the brilliant • Enhancing communication with prospective Korea Brand Awards. Held at the Korea Chamber of ideas generated through this contest in future marInvitation to Musicals and Concerts As a company customers through a new marketing idea contest Commerce and Industry on November 6, 2013, S-OIL keting activities in an effort to make its brand more that values arts & culture, S-OIL sponsors various • Implementing unique events · promotions was singled out for its systematic and consistent appealing to consumers. cultural events as a means to build upon its strong brand management practices and character-based relationship with customers. In 2013, the Company Our Response brand differentiation. Organized by the Ministry of held a number of cultural events through its Culture Communicating with Customers through AdverTrade, Industry and Energy and arranged by the InDate program, which offers free tickets to cultural tisements stitute for Industrial Policy Studies (IPS), the Korea performances, and the S-OIL Cinema Date program, While consistently meeting the changing needs of Brand Awards is the nation’s only brand-related govwhich offers free movie tickets to customers. These customers, S-OIL engages in numerous marketing iniernmental award program. In 2013, S-OIL became programs have been a big hit with customers and tiatives, such as advertisements, special events, and the first Korean oil refiner to ever win the honorable contributed to higher customer satisfaction. S-OIL will promotions to provide unique benefits to customers. Presidential Prize. continue to develop a wide variety of cultural events With all of our marketing activities, S-OIL fully comto enrich customers’ cultural experience. plies with every related law, including those which fall Corporate Image Advertisements that Appeal to under the Broadcasting Advertisement Act and the Audiences In November 2013, S-OIL put an end to Giveaway Announcement Act. the 18-month “30-letters of Nice Messages for YOU Campaign” advertisement, which communicated with Winning Over Customers through TV Commercials the public on the front pages of Korea’s major daily In 2013, S-OIL focused its advertising campaigns on newspapers. With a total of 10,000 people having solidifying public awareness of GOODOIL (GOODOIL submitted heartwarming messages, this campaign = S-OIL = good oil brand), offering customers a received extensive coverage on TV, newspapers, and number of different opportunities to familiarize themother media outlets, winning a number of prestigious selves with the marketing character, which served advertisement awards along the way from newspaas a turning point in the Company’s brand promotion pers such as the Chosun Ilbo and Hankyoreh. In 2014, initiatives. TV advertisements continued to utilize the we began running a new advertising campaign called GOODOIL character to ensure greater attention to “Heroes and the Environment” in which S-OIL paid the brand and higher public interest. They also delivtribute to everyday heroes like firefighters, maritime New Marketing Idea Contest ered uplifting messages about stress relief, family and policemen, and heroic citizens, while reminding the S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 32 Enhance Customer-Centric Management 33 Contribute to Society Voice of Stakeholders Social contribution requires strategically selecting where to concentrate resources rather than just becoming involved in numerous programs. In the same context, S-OIL needs a strategic approach to differentiate its social contribution activities. Donations Activities of S-OIL Public Service Corps No. of Local Residents Participating in Chang-Jai Lee, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Services HQ a“Culture & Arts Sharing”Campaign Today, corporate social responsibility has become as integral to business activities as profit generation. 12,258 29,877 5,960 KRW million hours Departing from mere one-time donations and charity work, social contribution has been integrated into corporate strategies to create greater value for both the company and society as a whole. As a responsible corporate citizen, S-OIL made “Contribute to Society” one of its Seven Management Principles, pledging to engage in social contribution activities in line with its Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 corporate strategies. IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 the S-OIL) Based on the three social contribution principles of impact, timing and a beneficiary, S-OIL pursues Company-wide Strategic CSR Indirect Economic Impacts Company-wide Strategic CSR Activities (Within the S-OIL) Local Communities, Employees harmonious growth with society and the environment through its unique social contribution program called Sunshine Sharing. Local Community Sunshine Sharing Activities Sunshine Sharing Activities (Within the S-OIL) Local Communities, Employees As the Company moves forward, S-OIL will continue to bring about positive changes throughout society. Cultural & Artistic, Sports Cultural & Artistic Local Communities, Sponsorships Sponsorships Employees, Government S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 34 Contribute to Society 35 3.1 Why Is This Important? With growing social demand for Corporate Social ReOur Response Social Contribution Activities in Line with Strategic Social sponsibility (CSR), CSR activities have become an inCorporate Strategies Contribution tegral part of business initiatives. Strategic social conAfter identifying the expectations of its stakeholders tribution in its true meaning goes beyond symbolic through diverse communication with stakeholder gestures or one-time donations. Rather, it signifies a groups, S-OIL devised Seven Management Principles company’s commitment to actively fulfilling its social for sustainable management that needed to be unresponsibilities, with stakeholders lending their full dertaken to meet those expectations. Through the support to this cause. As a result, companies need Management Principle “Contribute to Society” S-OIL to manifest their commitment to social contribution is pursuing social contribution activities for the counEnvironment Protect Campaign Activities for Unsung Heroes S-OIL Public Service Corps in their business strategies and organize dedicated try and society in line with its own corporate strateteams and a control tower for the strategic implegies. Furthermore, S-OIL has established a vision for mentation of these activities, while also earmarking its social contribution activities called Sunshine Sharthe required funds for this cause. In addition, partnering, and strives to realize sustainable growth through ships with NGOs are integral to effectively carry out S-OIL’s unique programs that are rooted in three and Hero Neighbors Program to contribute to happier leged children; operating a university students’ natural such social contribution commitments. Hence, S-OIL principles: impact, timing, and beneficiary-oriented communities by publicly recognizing some of the true treasure protection corps; and sponsoring natural reflects its strategic social contribution activities in its approach. heroes who devote themselves to bettering society. habitat protection activities carried out by employees business strategies, encouraging its entire workforce S-OIL has established several social contribution and customers. S-OIL also undertakes communityOn top of its continued interest in and support for to participate in the cause. activities within its corporate culture by encouraging based environmental protection activities focused on the underprivileged and local communities, the Company engages in an Endangered Natural Treasure employees to make voluntary donations and carry out preserving the marine environment and resources. Our Commitment Protection campaign and a Biodiversity Preservation charity work through its Sunshine Sharing campaign. For example, to protect Mokdo’s evergreen forest • S ocial contribution activities in line with campaign as part of its efforts to preserve the enviAt the same time, S-OIL devotes its resources and (Natural Treasure No. 65) near our Onsan refinery, volcorporate strategies ronment for future generations. On the social front, know-how to promoting the basic sciences, as Korea unteers from the Company have helped clean up the • Sunshine Sharing activities S-OIL is continuing with its Hero Firefighters Program still lags behind other nations relative to its economic coastline area, collecting waste wood and tending to position within the global community. With the aim trees. S-OIL’s in-house diving club members have reof fostering Nobel Laureates in the sciences, S-OIL moved waste from the seabed for years. In acknowlestablished the “S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture edgement of these initiatives, the CHA bestowed a Foundation”, instituting two different awards, the commendation upon S-OIL in September 2012. In S-OIL’s Strategic Social Contribution System “S-OIL Leading Scientist Fellowship” and “Disserta2014, the Company will begin activities on ecological tion of the Year Award”. These awards have quickly exploration of Ulsan’s Taehwa River, further expanding · Achieve Operational Excellence Vision >> become the most prestigious academic awards in its environmental protection activities in the city. · Enhance Customer-Centric Management Sunshine Sharing Korea’s basic sciences sector. Moving forward, S-OIL · Contribute to Society will continue its efforts to create greater social value For Heroes The Hero Support Programs recognize · Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment and inspire more positive influences in society. heroes within society, such as everyday citizens and Mission >> firefighters who commit themselves to saving lives · Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance Achieve sustainable growth through S-OIL’s unique Sunshine Sharing Program Sunshine Sharing Activities and property by risking their own lives in adverse · Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency For the Environment S-OIL engages in diverse working conditions. In 2013, S-OIL added maritime · Develop Platform for Three campaigns to protect endangered natural treasures policemen to the beneficiaries of this program in recSustainable Growth >> Principles and preserve natural heritage sites for future generaognition of their commitment in protecting the marine Impact Timing Beneficiary tions. Under an agreement signed with the Cultural environment and performing marine rescue activiStrategy Major >> Heritage Administration (CHA) of Korea in May 2008, ties. In 2014, the Company plans on adding a Healing Activities Programs Sunshine Sharing Campaign Public Benefit Foundations the Company has been involving in activities to proCamp for maritime policemen and their spouses who tect otters (Natural Treasure No. 330), cranes (Natural work on remote islands. Treasure No. 202) and Korean dotty barbels (Natural Improvement · Community · Volunteer Activities · S-OIL Ulsan Welfare Treasure No. 259). In 2013, long-horned beetles (NatuActivity Contribute to · Hero · Wage Tail-cut Contribution Foundation Society · Environment · 1 Person 1 Donation · S-OIL Science Prodigy and ral Treasure No. 218) were added to the campaign. Account Culture Foundation S-OIL’s environment protection programs also cover · S-OIL Public Service Corp other activities: supporting protection and research activities for selected organizations; running natural treasure classes and ecology camps for underpriviCommunication S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 36 Contribute to Society 37 For Local Community S-OIL established the S-OIL before Korean Thanksgiving. Every winter, they also Green Purchasing (Unit : cases, KRW million) Our Response Ulsan Welfare Foundation, the first welfare foundamake kimchi and deliver briquettes to low-income Category 2011 2012 2013 Cultural Event Sponsorships for Artists and Local tion established by a company located in the city, in families. Additionally, each of the six regional volunNo. of Green Purchased Items 11 56 66 Communities 2007 to effectively carry out a variety of CSR activiteer groups engages in diverse charity work, such as Amount of Green Purchases 4,531 25,326 40,783 S-OIL both organizes and supports various local ties targeted at local citizens, the underprivileged, and going on picnics with the disabled, hosting birthday cultural events in order to enhance the quality of culsocial welfare facilities within the city. Even before parties for marginalized elderly citizens, organizing ture available for all people and to encourage artists systematic CSR activities were launched through cultural events for underprivileged children, and cleanLocal Purchasing (Unit : cases, KRW million) to participate in cultural events. The Company also the foundation, S-OIL had been purchased rice from ing up at neighborhood community centers. Both the Category 2011 2012 2013 hosts free performances near its Head Office every nearby farms and then donating it to underprivileged Volunteer Corps and the Company’s diverse social Total No. of Purchases 7,647 6,881 8,643 month. Each event draws 300-400 people of all ages, people in the area since 2001. A decade later, the contribution activities have helped S-OIL establish No. of Purchases from 4,369 3,745 4,459 who get to enjoy free performances in numerous art Company still strives to locate those in need and find practices of sharing with the underprivileged in its neighborhoods forms. S-OIL will continue to operate these cultural appropriate measures to assist them through regular corporate culture. Total Amount of Purchases 554,153 424,800 521,289 events in the future. In addition, it supports the Mapo communication with local residents. In addition, it Amount of Local Purchases 89,084 78,042 187,881 As of the end of 2013, 2,294 employees, or 80 perSalted Shrimp Festival, a long-held event in the Head supports welfare facilities for the disabled, war vetercent of the Company’s workforce, were active in 150 Office district, thus helping preserve an important traans and patriots, and social welfare facilities with the volunteer programs at six regional volunteer groups. ditional cultural festival for the community. 3.2 aim of providing help to those in need, and donates Additionally, 58 percent of our employees (1,593 Why Is This Important? heating oil to 500 low-income families every winter. In Ulsan, where the Company’s refinery is located, employees) voluntarily donate a little less than KRW S-OIL also organizes volunteer programs with welfare Corporate social responsibility has evolved from S-OIL established the Oh Yeong-su Literary Prize 10,000 from their monthly paychecks to fund approxifacilities for low-income families within the Mapo-gu, mately KRW 0.1 billion annually for operation bills of Cultural and Artistic financial aid and charity work, with cultural and artisin 1993 to commemorate the talented short story Seoul, where the Company’s Head Office is located. children suffering biliary atresia. Furthermore, 1,483 Sponsorships for tic sponsorships having become a new category of writer, who was born in the region. Today, the prize has become one of the nation’s most prestigious literIn 2014, S-OIL plans on further specializing its social people, or 54 percent of our employees, have their Local Communities social contribution. A growing number of companies ary awards. Additionally, S-OIL has held the Beautiful contribution activities to the different needs of the own special bank account to donate as much as they are recognizing the hardships people in arts & culture Eye Art Festival since 1996 in support of amateur underprivileged and local communities in Ulsan and can to charities every month. face, and consequently now sponsor independent artists. The Company has also been leading efforts to Mapo-gu, where its operations are located. artists’ creativity activities. In response to the growpromote local culture, as illustrated in its sponsorship Social Contribution Programs and Investments in 2013 ing need for equal opportunities in arts & culture, the of various regional, cultural and artistic events such as Activities of S-OIL S-OIL Public Service Corps S-OIL employees (Unit : KRW million) government launched the Presidential Committee Public Service Corps the Spring Literary Contest by the local newspaper launched the S-OIL Public Service Corps in 2007. ConCategory Program Total for Cultural Enrichment (PCCE) and revised the Artist Donation Gyeongsang Ilbo, the Cheoyong Cultural Festival, the sisting of two bureaus and six regional groups, this Welfare Act to promote cultural and artistic activities 28,823 30,828 29,877 Ulsan Whale Festival, the traditional musical perforcorps offers voluntary assistance to the marginalized For Heroes Firefighter heroes 1,130 among Korean. Thus, it appears likely companies will mance Byeongyeong Seonang Chigi, and the Onggi 2,312 2,315 2,294 of society. For the systemic management of emMaritime policemen heroes further enhance their arts & culture sponsorships as Expo Ulsan Korea. In 2011, it screened a video about ployee volunteers, this organization is registered with Citizen heroes part of their CSR, and S-OIL will do its part by conthe petrochemical industry at the Two-Dimensional the Social Wel­fare Volunteer Activities Certification For the Support for research and protection 310 tinuing with its various cultural events and artistic Environment Circle Screening Room at Ulsan Museum, which is Center of the Korean National Council on Social Welactivities by specialized groups sponsorships in local communities. the city’s first general museum. fare which was designated by the Ministry of Health Natural monument class for children Ecology camp for children Through diverse cultural events and programs cus& Welfare. This enables us to manage our employees’ College student natural monument Our Commitment volunteer activities through the Social Welfare Voluntomized to the local needs of the community, S-OIL protection group • C  ultural event sponsorships for artists and teer Activities Certification Administration (www.vms. has established a reputation as the region’s leader in Voluntary service by employees and or.kr) which is responsible for comprehensive manlocal communities mecenat activities. The excellent reputation has been customers 2011 2012 2013 agement of nation-wide volunteer activities. Every built on its community engagement programs, which For Local Support for married immigrants 4,753 No. of participants year, the Corps delivers Ttokguk (Korean rice soup) Community suffering from domestic violence help the Company in its business activities, such as No. of volunteer hours to the homeless in the run-up to New Year’s Day and Support for low-income families constructing and operating refinery and solving safety Songpyeon (rice cakes) to elderly citizens living alone affected by house fires and environmental issues. Cultural Art & Sharing campaign Achievements of Sunshine Sharing Campaign Sharing campaign led by (Unit : persons, KRW million) service stations Support for the disabled to participate Category Year Wage Tail-cut 1 Person 1 Donation Contribution Account in overseas marathons Donations to underprivileged Partici2011 1,466 1,564 neighborhoods pants 2012 1,538 1,513 Ulsan Social Welfare Foundation 2013 1,593 1,483 *Others include the KRW 1.3 billion donated to the Company table tennis Average 2011 7 15 team, KRW 1.5 billion to the S-OIL Science Prodigy and Culture Foundation, monthly and KRW 3.3 billion for restoring Taehwaru Tower. 2012 7 15 donation 2013 7 15 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 38 Contribute to Society 39 Provide Best-in-Class Voice of Stakeholders Work Environment What are the Company’s plans for enhancing employee engagement and motivation? New Employment Fringe Benefits to Labor Cost No. of Labor Disputes Byung-Ho Lee, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Transformation HQ 158 38.3 0 Fair compensation and employee competency-building originate from unbiased performance % evaluations. A performance-oriented corporate culture and human resources development both play pivotal roles in a company’s sustainable growth. Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 Knowing this, S-OIL strives to ensure equal opportunity for advancement to all its employees based the S-OIL) Fair Performance Evaluation Human Resource Management Diversity and Equal Opportunity on their competencies under a Management Principle that provides the best work environment, and and Compensation Promoting Diversity and Fairness (Within the S-OIL) Employees compensates fairly based on an unprejudiced and rightful evaluation of one’s performance. Competitive Compensation Employment In 2013, the Company adjusted its compensation program for administrative staff to a more meritFringe Benefits and Fringe Benefits (Within the S-OIL) based one in line with strategies for sustainability growth. This was done as part of its initiative to promote a more efficient and performance-oriented corporate culture that is globally competitive Efforts to Promote Corporate Non-discrimination amid the adverse business environment. Corporate Culture Culture (Within the S-OIL) Going forward, S-OIL will continue to maintain optimal working conditions, assisting employees in Benefits (Within the S-OIL) realizing their full potential for the sustained growth of the Company and themselves. Work Environment (Within the S-OIL) S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 40 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 41 4.1 Why Is This Important? A meritocratic corporate culture thrives on unbiased the Company consistently upgrades the evaluation scheme after reflecting upon all relevant feedback. and maternity leaves when required, helping them in the transition back to work as well. Finally, all S-OIL employees are obliged to receive sexual haEmployee Health Management S-OIL operates health clinics at both the Head Office and the Onsan Refinery so that it can properly respond to emerHuman Resource recruitment of the best and brightest as well as Compensation for directors and employees is deterrassment prevention training once a year to promote gencies that may arise during work hours, while Management performance-based fair evaluations and compensamined by the Compensation Committee after weighgender equality as part of the corporate culture. also promoting good health among all employees. tion schemes. At S-OIL, fair and transparent human ing in on corporate business results and the overall Promoting Diversity Specialized nursing staff members are always on 4.2 resources management system supports employees’ business environment. Consisting of three outside and Fairness competency-building efforts and does not tolerate directors and one non-standing director, the memWhy Is This Important? standby, providing first aid treatment, non-prescription medicines, health counseling and other healthany form of discrimination, ensuring optimal working bers of the Compensation Committee are elected Employees are the internal stakeholders of S-OIL care services. All S-OIL officers and employees conditions under which employees can realize their by the Board of Directors (BOD). With the objective Industry-Leading and the driving force behind the Company’s susreceive annual health check-ups in accordance with full potential. of establishing transparent and efficient compensaCompensation and tainability management. Employee engagement is their specific age group and occupation. Employees tion scheme and determining the appropriate level of enhanced when employees feel affluent and safe Fringe Benefits who are diagnosed with health problems, or who Our Commitment compensation, the Compensation Committee delibwith their job, which in turn contributes to higher need consultation regarding their healthcare or that erates on top management’s suggestions regarding productivity. Well aware of this, S-OIL’s industry• P  romoting diversity in the workforce of their family members, are provided with one-onemployee compensation schemes, wage increase leading salaries and fringe benefits programs reflect • Performance-based fair evaluations and one consultation services with outside medical sperates, and incentive pay ratio. In order to ensure a employee needs. Furthermore, the Company cares compensation schemes cialists. Also, to prevent musculoskeletal diseases, rational decision-making process on the compensaabout the physical and mental health of employees • No discrimination all worksites offer stretching breaks twice a day, tion schemes, the committee takes into account the and reflects this in its fringe benefit programs. once each in the morning and afternoon, when the Company’s business performances, labor relations, Our Response employee fatigue reaches its peak. Furthermore, the and wage competitiveness as well as the rate of Our Commitment Company promotes a healthy workplace with nonPromoting Diversity in the Workforce S-OIL strives inflation. All the procedures for deciding upon a raise • Industry-leading fringe benefit system smoking campaign and healthy drinking campaign. to provide quality jobs under the belief that job crein wages and incentives were reviewed by outside • Systematic management of employees’ health Since 2013, the Company has been running an Emation is one of the most effective ways of contributing agencies such as Towers Watson and then looked ployee Assistance Program (EAP) that is consigned to a society suffering from high youth unemployment over by the Compensation Committee before makOur Response to an external specialized agency to assist with the due to the global economic recession. As a result ing a final decision. In 2013, compensations were Industry-Leading Compensation & Fringe Benefits mental and psychological health of employees and of its efforts, S-Oil was named one of the Top 100 made based on the guidelines set forth by these To ensure that the Company provides a workplace their families. Job Creation Companies by the Ministry of Employprocedures and the highest amount of compensation ment and Labor in 2012. With an unbiased recruitmade to any one employee was at most five times where employees can feel confident about their ment policy that has zero tolerance on discrimination, greater than the income median paid to other emfinancial stability, S-OIL offers industry-leading comS-OIL hires competent and creative individuals who ployees for the same period. Furthermore, the annual pensation and fringe benefits. Newly hired university embody its values, regardless of their gender or acacompensation raise rate was the same for all S-Oil graduates are paid 370 percent more than Korea’s demic background. Of all the people S-OIL hired in employees that same year. Beginning in 2014, the legal minimum wage, the highest level offered by 2013, females accounted for approximately 15.3 percompensation program will be going through a drasany Korean company in the industry. In addition, the cent, or 24 people, while graduates of junior colleges tic revamp in order to strengthen merit-based comCompany’s salary and benefits package program is or lower accounted for 36.5 percent, or 57 people. pensation and reduce seniority-based compensation. gender neutral. Employees in managerial or above Committed to promoting diversity within Korean socipositions and officers receive their base pay and ety, S-OIL will continue its efforts to help people of all Zero Tolerance Policy for Discrimination S-OIL remerit-based pay according to their organization’s perbackgrounds realize their potential in society through spects the human rights of every stakeholder and formance as well as individual achievements. Startits merit-based, unbiased recruitment practices. complies with all relevant laws. Working conditions ing in 2014, this system is being expanded so that it for employees--the Company’s internal stakeholderseventually covers the entire workforce. S-OIL’s benFair Evaluation and Compensation Fair evaluation -are determined based on a collective agreement efit program is prudently designed around employand compensation schemes positively motivate embetween labor and management. The Company also ees’ lifecycle (i.e. age and length of employment). In ployees to work hard, which is important in realizing guarantees working conditions in compliance with addition to mandatory benefits such as health insurshared goals across the Company. S-OIL has in place Korean labor laws and regulations as well as Interance, employment insurance, occupational health fair evaluation and compensation schemes so its emnational Labor Organization standards. Furthermore, and safety insurance, and the national pension plan, ployees can devote themselves to their duties, conS-OIL does not tolerate discrimination of any kind. the Company provides support for the stable livelitributing to higher profitability and sustainable growth Employees are classified into regular and non-regular hood of its employees, including healthcare, tuition for the Company. In order to enhance accuracy in employees according to their different job functions, fees, congratulation and condolence money, as well the evaluation, the evaluation scheme distinguishes but neither category is discriminated upon in terms as individual pensions and leisure activities through between performance results and competencies and of wages or treatment. In addition, male and female its advanced benefits package. applies different criteria and procedures according employees are not discriminated upon in perfor* For more information on the fringe benefits provided according to one’s length of employment, visit the Employee Benefits Package section under the corpoto job function and grades. The Company trains and mance evaluations or promotions. As a staunch advorate website’s Recruitment page. compensates employees based on these evaluation cate to the government’s childbirth promotion policy, results. In order to enhance fairness of the evaluation, S-OIL encourages all employees to take paternity S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 42 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 43 4.3 Why Is This Important? It takes the right strategies for a company to achieve effective promotion of their understanding of other department functions as well as vitalizing interdeHR-Related Indicators (Employment – Retirement) partmental communication. A Healthy Work-Life its mission and vision. The power of execution only Status of Employment (Unit : persons) Employment of the Disables (Unit : persons, %) Balance gains steam when every member of the organizaWeekly Family Day S-OIL adopted a Weekly FamCategory 2011 2012 2013 Category 2011 2012 2013 tion is fully engaged in the shared goal. While workily Day program in 2012, encouraging employees University Graduates 98 64 80 The Disables 45 47 49 ing hard to promote its corporate culture this way, to concentrate on their job during work hours and Others 83 73 78 Entire Workforce 2,661 2,713 2,792 S-OIL runs regular surveys to learn if the Company Total 181 137 158 Percentage of the Disables 1.7 1.7 1.8 to leave the office on time so as to spend time is on the right path, and reflects these results in imwith their families or involve themselves with self*Others refers to all forms of recruitment, including junior college graduates, experienced workers, proving its systems and programs. and non-regular workers, but not university graduates. development activities. The program has been well Retirees (Unit : persons) received by employees. Our Commitment Employment Status : Regular·Non-Regular (Unit : persons) Category 2011 2012 2013 Retirees by Age Limit 39 48 45 • Planning improvements based on corporate Maternity Program S-OIL offers special healthcare Category 2011 2012 2013 Others 70 37 34 culture analysis services to pregnant employees enlisted in HR Officers 39 42 43 Total 109 85 79 • Enhancing employee work-life balance management database. The Company has a nursRegular Employees 2,491 2,523 2,613 * Others refer to all causes to retirement except for by age limit, such as death, contract termination or • Company-wide interactive communication ery room in the Head Office building for expectant Non-regular 131 148 136 voluntary retirement. Total 2,661 2,713 2,792 mothers and breastfeeding mothers. It also provides Our Response subsidies to celebrate when employees give birth to Return to Work Rate after Parental Leave (Unit : persons) a baby and offers childcare subsidies to employees Employment Structure (Unit : persons) Community-oriented Organizational Culture Category 2011 2012 2013 S-OIL runs annual surveys of its corporate culture for children under the age of five. Category Executives Administrative Staff Production Staff Total Staff to Return 7 6* 3 and communication with employees in order to en43 1,282 1,437 2,792 Returned Staff 7 4 3 sure its cooperative corporate culture is based on Diverse Channels for Company-wide Interactive (100%) (67%) (100%) (Percentage) positivity and trust. Results show that the corporate Communication * Two of the employees retired on their own will after the parental leaves. Employment by Business Site (Unit : persons) culture is growing autonomously and communityS-OIL has diverse channels to assist in across-theoriented. Based on these results, the Company has board interactive communication. Published since Category Head Office Refinery District Biz. HQs Terminals Total Yearly Average Training Hours per Administrative Staff (Unit : hours) implemented initiatives to improve the work-life bal2011, the quarterly online magazine HR Webzine Officers 32 11 43 ance for employees and to promote interactive comserves as a medium for the interactive exchange of Employees 705 1,696 268 80 2,749 Category 2011 2012 2013 munication across the board. At the end of 2013, opinions among employees on the Company’s HR Yearly Average Training Hours 52 58 52 team leaders’ leadership and employee satisfaction system and management practices. Every month, Employment by Age·Gender (Unit : persons, %) were added to the criteria for the survey and analyroughly 1,000 employees view the webzine. In the Cyber Education (Unit : classes, persons) latter half of 2012, the bulletin board named “Let’s Category Age Gender 2011 2012 2013 sis. Future initiatives will be implemented based on Officers 30~50 Male 9 14 14 Category 2011 2012 2013 the results of these new criteria. praise” opened an in-house intranet to single out Female 1 Classes 110 171 154 people and share detailed achievements made by 50 or above Male 29 28 29 Participants 370 532 538 A Healthy Work-Life Balance employees who had won awards within and outside Female * Except for Foreign Language or Book Reading In 2013, S-OIL earned a Family-Friendly Company the Company. By sharing success stories among Employees Under 30 Male 361 405 420 certificate from the Korean government for its comemployees, the bulletin board helps promote a culFemale 73 68 70 Education and Training Cost to Labor Cost (Unit : %) mitment to work-life balance and family-friendly politure of complimentary praise as well as raise morale 30~50 Male 1,794 1,806 1,849 cies. The Company also received a commendation among employees. In addition, S-OIL provides full Female 113 126 137 Category 2011 2012 2013 from the Minister of Gender Equality and Family as support to diverse in-house club activities that are 50 or above Male 278 261 259 Education and Training Cost 1.4 1.7 1.4 open to employees of all ages and positions. At the Female 3 4 4 the best performer among family-friendly certified Total Male 2,471 2,515 2,581 companies. moment, approximately 2,100 employees are active Female 190 198 211 Fringe Benefits to Labor Cost (Unit : %) in 35 clubs. Starting in 2013, the Company broadIntensive Holiday Program Adopted in 2010, the ened the scope of its support to club activities by Category 2011 2012 2013 Intensive Holiday Program allows employees to designating a monthly Club Day, offering subsidies Fringe Benefits 62.5 51.4 38.3 take two weeks off any time of the year. The profor the event and awarding Best Club Awards at the gram has proven effective in enhancing employee end of every year. engagement by ensuring a better work-life balance and helping employees take time for themselves. When officers or team leaders are on long holidays, their vacancies are filled by acting officers or team leaders based on a pre-set plan. This contributes to S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 44 Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment 45 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Voice of Stakeholders Governance It is important that S-OIL ensures corporate legal compliance and transparent management through its compliance management system and audit system. At the same time, employees’ ethics awareness should be upgraded to a world-class level through extensive training. Percent of Outside Directors in BOD Investor Meetings No. of Partner Company Employees Sung-Woo Park, Vice President (Sr.), Head of Legal & Compliance who Received Business Ethics In the “Information Age” brought by the so-called digital revolution, it is a global mandate for Training from S-OIL every participant in the global capital market to ensure transparency in business. 54.54 % 765 times 362 Transparency in corporate governance can increase enterprise value by promoting stakeholders’ trust and also enable a closer examination of the company process resulting in more ethical practices and improved cost effectiveness. These improvements, in turn, enhance corporate Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 competitiveness and maximize economic values; ultimately ensuring sustainable growth, IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 together with corporate integrity. the S-OIL) Transparent Corporate Transparent Corporate Governance Shareholders & Investors, Governance Governance (Within the S-OIL) Government S-OIL is making its utmost efforts to maximize corporate transparency by integrating the legal compliance system into its structure, managing a healthy internal control system, and conducting stringent internal audits through a fully unbiased independent audit organization. Transparent Disclosure on Transparent Management that Ethics & Integrity Shareholders & Investors, Management Information Enhances Corporate Value (Within the S-OIL) Employees, Government The Management as well as all officers and employees of S-OIL are fully committed to moving forward with enhancing corporate transparency. Efforts Toward Shared Growth Efforts Toward Shared Growth Procurement Practice Government, Employees with Partner Companies with Partner Companies (Within the S-OIL & Suppliers) Partner Companies S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 46 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 47 5.1 Why Is This Important? Over the years, corporate governance has evolved directors and two non-standing directors are required to serve as committee members at one of the three Committees Assisting the CEO 22 assistant committees take part in the main decision-making protaining a sound internal control system. Members of the audit organization are encouraged to obtain either committees at a minimum, to ensure a professional cesses of the Company in assistance of the CEO. a Certified Public Accountant (CPA) degree, Certified Transparent in line with economic development and the level of and transparent operation of the BOD. The Audit Each committee acts as the best advisor in their Internal Auditor (CIA) degree, or Certified Information Corporate business sophistication. As the size of businesses Committee, consisting of three outside directors and expert area to the CEO in making critical decisions. System Auditor (CISA) degree to cultivate expertise Governance has grown and economic concentration has become one non-standing director, evaluates overall business In particular, the Management Committee (MC) related to their job functions. The Company also proa matter of public dispute and criticism over the years, activities and the current status of the Internal Acreviews economic, social, and environmental isvides these staff members with the opportunity to corporate governance has shifted its focus to address counting Control System, and receives internal audits sues that may have major impact on the Company participate in various audit training programs and audit this issue, thus emphasizing transparency in its strucreports. The Committee also makes suggestions to to support the CEO’s decision on corporate midto specialist programs with the help of external specialture. Nowadays, in addition to alleviating an egalitarian top management about business ethics practices and long-term plans, annual business plans, budgets, ists, while making use of auditing software programs concern over the concentration of economic power, receives annual reports on ethics management activiand labor policies, and thereby contribute to the to enhance the expertise of auditing activities. In transparent corporate governance is also recognized ties from the Ethics Committee. The Compensation Company’s sustainable management. Comprised of 2012, S-OIL received Korea’s Best Auditor Award as the key to enhancing investors’ trust and corporate Committee develops the Company’s compensation the Company’s top management, the MC meetings from the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea values as well as increasing the transparency, efficienpolicies and systems, including wages, severance are held at the request of the CEO or the MC SecListed Companies Association(KLCA) for its advanced cy, and productivity in businesses activities. In light pay, and incentives. The ODCR Committee examines retary. The MC held a total of 18 meetings in 2013. internal control system and its audit and risk manageof these considerations, S-OIL will continue to build the qualifications of the candidates for outside direcment system, in compliance with the highest global 5.2 transparent and robust corporate governance that will meet stakeholders’ demands and operate in a respontors as set forth in relevant rules and regulations, and Why Is This Important? standards. selects and recommends the candidate most qualisible and accountable manner to stakeholders. Transparency in management activities is integral to fied to carry out the role of outside director to the Process Innovation Auditing for Higher Corporate Value Enhancing the sustainable growth of a company by enhancing general meeting of shareholders. S-OIL, in addition to legal compliance activities, also Our Commitment Corporate Value the credibility of disclosed data regarding corporate stresses on the audit activities of commercial and • T  ransparent corporate governance BOD Composition (as of March 24, 2014) through Transparent business activities and performance, which estabpractical process innovation deemed material by its lishes a trust-based relationship between the Com• C  ommittees that enhance transparency Management internal clients. As a result, process innovation took pany and stakeholders, such as customers, investors, Category Name Position Practices up the majority of the audit team’s recommendations Inside Director (1) Nasser Al-Mahasher CEO and employees. The key to transparent management Our Response in its 2013 audit report. In 2013, auditors at S-OIL reNon-standing Y. H. Cho Chairman of the BOD lies in sharing information of all management activiTransparent Corporate Governance S-OIL is a joint Directors (4) defined their mission as “contributing to the sustainA.F. Al-Wuhaib Non-standing director ties with stakeholders. Transparent disclosure of all venture between a state-run Saudi Arabian oil comable growth of the Company through independent M.O. Al-Subaie Member of the information regarding business activities, excluding pany and Hanjin Group. It has established healthy and Compensation and unbiased assurances and consulting services to business secrets, induces a reasonable engagement transparent corporate governance through the Board Committee enhance corporate value and process innovation.” Furof employees in management activities and also faciliof Directors (BOD) and board committees with an T. S. Suk Member of the Audit thermore, the Company articulates the auditors’ job tates a low-cost funding from external investors. Addiappropriate level of checks and balances. The objectivCommittee ethics of integrity, objectiveness, and competencyOutside S.A. Al-Ashgar Chairman of the Audit tionally, transparency in the relationship management ity and independence of the BOD’s supervision over building, and has set the guidelines for auditing activiDirectors (6) Committee with customers, business partners, and government management activities and corporate performance is ties of expertise, interactive communication, value adMember of the ODCR authorities will help boost corporate image, which, in secured by the board structure, where most of the dition, rationality and technology-based audit activities Committee turn, contributes to higher corporate value. board directors are non-standing, and the majority of S.B. Al-Kaki Member of the in order to guarantee the effectiveness of its auditing directors are outside directors (54.54%). The most Compensation and consulting activities for process innovation. Our Commitment notable feature of S-OIL’s BOD is the separation of Committee H.T. Al-Saadoun Member of the Audit • An Audit Organization for Higher Transparency KPIs for Compliance with Regulations As an instituthe roles of the CEO and the BOD chairman, which Committee • Process innovation auditing for higher tional framework to allow all officers and employees maximizes the CEO’s expertise, while protecting the Member of the ODCR corporate value to internalize the Company’s rules and regulations and BOD’s independence in the monitoring of the CEO’s Committee •E  nhancing transparency through stronger management activities. The BOD convenes on a comply with them in conducting their daily job activiM. S. Chung Chairman of the ODCR internal control ties, the Compliance Monitoring System was implequarterly basis to make strategic and critical business Committee • Enhancing IR competencies mented in 2011, which has minimized unnecessary decisions to which the top management reports diMember of the Audit rectly on major business issues. Extraordinary BOD Committee confusion and risks associated with non-compliance. meetings can be convened on a needs basis. In 2013, S. E. Park Member of the Our Response Monitoring is conducted every three months against the BOD convened for a total of five times. Compensation An Audit Organization for Higher Transparency S-OIL a checklist of 117 items related to 36 regulations, and Committee has an independent audit organization under the the results are reflected in the Compliance Key PerY. S. Ahn Chairman of the formance Indicators (KPI’s) of each team and departBOD Subcommittees Three subcommittees exist control of the Audit Committee, which carries out Compensation under the BOD: the Audit Committee, the Compensaan unbiased and independent audit on corporate acment so that employees can voluntarily adhere to the Committee tion Committee, and the Outside Director Candidates counting and business activities, and thus plays a key Company’s rules and policies at work. Member of the ODCR Recommendation (ODCR) Committee. All six outside Committee role in promoting corporate transparency and mainS-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 48 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 49 e-Accounting for Stronger Internal Control In January 2013, S-OIL adopted an e-Accounting system for automating existing payment statement-based IR Meetings Category 2011 2012 (Unit : times) 2013 5.3 Why Is This Important? Many businesses have seen their profits steadily Open Communication with Partner Companies for Sustainable Trust-based Relationships S-OIL maintains trust-based, long-term relationships with its partprocesses. For the implementation of the system, Investors’ Meetings 943 937 765 Efforts Towards rise following the end of the global economic crisis, ner companies through continuous communication, the scope of the payment by corporate credit cards Non-Deal Roadshows 11 7 8 Shared Growth with but this also led to a widening gap between the for the purpose of enhancing the level of mutual unand the use of an e-tax system have been expanded, Conferences Conference Call 15 4 17 4 14 4 Partner Companies haves and have-nots, giving rise to much social conderstanding. In 2013, we held a total of five meetings cern around the world. In dealing with this issue, with the forms of supporting evidence standardized, with 307 partner companies, which served as good establishing a sound business ecosystem, where and review processes streamlined. Also, both online opportunities for S-OIL to explain its ethics manageEmployee Training on Disclosure Regulations S-OIL large corporations and their small-sized suppliers and mobile processing of payment statements, inment principles and practices as well as the changes provides annual training opportunities to IR employcan maintain a sustainable growth and keep genercluding generating, transferring, archiving of payment in its procurement system implemented by the Proees to help them better understand disclosure related ating high-quality jobs, has become imperative to statements and actual payment, are now available. curement Enhancement Project. The meetings also regulations so that they can perform their duties in realizing a truly advanced domestic economy. S-OIL The successful adoption of the e-Accounting system proved resourceful for partner companies to make compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. is keenly aware of the fact that the sustainability helped increase work efficiency and reinforce an insuggestions and grievances, as well as in presenting Furthermore, the Company encourages employees to of its partner companies constitutes S-OIL’s true ternal control throughout the organization. new products and services, and informing S-OIL of actively monitor disclosure issues to minimize the risk competitiveness advantage, and therefore makes new trends and technologies in the industry. of non-compliance. In 2013, the Company provided active and diverse efforts to establish a mutually Transparent Disclosure of Management Information the summary of major disclosure announcements beneficial value chain with its partner companies. and IR Activities Transparent disclosure of manageSupporting Ethics Management at Partner Companies and regulatory changes to employees via an intranet ment information plays an important role in business S-OIL supports its partner companies in enhancing bulletin board. Our Commitment management activities, as it protects shareholder valthe level of ethics management within their organizaue by reducing information asymmetry and strength• P  rocurement Enhancement Project tions, by helping them fully understand and comply ens investors’ trust in the Company, which leads to • Improving the SRM system with the guiding principles and provisions of S-OIL’s a fair evaluation of corporate value. As such, S-OIL is • Trust-building with partner companies Code of Business Ethics and Conduct. As part of this fully engaged in diverse IR activities to provide stake• Supporting ethics management at partner effort, every business partner that participates in Sholders with management information in a fair and companies OIL’s bidding is asked to submit “a pledge to comply transparent manner. In 2013, a total of 52 disclosures with the Code of Ethics and Conduct for suppliers were made to provide material management informaOur Response and bidders.” The names of the partner companies tion to investors in a fair and prompt manner in comProcurement Enhancement Project From Novemfound to have committed illegal or unethical behaviors pliance with disclosure regulations. No cases of violaber 2012 to August 2013, S-OIL revamped its produring bid processes are excluded from the list of tions of such regulations on S-OIL’s part were found curement procedures with innovative processes, S-OIL partner companies for new bids. Furthermore, during the same period. Additionally, a total of 765 such as auto-invitation and blind bidding systems, S-OIL provided ethics training to 362 employees of investors’ meetings and three plant tours were held as part of the Procurement Enhancement Project. 307 partner companies in 2013. Also, S-OIL supports as part of S-OIL’s active efforts to communicate with The auto-invitation system automatically invites all the ethics management of its affiliates, including its investors at home and abroad during the year 2013. companies registered in sourcing group list to the subsidiaries and joint venture companies. bids for new projects. Blind bidding refers to the preliminary computerized screening of bidders based on submitted project budgets. The new process Expected benefits of e-Accounting allows higher transparency and fairness in bidding processes. In the future, we plan on further improvExpected benefits of e-Accounting ing the procurement process and system based on Tasks Enhancing convenience at work Strengthening internal control a continuous communication with partner compaExpanding payments with Reducing handwritten slips · personal credit card Tight monitoring on expenses nies, for the purpose of promoting a mutual growth. corporate credit cards slips for small expenses Expanding e-tax system usage Eliminating losses arising from delayed submission Preventing unintended failure of tax reporting and Improving the Supplier Relationship Management of receipts and slips enhancing efficiency in receipt management (SRM) System S-OIL adopted a Supplier Relationship Standardization of receipt-related Automated submission of related receipts and Stronger compliance with regulations on receipts Management (SRM) system in 2010 to ensure a transregulations and system controls documentary evidence parent and fair evaluation in selecting its suppliers. As Streamlining screening Automatic reference to approval authorities Strengthening compliance with regulations on part of the Procurement Enhancement Project, S-OIL regulations and enhancing screening prior to settlements system control made significant improvements on the partner comEstablishing a computerized Reducing documentary evidence to enhance work Keeping in check any potential errors through a pany performance evaluation process and developed receipt system efficiency computerized receipt database a system for follow-up assessments of partner comEstablishing an e-Approval Reducing paper-based approval to enhance work Real-time monitoring of approval progress panies’ performance in order to reinforce the objecsystem efficiency tiveness and credibility of the SRM system in 2013. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 50 Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Governance 51 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Voice of Stakeholders We expect S-OIL to fairly distribute all value in order to grow with different stakeholder groups. Creation and Distribution of Cash Dividend Payout Ratio DJSI Assessment on Risk Management Young-Il Cho, Senior Vice President, CFO & Head of Finance HQ Economic Value S-OIL clearly understands that its business results are a credit to its stakeholders, and this 790.9 53.55 % 100 includes employees, local communities, the government, shareholders & investors, and partner KRW billion point companies. Hence, the Company ensures that the economic value created through rational budget execution and efficient capital management is fairly distributed to stakeholders, while creating new Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 growth opportunities in the long run. IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 the S-OIL) The Company pays taxes to the government fairly with profits generated from its business Customer, Partner Companies, Managing and Distributing Local Communities, operations, while our unbiased recruitment creates quality jobs for young people, as we deal Resources for Sustainable Creation and Distribution of Economic Performance Shareholder & Investors, Growth with today’s unemployment issues. We also give back to society through constant social Economic Value (Within the S-OIL) Government contribution activities. By maintaining a stable financial structure, we embrace a sound dividend payout ratio, striking the right balance between retaining earnings for investments and Customer, Partner Companies, Risk Management Local Communities, returning profits to shareholders. Systematic Risk Management Systematic Risk Management (Within the S-OIL) Shareholder & Investors S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 52 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 53 6.1 Why Is This Important? As a responsible corporate citizen, companies should means to ensure efficient distribution of corporate resources into profitable investments. This allows us 6.2 Why Is This Important? Today, unpredictable crises and risk factors abound in Furthermore, the Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Committee will organize key risk response drills in to maximize corporate value by channeling corporate which working-level departments and top manageCreation and develop a balanced business model that can achieve Minimize the business environment and globalization has only resources into high-yield investments, exceeding ment will both take part in an effort to enhance practiDistribution of sustainable growth. While consistently making efforts shareholder and creditor demands. Uncertainties put economies everywhere under the influence of cal risk response capabilities and to further improve Economic Value to maximize their corporate value, companies should through Effective these crises, pushing economies around the world the enterprise risk management system. also pursue business continuity through social contriCreation and Distribution of Economic Value In 2013, Risk Management towards further uncertainty. Consequently, risk manbution and fair distribution of economic value. agement capability has become an essential part of All these risk management activities are controlled S-OIL created economic value equal to approximately sustainability management in order to ensure the and overseen by the ERM Committee, which conS-OIL lives up to its core values and enhances stakeKRW 790.9 billion through revenue generation, job trust of stakeholders, especially investors. sists of the CEO and top management, and falls in holder value through the efficient and systematic creation, fair trade and investment in local commuline with corporate business strategies. Performance management and distribution of capital. nities. We share this created economic value with Our Commitment results from annual enterprise risk management all our stakeholders under the firm belief that our activities are reported to the board of directors. Our Commitment shareholders, investors, employees, local communi• E  nterprise risk management system ties, and the government have all contributed to this • Round-the-clock risk management monitoring • E  fficient capital management Round-the-Clock Risk Management Monitoring • Creation and distribution of economic value achievement. In the future, we will continue to pursue Today, almost all business activities are comput• Balanced dividend distribution new opportunities for growth on the chain of creation Our Response erized. Based on an exhaustive analysis of the and fair distribution of economic value. Enterprise Risk Management System S-OIL has extensive database of business activities, S-OIL Our Response established an Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) has developed and put in place a round-the-clock Balanced Dividend Distribution S-OIL has mainsystem to navigate through the ever-evolving and unEfficient Capital Management In meeting with the monitoring system that keeps in check all risk factained a balanced dividend payout ratio in considerpredictable business environment. For timely recognirising uncertainties and complexities in the business tors associated with normal business activities. ation of the appropriate level of cash flow, investment tion of and preemptive response to risk factors and environment, maximizing economic value through By applying the monitoring system to the work and profits for its sustainable growth. Based on this crises, S-OIL classifies risks into five types: strategy, efficient management of capital is as important to process, the system automatically identifies any dividend policy and sound financial structure, the markets, finance, compliance and operations. By sustainable growth as is a stable financial structure irregularities and supports the staff in charge with Company set its dividend payout ratio at 53 percent, closely monitoring key risk indicators, we take approand low cost of funding. a team-based approach to effectively counter the the same as that of the previous year, to protect priate measures to counter risk factors in advance. In risks. S-OIL has developed company-wide monitorS-OIL has identified the optimal capital structure that shareholders’ interests despite relatively stagnant the event of a crisis, we have an established manual ing scenarios that encompass all business activican maximize corporate value and keeps the BOD financial results in 2013. As part of its shareholderto employ company-wide systematic measures and ties, including finance, procurement, marketing, updated on its targets for capital structure on a reguoriented Management Principle, S-OIL has paid inpromptly respond to minimize any losses. HRM, IT and operation for work process innovation lar basis in order to ensure stability in its financial terim dividends since 2000. These moves materialize Additionally, we carry out annual risk assessments to timely address abnormalities and prevent risks structure. As a result, our sound financial structure the Company’s management philosophy of fostering to recognize new risk factors in advance and review in daily business activities. has helped us maintain an industry-leading credit rata shareholder-driven corporate culture in which both the Company and its shareholders thrive together. existing risks in the changing business environment. ing, securing competitive funding conditions. In the future, we will incorporate key risk response Furthermore, we maintain an appropriate level of procedures into daily duty performance procedures. hurdle rates, the criteria for investment feasibility studies, based on the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) of the Company every month as a Creation of Economic Value (Unit : KRW billion) Distribution of Economic Value (Unit : KRW billion) Category 2011 2012 2013 Category Paid Value 2011 2012 2013 Revenue 31,913.9 34,723.3 31,158.5 Employees Labor Costs 334.6 323.8 325.1 Purchasing Costs (29,491.1) (33,220) (30,085) Government Taxes & Dues 408.1 146 112 Other Income 1,029.2 855.9 808.7 Local Communities Social Contribution* 10.5 14.3 10.8 Other Expenses (1,072.2) (825.7) (723.5) Creditors Interest Expenses 58.4 85.6 53.6 Depreciation (375.8) (383.8) (367.8) Shareholders, Company Dividends, Retained Earnings 1,192.4 580 289.3 Created Economic Value 2,004 1,149.7 790.9 Economic Value Distributed 2,004 1,149.7 790.9 * Donations as stated in financial statements Enterprise Risk Management Training S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 54 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 55 World-Class Risk Management Capabilities The DJSI Assessment on Risk Management Performance Financial Achievements (Unit : points) Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) considers This financial data was reported in accordance with the newly adopted K-IFRS. an enterprise’s risk management capacity to be an essential part of its measurement of corporate eco100 100 100 100 Statements of Financial Position (Summary) (Unit : KRW million) Financial Indictors (Unit : %, multiple) nomic sustainability. S-OIL has been listed in the oil 59 64 69 74 and gas producers sector of the DJSI World since Items 2011 2012 2013 Stability Indictors 2011 2012 2013 2010. Its risk management has been evaluated as the Current Assets 8,823,100 8,580,342 7,911,340 Current Ratio 121.93 136.74 134.44 “World’s Best” for four years in row since 2010 and Non-Current Assets 4,381,001 3,911,699 4,003,595 Total Liabilities to Equity Ratio 152.64 132.54 122.73 is often cited as an exemplary case. S-OIL will further Total Assets 13,204,101 12,492,041 11,914,935 Borrowings to Total Assets 28.35 28.02 26.91 hone its world-class risk management capabilities by Current Liabilities 7,235,988 6,275,121 5,884,823 Times Interest Earned 29.06 9.14 6.83 strengthening its preemptive risk response systems Non-Current Liabilities 741,759 844,929 680,507 Total Liabilities 7,977,747 7,120,050 6,565,330 and improving relevant systems in preparation for fuCapital Stock 291,512 291,512 291,512 Profitability Indicators 2011 2012 2013 ture changes in the business landscape. 2010 2011 2012 2013 Capital Surplus 379,190 379,190 379,190 Operating Income to Sales 5.32 2.25 1.17 Reserves 993,911 1,003,200 1,002,488 Net Income to Sales 3.74 1.67 0.93 S-OIL Global industry average Treasury Stock (1,876) (1,876) (1,876) Return on Equity 24.51 10.95 5.40 Retained Earnings 3,563,617 3,699,965 3,678,291 Operating Cash Flow to Total Assets 3.79 5.72 6.50 Total Equity 5,226,354 5,371,991 5,349,605 Total Liabilities and Total Equity 13,204,101 12,492,041 11,914,935 Growth · Activity Indicators 2011 2012 2013 Statements of Comprehensive Income (Summary) (Unit : KRW million) Sales Growth Ratio 55.59 8.80 -10.27 Operating Income Growth Ratio 106.18 -53.95 -53.18 Enterprise Risk Management System Items 2011 2012 2013 Net Income Growth Ratio 67.93 -51.36 -50.12 31,158,528 Total Assets Growth Ratio 31.99 -5.39 -4.62 Revenue 31,913,863 34,723,291 Cost of Sales (29,695,742) (33,410,816) (30,229,317) Gross Profit 2,218,121 1,312,475 929,211 Payout of Dividends Selling Expenses (437,007) (445,912) (475,847) Administrative Expenses (83,611) (84,799) (87,320) Category 2011 2012 2013 Integrated Risk Management Operating Income 1,697,503 781,764 366,044 Total Dividends Paid (KRW million) 558,915 308,611 154,935 Financial Income 326,402 369,489 290,879 Cash Dividends (%) 46.87 53.21 53.55 Financial Expenses (379,443) (194,536) (250,001) Rate of Cash Dividends Common 4.54 2.49 1.81 EnterprisePreparation Other Income 702,752 486,450 517,835 Preferred 8.22 4.33 2.52 wide response for crises Other Expenses (761,617) (731,004) (537,965) Amount of Cash Dividends Common 4,800 2,650 1,330 Strategies Markets Profit Before Income Tax 1,585,597 712,163 386,792 per Share (KRW) Preferred 4,825 2,675 1,355 Income Tax Expense (393,171) (132,148) (97,486) Net Income 1,192,426 580,015 289,306 Other Comprehensive Income (28,173) (9,346) (3,082) Compliance Finance Operations Total Comprehensive Income 1,164,253 570,669 286,224 Key Risk Field Risk Procurement Marketing Finance HRM IT Operation Prompt handling Direct response Process Risk Management Round-the-clock monitoring system S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 56 Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency 57 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Voice of Stakeholders As market competition intensifies with the advent of shale gas and aggressive investments in energy facilities by countries in the Middle East and Southeast Asia, S-OIL believes it is imperative to define a vision and strategies to secure growth engines for sustainable growth and concentrate on selected new growth engines to create new profits. TS&D Center (Bird’s-eye View) Upgrading Ratio Lube Base Oil Production Capacity Year-on-year GHG Reduction Jong-Bum Ahn, Senior Vice President, Head of Corporate Strategy & Planning HQ In an age of uncertainty, it is important to reinforce the core competencies of a business. When 40.7 % 42.7 MBD 690 thousand tons setting a foot in a new business area, a company should make sure to focus on selected areas where it can gain a competitive edge drawn from capabilities accumulated through the operation of core businesses. In that respect, S-OIL set a new vision in 2013 that we will become the most profitable and Key 01 Report 02 Aspect G4-20, 21 03 MajoR 04 integrated energy company encompassing refining, lube, and petrochemical businesses by 2020. We IssueS Subject (Within/Outside of STAKEHOLDER G4-27 also defined corporate initiative and upgraded our KPI system so as to channel all our resources and the S-OIL) capabilities into achieving the highest performance possible. Ensuring Core Competencies Economic Performance Customers, Employees, New Growth Engines for Sustainable Growth (Within the S-OIL) Shareholders & Investors Today, S-OIL is considering making new investments in residue upgrading complex and petrochemical complex. This investment plan will help to enhance the upgrading ratio of the Customers, Local Reinforcing R&D Emission Communities, Shareholders & Company’s refinery and maximize synergy between refining and petrochemical businesses, which Competencies Tackling Climate Change (Within the S-OIL) Investors, Government in turn will double our profit generating capability. In addition, the Company will reinforce its R&D capability with the construction of a new Technical Reducing Carbon Emissions Service & Development Center, thereby securing key competencies required for the success of the petrochemical business and reinforce our growth engines in the long term. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 58 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 59 7.1 Why is This Important? Amid the current global economic recession, rehighly complex, energy-efficient refineries that are being newly constructed in Asia, home to a growing number of petroleum product consumers, and the have added facilities to convert heavy fuel oil, which has a lower value than crude oil and is expected to see a decline in market demand and profitability ties in the business environment. The sound growth in market demand for olefin downstream products is expected to continue into the future, especially in Developing Core fining companies are facing deteriorating refining Middle East, which has the advantage as crude oil due to stricter environmental regulations on marine developing countries where per capita consumption margins due to severe competition in the market Competencies for producer. Additionally, the shale oil boom has turned fuels, into high value-added gasoline and olefins, has remained at a relatively low level up until now. stemming from sluggish demands and competiSustainable Growth tors’ refining capacity expansion. Based on its past the U.S—traditionally the biggest oil importer—into significantly enhancing the Company’s profitability. Furthermore, S-OIL’s technological partnership with a major petroleum product exporter, while Russia is experiences in which S-OIL secured an edge over The projects will also enable the supply of olefins— a global leading petrochemical company and the also aggressively expanding investments in its refinthe competition through insightful investments, highly cost-competitive products from the residue construction of the integrated petrochemical comery facilities. As a result, pressure is going to mount the Company is now redoubling its efforts to deupgrading complex—to olefin downstream complex plex that is connected to the residue upgrading on Asian export-oriented refiners. velop new growth engines. In 2013, S-OIL set its that are to be constructed simultaneously, thus facilities, which will feed the low-cost olefins as raw Grand Vision at becoming the most profitable and Taking a closer look at newly constructed refinery providing a competitive edge for the Company in its materials, are expected to further consolidate the integrated energy company. To attain this goal, the facilities these days, there are more integrated ambitious entry into the olefin downstream busiCompany’s industry-leading competitiveness. Company is pushing forward with unprecedentedly refinery-petrochemical complexes under construcness. As a result, S-OIL’s business diversification through large facility investments to construct the most tion with the aim of producing even petrochemical While competitiveness of naphtha cracking centers its advance into the olefin downstream business advanced residue upgrading complex and olefin products, which are predicted to see a growth in has been severely undermined by the shale gas is expected to significantly contribute to improving downstream complex that make use of the highly average annual market demand of 4 percent, than boom, residue upgrading technology has emerged its profitability. S-OIL will build upon the success of cost competitive olefins from the upgrading comjust refining facilities producing merely petroleum as the most competitive one because it can prophase 1 of the olefin downstream project and push plex. At the same time, it is planning to construct prodtucts. duce, in commercial quantities and at competitive ahead with phase 2. With a balanced business porta Technical Service & Development (TS&D) Center As such, the ongoing paradigm shift in the petroprices, propylene that cannot be sufficiently profolio between olefin downstream business and its that will meet the highest global standards in order leum refining industry calls for minimizing the produced from gas cracker due to low yield. In step existing businesses, refining, lube and aromatics, to reinforce its technological competitiveness in its duction of heavy oil products and upgrading them with these changes in the industrial environment, thus generating stable operational performance, the existing and the new business areas as well as to into high value products. Constructing integrated S-OIL is building a new residue catalytic cracker Company will grow into a technologically competiequip it with the very best customer service and refinery-petrochemical complexes that employ by adopting the most advanced technology which tive integrated energy company. R&D capabilities, integral factors to the success of cost-competitive raw materials and state-of-thecan produce more volumes of propylene than conthe olefin downstream business. art technologies is the best solution for diversifying ventional technologies. High profitability and stable Reinforcing Competitiveness in Existing Businesses the business portfolio through integration with the operation of the most advance residue catalytic Since the commercial operation of its first refinOur Commitment petrochemical business, going beyond the mere cracker can be secured backed by its cost competiing facility with a capacity of 90,000 B/D in 1980, • C  onstructing a Residue Upgrading Complex and production of fuel oil products that will see limited tiveness which is much superior to not only naphS-OIL has grown into a refiner with 669,000 B/D, an Olefin Downstream Complex growth in market demand. To that end, Saudi Aramtha cracker but also CTO (Coal-To-Olefin) and PDH the world’s fifth largest in terms of a daily refining • R  einforcing Competitiveness in Existing co, S-OIL’s largest shareholder, is investing in large(Propane-Dehydrogenation) that recently emerge as capacity at a single plant. Preemptively responding Businesses scale integrated refinery-petrochemical complexes new sources of propylene in China. to market changes such as growing demand for • Reinforcing R&D Capabilities jointly with global chemical companies from around light oil products and stricter environmental reguThis project is monumental for S-OIL because it • Responding to the Shale Gas Boom with the world, such as Sumitomo Chemical and Dow lations, S-OIL has successfully established largedoes not simply aim to expand the Company’s exNew Projects Chemical, with the aim to join the highest rank in scale upgrading facilities, such as residue cracking/ isting refining facilities. Rather, it will diversify the global chemical industry. desulfurization units, more than a decade before its Company’s business areas to the olefin downstream Our Response S-OIL has maintained its competitive edge by prebusiness, which produces high-tech materials with competitors in the mid-1990s, ensuring the stable supply of high-quality, eco-friendly petroleum prodDeepening Competition in the Business Environemptively responding to changes in the industry a wide array of applications, ranging from automoucts, which in turn enhanced its competitiveness ment The growth in market demand for petroleum through successfully proactive investments in biles to home appliances, and further to high valueand profitability. products worldwide is predicted to slow down to an upgrading facilities, such as its Bunker-C Cracking added areas such as IT and bio-technology. Most annual average of 1 percent by 2020. While industrial Center and Aromatics Complex, well ahead of comconspicuously, the project will testify once again Recently in coping with the changing business development in non-OECD countries is expected petitors. Furthermore, the Company will continue to the capabilities of the Company which has susenvironment within the refining industry such as to lead the growth in demand, the demand for peto share strategic directions with Saudi Aramco, tained growth by preemptive response to uncertaindeteriorating refining margins, the Company adjusts troleum products in OECD countries is forecast to so that S-OIL can solidify its leadership as a frontdecline due to stagnant economic growth rates and running refiner through preemptive investments in continuous improvement in fuel efficiency. Specifithe face of fierce competition in the business envically, heavy oil products, which are used mainly for ronment. power generation and ocean-going vessels, are anticipated to suffer market demand contraction due to Constructing a Residue Upgrading Complex and an the shift to alternative fuel sources such as LNG and Olefin Downstream Complex S-OIL is working on stricter environmental regulations on marine fuel. mega-scale projects to construct the most advanced At the same time, a major fundamental shift is exresidue upgrading complex and the phase one of pected in the supply side of the petroleum product olefin downstream complex utilizing olefins from market. Smaller refinery plants that are relatively the newly built upgrading complex as feedstock, old are being shut down in Europe, Australia and with mechanical completion target by the end of Japan, and are quickly being replaced by very large, 2017. When completed on schedule, the project will S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 60 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 61 its utilization rate and optimizes its operational conditions to enhance profitability, and continues to develop and implement profit improvement programs Located in Seoul, the capital city and center of business, academia and culture in Korea, the Magok Industrial Complex is the very best place in Korea for 7.2 Why is This Important? With the growing amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) investment decisions made starting in 2013. This has allowed us to make significant progress in our GHG reduction initiatives through our business activities. that can increase efficiency in energy consumption R&D activities. Thus, the TS&D Center is expected Response to emissions in the air cited as the main culprit for this extreme weather, a number of nations have reached At its production lines, S-OIL strives to reduce its and facility operations with smaller investments. to achieve industry-leading R&D performances by Climate Change an agreement on a single international GHG reducGHG emissions by enhancing energy efficiency and attracting numerous competitive researchers and In the lube base oil business, S-OIL upgraded its tion system that is applicable to developed econoreusing waste heat. S-OIL made improvements at helping to form an outstanding R&D network. existing facilities in 2013 in tandem with the growmies and developing economies starting from 2020. 18 waste heat recovering facilities and processes in ing market demand for premium lube base oils. This As the olefin downstream business pursued by the For its part, the Korean government which has set 2013. As a result, the Company was able to cut down increased its production capacity for premium lube Company is a market-oriented industry, product deits own voluntary GHG reduction goal to lower GHG on its GHG emissions by approximately 110,000 base oils by 3 MBD, overall expanding to lube base velopment that can satisfy market demand and cusemissions by 30 percent of 2020 emissions on a tons, or 1.3 percent, from 2012 levels, except for the oil production capacity of 42.7 MBD, the world’s tomer-oriented services are critical success factors BAU (Business-As-Usual) basis will enact a GHG natural reduction in GHG emissions arising from the second largest at a single plant. In 2014, the Combefore any others. To that end, the new TS&D CenEmissions Trading System (ETS) starting in 2015 as large-scale turnaround. At the same time, S-OIL conpany will carry out more aggressive marketing acter will carry out customer service, product developthe fourth country in the world. tributes to the nationwide effort to curtail GHG emistivities and reinforce its business for various finished ment and core technology R&D activities connected S-OIL is an advocate for both domestic and intersions by delivering products with one percent higher lubricant products to ensure its market stance as a to high value-added petrochemical products that will national moves to address climate change, willingly fuel economy than domestic competitors, extending global leading company. be produced at the olefin downstream facilities. The supports the government’s policy initiatives, and is the scope of its GHG emissions reduction initiative Company will expand and reinforce such function of helping build a consensus across society on tackling right down to the consumer. In the aromatics business, S-OIL successfully comthe TS&D center further along with the expansion of related issues. At the same time, the Company has pleted the construction of its second aromatics By installing an additional MVR that recovers waste the Company’s olefin downstream business. in place practical programs for mitigating and adaptcomplex in 2011, equipping itself with the world’s heat on each process of production, the Company largest level of paraxylene (PX) production capacity Moreover, the Magok TS&D Center will integrate ing to climate change. expects to save approximately KRW 30 billion in at a single plant at 1,800 kilotons per annum (KTA). and reinforce TS&D functions for petroleum prodannual fuel costs, with a 120,000-ton reduction in More recently, the Company has been concenucts that have been conducted by the Onsan R&D Our Commitment GHG emissions annually. In partnership with Ulsan’s trating on strengthening its trust-based customer Center up to this point, including petroleum product • P  articipation in Public Policy Processes municipal government, S-OIL plans to reuse the relationships and on attracting new customers in reR&D, process R&D, and technical support company• Mitigating/Adapting to Climate Change waste heat from its petrochemical refinery process sponse to intensified competition in the market as a wide and to customers. All of this will be done with to produce steam energy, which will fuel the steam result of competitive PX investments made by other the aim of further upgrading the Company’s R&D Our Response turbine power generators used to produce and market players. Since the opening of its Shanghai activities for the existing refining business. distribute enough electricity to supply 5,400 houseBranch in 2012, S-OIL has been continuously strivParticipation in Public Policy Processes In the runholds. This plan is expected to lower GHG emissions In the long run, the TS&D Center will lay a foundaup to the enforcement of the GHG ETS in 2015, Sing to raise its brand value and awareness in China by approximately 60,000 tons annually. tion for the Company to achieve sustainable growth OIL is actively taking part in climate change policy foto maintain its competitive edge in the world’s largbased on its technological competitiveness by rums organized by the government and various other In the future, S-OIL will work on further systematic est PX market. strengthening its functions of identifying and develprograms arranged by the Korea Business Council GHG reduction plans and align itself with the GHG oping new business opportunities as an indepenGHG Emissions per UEDC* for Sustainable Development, making its opinions ETS that goes into effect in 2015, playing an active Reinforcing R&D Capabilities In a bid to support its dent business developer. known directly and indirectly on various ways to efrole in helping achieve the nation’s target for GHG successful entry into the olefin downstream busifectively attain industry-regulated and national GHG emissions reduction. ness and to reinforce its R&D capabilities—the key Responding to the Shale Gas Boom with New Projreduction goals. S-OIL has set an example for other factor to sustainable growth—, S-OIL is planning Energy use per UEDC ects Growing shale gas production led by North companies to follow in addressing climate change Adapting to Climate Change In a bid to minimize to build a Technical Service & Development (TS&D) America is expected to increase LNG supply at YEAR MJ/kUEDC issues in several ways: participating in the Carbon the direct damage to life or property from natural Center that will meet the highest global standards. competitive prices and have clear impact on the 2011 38.5 Disclosure Project since 2011, becoming the first disasters, S-OIL has in place an intelligent diagnostic To that end, the Company signed a contract with global energy market in the long term. The ethane 2012 38.3 Korean company to earn carbon management ceralert system for the stable operation of its producSeoul metropolitan government in February 2014 to price advantage makes ethylene an attractive substi2013 39.1 tificate from the Carbon Trust in 2012 and renewing tion facilities. Based on case-by-case scenarios of enter the R&D-oriented Magok Industrial Complex, tute feedstock for petrochemical products. Also, it is the certificate in 2013, and engaging in the Korea possible responses to emergencies in the event where it will construct a TS&D Center on a site highly likely to speed up the replacing of fuel oils for Productivity Center‘s Carbon Footprint Gallery. of typhoons or blackouts, we run drills on a regular spanning 29,091m2 and with the aim of completing power generation and heating with LNG. GHG emissions per UEDC basis, devising improvements to any shortcomings it by the end of 2016. While keeping a close eye on these trends in the Mitigating Climate Change S-OIL has developed detected during these drillings. At the same time, YEAR tonCO2/kUEDC market, S-OIL is using LNG as a raw material for specific plans for setting its midto long-term GHG we control water quality at a level above legal reproducing hydrogen and as process fuel. In addition, 2011 3.22 reduction targets and for phased implementation of quirements by enhancing efficiency in wastewater the Company is seeking ways to turn risk factors 2012 2.88 the initiatives to reach the targets under a strategic treatment and our water recycling rate to minimize arising from the change in the industrial landscape 2013 2.88 carbon management system. The Company managdamage from water shortages or contagious disinto opportunities. S-OIL will continue to monitor * Utilized Equivalent Distillation Capacity es its GHG emissions in a systematic way by monieases that may arise from extreme weather. In flexchanges in the business environment caused by vig(UEDC) : an index developed by toring GHG emissions, forecasting future emissions ible response to changes in market demands that Solomon, a company that specializes orous shale gas development activities so as to turn in benchmarking refining companies and the required amount of abatement, conducting have arisen from climate change, we are continually risks into new business opportunities. around the world, to objectively GHG mitigation activities, and sharing GHG informaseeking new investment opportunities in preemptive measure a refinery’s throughput capability against the Crude Distillation tion companywide through the corporate informamanagement of risks and opportunities that come Unit (CDU) after taking into tion system. In particular, internal protocols were about from climate change. consideration process complexity and operational performance. altered to take into account carbon costs for all new S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 62 Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth 63 Independent Assurance Statement To the Stakeholders of S-OIL Findings and Conclusion 3. Responsiveness : Organization’ s Response toward The Korea Productivity Center (“the Assurer”) was requested by The Assurer verified that the Report fairly and accurately displayed Key Issues S-OIL to provide an independent third party assurance statement S-OIL’s sustainability management activities and performances. Through the Report, S-OIL understood why key issues are on the validity of contents and information provided in S-OIL’s 2013 Furthermore, it is verified that the Report fulfilled requirements of important and is appropriately responding toward these issues Sustainability Report (“the Report”), and hereby presents followGRI G4 Guideline’s Comprehensive Option. and performances. The Assurer believes that interviews with ing assurance statement: executives who represent each management issue can clearly For general standard disclosures, the Assurer verified that the Reshow S-OIL’s response to their issues. Responsibility and Independence port is compliant with the requirements of Comprehensive Option; S-OIL entitles complete responsibility on the information and opinfor specific standard disclosures, the Assurer reviewed Disclosure Recommendation Korea Productivity Center ions provided in the Report. The Assurer’s sole responsibility is to on Management Approach and indicators regarding material issues The Assurer commends S-OIL’s various effort and performance to provide an independent assurance statement and opinions on the that were found using the process below. improve its sustainability and offers following recommendations in Hong Jin data and contents written in the Report. The Assurer was neither order to improve future reports and its sustainability management Chairman involved in preparation of the Report nor engaged in any conflicts standards: or interests that may undermine Assurer’s state of independence. Dong-Soo Kim Material Aspect DMA & Indicators 1. It is necessary to check whether the effect of key issues occur Director Assurance Standard Customer Relationship N/A within or outside of S-OIL. By doing so, S-OIL can respond The following assurance was conducted in accordance with ISAE Brand Management N/A toward potential risks that can occur. Stakeholders can also Yang-Ho Lee 3000 published by International Auditing and Assurance Standards Diversity and Equal Opportunity DMA, G4-LA12 recognize S-OIL’s activities to reduce the effect. Employment DMA, G4-LA1~3 Team Leader Board (IAASB) and with type 2 moderate level of AA1000AS(2008) Non-discrimination DMA, G4-HR3 2. The Assurer recommends S-OIL to report the commitment assurance standard. It verified the organization’s adherence to Seung-Tae Jung Benefits N/A process for each issue in future reports. Reporting performance AA1000APS(2008) Principles of inclusivity, materiality, and responResearcher Work environment N/A and process toward goals can show stakeholders S-OIL’s effort siveness. Moreover, the Assurer checked whether S-OIL complied Overall(Environment) DMA, G4-EN31 to improve its sustainability management. with Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI) G4 Guideline. Compliance(Environment) DMA, G4-EN29 3. It is necessary to check the measurement of financial impact May 2014 Energy DMA, G4-EN3~7, G4-OG2~3 Limitation Emission DMA, G4-EN15~21 from sustainability management activities related 7 SI’s. If Based on the aforementioned assurance standard, the Assurer Indirect Economic Impacts DMA, G4-EC7~8 S-OIL can report activities and factors of each business process conducted the following assurance on sustainability performance Procurement Practice DMA, G4-EC9 with financial values, it can suggest company’s long-term in 2013 and verified the reliability of performances stated on the Economic Performance DMA, G4-EC1~4 growth and prospects through sustainability management to Report as followings: Financial data was verified with financial Local Community DMA, G4-SO1~2, G4-OG10~11 stakeholders. statements and disclosed documents that were audited by the auditing agency and environmental and social performance data were verified in accordance to type 2 moderate level assurance standard. Moreover, site inspection was conducted on S-OIL’s 1. Inclusivity : Participation of Stakeholders headquarter in Seoul, Korea and Onsan Refinery. S-OIL categorizes key stakeholders into customers, employees, and owners and other stakeholders and differentiates each Methodology group of stakeholders’ expectations and communication The following assurance was conducted in accordance with methchannel. In doing so, S-OIL applies these opinions into its odology specified below: management decisions and policy. Particularly, through annual 1. Verified whether the Report fulfilled the requirements of GRI surveys, there is a paricipation process in deciding issues that G4 Guidelines’ Comprehensive Option. affect S-OIL and its stakeholders. 2. Verified whether the Report was in compliance with the 2. Materiality : Key Issue Identification and Reporting principles dictating the reporting contents and quality based on S-OIL has a material testing process that identifies key issues GRI G4 Guidelines. related to the industry and company. Through the effectiveness3. Examined appropriateness of contents provided in the Report reviewing process, S-OIL applies top management team’s The Sustainable Management Center of Korea Productivity Center is an assurance agency certified by AccountAbility, an institution that establishes global and erroneous information through comparative analysis with opinions into identification of key issues. This shows international standards AA 1000 for stakeholder participation and verifications, thereby qualified to conduct assurance on an independent basis. Moreover, our other sources. S-OIL’s effort to apply sustainability management as a total Assurance Committee is consisted of competent experts, who have ample experiences in sustainability management consulting and assurance and have commanagement issues. By reporting identified key issues in pleted relevant professional training. 4. Verified the basis of key data and information through site relation to Management Principles, S-OIL illustrates its direction *AA1000AS(2008) : AA1000 Assurance Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard, set by AccountAbility, that provides method of reporting sustainability management issues by evaluating the organizainspection on S-OIL’s headquarter in Seoul and Onsan Refinery to respond toward these issues. tion management on performances, compliance with principles, and reliability of performance information and checked internal process and system. * AA1000APS(2008) : AA1000 Account Ability Principles Standard(2008) is an international assurance standard set by AccountAbility that provides principles of AA1000 standards. S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 64 Independent Assurance Statement 65 GRI G4.0 Index Korea Productivity Center verified that the S-OIL’ s 2013 Sustainability Report meets the General Standard Disclosure ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ◦ Not reported N/A Not Applicable requirements for Comprehensive Option of the GRI G4.0 Guidelines. G4 Indicator Reported Page Report Coverage Note External Assurance General Standard Disclosure ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ◦ Not reported N/A Not Applicable G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking Foldout ● p. 64 external assurance for the report. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, G4 Indicator Reported Page Report Coverage Note External Assurance report the scope and basis of any external assurance provided. G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as p. 2~3 ● p. 64 Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. in seeking assurance for the organization’s sustainability report. G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. p. 12~13 ● p. 64 G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of p. 48 ● p. 64 G4-3 Report the name of the organization. Foldout ● p. 64 the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decisionG4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. Foldout ● p. 64 making on economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. Foldout ● p. 64 G4-35 Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social p. 48 ● p. 64 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of Foldout ● p. 64 topics from the highest governance body to senior executives and other employees. countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically G4-36 Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or p. 48 ● p. 64 relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. positions with responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics, and G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Foldout ● p. 64 whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Foldout ● p. 64 G4-37 Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance p. 48 ◐ p. 64 of customers and beneficiaries). body on economic, environmental and social topics. If consultation is delegated, G4-9 Report the scale of the organization. Foldout ● p. 64 describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. G4-10 Report the total number of employees. Foldout ● p. 64 G4-38 Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees. p. 48 ● p. 64 G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining p. 30 ◐ p. 64 G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive p. 48 ● p. 64 agreements. officer (and, if so, his or her function within the organization’s management and G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. p. 4~5 ◐ p. 64 the reasons for this arrangement). G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s Foldout ● p. 64 G4-40 Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body p. 48 ● p. 64 size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the p. 22~27 ● p. 64 governance body members. organization. G4-41 Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest p. 48 ● p. 64 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or p. 70 ● p. 64 are avoided and managed. Report whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. stakeholders. G4-16 List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or p. 70 ● p. 64 G4-42 Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the Foldout, p. 48 ● p. 64 international advocacy organizations in which the organization. development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, value G4-17 -L ist all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or Foldout ● p. 64 or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, equivalent documents. environmental and social impacts.  eport whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial -R G4-43 Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance ● Monthly p. 64 statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-18 Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. p. 6~7 ● p. 64 G4-44 -R  eport the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance p. 42 ● p. 64 -E xplain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics. Report Defining Report Content. whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. p. 6~7 ● p. 64 such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. p. 22, 28, 34, 40, ● p. 64 -R  eport actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s 46, 52, 58 performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. p. 22, 28, 34, 40, ● p. 64 topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and organizational practice. 46, 52, 58 G4-45 Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of p. 42 ◐ p. 64 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and ● p. 64 economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the the reasons for such restatements. highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due diligence processes. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Foldout ● p. 64 Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest Boundaries. governance body’s identification and management of economic, environmental G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. p. 4~5 ● p. 64 and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. p. 4~5 ● p. 64 G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the p. 55 ● p. 64 G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including p. 4~7 ● p. 64 organization’s risk management processes for economic, environmental and social topics. frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, p. 48 ● p. 64 whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. preparation process. G4-48 Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the p. 6 ● p. 64 G4-27 Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, p. 22, 28, 34, 40, ● p. 64 organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including 46, 52, 58 G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. p. 6 ● p. 64 through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics G4-50 Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to p. 48 ◐ p. 64 and concerns. the highest governance body and the echanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Foldout ● p. 64 G4-51 Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives p. 42 ◐ p. 64 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Foldout ● p. 64 for the below types of remuneration. G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Foldout ● p. 64 Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Foldout ● p. 64 governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. GRI Index page ● p. 64 G4-52 Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration p. 42 ● p. 64 Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). consultants are involved in determining remuneration and whether they -R eport the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been are independent of management. Report any other relationships which the externally assured. (GRI recommends the use of external assurance but it is not a remuneration consultants have with the organization. requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines.) G4-53 Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, ◐ Refer to Business p. 64 including the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 66 GRI G4.0 Index 67 Specific Standard Disclosure General Standard Disclosure ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ◦ Not reported N/A Not Applicable ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ◦ Not reported N/A Not Applicable G4 Indicator Reported Page Report Coverage Note External Assurance G4 Description Page Report Coverage Note External Assurance G4-54 Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid p. 42 ● p. 64 DMA Generic DMA p. 26 ● p. 64 individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for p. 26 ● p. 64 for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations G4-55 Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s p. 42 ● p. 64 DMA Generic DMA p. 24~25 ● p. 64 highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments (by type) p. 25 ● p. 64 increase in annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid DMA Generic DMA p. 42 ● p. 64 individual) in the same country. Aspect Specific DMA p. 42 ◐ p. 64 -D escribe actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as p. 18~21 ● p. 64 within the organization’s supply chain does not take place within appropriate codes of conduct and codes of ethics. institutional and legal frameworks. G4-57 Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and p. 18~21 ● p. 64 -D escribe actions taken to determine and address situations where working lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as helplines conditions in the organization’s supply chain did not meet international labor or advice lines. standards or national labor law. G4-58 Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or p. 18~21 ● p. 64 -D escribe actions taken to determine and address situations where work undertaken unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through within the organization’s supply chain is inadequately remunerated. line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover (by age group, p. 45 ◐ p. 64 gender, and region) LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or partp. 44 ● p. 64 time employees, by significant locations of operation LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender p. 45 ◐ p. 64 Specific Standard Disclosure ● Fully reported ◐ Partially reported ◦ Not reported N/A Not Applicable DMA Generic DMA p. 42 ● p. 64 LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee p. 45 ● p. 64 G4 Indicator Reported Page Report Coverage Note External Assurance category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity DMA Generic DMA p. 54, 60~63 ● p. 64 DMA Generic DMA p. 42 ● p. 64 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed p. 4~5, 54 ● p. 64 HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken p. 42 ● p. 64 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s p. 62~63 ● p. 64 DMA Generic DMA p. 36~37 ● p. 64 activities due to climate change Aspect Specific DMA p. 36~37 ◐ p. 64 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ● Visit our website p. 64 References and statements regarding the collective rights of local communities EC4 Financial assistance received from government N/A p. 64 How both women and men are engaged in local communities DMA Generic DMA p. 34~36 ● p. 64 -H ow works councils, occupational health and safety committees or other indepenAspect Specific DMA Explain whether the organization conducted a community p. 36 ● p. 64 dent employee representation bodies are empowered to deal with impacts on local needs assessment to determine the need for nfrastructure and other services. If communities so, describe the results of the assessment. SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact p. 36~37 ◐ p. 64 EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported p. 34~39 ● p. 64 assessments, and development programs EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts p. 30 ● p. 64 SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities N/A p. 64 DMA Generic DMA p. 51 ● p. 64 OG10 Number and description of significant disputes with local communities and p. 27 ◐ p. 64 Aspect Specific DMA p. 51 ● p. 64 indigenous peoples OG11 Number of sites that have been decommissioned and sites that are in the process N/A p. 64 Describe actions taken to identify and adjust the organization’s procurement of being decommissioned practices that cause or contribute to negative impacts in the supply chain Describe policies and practices used to select locally-based suppliers, either organization-wide or for specific locations. Describe policies and practices used to promote economic UNGC Index inclusion when selecting suppliers. (Suppliers owned or staffed by members of vulnerable, owned by women, marginalized or underrepresented social groups, Small and medium sized suppliers) UNGC 10 Principles Contents Page EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation p. 39 ● p. 64 Human Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Provide best-in-class work environment 40~45 DMA Generic DMA p. 27 ● p. 64 Rights proclaimed human rights. ∙ Promoting Diversity and Fairness Aspect Specific DMA Describe whether the organization is subject to any p. 27 ● p. 64 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ∙ Industry-Leading Compensation and Fringe Benefits country, regional, or industry regulations and policies for energy. Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective ∙ A Healthy Work-Life Balance EN3 Energy consumption within the organization p. 9 ● p. 64 Standards recognition of the right to collective bargaining. EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization p. 9 ● p. 64 Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. EN5 Energy intensity p. 63 ● p. 64 Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. OG2 Total amount invested in renewable energy N/A p. 64 Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment OG3 Total amount of renewable energy generated by source N/A p. 64 and occupation. EN6 Reduction of energy consumption p. 39 ● p. 64 Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Achieve operational excellence 22~27 EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services p. 62 ● p. 64 Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. ∙ Environmentally-Friendly Management DMA Generic DMA p. 62~63 ● p. 64 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally ∙ Environmental Management that Reaches Communities Aspect Specific DMA Explain whether the organization is subject to any country, p. 62~63 ● p. 64 friendly technologies. ∙ Enhancing Energy Efficiency to Mitigate Climate Change regional, or industry regulations and policies for emissions./In addition to using Develop platform for sustainable growth 58~63 the DMA Guidance for reporting on targets, when reporting on GHG emissions ∙ Developing Core Competencies for Sustainable Growth targets, identify whether offsets are used to meet the target ∙ Response to Climate Change EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) p. 9 ● p. 64 AntiPrinciple 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Pursue global best practices of corporate governance 46~51 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) p. 9 ● p. 64 Corruption bribery. ∙ Transparent Corporate Governance EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) p. 9 ● p. 64 ∙ Enhancing Corporate Value through Transparent EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity p. 63 ● p. 64 Management Practices EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions p. 27, 62 ● p. 64 ∙ Efforts Towards Shared Growth with Partner Companies EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) N/A p. 64 EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions p. 9 ● p. 64 S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 68 GRI G4.0 Index/UNGC Index 69 Recognition of S-OIL S-OIL welcomes your feedback on the 2013 S-OIL Sustainability Report. Please contact us with your opinions and suggestions. Month Award Organization Tel: +82-2-3772-5237 Fax: +82-2-3772-0964 E-mail: sustainability@s-oil.com Feb. Outstanding corporate disclosure records Korea Exchange Address: Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-Gu, Seoul 121-805, Korea Jun. Korea’s Top Award: World-Class Company of the Year Award Korea CEO Association Jun. Most Outstanding Company in Corporate Governance Korea Corporate Governance Service Jul. 2013 Fortune Global 500 (371st) Fortune, U.S. Sep. Mayor’s commendation at the 14th Social Welfare Day Awards Seoul Municipal Government Sep. Listed to the DJSI World Index (Oil & Gas) S&P Dow Jones, RobecoSAM, Korea Productivity Center Oct. Top 250 Global Energy Company (98th) Platts, U.S. Readers’Opinions Global Petroleum and Gas Refining and Marketing Company (14th) Nov. Carbon Management Global Leaders Club : 1st in the Energy/Utility Sector Carbon Disclosure Project Korea (CDP Korea) Committee 1. Which of the following stakeholder groups do you belong to? Nov. Green Ranking by the JoongAng Ilbo daily newspaper JoongAng Ilbo Nov. Presidential Prize at the Korea Brand Awards Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy □Customer □S-OIL employee □Shareholder/Investor □Local resident □Partner company Nov. Prime Ministerial Prize at the Korea Safety Awards National Emergency Management Agency □NGO □Media □Government □Research/Academia □None of the above ( ) Nov. Named an excellent performer in the Clean SYS (funnel TMS) operation Ministry of Environment Dec. Ministerial commendation for family-friendly companies Ministry of Gender Equality & Family 2. How did you learn about S-OIL’s sustainability report? □S-OIL website □Smartphone/Tablet app □Seminar · Lecture · Exhibition Association Memberships □S-OIL employee □Other website □Newspaper · Magazine □None of the above ( ) Association Year of Joining 3. Referring to the box below, which section of the report did you find most interesting? ( ) Korea Petroleum Association 1980 4. Referring to the box below, which section, if any, do you find requires additional information? ( ) Onsan Industrial Complex Environment Management Association 1983 Korea Oil Station Association 1985 <Section> Onsan Industrial Complex Safety Management Association 1986 ① CEO’s Message ⑦S  PECIAL REPORT 3. Beyond Legal ⑬ Attain Highest Level of Capital Efficiency Korea Industrial Safety Association 1988 ② Value Chain & Stakeholder Engagement Compliance in Corporate Culture ⑭ Develop Platform for Sustainable Growth Korea Lubricating Oil Industries Association 1992 ③ Materiality Test ⑧ Achieve Operational Excellence ⑮ Others ( ) Korea Fire Safety Association 1993 ④ Key Sustainability Performance Results ⑨ Enhance Customer-Centric Management Korea Chemical Management Association 1997 ⑤ SPECIAL REPORT 1. Upgrade of Strategic ⑩ Contribute to Society Korea Fair Competition Federation 2001 Framework ⑪ Provide Best-in-Class Work Environment Environment Protection Council 2002 ⑥ SPECIAL REPORT 2. Leading a Good ⑫ Pursue Global Best Practices of Corporate Forest for Life 2003 Safety Culture, S-OIL Governance Korea Forum for Progress 2005 Korea-Middle East Association 2007 Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development 2008 Onsan Industrial Complex Hazardous Material Safety Management Council 2008 5. Does this report include all the key issues that you think should be addressed? UN Global Compact 2010 □Yes □No 6. If not, which issue(s) should be added in future reports? 7. The report frame was structured based on S-OIL’ s Seven Management Principles as well as Special Reports. If you have any further comments on the report (e.g. its structure and content or the Company’ s sustainability initiatives in general), please feel free to specify them. Environmental : A+ Social : A+ 2 0 13 Governance : A S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 70 From Sustainability Management Team, S-OIL, 192, Baekbeom-ro, Mapo-gu, Seoul, Korea 1 2 1 8 0 5 S-OIL 2013 Sustainability Report S-OIL Sustainability Report 2013 66
