corporate responsibility report 2013 communicating on progress Cover: Illustration of the proposed transformation of one of Copenhagen’s three inner city lakes into a rain park to safeguard Copenhagen against heavy cloudbursts. Visualisation: Ramboll, Atelier Dreiseitl – part of Ramboll. Our commitment 3 Key actions 4 Ambitions 8 Corporate responsibility in Ramboll 9 Dilemmas 12 Advocacy 16 Community engagement 20 Projects 22 Measurement 27 Ramboll is a leading engineering, design and consultancy company founded in Denmark in 1945. Our turnover in 2013 was approx. EUR 1 billion and we are Europe’s fourth largest consultancy by revenue. We employ more than 10,000 experts across 21 countries and have close to 200 offices. We have a significant presence in Northern Europe, India and the Middle East and emphasise local experience combined with a global knowledge base. We constantly strive to achieve inspiring and exacting solutions that make a genuine difference to our customers, end-users and society as a whole. Ramboll works across the markets: Buildings, Transport, Environment, Energy, Oil & Gas and Management Consulting. www.ramboll.com corporate responsibility 2013 3 Our Commitment We are responsible engineers and and consultancy services. We consultants who believe in the are passionate about responsibly power of knowledge to create a delivering world class and better and more sustainable future. high quality solutions to our customers, by addressing global Ramboll is committed to the UN challenges, supporting broader Global Compact’s Ten Principles UN goals and contributing to on human and labour rights, the sustainable development. environment and anti-corruption. We wish to advance our efforts Our independence is fundamental and continuously improve for our existence and success as our performance to fulfil our a sustainable society consultant. objective to develop Ramboll Ramboll has a long history of as a responsible company. cooperating with and providing unbiased consultancy to all Today, Ramboll is growing stakeholders in society, for beyond the Nordic environment example, private companies, we can positively influence to become a truly international public authorities, citizens, NGOs development in society. We company. In 2013, we expanded etc. Our foundation ownership are used to expressing our our foothold in countries such as supports our integrity and ensures opinion and engaging in open China, Romania, Singapore and that our activities are absolutely dialogue with our customers. If the USA. The journey is exciting independent of any external or we believe a project should be but also challenging as entering personal interests. Our professional done differently, we say so. international, and sometimes more advice, judgments and decisions demanding markets requires a are impartial and based on the Jens-Peter Saul stronger focus on having effective principles of confidentiality. Group CEO, Ramboll processes and systems in place. Hence, specific attention was Supporting sustainable put on establishing the Ramboll development is always a matter Compliance Programme in 2013. of balancing needs with social, environmental and economic Also changing are the regulatory considerations. On a daily basis, requirements and global standards Ramboll is balancing many needs on corporate responsibility, and consideration, for instance, for instance, the UN Guiding between individual customer Principles on Business and interests versus society interests Human Rights. Therefore, in 2013 in energy supply. Between the we focused on identifying any short-term negative impacts policy gaps in the light of current versus the long-term positive expectations and updating policy impacts in building projects, frameworks to ensure continued or between increased mobility compliance and best practice. and economic growth versus increased travel and CO2 Global challenges such as the emissions by transport solutions. quest for resources, climate change, environmental problems, Ramboll believes that by being globalisation and urbanisation, proactive and using our leverage as well as demographic changes, as independent engineers and all drive the need for engineering consultants to address dilemmas, 4 key actions Key actions Based on experience from 2012 corruption principles. To embed it, criteria for our board members and ambitions for Corporate the Global Commitment is reflected and individuals in management Responsibility (CR), we directed and explained in a newly drafted positions. In 2013 we introduced our main efforts in 2013 into the Code of Conduct to be approved a new equal gender policy in key actions presented below: and rolled out to all employees Ramboll, setting the target for in 2014 as part of Ramboll’s the Board of Directors in Ramboll Human rights new Compliance Programme. Group A/S that each gender is Ramboll is committed to respect represented with two members. human rights. We realise that the In 2013, we conducted a health Furthermore, the purpose of the contexts in which we operate and safety gap analysis workshop policy is to ensure that each gender will influence how we address with participants from across all is proportionally represented in adverse impacts. Through an principal business units and external management positions to reflect assessment of gaps between expertise, to establish a unified view the actual proportion of each Ramboll’s policies and procedures, of Ramboll’s health and safety risks gender in the industry in general and the UN Guiding Principles and mitigation measures. Based on (approximately 30% female on Business and Human Rights the key findings, recommendations and 70% male). In 2013, Merete (UNGPs), we have identified that were made to take health and safety Helene Eldrup joined the Ramboll our policy on human rights did efforts further. To secure the safety Group Board of Directors A/S not cover all aspects necessary of our employees and support and thereby the Board is closer under the UNGPs. Therefore, our Global Risk Policy, extended to its target fulfilment. we have prepared a new policy travel security advice was made commitment in 2013, which has available for employees travelling A way for Ramboll to ensure equal been informed by relevant internal to high risk countries in 2013. opportunities when appointing and external expertise, and clearly people to new management stipulates Ramboll’s expectations Labour rights positions − subject to a prerequisite to employees, business partners In Ramboll we respect the right to that appointed candidates must and other parties. In addition to non-discrimination and therefore always fulfil the requirements for the UNGPs, the policy commitment support the principle of equal seniority and competence for the named “Global Commitment” representation of gender in board position in question is our highalso covers the Ten Principles and management positions, and we potential-employee identification under the UN Global Compact acknowledge the need for diversity and development process (see including environmental and antiand high professional competence measurement page 30). Currently corporate responsibility 2013 5 RAMBOLL CO2 EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY USE AND WORK-RELATED TRANSPORT % of total C02 emission 35% 27% 20% 11% 7% 0% Reporting period 1 July 2012 to 30 June 2013. Public Air Electricity Car Heating transport Ferry the distribution is 22% female also introduced Workday as the by our own energy use and workversus 78% male for identified common HR system enabling related transport for approximately high-potentials. To further embed us to harmonise the process 10,000 employees. Based on our equal gender policy in Ramboll, across Ramboll. This provided all learning from the previous two a task group has been established employees with the opportunity years, we are improving the quality to work on recommendations to document their dialogue with of data collection and achieving advancing these efforts. their manager and to follow up more accurate results, as we In 2013, we introduced on agreed actions. In 2013, 92% make increasing use of national the Group Performance and of employees had a development emission factors specific to energy Development Process (PDP) in dialogue with their manager. type where possible, instead of order to strengthen the managerapplying International Energy employee dialogue as well as Environment Agency average standards. All our increase our focus on employer For the third year, we measured our principal business units are showing and employee performance. We worldwide CO2 emissions caused an improvement in their data Ramboll is working on the environmental and social masterplan for the Saudi Arabian coastal city of Jeddah, to ensure a sustainable city for the benefit of public health and development. Left: Ramboll employees working on the Forth Replacement Crossing. Scotland’s and Nothern Europe's largest bridge construction project in the years to come. 6 Key actions collection and calculation methods, and more than half of all business units are also showing a decrease in their CO2 emissions compared to 2012 (see figure on page 33). Based on our expertise from consulting customers on green accounts and statements from environmental experts, experience shows that it can take up to five years to gain an accurate and reliable CO2 account, as comparable data collection and calculation methods need first to be established and validated. When a reliable CO2 account has been established, then it will make sense to use it for monitoring the effects of CO2 reduction measures. In 2013, we measured Ramboll’s total CO2 emission as 19,748 tonnes (2012: 20,043) equal to 2.11 tonnes per Full Time Employee Equivalent (FTEE) (2012: 2.17). 850 A slight decrease in our CO2 emission has been achieved. result of a reduction in electricity use. This is especially a result of The CO2 emission caused by our continuous focus on optimising energy use (electricity and heating) office space and centralising office was 0.80 tonnes per FTEE (2012: facilities. The CO2 emission caused 0.81), a slight decrease mainly as a employees have taken by work-related transport was “Up2Speed” training 1.32 tonnes per FTEE (2012: 1.36), in the new Ramboll and also showed a decrease. Above: The City of London increasingly Project Management model in 2013. The intensive use of our global focuses on promoting public transport, cycling and walking. video conference system, together Below: In 2013 we introduced the unified with the rollout of Microsoft approach to project management across Lync globally in 2012 as a flexible the entire Ramboll Group. This is from communications platform, enables an induction workshop in Dubai. people to connect everywhere with instant messaging, voice, video, and online meetings. This has a positive effect on our behaviour and helps reduce our CO2 emission caused by work-related transport, as well to facilitating increased cross-collaboration (see figure on pages 32-33). In 2013, we were very close to reaching our target of requiring all principal business units to conduct full CO2 mapping on energy use and work-related transport, covering all employees and offices (see notes explaining this on page 33). Furthermore, we established a method for data collection and calculation of CO2 emissions from rental cars. Also in 2013, was the year when a new market strategy for environment was introduced and corporate responsibility 2013 7 a Group environmental policy was prepared to replace local policies and create a unified approach to reduce adverse impact on environment and climate. We expect to present the policy for approval, launch and implementation in 2014. Anti-corruption Given Ramboll’s wish to combat any form of corruption and bribery, the tightening regulatory framework requires effective assessment, prevention, mitigation and monitoring processes to enable best practice. Based on the findings of a company-wide corruption risk assessment and review in 2013, we have prioritised measures to ensure we have adequate procedures in place and to address areas that hold the greatest challenges. The results have been fed into the development of a newly drafted Code of Conduct. Programme was established in Every day we find innovative solutions to the global challenges of demographic 2013, including appointment of a changes, urbanisation, climate change, Tax Group Compliance Manager and environmental problems, resource scarcity A common tax policy was rolled implementation plan for 2014. and globalisation. out in 2013. It is a central part of The Compliance Programme also this policy for all principal business includes the development of a units to comply with tax laws policy defining the authority for both locally and globally and not managers in accordance engage in aggressive tax planning. with their role and job profile We seek to maintain transparent (Policy on Delegated Approval relationships with tax authorities, Authority). Secondly, a detailed and we focus on constantly uniform Group procedure on improving and strengthening commercial and legal terms our procedures and controls in the consultancy service relating to tax compliance. agreement was developed to manage risks systematically. Processes and procedures In 2013, we introduced a unified Building on the initiatives in 2012 approach to project management to identify gaps and risks, in 2013 across the entire Ramboll Group. we have developed a revised This way, customers benefit policy framework for our Code from consistent project delivery of Conduct and have identified excellence, innovative solutions, and prioritised future actions. and access to the best specialist expertise. The Ramboll Project Management (RPM) process includes a consistent approach to risk and opportunities management, which is central to our further work to identify risk and opportunities related to human and labour rights, the environment and anti-corruption. To ensure systematic and consistent implementation of policies and procedures throughout the company a Ramboll Group Compliance 8 ambitions ambitions In future, Ramboll will continue Our focus in 2014 to advance our efforts within Corporate Responsibility (CR). On human and labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. We will persist in doing what we do well, and aspire to become even better. As our company grows Subjects actions Benefits rapidly, we must maintain a strong Assessments Conduct Group environmental Prioritised environmental focus focus on continued compliance impact assessment of Ramboll’s areas with regulations and internationally own operation recognised principles on human Assess how to embed equal gender Identified recommended actions and labour rights, environment policy further and anti-corruption. Also we wish to ensure that our policies and Evaluate our CR project screening/ Identified potential gaps in CR due diligence process* project screening/due diligence procedures conform with best process* practice on CR, to fulfil Ramboll’s Policies Follow approval process and launch Continued best practice on CR own objectives and to develop new top level Global Commitment Ramboll as a responsible company and new Code of Conduct in accordance with the Ramboll Align Group policies with new Embedded CR in organisation Foundation’s (majority owner) Global Commitment long-term goals and priorities. Follow approval process and Improved environmental launch and implement Group performance Environmental Policy Processes Develop Group method for Improved mapping of Ramboll’s measuring water consumption own environmental impact and waste Develop revised anti-corruption Prevented and mitigated risks procedure Develop pilot project for Identified systematic best revised CR project screening practice for preventing and /due diligence process* mitigating CR risks Integrate CR in new Ramboll Improved process of assessing Tender Management Process CR impacts in tender phase and communicating CR externally to customers Training Communicate new Global Embedded CR in organisation Commitment and new Code of Conduct to all employees Train employees in the Embedded CR in organisation new Code of Conduct Develop targeted CR training to Prevented and mitigated risks high risk/areas of concern Measurement Develop CR KPIs Improved documentation of (Key Performance Indicators) performance Review Monitor CR compliance Tracked effectiveness of * In this context, due diligence is an ongoing management process designed CR processes to avoid and address adverse impacts on Integrate CR KPIs in new Group Documented and reported human and labour rights, environment and Compliance Review performance anti-corruption. corporate responsibility 2013 9 Corporate Responsibility in Ramboll At Ramboll, Corporate who once a year convey progress Elements – Responsibility (CR) is an to the Ramboll Foundation, the CR management system integrated part of our majority owner of Ramboll. business approach. 01 Policy Sustainability Excellence Network Ramboll values, Code Group Policies Ramboll has a Sustainability of Conduct, Code of Our responsibility is expressed Excellence Network consisting Practice, standards and in our Group policies, which are of cross-organisational internal more detailed instructions the general rules to be observed experts with the role of addressing are communicated and to meet our standards for sustainability issues related to our explained to all employees. responsible business behaviour. service offering to customers and The UN Global Compact’s Ten to provide recommendations to 02 Organisation Principles are integrated in the the Group Executive Board. As A CR manager and a CR following policies as per 2013. an integrated part of the Group coordinator are appointed • Code of Conduct Strategy, the responsibility and for all principal business • Code of Practice accountability for sustainability units. Channels for • Obligation to act policy in our services are anchored communication are defined. • Group HR policy with the Group Executive Board • Equal gender policy and the Group Market Directors. 03 Due diligence • Global risk policy The Managing Directors for Procedures for identifying • Travel policy the principal business units (screening) and managing • Tax policy are responsible for integrating CR critical projects are • Policy on suppliers, sustainability in our services and implemented in quality sub-consultants and markets according to our strategy. management procedures. consortium partners 04 Training Management system Employees are trained To translate our policies into in the Code of Conduct practice, for example our and how to use the CR management systems are management system. based on FIDIC’s ‘Guidelines for integrity management in 05 Audit the consulting industry’ (FIDIC: Monitor and document the International Federation whether CR is implemented of Consulting Engineers), in the project processes see overview to the right. and whether corrective and preventive actions are Governance completed successfully. CR in Ramboll is anchored with the Group Executive Board. The 06 Management review Corporate Legal function has the At least once a year, the daily responsibility for developing, local management reviews coordinating and reporting on the CR procedures for corporate responsibility at Group suitability, adequacy and level. In each principal business effectiveness, and decides unit, a CR manager and a CR actions for improvement. coordinator are appointed. Status and progress on CR are reported to the Group Board of Directors, Taking action in support of un goals UN goals refer to the most acute global challenges including for instance the Millennium Development Goals, water security and sanitation, climate change mitigation and adaptation, health, education, employment, children’s rights, human rights, etc. (www. business.un.org/en/browse/global_issues). Ramboll has been working in the Arctic for more than 30 years and has gained a comprehensive understanding of the area’s sensitive natural environment, social considerations and special working conditions. 12 dilemmas dilemmas Supporting sustainable where relevant. Sustainability is On a daily basis, Ramboll is development always poses more than energy savings and balancing many needs and dilemmas when balancing needs CO2 reduction potential, and consideration, for instance, between with the social, environmental and is part of projects other than individual customer interests economic elements of sustainability. building and planning initiatives. versus society interests in energy In 2013, Ramboll’s Sustainability It became clear in undertaking supply. Between the short-term Excellence Network consisting this exercise, that sustainability negative impacts versus the longof experts from across the always poses dilemmas. It is not term positive impacts in building company initiated the exercise to an ‘either or’ situation but rather projects, or between increased establish a unified understanding about making a qualitative and mobility and economic growth and approach to sustainability quantitative evaluation, weighting versus increased travel and CO2 in Ramboll. We need to ensure the different dimensions and emissions by transport solutions. that our common perception of finding balanced solutions that sustainability takes all dimensions move things in a positive direction of sustainability into consideration for our customers and society. corporate responsibility 2013 13 Sustainability Ramboll acknowledges the needs from society and where we as engineers and consultants make the greatest contribution to sustainable Ramboll define sustainability in development is through our accordance with the Brundtland expertise and technical knowhow Commission’s definition of sustainable addressing these needs sustainably. development: “Development that However, Ramboll cannot always meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future influence the decisions in a project generations to meet their own needs.” leading to a sustainable solution. Social Sometimes we are met with the Environmental (Source: World Commission on Environment and Economic Development’s report “Our Common Future”, 1987) belief that sustainability equals increased costs despite experience demonstrating the opposite, and as a result, the demand for sustainable solutions could be greater. Also in our role as engineers Society development and consultants, we are often just one piece of the puzzle with a in the Arctic narrow project scope and a limited The Arctic is experiencing between urban development or impact on the entire project and its unprecedented interest from mining and farmland or herding. context. When the overall project international companies looking Ramboll cannot and will not stop vision and concept is deficient in to extract minerals, gems, oil and socio-economic development; other sustainability aspects, and gas. This is fuelling the economic our role is to be responsible decisions are out of our influence, and social development of the consultants and engineers who it may not be possible to provide countries straddling the region contribute to building sustainable the most sustainable solution. and also challenges the cities. societies that equally serve A dilemma is also short-term Greenland in particular anticipates all types of customers, such versus long-term benefits. For great commercial opportunities, as private companies, public instance, short-term focus in but this is also a cause of great authorities, citizens, NGOs, etc. the design and build phase can social and environmental concern We are committed to delivering sometimes prevent focus on for one of the world’s most socially, environmentally and applying a Life Cycle Assessment unique, and until now, untouched economically responsible (LCA) of a building. A dilemma is environments. Contradictory outcomes through continual also recognising that sometimes concerns also emerge such dialogue with stakeholders in the achieving sustainable development as between natural resources Arctic, for instance, indigenous might lead to not building anything exploration and environmental Inuit or Sami communities and or going through with a project. In and public health concerns, or local public authorities. particular work at the policy level or at the early stages of a project, could lead to recommendations that cut the supply of work to engineering design teams. In all cases and contexts Ramboll wish our customers to be wellinformed of sustainability impacts and we aim at developing solutions that address society’s needs and create long-term value for people, the planet and the economy. Left and right: Among other services Ramboll is performing social, environmental and socioeconomic impact assessments for customers in Greenland. 14 dilemmas Energy supply A dilemma related to delivering solutions in the market of energy and climate mitigation is to combine energy and climate mitigation planning with the right technological solutions, such as energy efficient and renewable energy technologies. And keeping a holistic view and the right strategic focus when designing energy and climate mitigation plans for municipalities, cities, regions and countries. Often there will be a potential risk of sub-optimisation and delivering inadequate solutions if the right balance is not considered in delivering our services. As a consequence, Ramboll focuses on all efforts and measures related to delivering sustainable energy and climate mitigation plans are qualified and quantified from a social, environmental and economic point of view while keeping in mind the overall Above: Ramboll is supporting Troms Kraft Produksjon AS in the procurement of turbines for 54MW Fakken onshore wind farm in northern Norway. vision of the project or plan. Below: Flaring is the controlled burning of natural gas and a common practice in oil and gas exploration, production and processing operations. Ramboll provides technology that obtains what is known as a “smokeless flare”. Gas flaring Ramboll provides expertise on a large range of renewable technologies including wind, waste-to-energy, district heating, solar, etc. But we also provide expertise on traditional fossil fuel technologies such as oil and gas. It could be argued that these activities contradict each other. For instance, CO2 emissions from platforms, refineries and gas production sites are a source of atmospheric pollution. However, acknowledging the world’s current need for oil, we see an opportunity in helping the traditional fossil fuels move in a more sustainable direction. Ramboll has considerable experience in designing flare gas recovery systems that reduce CO2 emissions from the platforms and increase the production of export sales gas. So recovering valuable resources instead of discharging them into the atmosphere, which is much more harmful to the environment than emitting the gas without igniting it first. corporate responsibility 2013 15 Respecting human rights in challenging contexts Ramboll has the responsibility (minimum wage), safe and in a positive direction. This is a to respect human rights in all healthy working conditions, great opportunity for Ramboll to the countries where we operate. equal opportunity for everyone help create effective policy making However, both risks and dilemmas to be promoted etc. and build sustainable societies. concerning human rights are Adverse impacts on human more obvious when working in rights caused by business relations countries that neglect their state are of great concern to Ramboll. duty to protect human rights. We use our influence to impact Ramboll takes a firm stand positively on projects. We seek against abuse and exploitation of to prevent and mitigate adverse migrant workers in any context. impacts by entering into dialogue For instance, in relation to the with our customer and project respect for their right to safe and consortium partners. We believe healthy working conditions, right in engagement, dialogue, and not to be subjected to slavery, consulting the stakeholder groups servitude or forced labour, and as the means to prevent and right to adequate standard of living. mitigate adverse impacts and to Ramboll works to avoid and address and resolve grievances. address adverse impacts on the As responsible consultants and right to enjoy just and favorable engineers, we believe that the best Ramboll believes that safe and healthy conditions at work, including equal is to be present in such countries working conditions must be an indisputable pay for equal work, a living wage in order to influence development prerequisite on any construction site. 16 advocacy advocacy Ramboll builds a bridge between To be able to succeed we have an – supporting broader UN goals stakeholders in society. We outward focus on engaging with all contributing to sustainable advise governments and business types of stakeholders to increase development. In 2013, we engaged on societal, environmental and positive impacts on society. We in many initiatives, conferences and economic issues and planning, advocate the importance of action partnerships to exactly do that. we enable delivery of sustainable addressing global challenges such Some examples from 2013 follows, buildings, infrastructure and energy as the quest for resources, climate to demonstrate how Ramboll supply, and we facilitate responsible change, environmental problems, advocates for sustainable extraction of natural resources. globalisation, and urbanisation development. corporate responsibility 2013 17 Sustainia knowledge partner Ramboll is knowledge partner to the innovative community Sustainia (www.sustainia.me) where thought leaders and organisations come together to promote a platform for working with sustainability and to create concrete and real solutions for a sustainable transformation. As a knowledge partner, Ramboll has played a key role in defining the overall criteria for the selection of the 100 solutions presented in the sustainability guide ‘Sustaina100’ which was published in 2013. In addition, Ramboll has assisted in the assessment and selection of the 100 solutions included in the guide. The UN Global Compact is a strategic partner to Sustainia. Above: ‘Green Solution House’, on the Danish island of Bornholm, was nominated for Sustania100 in 2013. It brings together principles from Cradle to Cradle, Active House, and DGNB-DK. Visualisation: 3XN. Left: Chicago Lakeside masterplan won the Sustainia Community award in 2012 the solution that recieved the most votes from the general public. Ramboll participated in the design concept for sustainable energy, water management, and waste management. SUSTAINIA Visualisation: Skidmore, Owings & Merril LLP/MIR. Below: The City of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. Sharing best practice The Danish government and the EU have in recent years put a strong focus on developing a framework for corporate responsibility, with the aim of contributing and promoting responsible growth creating value for both businesses and society. Hence, the Danish Business Authority works to improve the conditions for businesses and in that connection has established the CSRgov website (www.CSRgov. dk) as a tool for businesses to seek inspiration and best practice. Ramboll contributed with a case sharing our experience with working on construction sites in Dubai, illustrating how through dialogue and cooperation we have taken initiatives to prevent negative impacts on human rights. 18 advocacy Inspiring ideas Ramboll is a partner in ‘CoCreating Sustainable Solutions for the Future’, a competition that encourages Danish and Indian students to collaborate. The Indian engineering students chosen as winners have been in Denmark to learn more about sustainable solutions in Denmark and visit universities and companies. They also paid a visit to Ramboll to get feedback and further develop their ideas on business, technology and urban development. Each winning project constitutes a concrete solution to existing urban and rural challenges in India. All the projects can help improve quality of life. Among the winning ideas were: 1. Empowering the growing India by its green energy and connecting the Danish clean technology experience with micro-financing systems in India. 2. An air-conditioning system that cools by means of recycled water from the household 3. Providing practical and affordable housing solutions for the urban poor living in existing low income settlements 4. A waterline concept addressing Supply of clean drinking water is one of the urban challenges in India. urban water shortage problems Trucks drive drinking water from the desalination plant to the city. This by merging protection, rainwater extremely vulnerable system also aggravates traffic problems. collection and public service. Nordic Built Principles In 2013, Ramboll committed to The Nordic Built Principles: adapted to local conditions the Nordic Built principles and 1. Made for people and 8. Is produced and maintained signed its charter designed for promotes quality of life through partnerships founded the building sector. We commit to 2. Pushes the limits of sustainable on transparent collaboration taking leadership and implementing performance, as a result of across borders and disciplines the Nordic Built principles in our our innovative mind-set and 9. Employs in concepts that are work and our business plans. We high level of knowledge scalable and used globally commit to taking the necessary 3. Merges urban living with 10. Profits people, business actions to delivering competitive the qualities of nature and the environment. concepts for a sustainably built 4. Achieves zero emissions environment that benefits users, over its lifecycle the building sector, the Nordic 5. Is functional, smart and region and the world. The initiative aesthetically appealing, is established by Nordic Ministers building on the best of the for Trade and Industry with the Nordic design tradition objective of supporting the 6. Is robust, durable, flexible development of new concepts and timeless built to last for sustainable construction. 7. Utilises local resources and is corporate responsibility 2013 19 stakeholder Above: The city of Tromsø, Norway – a city in the Arctic circle. Below: In late October 2013, Ramboll hosted a round table engagement discussion on sustainable development in the Arctic. In the Arctic business cannot be successful if the local communities we serve are not developing in a positive direction. At the same time, society needs businesses to help ensure growth and development. Ramboll believes that working responsibly in the Arctic is an indisputable prerequisite for all companies wanting to help Arctic societies in their growth and development. It is a question of realising that cooperation and partnerships are necessary to succeed in doing business in the Arctic – a region where experience, credibility and safety are crucial. In 2013, Ramboll took the initiative of hosting our first round table meeting where key between companies is very with the purpose of helping local stakeholders in the Arctic were important for business in the companies with their corporate invited to discuss the challenges Arctic. For many years Ramboll responsibility efforts while creating and solutions for societal has been member of the awareness and knowledge sharing. development in the region. The transatlantic network – the Arctic Ramboll is also member of the Arctic round table was held in Tromsø, Business Network – focusing on Cluster of raw materials, a platform Norway with the participation of developing cooperation between for companies with interest, mayors from Arctic cities, industry companies, institutions, authorities, experience and competences within leaders, NGOs, businesses as well NGOs etc. The Network started the extractive industry. as research experts. The region is as a collaboration between experiencing a growing interest companies in Greenland and from multinational companies in the city of Aalborg in Northern the energy, oil and gas, mining Denmark, but now it has grown and commodities industries. The into an international network round table explored how future with more than 80 members development can be achieved and acts as sounding board for in a responsible manner. public authorities and ministries With Ramboll’s close to 30 years’ of business, trade and growth. experience of doing business in Other networks are important, the Arctic, we have for a long time for instance, Ramboll is member acknowledged that cooperation of CSR Greenland a network 20 community engagement community engagement Each year, Ramboll employees economic developing countries. Ramboll contributes proactively set about helping their local We also bring engineering into to the fulfilment of ‘the right community or people in need the schools, to inspire students to education’, ‘the right to around the world through pro bono to become engineers and benefit from scientific progress’ work, donations or by volunteering teach them how rather simple and ‘the right to water and with their knowledge and expertise. engineering solutions can be of sanitation’ in certain contexts. Because we believe that vital importance to communities in children have the right to learn, economic developing countries. we support educating children in Here are a few examples of how Building a bridge to schools The Charity Task Group organised engineering project and its various schools competing in the Mersey by Ramboll employees in the UK challenges with assistance from Gateway Bridge competition. Here supports many charitable initiatives professional engineers. In this teams of students developed their in both local communities in the case, the students were met with own designs for a new bridge UK and around the world. The task the task of producing a concept over the River Mersey, together group has been a huge success design for a disaster relief shelter with Ramboll engineers over since its establishment in 2011. for the homeless in Haiti, with several months, culminating in One such initiative in 2013, potential further application in a presentation and awards day to promote engineering in the natural disasters elsewhere. with judges from the industry. local community and to inspire They received help and expertise children to become engineers, was from some of Ramboll’s graduate a partnership with Wimbledon engineers who stepped up to High School to participate in mentor the students through the the Engineering Education project from briefing to final Scheme (EES). One of many presentation. schemes run by the Engineering As part of another initiative called Development Trust in the UK, ‘Bridging the Gap’, engineers from EES provides a chance for Ramboll’s office in Chester in the students to tackle a genuine UK gave support and advice to corporate responsibility 2013 21 Supporting Engineers Without Borders Ramboll also funds Engineers Without Borders (EWB). This nonprofit organisation is responsible for improving the quality of life in disadvantaged communities worldwide, through education and implementation of sustainable solutions, by offering engineering expertise – all on a voluntary basis. We encourage our employees to join EWB as this is a genuine way for engineers to make a difference. Thus in 2013, the Ramboll Foundation granted EUR 39,000 to EWB in Denmark to support training in scientific equipment donated by Aarhus University School of Engineering to Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology in Ghana. EWB has conducted and carried out a training programme illustrating Above: Several of the Humanitarian Association members have volunteered at the Welfare home in New Delhi. how the equipment should be Left: Ramboll engineers have been helping to bring handsused. In addition, they invited a on construction experience into the schoolyards with the Ghanian laboratory technician to Institution of Civil Engineers’ project ‘Bridge to Schools’. attend a three-months’ internship at Aarhus University to get practical experience and thereby become capable of fixing, developing and maintaining electronic equipment for the purpose of research. Working for the A further donation from the Ramboll Foundation of EUR 61,000 was given to EWB in Norway to rights of children plan and carry out a water and In 2013, the Ramboll Foundation • A welfare home for children sanitation project, providing the donated EUR 27,000 to the in New Delhi, India 700 inhabitants of the village international humanitarian • The street children project, Kiruruma in western Uganda federation Terre des Hommes, Vatsalya, in Mumbai, India, with clean drinking water. The working for the rights of that aims at providing care, project has caused a dramatic children, to promote equitable education and shelter to decrease in illness in the village. development without racial, some of the millions of Other donations by the religious, political, cultural or street children in Mumbai. Ramboll Foundation in 2013 were gender-based discrimination. The Humanitarian Association a donation of EUR 33,500 to The financial support was – an employee organisation ‘Danmarks Indsamling’ and another granted to the three following initiated by Ramboll employees EUR 12,000 to ‘TV-aksjonen’ projects – one in Kenya and two in Denmark with the primary the Danish and Norwegian in India: purpose of supporting children broadcasting companies’ • The WEMA Centre in Mombasa, in need also supports Terre (DR and NRK) annual charity Kenya. A children’s home for des Hommes and the projects telethon. A further EUR 80,000 approx. 120 girls to protect in Mombasa and New Delhi. was donated to internationally them from a life on the streets. Approximately 135 employees are recognised aid organisations to This is done by means of currently members of this internal help Philippine disaster victims education, health programmes organisation which has donated after the typhoon Haiyan struck and basic necessities such as around EUR 250,000 to charity in early November 2013. food, clothes and shelter since its establishment in 1992. 22 Projects projects Ramboll is dedicated to developing Our combination of competences of our customers and society. solutions to solve global challenges, and services bring together Thus, our responsible business such as resource scarcity, climate engineering, design and approach combined with our change, environmental challenges, management consulting expertise. capabilities enable us to address globalisation, urbanisation Across our disciplines, we provide today’s global challenges. and demographic changes. expert knowledge, sustainable and long-term solutions for the benefit corporate responsibility 2013 23 A blue and green revolution Cities around the world are considering various ways of adapting to a changing climate. With the prospect of increasing rainstorm frequency, cities such as Copenhagen are introducing plans that view the higher water volumes as a resource rather than a problem. Copenhagen is planning to invest around EUR 1 billion to safeguard the city against future extreme weather, while also exploiting the positive aspects of the restructuring. Ramboll has prepared a planning framework focusing on specific solutions that can protect Copenhagen against heavy cloudbursts. The framework focuses on creating blue and green areas to absorb and divert large volumes of water. By combining these areas with so-called water boulevards on strategically chosen streets to channel water into the harbour, flooding can be avoided. One of the more radical solutions is to transform one of Creating Above: Offenbach Harbour in Frankfurt, Copenhagen’s three inner city Germany. An industrial peninsula on the lakes into a rain park. This will liveable River Main is being converted into a new create a vast area for collecting sustainable city district with assistance from Ramboll experts. The German water and additionally enhancing cities Association of Sustainable Building (DGNB) the recreational value of the city. has pre-certified Offenbach Harbour with a In Sweden’s second largest city, gold standard in the category ‘Sustainable Gothenburg, Ramboll is carrying urban districts’. Left: Illustration of the proposed In 2013, as part of Ramboll’s out a similar project for the local transformation of one of Copenhagen’s sustainable city services, we have government, conducting hydraulic three inner city lakes into a rain park to developed the Liveable Cities Lab measurements of the drainage safeguard Copenhagen against heavy cloudbursts. Visualisation: Ramboll, (LCL) to explore ways of making system as part of an ambitious Atelier Dreiseitl – part of Ramboll. cities more attractive to their plan to map the flooding risks inhabitants. LCL studies advance throughout the city. in cities around the world that create green and attractive liveable places in which to live and work. An example is in Finland where we are working on two projects financed by the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation (TEKES) to develop strategic business plans for urban development. This involves using among others innovative 30% digital solutions to promote predicted likely sustainable urban development increase in rainfall by enabling technological choices for Copenhagen. in relation to energy consumption Data source: and transportation – always City of Copenhagen, Denmark with the end-user in mind. 24 projects The World’s number one sustainable building Ramboll creates visionary, sustainable and awardwinning buildings, meeting the strictest demands for energy-efficient design. In Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates, Ramboll has designed the mechanical, electrical and plumbing (MEP) services for the “world’s number-one-mostenvironmentally -sustainable” building. In 2013, this project, called the Change Initiative Building, was officially recognised as the world’s most sustainable building, when assessed according to the American LEED (Leadership in Energy and Above: The world’s most sustainable building the ‘Change Initiative Building’ Improving Environmental Design) standard. in Dubai, Unites Arab Emirates. Below: A public standpipe provides water supply The Change Initiative is a nonprofit organisation that solely safe drinking water to the inhabitants of Yenagoa, Nigeria. in Nigeria provides sustainable solutions and In Nigeria, access to safe drinking products, and has incorporated water is one of the greatest environmental considerations development challenges. The into all aspects of their 4,000 provision of improved water and m2 new head office in Dubai – sanitation supports human rights from efficient MEP services and such as the right to clean water water conservation strategies to and sanitation and the right health, renewable energy technologies. by reducing incidences of disease, but also economic development, corresponding reductions in health care costs, less time and efforts needed for the collection of water, and improved potential for business development. In the Niger Delta of Nigeria, Ramboll is currently working to improve access to water supply and sanitation facilities in five Niger Delta states through technical support to water supply and sanitation institutions in urban areas and small towns. Ramboll’s work focuses on developing and implementing effective, realistic and efficient governance structures in the water supply and sanitation sector, leading to improved sector policies, facilitating greater financial backing and community support. The project is carried out in a consortium led by Safege, in partnership with Mott Macdonald and Yves Bee. The project started in July 2013 and will run for a period of four years. corporate responsibility 2013 25 supporting public Health Our strong local presence allows us to support and promote sustainable growth and development in India. Selected to design modular toilet buildings for schools throughout one of India’s largest states Andhra Pradesh, Ramboll is making a positive contribution to fulfil the right to an adequate standard of living including the right to water and sanitation. Furthermore, it supports our wish to create a significant beneficial impact on improved sanitation. The UN estimates that up to 2.5 billion people worldwide lack access to basic sanitation which is a UN Millennium Development Goal. The client is a joint venture between a UK-based investor and NVH Technology. Ramboll is also working on launching and managing a National Electromagnetic Radiation Portal that will allow the public in India to verify that emission norms are being met by telecom towers in their neighbourhood thereby contributing to the right to benefit from scientific progress. The portal is a significant step in the right direction to introduce knowhow, transparent processes and synergies between the public, government, and the telecom sector in India – especially as there is an increased public awareness about health and safety issues concerning radiation from telecom towers. Above: It is an opportunity for Ramboll to positively impact sanitation through improving the standard of school facilities. Left: Ramboll received the Danish Lighting Award for the innovative and sustainable illumination of ‘Lynetten’ the Copenhagen sludge incineration plant turning it into a beautiful new landmark. The lighting design highlights the building’s architectural character by illuminating five silos with orange and red colours that flow from the inside to the outside of the building. At the same time, the lighting design is environmentally friendly. 26 country offices Nordics Denmark Finland Greenland Norway Sweden rest of europe Belgium Cyprus Estonia Germany Poland Romania Russia Switzerland United Kingdom India and Middle east India Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Qatar United Arab Emirates north america USA Asia China Singapore corporate responsibility 2013 27 Measurement Social, environmental and employee satisfaction economic measurements are used to show the outcome of To increase employee satisfaction, a global performance and development process was launched in 2013. our CR efforts. Where possible, measurements are made for each overall operational unit measurement target > 4 (called principal business unit) Employee Satisfaction (index 1-5) in Ramboll and a Group average or total is also provided. business unit 2011 2012 2013 Note: Denmark 4.0 4.0 4.0 • The principal business unit New Markets Sweden 4.0 4.1 4.0 was established in 2013 as a result of reorganisation. New Markets includes Norway 3.9 3.9 3.9 results from India and Middle East. Finland 3.7 3.7 3.8 United Kingdom 3.7 3.6 3.8 New Markets n/a 4.0 4.1 Management Consulting 4.0 4.1 4.1 Oil & Gas 3.7 3.9 4.0 Energy 3.9 3.9 3.9 Corporate 4.1 4.1 4.2 Ramboll Group average 3.9 3.9 3.9 On target Not on target measuremenT Target > 80% Employee response rate, % business unit 2011 2012 2013 Denmark 89 92 92 Sweden 86 89 84 Norway 84 87 84 Finland 86 84 85 United Kingdom 68 82 85 New Markets n/a n/a 89 Management Consulting 86 88 90 Oil & Gas 98 90 94 Energy 87 88 91 Corporate 100 97 100 Ramboll Group average 84 86 88 On target Not on target 28 measurement Labour rights Works Council meetings held in every business unit. measurement works council meetings per year Principal business unit 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Denmark 4 4 4 4 4 Sweden 1 2 7 7 4 Norway 12 12 24 50 4 Finland 4 4 4 4 4 United Kingdom 6 9 4 18 3 New Markets* 5 12 12 4 14 Management Consulting 4 4 8 4 4 Oil & Gas 4 12 21 20 20 Energy n/a** 4 4 4*** 4*** Ramboll Group 1 1 1 1 1 Implemented Partly implemented Not implemented * From 2013 India is included in the measurement. Previous years only the Middle East was included in the measurement. ** The business unit, Energy, was established 1 January 2010. *** The business unit, Energy, included in the principal business unit Denmark’s Works Council meetings measurement All principal business units have the following procedures in place to avoid discrimination objective Systematic procedure objectively ensuring that ability, recruitment competences, skills, experience and performance are always the basis for recruitment and promotion. process disability Systematic procedure objectively ensuring awarenessraising of disability issues. age Systematic procedure that ensures age verification verification prior to employment. health and safety In 2013 a Group health and safety gap analysis and review was conducted and results have been fed into a recommendation. measurement Principal Business Units that are ohsas* 18001 certified: Oil & Gas *OHSAS: International Occupational Health and Safety management system specification. corporate responsibility 2013 29 performance and Development dialogue To develop and retain employees each year employees have a dialogue with their manager. A global performance and development process was launched in 2013 to document goals and development plans. measurement eses score* 2013, % Principal business unit Management Consulting Energy Oil & Gas United Kingdom Denmark Norway Sweden Ramboll Group average Finland New Markets 0 50 100 *Measurement of how many employees who confirm in the Employee Satisfaction and Engagement Survey (ESES) that they have had a development dialogue with their manager. employee turnover Employees who have voluntarily terminated employment. measurement employee, voluntary turnover, Ramboll group total, % 20 10 0 2011 2012 2013 30 measurement diversity measurement Gender representation A policy for equal gender representation in total 2013 in management was established in 2013. Ramboll Group average measurement general Gender representation, distribution Denmark 30% 70% Sweden 31% 69% Norway 35% 65% Finland 39% 61% United Kingdom 31% 69% 31% 69% Middle East 14% 86% Oil & Gas 26% 74% Energy 21% 79% Management Consulting 52% 48% Corporate 30% 70% Business Support and IT 44% 56% Ramboll Group average 31% 69% measurement age distribution – Group average 2013 < 19 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60-69 > 70 1% 20% 33% 23% 16% 7% 0% measurement measurement gender distribution on management level Gender representation and identified successors (B-D level), female % in high potentials 2013 Management B-level 7% Successor B-level 14% Ramboll Group average Management C-level 12% Successor C-level 23% Management D-level 23% Successor D-level 24% All Ramboll employees are mapped into a global job family architecture. The architecture consists of a number of profiles reflecting job levels ranging from A to H level. To have the right people in the right places at the right time, the succession planning and high potential identification process is designed to secure both 22% 78% management continuity and the identification of high potential employees. corporate responsibility 2013 31 Environmental accreditation scheme capabilities In Ramboll we provide assessment services within a variety of environmental accreditation schemes covering different themes, in relation to buildings and communities. A way to measure, document and compare the quality of sustainable buildings and communities. Below are measured Ramboll’s licensed assessors for each scheme in 2013. measurement Number of licensed assessors BREEAM Environmental assessment method ESTIDAMA Pearl building rating system and rating system for buildings in Abu Dhabi 24 5 LEED Leadership in energy CEEQUAL The sustainability assessment and and environmental design awards scheme for civil engineering 13 5 miljöByggnad Environmental building certification CSH Code for sustainable homes, an in Sweden environmental assessment method 10 3 certified energy OCDEA An on construction domestic energy export Energy certifications of buildings assessor in Sweden 3 8 DGNB Sustainability certification scheme EPC Energy performance certificate for properties 6 under Green Council Denmark 1 An environmental assessment is a holistic evaluation considering a number of criteria with regard to building materials, mobility opportunities, pollution, waste handling, energy consumption, water, biodiversity, health, safety, social value and financial considerations. The accreditation schemes vary according to local conditions and needs and are a good way to give concrete expression to sustainable buildings, communities and cities. Environmental management system measurement ISO 14001* certified principal business unit 2012 2013 Denmark Sweden Norway Finland United Kingdom New Markets Management Consulting Oil & Gas Energy ** ** Implemented Partly implemented Not implemented *ISO 14001: International standard for environmental management system. **Energy in Sweden. 32 measurement online Communication tools measurement lync* Instant messages 2013 By having more flexible and effective online communication tools, we are able Total number: to improve cross-organisational cooperation and at the same time decrease our travel needs, thus decreasing the CO2 emissions from work-related transport. measurement 135,158 global video conference system (vc) total number of calls 2012: 2013: measurement 28,196 36,308 lync* Video conference 2013 Total number: C02 emission 8,476 In 2013, we were very close to reaching our target of having all principal business units conduct a full CO2 mapping on energy use and work-related transport, covering all employees and offices. See notes explaining this on page 33. *Microsoft Lync is a unified communications platform that enables measurement people to connect everywhere with instant messaging, voice, video and online Development in CO2 emission 2013 meeting function. per employee compared with 2012 Sweden Norway United Kingdom Middle East Energy Finland Oil & Gas Management Consulting Denmark India Corporate Ramboll Group average Development compared with 2012 per business unit: Decrease Increase measurement co2 emissions per employee (FTEE), tonnes energy use work-related transport Total CO2 emissions 4 4 4 2 2 2 0 0 0 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 2011 2012 2013 corporate responsibility 2013 33 Air Air Ferry Ferry Public transport (train, bus, metro, Public metro, tram) tram) Ramboll co2 emissions from energy All cars All use and work-related transport in 2013 per principal business unit Heating Heating Electricity Electricity 00 22 44 Sweden Sweden Norway Norway United Kingdom United Kingdom Middle Middle East East Energy Energy Finland Finland OilOil && Gas Gas Management Management Consulting Consulting Denmark Denmark India India Ramboll Ramboll Group average average Tonnes CO2 Tonnes CO2 perper employee employee per year per year (FTEE)(FTEE) note: • Reporting period is 1 July a common view towards the use of India: 2012 to 30 June 2013. CO2 certificates across PBUs, which • Reduced taxi use as transportation and • If the International Energy Agency could be included in the guide for next instead increase in public transport factors (IEA statistics, “CO2 Emission year’s CO2 mapping. However, it should and company cars. Use of IEA factors. from fuel combustion highlights”, be noted that the data is not cleaned • FTEE is based on an average of 2011 edition) are used instead of for certificates. Calculation for cars is 11 months, due to lack of data. national factors, this is stated in based on a six month data period. Energy: the business unit notes below. Finland: • The absolute emission increased but • FTEE figures are 12 months • This year’s reporting for heating there is a considerable reduction per rolling FTEE June 2013. has been included for the first FTEE because of better data and • The business unit New Markets is time, thus the total emission is increase in FTEE proportional to split into two separate accounts, one increasing. Use of IEA factors. the office space. Ten employees are for India and one for Middle East. United Kingdom: included in Ramboll UK’s account. • Cars are not included in reporting. 58 employees in the newly acquired Principal business unit specific notes: Some offices lack figures for air travel company IMS are not included. Two and train. The travel figures for London employees in India and nine employees Sweden: and Southampton are estimated in Germany are not included in • Data from credit cards is not included based on the accurately recorded reporting. Partly use IEA factors. in reporting. Deviation from last figures of the Chester office. Figures Oil & Gas year’s reporting is due to much more for heating and electricity deviate • Partly use IEA factors. reliable data collection and improved much from last year’s reporting due Management Consulting: calculation methods in this reporting to more reliable data collection in this • This year changed to national factor period. CO2 neutrality of trains in reporting period. Use of IEA factors. for heat consumption in Denmark Sweden is obtained through purchase Middle East: (heating factor 317 was altered of environmental certificates. This • Partly use IEA factors. to 120). Partly use IEA factors. is not the most sustainable way to become CO2 neutral. There should be 34 measurement corporation income taxes Ramboll pays a substantial part – in 2013 30.5% of its profits as corporation tax in the countries in which we operate. Ramboll booked a total corporate income tax cost of DKK 109 million in the 2013 accounts. measurement Tax on profit for the year 2013 Country DKK Million Norway 33.7 Denmark 31.1 Sweden 21.3 Finland 13.4 India 4.5 Rest of world 2.4 United Kingdom 1.6 Germany 1.2 Ramboll Group total 109.2 CR management system measurement CR Management system 2013 Code of CR CR screenCR training CR audit* CR Conduct organisation ing proceonboarding management to all dure no. of review employees registered CR principal files in 2013 Business unit Denmark 1 40 Sweden 0 2 Norway 0 2 Finland 0 0 United Kingdom 1 28 New Markets** 0 16 Energy 0 8 Oil & Gas 0 >20 *** Management Consulting 0 0 On target Partly implemented Not implemented * See explanation on page 9 05 Audit ** India not included in reporting for 2013 *** Integrated in HSEQ audits whistleblower measurement subject and number 2011 2012 2013 of whistleblower reports Code of Conduct 1 2 1 Critical supplier 1 Discrimination 2 People / Management 6 6 3 IT 1 Values 1 Ramboll Group total 9 11 4 Ramboll Group A/S Danish CVR No. 10160669 Editors: Stine Jeppesen and Anne Sophie Eichhorst Art Director: Lone Olai Printers: Cool Gray A/S. www.ramboll.com
