Standard Chartered PLC Sustainability Review 2013 Sustainability Review 2013 Contents Forward-looking statements 1 From the Chairman and Group Chief Executive 2 Contributing to sustainable economic growth 2 Being a responsible company 3 Investing in communities 3 Sustainability and our business 4 Contributing to sustainable economic growth 5 Access to financial services 5 Sustainable finance 14 Being a responsible company 16 Governance 16 People and values 17 Financial crime prevention 22 Responsible selling and marketing 26 Environment 28 Suppliers 32 Investing in communities 33 Community programmes 34 Employee volunteering 39 Emergency response 40 Our engagement 41 Stakeholder engagement 41 Our performance 49 Clinton Global Initiative (CGI) – Commitment progress 49 Millennium Development Goals – Our contribution 50 Sustainable finance 52 Access to finance 54 Responsible selling and marketing 55 Financial crime prevention 56 People and values 56 Environment 58 Community programmes 63 Sustainability awards 2013 64 Sustainability indices 65 Unless another currency is specified the word ‘dollar’ or symbol ‘$’ in this document means US dollar and the word ‘cent’ or symbol ‘c’ means one-hundredth of one US dollar 1 Forward-looking statements It is possible that this document could or may described in the forward-looking statements contain forward-looking statements that are are changes in the global, political, economic, based on current expectations or beliefs, as business, competitive, market and regulatory well as assumptions about future events. These forces, future exchange and interest rates, forward-looking statements can be identified by changes in tax rates and future business the fact that they do not relate only to historical combinations or dispositions. or current facts. Forward-looking statements Any forward-looking statement contained in often use words such as anticipate, target, this document is based on past or current trends expect, estimate, intend, plan, goal, believe, and/or activities of the Group and should not will, may, should, would, could or other words be taken as a representation that such trends of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not or activities will continue in the future. The Group be placed on any such statements because, by undertakes no obligation to revise or update their very nature, they are subject to known and any forward-looking statement contained within unknown risks and uncertainties and can be this document, regardless of whether those affected by other factors that could cause actual statements are affected as a result of new results, and the Group’s plans and objectives, to information, future events or otherwise. differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward-looking statements. Among the factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 2 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 From the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Banks play an essential and immensely Contributing to sustainable economic growth is about using our core capabilities as a bank to support our clients and valuable role in society, fuelling economic customers in generating economic activity and jobs across our activity and enabling people, businesses and markets. By facilitating investment, lending and trade, we help communities to thrive. At Standard markets grow and clients and customers generate wealth; over the past five years we have increased lending to clients and Chartered, we are very clear about our customers by nearly 70 per cent to $382 billion. purpose. Our brand promise, Here for good, We are conscious that the way in which we work with our captures our commitment to be a force for stakeholders and deploy our capital can have a far-reaching good in the communities in which we live social and economic impact. Our sustainable finance and work. framework includes 20 Position Statements, which describe our approach to more difficult or contentious sectors. We use these Position Statements, which we updated in 2013, as a practical 2013 was a challenging year in many respects. Volatile financial tool to determine what lending or other services we should markets, persistently high levels of unemployment and growing provide to certain clients and customers. Whilst our preference inequality affected business confidence and social cohesion in is to engage positively with our clients, using our involvement numerous countries, both rich and poor. Many people in our with them to promote best practices in environmental and social footprint across Asia, Africa and the Middle East also faced standards, we have and will continue to turn down transactions political change or instability and, in some cases, tragic natural where we remain uncomfortable with the potential disasters. consequences or risks. Governments, regulators and communities are demanding that During the year we made several public commitments to banks raise their standards and focus more on what they can support sustainable development through our financing. contribute to the broader economy and society. Banks have Under the Clinton Global Initiative (CGI), we pledged to provide rightly responded to these demands. Most banks are carrying at least $30 billion of loans and advances to small and far higher levels of capital and liquidity than before the crisis and medium‑sized enterprises (SMEs) by 2018, an increase of have significantly reinforced their risk management and 45 per cent over 2013. In 2013 alone, we provided $20.6 billion governance. Most banks are much more conscious of of lending to SME customers globally. We also pledged to their obligations to the rest of society, and have changed their finance more than $2 billion in power projects as part of the strategies and business models to reflect this shift. Power Africa initiative, a five-year partnership between the Yet, we would be wrong to conclude that the job is done. In US government, six African countries and the private sector. our view, we are only part of the way through a fundamental To measure the role of Standard Chartered, and banking more transformation of the way banks work; a transformation that broadly, in generating trade, growth and jobs, and to find out will touch every aspect of our business and working practices. what we can do better, we commissioned an independent Reshaping the banking industry and rebuilding trust and study of the impact of our activities in Africa. The results were credibility with the public will take years, but Standard remarkable. By measuring ripple effects through the economy, Chartered is committed to doing the right thing for all our the study shows that our operations and financing support 1.9 stakeholders across our footprint. million jobs, 1.2 per cent of GDP and some $1.8 billion of tax For us, running our business in a sustainable way means payments in 13 of the 15 markets where we operate in Submaking sure that our banking services promote sustainable Saharan Africa. economic and social development in the communities in which we work. We seek to embed this mindset in every aspect of our business activity, from strategy to operational process, across all the different products and markets. In doing this, we focus on three key aspects of sustainability: contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company and investing in communities. 3 Sir John Peace Peter Sands Chairman Group Chief Executive Being a responsible company, our second sustainability Our strategy is to bank the people and companies driving priority, is about making sure we run our business in a way that investment, trade and the creation of wealth across Asia, Africa delivers long-term value for our shareholders and society. Our and the Middle East. We are committed to supporting our culture and values emphasise responsibility and collaboration. clients and customers, creating value for our shareholders and For over ten years, the extent to which our employees making a broader social and economic contribution to the demonstrate our values every day has been reflected in our markets where we operate. We are committed to continuing to performance evaluation and reward system; we assess our make changes to the way we run the Group, raising the bar on people against a consistent set of values across the Group, not every aspect of what we do, to ensure we keep pace with by business unit, function or geography. In 2013, we refreshed society’s changing expectations and the changing needs of our our Group Code of Conduct (‘the Code’), which sets out the clients and customers. We are committed to being Here for standards we expect of all employees; and 98 per cent of staff good: committed for the long run, committed to helping the completed training on the Code. people in our markets achieve their aspirations and committed to playing our role in supporting sustainable and inclusive Investing in communities, our third sustainability priority, economic progress. captures our commitment to work with local communities to promote sustainable development. Strong economic growth across our markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle East is creating unprecedented opportunities, but we need to play our role in ensuring these benefits are felt by everyone. We focus our community investment on education and health Sir John Peace Peter Sands programmes that encourage economic inclusion. Chairman Group Chief Executive 2013 was a very successful year for our community investment programmes. Seeing is Believing – our programme dedicated to tackling avoidable blindness – celebrated its 10th anniversary and raised more than $6 million during the year. Since the Group matches every donation, this means our total contribution was over $12 million in 2013. Since 2003, we have raised over $63 million for Seeing is Believing and we are well on track to meet our target of $100 million by 2020. Goal – our education programme combining sports with life skills, financial education and work force development to empower adolescent girls – reached nearly 40,000 girls in 2013. Since the programme’s inception, we have reached over 86,000 girls. And we have pledged under the CGI a massive step up in this programme to reach an additional 500,000 girls globally by 2018. External feedback helps us shape our sustainability agenda. We were delighted in 2013 to be included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for the fourth consecutive year. We continued to support the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles on human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We were also pleased to be included in the FTSE350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the second time. In 2013, we made substantial progress on all of our three key sustainability priorities, but we cannot afford to be complacent, and must stretch ourselves further in 2014. This year is the 15th anniversary of our Living with HIV workplace education programme to raise HIV and AIDS awareness. We will continue to develop the skills and confidence of disadvantaged adolescent girls through Goal. We will also be delivering on our commitment in 2013 under the CGI to help owners of micro and small businesses to build up their capacity and potential, through an education programme led by Standard Chartered staff volunteers. 4 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Sustainability and our business Sustainability is integrated into how we do Our business strategy focuses on banking the people and companies driving investment, trade and the creation of wealth business. It guides everything we do, from across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. Our core markets are the services we provide to our clients and continuing to see strong economic growth, with rising incomes customers, to the way we run our bank and and increasing demand for financial services. This represents a massive opportunity for our business and, with it, the support the local communities in which we opportunity to promote sustainable, balanced and inclusive live and work. Our approach to sustainability growth in our markets. is captured in our brand promise, Here As a major international financial institution, our commitment to for good. society goes beyond creating value for our shareholders. We seek to ensure that the financing we provide is sustainable and supports economic and social development for all of our stakeholders. Our approach focuses on three key priorities: contributing to sustainable economic growth, being a responsible company and investing in communities. 5 Contributing to sustainable economic growth Through our business of banking, we fuel Our highlights in 2013 economic activity and job creation in our Maintained our position as a top two trade bank as ¡¡ markets. Over the past five years, we have measured by data from the Society for Worldwide increased our lending to clients and Interbank Financial Telecommunication (SWIFT): customers by nearly 70 per cent to Supported significant trade growth in multiple key ¡¡ $382 billion, making a substantial emerging market trade corridors. From 2012 to 2013, we increased our financing across the following contribution to individual economies. corridors (SWIFT data): The credit and other financial services we provide help –– 51 per cent increase in India-Africa flows businesses to set up, trade and expand, and help people buy –– 26 per cent increase in China-Middle East flows their own homes, save and protect their wealth for the future. We believe that by providing these services efficiently and –– 17 per cent increase in India-ASEAN flows responsibly, we can make a real impact on sustainable –– 3 per cent increase in China-Africa flows development in our markets, contributing to economic growth for the long term. Partnered with multilateral organisations to support trade ¡¡ growth in developing economies: Access to financial services –– Increased the availability of trade finance in low-income Our financing helps households, businesses and economies countries in Africa and South Asia by partnering with to move forward. In 2013 alone, we provided $109.2 billion CDC Group, the UK’s development finance institution, in lending to individuals, of which $69.8 billion was in in a $100 million risk participation arrangement mortgages, and a further $20.6 billion in lending to SMEs. We provided $166.9 billion in Wholesale Banking lending. –– Supported trade finance for corporate clients and financial institutions in Africa through a $400 million We provide financing to key sectors that enable trade, risk participation agreement with the African investment and job creation across our markets. These sectors Development Bank form the foundation for a balanced economy that furthers inclusive and sustainable growth. Rolled out technology solutions to further automate our ¡¡ trade processes. As the first bank to conduct a fully View our sector lending data automated Bank Payment Obligation (BPO) in 2012, we on page 54 remain at the forefront of innovation. Clients transacting under BPOs can reduce the delays associated with Trade manual handling and improve their operational efficiency Our capacity as a trade bank is a distinctive advantage. The depth of our network and our local capabilities help drive trade Enhanced our capability to reduce the risk of the abuse ¡¡ flows across our markets and fuel economic opportunity and of trade products by money launderers job creation. Our priorities in 2014 Top 2 trade bank Further encourage the processing of trade transactions ¡¡ through electronic channels such as BPO and electronic bills of lading Provide supply chain finance, which enables local ¡¡ businesses to grow and expand regionally Develop our partnerships with multilateral organisations ¡¡ to support trade growth in developing economies Continue to reduce the risk of trade product abuse by ¡¡ money launderers through employee training and ongoing operational process reviews 6 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Contributing to sustainable economic growth continued Infrastructure Reliable infrastructure is a pre-requisite for economic growth. Our highlights in 2013 Transport and power, including clean technology, are the Provided $774 million of project financing to support the ¡¡ building blocks for promoting local production, trade and power sector across our markets: development. Our priority is to finance and advise on infrastructure and transportation projects that will support –– Joined Power Africa, the US government-led initiative trade growth in a sustainable and responsible manner across to promote access to electricity across Sub-Saharan our footprint. Africa, and committed to provide financing of $2 billion between 2013 and 2018. In 2013, we participated in View our project finance data the ongoing Azura independent power project in on page 53 Nigeria, the first of its kind in 15 years. Phase 1 of the project will generate 450 MW of power $945m provided and supported to –– Arranged financing for two gas power plants in Arun and Bangkanai, Indonesia with a combined output of 339 MW. These plants will deliver a stable supply of renewable and clean tech sector electricity to more than 150,000 homes. The construction and operation of the plants is expected to generate more than 1,200 new jobs –– Agreed a $193 million long-term financing facility with the Ashuganj Power Station Company Ltd. for the construction of a 225 MW combined-cycle gas-fired power plant in Bangladesh. Ashuganj Power supplies 15 per cent of Bangladesh’s electricity Continued to support the clean technology sector by ¡¡ mobilising financing of $945 million in 2013. Since 2007, we have provided and supported more than $10.4 billion Provided $321 million of project financing to support the ¡¡ infrastructure sector across our markets: –– Structured a risk management solution for the Eurasia Tunnel project finance transaction, a key infrastructure project in Turkey Our priorities in 2014 Provide financing to support the power sector in our ¡¡ markets with a focus on advancing our Power Africa commitment Provide financing to airline and shipping clients for ¡¡ fuel-efficient aircraft and ships Continue to arrange financing for wind and solar power ¡¡ projects and facilitate the build-out of water treatment facilities. Most activity will focus on China, India and Africa 7 Supporting Malaysia’s solar industry Boosting India’s clean energy sector Approach Approach We provided financing of MYR163.4 million in 2013 for three In a new and innovative approach to financing wind projects, solar projects in Malaysia as part of a joint venture with Sun we were appointed Sole Account Bank for CLP Wind Farm Energy Ventures Sdn. Bhd. and SunEdison. Pvt Ltd in India in 2013. This is the first transaction of its kind in the renewable energy sector in India and will improve the Outcome efficiency and effectiveness of the financing process. The first project is the largest single solar power plant in CLP Wind Farm power projects were previously funded Malaysia at 10 MW. by multiple lenders and each project had a different bank Pashupathy Gopalan, SunEdison’s Managing Director for account. Under this arrangement, we will pool the cash South Asia and Sub-Saharan Africa Operations, said: “Being flow of the projects to diversify the risk profile and offer able to collaborate with companies like Standard Chartered a portfolio-based risk profile to lenders. who share their knowledge of local regulations and financing structures enables us to achieve our goal.” Outcome Four projects already share cash flow in our pooling which Brad Sterley, our Global Head of Clean Energy Project and totals more than 260 MW. Our solution standardises Export Finance, said: “The agreement reiterates our documentation across all projects and employs our online commitment to renewable energy projects and clean platform Straight2Bank. Straight2Bank will ensure seamless technologies and illustrates our expertise and intimate operations and real-time visibility of information for better knowledge of our footprint markets of Asia, Africa and the reconciliation. Middle East.” “We are committed to clean energy financing and have What next? played a key role in financing over 500 MW of wind farms The three projects are expected to generate more than in India”, said Ravi Suri, our Head of Project and Export 460 million kWh of energy over the next 20 years which is Finance, India, Africa, MENA and Europe. enough to power more than 7,500 homes in a cost-effective way. The projects will offset approximately 15 million kg of What next? carbon dioxide emissions every year. Additional wind projects from CLP Wind Farm will be added to the pool. This pooling structure can be used as a model in the clean energy sector globally. 8 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Contributing to sustainable economic growth continued Our social and economic impact in Africa Having opened our first branch in Africa 150 years ago, The study also highlights how we help to remove barriers we continue to invest for the long term, supporting the to growth and job creation, by using our footprint as an people and businesses driving trade, investment and international bank focused on Asia, Africa and the Middle the creation of wealth across the continent. East to mobilise offshore capital for crucial infrastructure investment, train local talent, introduce innovation and help We believe that banks, working with governments, regulators to develop local financial markets. and local communities, can and should help to drive real social and economic development in the markets where we The study confirms that small and medium-sized enterprises work. (SMEs) are powerful job creators. We will invest more time in looking at how we can work with our large corporate clients to In 2013, we commissioned an independent study to measure support more African SMEs through the supply chain. We will the role of Standard Chartered, and banking more broadly, in also explore how we can help create greater inter-linkages generating trade, growth and jobs across Africa – one of the between different economic sectors in Africa, from farming to fastest-growing regions of the world – and to find out what we manufacturing and distribution, in order to increase our can do better. impact on real development. By measuring ripple effects through the economy, the study The study on Sub-Saharan Africa, led by Professor Ethan shows that our operations and financing support 1.2 per cent Kapstein, is our fourth and most comprehensive impact study of GDP and some 1.9 million jobs, or 0.6 per cent of the total to date, following country-specific reports on Ghana, workforce, in 13 of the 15 markets where we operate in Indonesia and Bangladesh in 2010 and 2012. Sub-Saharan Africa. Read the full study on www.sc.com/ImpactAfrica Watch our social and economic impact in Africa 9 Agribusiness As the main employer in many of our markets, the agriculture Our highlights in 2013 sector underpins economic growth and plays an important role Expanded our Commodity Traders and Agribusiness ¡¡ in poverty reduction. We recognise that there are potential portfolio by 11 per cent to $35.9 billion environmental and social challenges associated with agriculture production. In 2013, we introduced an agribusiness Position Offered solutions, expertise and services to support the ¡¡ Statement to guide our financing decisions. Our financing to the soft commodity supply chain across our markets: sector helps corporate clients as well as smaller farmers take –– Provided financing structures for the warehousing of advantage of local, regional and global opportunities. grains and fertilisers in Southern Africa, which directly supports off-take from farmers 11% and Agribusiness portfolio totalling growth of Commodity Traders –– Supported procurement and warehousing of export $35.9bn and staple food crops in West Africa Assisted clients in managing working capital more ¡¡ efficiently: –– Provided a leading coffee processing and exporting company in Vietnam with a $24 million supply facility that will allow the company to better manage its supply chain during peak production periods, and increase its overall export capacity Our priorities in 2014 Continue to develop innovative solutions that support the ¡¡ growth of agribusiness in our markets with an emphasis on risk-mitigated structures Explore additional opportunities to develop the food ¡¡ supply chain by providing financial support to clients to enhance capacity and improve efficiency 10 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Contributing to sustainable economic growth continued Governments With a 150-year history in many of our markets, we have deep Our highlights in 2013 local knowledge and established relationships with Arranged financing for governments: ¡¡ governments to whom we act as a trusted adviser. We leverage our international network, financial capabilities and expertise to –– Led the largest sovereign Eurobond issuance out of support countries in deepening their financial systems, Africa (excluding South Africa) for Gabon accessing capital markets, managing their wealth and attracting –– Continued our participation in the Chinese Ministry of investment. Finance’s annual offshore CNH issuance programme for which we secured the majority of foreign central 30 workshops to central banks and –– bank investment in 2013. We also pioneered the concept of a central bank tranche Executed our seventh consecutive bond transaction ministries of ﬁnance for the Republic of Indonesia –– Served as a leading primary dealer across our footprint which garnered us recognition as the top bank primary dealer in Korea Financed the construction of more than 2,000 ¡¡ classrooms in more than 700 locations under a Southeast Asian government’s first-time Public Private Partnership for school infrastructure. This solution helps address the country’s classroom backlog and future classroom requirements Continued our role as Sovereign Ratings Adviser to eight ¡¡ governments to support their economic development goals through enhanced credit positioning, investor relations and capital raising strategies. For example, we contributed to the Philippines achieving its inaugural investment grade rating Continued to provide capacity building to support ¡¡ government clients. We offered more than 30 workshops to central banks and ministries of finance across a wide range of issues: –– Leveraging the internationalisation of the renminbi (RMB) –– Exploring Islamic finance –– Deepening local capital markets –– Using derivatives to hedge financial risks –– Enhancing national payment systems, notably mobile –– Improving anti-money laundering (AML) standards –– Supporting microfinance Our priorities in 2014 Commit even greater resources to partnering ¡¡ governments as they look to understand and leverage the continued internationalisation of the RMB Enhance our training and workshop platforms for ¡¡ sovereigns across a range of governance, transactional and broader financial deepening topics 11 We provide finance to individuals Our highlights in 2013 and businesses that are un-served, or Provided $20.6 billion in loans to SMEs across ¡¡ under‑served, by financial institutions. 32 markets Unleashing the capacity of these segments Pledged to increase financing to SMEs by 45 per cent ¡¡ can have a catalytic effect on the broader to $30 billion between 2013 and 2018 as part of our economy, supporting local livelihoods and CGI commitment job creation. Further embedded our environmental and social ¡¡ standards across all SME lending. More detail can be found in Sustainable finance on page 14 Small and medium-sized enterprises Across many of our core markets, small and medium-sized Rolled out our enhanced SME Customer Value ¡¡ enterprises (SMEs) are the backbone of the economy. We Proposition to five new markets taking the total to provide SMEs with the financing and training they need to grow. 19 markets With this support, SMEs help countries build a strong base for Increased loan advances under government guarantee ¡¡ job creation and economic development over the long term. schemes in our markets to $0.5 billion, a 32 per cent increase over 2012. Markets include: Korea, Malaysia, $20.6bn Singapore, Thailand, Taiwan and Hong Kong Committed to train 5,000 micro and small business ¡¡ of financing provided to SMEs owners between 2013 and 2018, with at least 20 per cent being women-owned businesses, as part of our CGI commitment. More detail can be found in Investing in communities on page 33 Our priorities in 2014 Make progress on our CGI commitment to increase ¡¡ financing to SMEs by 45 per cent to $30 billion between 2013 and 2018 Roll out our enhanced Customer Value Proposition to ¡¡ Watch how we are supporting a further five markets SMEs in Indonesia 12 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Contributing to sustainable economic growth continued Microfinance Microfinance plays an important role in lifting people out of Our highlights in 2013 poverty. With access to appropriate and fairly-priced financial Provided $271 million to 25 partners, including six new ¡¡ services, people can grow their income, save and invest in partners in 2013 health, housing and education for their families. Signed a five-year Asia-wide microfinance risk ¡¡ We continue to advance our microfinance business strategy as participation programme with the Asian Development a means to promote financial inclusion. Since 2005, we have Bank (ADB). The ADB will provide risk coverage of up to surpassed $1.2 billion in lending to 79 microfinance institutions $75 million. By providing $150 million in loans to MFIs, the (MFIs) across 18 countries. Our financing has impacted an programme will benefit around 20 MFIs and more than estimated 8.3 million people. one million people across Asian markets over the next five years. This partnership will unlock additional funding Cumulative loans 850m 970m 1,241m to microfinance institutions and extend support to the extended to MFIs sector as it emerges from a difficult economic cycle since 2005 ($) Sponsored the Microfinance Social Performance Report ¡¡ 2011 2012 2013 in India for the third consecutive year. To analyse findings from the Report, we led a discussion panel at the Access Microfinance India Summit in 2013 and conducted two View our microfinance data stakeholder workshops in India on page 54 Rolled out our Microsave Risk Management training ¡¡ toolkit to MFIs in Nepal. More than 40 MFIs participated in the two-day workshop, as well as representatives from the Central Bank of Nepal and the Rural Microfinance Growing businesses in Indonesia Development Centre Ltd (RMDC) Launched client reporting on social performance through ¡¡ the specialised microfinance reporting platform on Mix Market. The online platform will record basic social performance indicators for our microfinance partners. By joining a global platform, we help reduce duplication for our MFI clients on social performance management Our priorities in 2014 Roll out the Microsave Risk Management toolkit to ¡¡ two additional markets Review our Africa strategy to grow the microfinance ¡¡ business in key markets Approach We are helping to improve the distribution of lending to Increase utilisation of the ADB Risk Participation ¡¡ microfinance institutions (MFIs) across Indonesia through Programme to bring efficiency in origination and our $5.2 million credit financing deal with Bank Andara. monitoring The facility is expected to benefit more than 30,000 people Increase client reporting on social performance on ¡¡ who currently have limited access to financial services. the Mix Market platform Outcome Through this financing, Bank Andara will be able to provide local MFIs with access to capital, loans and services. “Indonesia is one of our key markets, and its economic strength lies in its micro, small and medium enterprises,” explains Tom Aaker, Chief Executive Officer, Indonesia. “This microfinance loan facility is a testament to our efforts in promoting the growth of small businesses in the country.” We have also supported MFIs in Indonesia by providing financial education to 400 female micro-entrepreneurs since 2011. 13 Our highlights in 2013 Arranged $20 billion in Islamic financing, an increase of ¡¡ $3 billion over 2012 Expanded our Islamic products to better serve our clients ¡¡ and customers in Africa: –– Launched a suite of Shariah-compliant Wholesale Banking products in Kenya in response to customer requirements –– Introduced Islamic Consumer Banking products for SME and Retail customers in Kenya, with a focus on Nairobi and Mombasa Islamic finance Under the Standard Chartered Saadiq brand, we continue to Participated in working groups with regulatory bodies ¡¡ grow our Islamic banking operations to provide our clients and such as the Hong Kong Monetary Agency’s task force for customers with products and services that are consistent with the development of sukuk regulations their religious beliefs. Won 33 industry awards including ‘Best International ¡¡ Islamic Bank’ and ’Best Structured Products House’ $20bn at the Euromoney Awards 2013 and ‘Best Islamic Investment Bank, Middle East’ and ‘Islamic Loan House of the Year’ at The Asset Triple A Islamic Finance Awards Islamic ﬁnance arranged Expanded our Islamic finance solutions to support SMEs ¡¡ in our markets: Launching Standard Chartered Saadiq –– Introduced the first Islamic Guaranteed Instalment Finance programme for the SME sector in Malaysia. in Kenya The programme provides a guarantee for SME financing through a government-owned entity, Credit Approach Guarantee Corporation Berhad To support local demand for Shariah-compliant products –– Introduced Islamic trade and working capital solutions in Africa, we extended our Islamic banking services and for SMEs in Bangladesh, which completes the SME launched Standard Chartered Saadiq Kenya. Islamic product suite in the market Outcome Our Shariah-compliant Wholesale and Consumer Banking Our priorities in 2014 products range from corporate and consumer finance to trade finance and cash management. This is the most Expand the Standard Chartered Saadiq product suite ¡¡ comprehensive Islamic product suite available in Kenya. in Kenya Expanding Standard Chartered Saadiq to Africa has Improve the accessibility of our services for Commercial ¡¡ opened up access to finance for many more customers and Retail Banking customers: and has paved the way for rolling out the Islamic product –– Introduce additional Saadiq relationship managers suite to other African markets. and ensure that at least 25 per cent of our Islamic The Islamic proposition brings value to the existing branches in Malaysia are focused on Commercial capability of our business in Kenya, and allows us to Banking customers capture an untapped segment in the market. –– Increase the number of Islamic windows in branches by at least 50 per cent in Pakistan and Bangladesh What next? to make Islamic banking more accessible We plan to build on our success and are looking to expand our Islamic banking suite in Kenya and in other markets in Africa. Watch how we are meeting the needs of our Muslim clients and customers 14 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Contributing to sustainable economic growth continued Sustainable finance We recognise that managing and protecting limited natural resources is essential to maintaining economic growth over the long term. Upholding leading environment and social (E&S) standards through our financing is integral to our way of doing business. Our Position Statements set out the environmental and social standards that we expect of ourselves and encourage from our Wholesale Banking clients and SME customers. In 2013, we completed a comprehensive review of our Position Statements. We updated our 14 existing Position Statements and introduced new sectors for a total of 20 Position Statements. The new statements cover agribusiness, chemicals and manufacturing, fisheries, infrastructure, renewable energy and an expanded statement on children’s rights. We conduct business in accordance with our sustainable finance framework, as outlined in our Position Statements. While our preference is to engage with clients and customers to meet our standards, we will turn down transactions where certain environmental and/or social risks and impacts cannot be successfully mitigated. Equator Principles For example, this may include turning down transactions where clients and customers produce commodities with Our highlights in 2013 heightened potential for forced or child labour and who cannot ¡¡Adopted Equator Principles III, which extends the demonstrate alignment with International Finance Corporation application of the Equator Principles (EP) to new product (IFC) standards or where clients or customers significantly classes, including corporate loans with a project impact on, or have operations located within, UNESCO World component Heritage Sites and RAMSAR (Convention on Wetlands of International Importance) sites. ¡¡Contributed to the advancement of the EP application at View our sustainable finance data industry level by participating in and supporting the work on page 52 of EP Working Groups 20 Position Statements Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Deliver training to staff who are likely to encounter the Equator Principles for the first time as a result of EPIII, and on environmental and social standards help them work with clients in applying the Principles ¡¡Work with our clients to provide guidance on the implementation of the new aspects of EPIII ¡¡Continue to support EP Working Groups as a mechanism for sharing best practice among Equator Principles Financial Institutions (EPFIs) and ensure the consistent and effective application of the Principles in our markets 15 Wholesale Banking SME Banking Our highlights in 2013 Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Conducted detailed reviews of more than 170 client Conducted detailed reviews of 64 SME customer ¡¡ relationships and transactions with E&S considerations. relationships and transactions with environmental and As appropriate, developed time-bound solutions with social considerations clients to adopt international standards and align with Trained 267 SME staff, including credit, relationship ¡¡ industry best practice across key sectors including management, operational risk and product teams, agriculture, hydropower and mining through face-to-face and online training ¡¡Undertook portfolio reviews of specific sectors to identify Streamlined SME E&S due diligence processes by ¡¡ areas where our clients may need additional support in integrating the SME E&S assessment into our electronic aligning their operations with international standards credit system, Creditmate. All SME Business Credit ¡¡Updated our E&S risk framework to incorporate EPIII, Applications must now include an E&S assessment which came into effect in January 2014 Conducted internal audits to identify SME markets that ¡¡ ¡¡Continued our training programme, targeting credit, require further E&S risk training relationship management and product teams through Continued to focus on E&S assessments for agriculture ¡¡ face-to-face and online training SMEs: ¡¡Continued to build our E&S risk assessment expertise –– Worked with SMEs in India to ensure that E&S risks are through strategic hires, which further develops our mitigated during post-harvest financing capacity to support clients Collaborated with non-governmental organisations ¡¡ ¡¡Supported a number of financial institutions across our (NGOs) to support the SME sector: core markets as they develop their approaches to E&S risk management –– Collaborated with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) to provide water audits to SMEs in Pakistan Our priorities in 2014 Roll out an updated sustainable finance training ¡¡ programme to frontline staff, supported by an external partner, including online and classroom components Update our credit systems to reflect our revised ¡¡ E&S standards Formalise mechanisms to monitor quality of ¡¡ sustainable finance implementation in our business Continue portfolio reviews to identify sectors or ¡¡ markets where clients and customers may benefit from additional support Continue to identify opportunities to provide technical ¡¡ assistance to agriculture customers in India 16 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company Our commitment to sustainability is not only By creating a great place to work for our people, selling our products and services responsibly, tackling financial crime about the economic activity we finance, but and mitigating the environmental impact of our operations, also about how we run our business. Our we believe that we can make a greater positive contribution focus is on effective corporate governance, to the communities in which we operate. underpinned by strong processes and the Governance right values and culture. Strong governance is the foundation for establishing trust and promoting engagement between a company and its stakeholders. The right culture, values and behaviour must be adopted by the Board and actively promoted by the Group Chief Executive and managers at all levels. The Brand and Values Committee of the Board continues to have oversight of sustainability, including environmental and social governance. More detail can be found in the governance section in the Annual Report 2013 on page 170. 17 People and values We are focused on building a culture that is based on Our highlights in 2013 responsibility and accountability and aligned with our values. Hired nearly 400 graduates into our two flagship ¡¡ Our diverse and collaborative workforce and deep commitment programmes: the International Graduate Programme to doing the right thing are what makes our culture stand out. and Consumer Bank Fast Track Programme Our brand promise, Here for good, helps our people to act with conviction, nurture relationships with our clients and customers Completed a review of our global induction approach, ¡¡ and uphold the highest standards of conduct and integrity. helping new entrants to understand our culture and values, what it means to be an employee at Standard We aim for new employees to establish a connection with Chartered and how to be successful in their role our culture and values from day one through our refreshed induction programme. Performance reviews have taken into Launched a programme to develop a more consistent ¡¡ account the extent to which employees demonstrate our values and effective global approach to the way we manage through their everyday actions for more than ten years. The our contingent workforce, defining a set of minimum introduction of an annual recommitment to our Group Code standards for hiring approvals, reporting and mandatory of Conduct (‘the Code’) is part of a systematic approach to training reinforcing the importance of conduct within our culture. View our people and values data Our priorities in 2014 on page 56 Strengthen our global internship programme and make ¡¡ Talent attraction it the main path to our full-time graduate programmes Our approach to recruitment is aligned to our business strategy Continue to improve the new joiner experience, ¡¡ and focuses on attracting top performers who share our vision embedding the new online induction programme and and are aligned with our values. In 2013, we reduced our overall increasing the number of dedicated points of contact headcount by more than 2,000, reflecting the difficult global for managers market conditions and a keen focus on maximising our internal talent. Further strengthen international mobility, refreshing our ¡¡ policies and reviewing a number of global processes to With a workforce of more than 86,000, one of our best sources improve the end-to-end experience during international of talent continues to be our own employees. We take a moves and permanent international transfers long-term view on career development, providing opportunities to move internally and gain experience in different functions or geographies, or to develop a world-class specialism. More than 86,000 staff globally 18 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Learning and development Our commitment to professional development, including risk Our highlights in 2013 management, ensures our people are able to make informed Rolled out training on the Code. 98 per cent of staff ¡¡ decisions about what is best for our clients, customers and completed mandatory training and 97 per cent of staff business. Our learning curriculum is aligned to the Code and recommitted to the Code. The training reinforces our the broader regulatory agenda, ensuring that the requirements culture and values by providing further guidance on how are reinforced at every opportunity. to act responsibly and within authority, how to use good To support our employees in creating meaningful and engaging judgment and to speak up if they see anything that goes careers, we are evolving our approach to learning and talent against our Group standards, local laws and regulations development providing wider access to learning through Continued the development of our leaders in China and ¡¡ multiple channels. Africa through the Emerging Leaders Programme, which aims to accelerate the development and readiness of 98% staff leaders to assume senior management roles in these key growth markets completed training on Maintained our focus on building local talent through ¡¡ Group Code of Conduct programmes such as our Future Leaders’ Network in Ghana. This programme provides junior employees with a platform to build relationships and explore development opportunities 97% staff receiving training Built a set of principles that guide the way we conduct ¡¡ our talent practices to ensure that we meet the aims of diversity, inclusion and Fair Accountability Our priorities in 2014 Strengthen the role that people managers play in ¡¡ preserving our culture through effective supervision, greater collaboration and effective values-led performance management Continue the development of our multi-channel, ¡¡ demand-led approach to learning aligned to the needs of the business alongside a multi-rater feedback approach for performance and development 19 Performance and reward Employee relations Our performance and reward policy supports our one-bank We continue to ensure that our employment policies meet performance-oriented culture, ensuring that individual reward the social, statutory and regulatory conditions and practices and incentives relate to our overall performance, the relevant that exist across our markets. We recognise that things can go business unit and individual employee performance. wrong and are committed to creating a fair, consistent and transparent approach to the way we act and make decisions. The measurement of values, conduct and behaviour remains This commitment is incorporated in our guides on values and an integral component of our performance management behaviours and is reflected in our refreshed disciplinary and assessment process through our distinctive five-point values grievance policies. rating scale, with reward decisions directly impacted by the level of adherence to our values. As set out in our Human Rights statement, we respect human rights in our operations and adhere to relevant, international and We recognise the need to balance the requirements of local, legal obligations in the countries where we operate. operating a successful global bank and continuing to pay Human rights are taken into account in our procurement competitively. The new regulations under the European Union’s decisions, as set out in our Supplier Charter. We also consider Capital Requirements Directive IV (CRD IV) will have a significant human rights in our financing decisions guided by our Position impact on the structure of remuneration, and preparing for Statements, which address the rights of children, workers and these changes has been a key focus in 2013. We will comply communities in relation to specific industry-sector risks. with the new rules and are supportive of the underlying sentiment behind them. Our highlights in 2013 Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Introduced our commitment to Fair Accountability to reduce the reliance on prescriptive rules and move ¡¡Strengthened the risk adjustment process of towards a more judgment-based approach compensation through a framework which assesses the supervision, responsibility and culpability of employees ¡¡Refreshed the Group Benefits Policy, outlining for the first and the impact this has on pay time the Group’s core benefit offering to employees, creating a baseline for country teams to build on when ¡¡Refreshed our principles and developed an enhanced developing country-specific benefits governance framework in respect of our frontline sales incentives in Consumer Banking, ensuring compliance with emerging market practice and regulatory Our priorities in 2014 developments ¡¡Further embed our commitment to Fair Accountability ¡¡Extended our sabbatical offering to Nigeria, Sri Lanka helping markets with local customs or significant cultural and the UAE challenges to bring about the necessary change ¡¡Further enhanced our employee well-being proposition ¡¡Continue to monitor and effectively implement new by expanding the use of our Employee Assistance regulatory provisions globally, further strengthening Programmes to Indonesia and Thailand partnership relations with trade unions at company and sector level Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Refresh our approach to employee engagement by building on the success of our Q12 engagement survey ¡¡Implement the new regulations under the European and implement a new employee survey that is more Union’s CRD IV reflective of the different needs and drivers of our diverse, ¡¡Continue to roll out our Employee Assistance multi-generational workforce Programme across key markets and further embed our global Wellness@Work campaign, which aims to support local initiatives in improving financial awareness as well as the physical and mental well-being of our employees 20 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Diversity and inclusion We continue to create a workplace that endorses the rich Our highlights in 2013 diversity within the organisation and maximises the energy and Continued to promote inclusion across our footprint: ¡¡ innovation created by our growing multi-generational workforce. Our aim is to ensure that our employees are representative of –– Launched new employee networks in six countries, the Group’s markets and client profile. covering the topics of women, parents and carers, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) and With 132 nationalities across our global workforce, we strive to future leaders, taking the total to 30 networks across create an inclusive environment and improve work-life balance 17 countries for our people, placing particular emphasis on inclusion, gender identity, sexual orientation, nationality and disability. –– Developed products to address specific needs for our customers. In Thailand, we launched We+, a suite of Our Group’s Equal Opportunities Policy applies to our products including mortgages and credit card services recruitment and employment terms, practices, procedures, that cater to a wide cross-section of customers who processes and decisions. We appoint, train, develop, reward are in committed relationships, regardless of their and promote employees and contingent workers on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity their merit and capability. This enables us to get the best out of the broadest spectrum of people in order to sustain strong Supported the hiring of people with disabilities. ¡¡ business performance. We signed the Business Taskforce for Accessible Technology Charter, demonstrating our commitment to continue to provide accessible technology for our 132 employees and customers. We hosted disability listening groups in five countries and expanded our visually nationalities impaired telesales team to Kenya, bringing the total to 10 teams in nine markets Continued to promote and support diversity across our ¡¡ markets: 47% female employee representation –– Moved forward in identifying and agreeing targets to increase our gender diversity at specific levels across the organisation, with detailed analysis completed in 15 key markets Continued to support women employees globally: ¡¡ 16% –– Delivered Women in Leadership and Women’s Development programmes to 450 women across 15 markets female senior management –– Implemented a mentoring programme in Hong Kong for female employees Our priorities in 2014 Further develop our employee networks, encouraging ¡¡ expansion to reach more of our staff Enhance and expand programmes and benefits ¡¡ designed to support greater inclusion of key demographic groups 21 Health, safety and security We focus on providing a safe, secure and healthy working Our highlights in 2013 environment for our people, clients and customers. We maintain Reduced unpredicted health and safety risks by ¡¡ high standards that are aligned with international best practice 47 per cent from 2012, through improved risk and regularly review the health and safety performance of our identification and management of corrective plans, properties. with a focus on new properties. All risks are presented Country Chief Executive Officers have primary responsibility for to the Group Corporate Real Estate Services (CRES) the implementation of our Group Health and Safety Policy at the Risk Committee country level. This includes developing and implementing Strengthened the collection of workplace injury and ¡¡ annual health and safety action plans. These plans set out our ill-health data, allowing us to identify and take action risk mitigation actions, global health and safety standards, legal, on these cases compliance and communications risk assessments and other health and safety governance-related items. Conducted internal health and safety audits in 93 per cent ¡¡ of our top 15 markets. The audit checklist can be completed on an iPhone app to streamline the process. All control reviews are tracked by our CRES Head of Operational Risk and presented in each Group CRES Risk Committee meeting Conducted a guarding deployment survey across our ¡¡ footprint, resulting in a review of our manned guarding resources to improve safety and security. We improved surveillance in vulnerable areas such as ATM lobbies in six countries including India, Pakistan and Malaysia through central monitoring services. This replaces static night guard posts with closed circuit television coverage and rapid incident response services Our priorities in 2014 Continue to reduce workplace injuries, in particular slips, ¡¡ trips and falls, which account for 30 per cent of workplace injuries Improve staff awareness on occupational health and ¡¡ safety by enhancing internal communications and refreshing our mandatory health and safety e-learning 22 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Financial crime prevention Financial crime impedes economic progress. We strive to limit Our highlights in 2013 the risk of financial crime within our business by having strong Defined a new financial crime strategic objective: ‘to ¡¡ policies and procedures. These are underpinned by important prove that the Group is leading the way in combating programmes to continually enhance our systems and controls financial crime, while providing quality service for our and to raise awareness of the critical role of employees in clients’ combating financial crime. Supported our strategic objective by launching our ¡¡ Building on our 2012 initiative to transform our financial crime Financial Crime Risk Mitigation (FCRM) Programme to risk organisation structure, we are further developing our deliver more sustainable, industry leading, financial crime governance and control framework to ensure we remain aligned systems and controls across our business. We have with industry best practice. made significant progress in building a strong financial View our financial crime prevention data crime control framework. The strategic objective and the on page 56 FCRM Programme allow us to recognise the need to do more and the importance of continued focus and investment in this critical area Built capability, capacity and expertise in our financial ¡¡ crime compliance function by adding resources at a country level and by making a number of strategic hires in monitoring, training, sanctions compliance and customer due diligence Strengthened the committee that oversees the global ¡¡ management of financial crime risk, adding senior representatives from across the business Our priorities in 2014 Prepare a comprehensive plan to deliver on the ¡¡ Group’s new financial crime strategic objective and make substantive progress across all aspects of the FCRM Programme The FCRM Programme will define our future target ¡¡ operating model for AML and sanctions compliance, and oversee the workstreams required to deliver the model. It will enable us to meet our aspirations in tackling financial crime and ensure that the changes are prioritised to meet current and future regulatory imperatives. The workstreams include: risk assessment and analytics, improved data management, customer due diligence and screening, trade finance AML, transaction surveillance and training Continue to increase resources across the financial crime ¡¡ compliance function Strengthen our risk based customer selection and due ¡¡ diligence processes, which are our first line of defence against all forms of financial crime 23 Tackling money laundering Sanctions compliance We combat money laundering through robust customer due We manage international sanctions compliance requirements diligence and automated transaction surveillance. through clear business policies and by screening clients and transactions. Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Extended our specialised AML transaction surveillance Our highlights in 2013 systems to three more countries. This provides Launched a project to enhance automated screening ¡¡ automated surveillance to a total of 48 countries of transactions to identify sanctions related risks. It will replace the current systems used for screening of ¡¡Delivered programmes to strengthen customer due international payments with a single standard system diligence processes through automation, the application of consistent global standards and more extensive Maintained an ongoing dialogue with sanctions ¡¡ compliance monitoring authorities in relevant markets on the practical application of sanctions regulations ¡¡Developed a more sophisticated methodology to assess money laundering risk across all areas of the Group ¡¡Engaged independent consultants to assist us in Our priorities in 2014 benchmarking peer banks and monitoring changing Extend the coverage of our sanctions screening ¡¡ regulatory expectations capabilities Provide greater capacity, increased resilience and more ¡¡ Our priorities in 2014 sophisticated filtering of payment messages ¡¡Upgrade our systems for automated transaction Enhance our automated screening for ¡¡ surveillance sanctions‑listed names ¡¡Use our new methodology for assessing money laundering risk to target resources, training and controls in the right areas ¡¡Enhance our controls around trade finance related AML 24 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Combating bribery and corruption Reducing fraud Through our values, policies, training and controls, we are We continue to focus on the detection and prevention of fraud committed to combating bribery and corruption. against the Group itself and against our customers. Our highlights in 2013 Our highlights in 2013 Embedded our anti-bribery controls further to make the ¡¡ ¡¡Began testing a new system to combat fraudulent overall framework more robust at country level. Our applications. The system will help automate the global Anti-Bribery Policy and Procedures were renewed application approval process while simultaneously following guidance issued by the Financial Conduct strengthening our anti-fraud customer screening Authority (FCA) and we rolled out a revised Sponsorship ¡¡Implemented an automated monitoring solution in and Donations Policy Hong Kong to improve the detection of potentially Refreshed the Code with an accompanying training and ¡¡ fraudulent online transactions and strengthen security communication campaign. The Code requires staff to for online and mobile banking ‘reject bribery and corruption’ and reaffirms our position that we will not disadvantage staff who refuse to commit bribery, even where this results in a loss of revenue or Our priorities in 2014 increased costs for the Group. The Code also ¡¡Building on our experience of application fraud screening incorporates requirements regarding gifts and in Korea, we will launch a similar capability in India entertainment ¡¡Expand the use of our internal fraud detection tool, Continued to raise employee awareness of our internal ¡¡ ‘Memento’, to Singapore and Malaysia whistle-blowing programme, Speaking Up, and its role in helping to combat corruption and other forms of financial ¡¡Complete the assessment of our online fraud detection crime. We have extended access to the Speaking Up system for use in other markets programme to our external suppliers in 33 countries 98% staff Trained staff through the Group Anti-Bribery e-learning. ¡¡ More than 97 per cent of eligible staff had completed the training on joining the company completed training on Group Code of Conduct Our priorities in 2014 88,763 Undertake a global anti-corruption benchmarking ¡¡ exercise to evaluate our alignment with industry best practices and to guide further enhancements Staff completed anti-bribery and corruption e-learning 63% increase in reporting through Speaking Up 25 Financial crime risk outreach initiatives Through our outreach programme, we contribute to the Our highlights in 2013 development of international policy on financial crime and Partnered with the UK government in a joint task force to ¡¡ support initiatives designed to reduce financial crime in the provide technical support for regulators and commercial communities where we operate. banks in Myanmar. The focus was on ALM capabilities to assist in the country’s further reintegration into the international financial community Participated in the 2013 G8 programme to provide ¡¡ technical AML support to regulators and central banks across Sub-Saharan Africa in collaboration with the UK and US Treasury departments Continued our work as active participants in the UN ¡¡ Global Compact on anti-corruption Our priorities in 2014 Extend our government and industry technical support ¡¡ initiatives to new centres of operation for the Group, such as Iraq and Angola Extend our participation in the development of ¡¡ international policy, regulation and industry standards on financial crime risk 26 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Responsible selling and marketing View our responsible selling and marketing data Delivering appropriate products and services to our clients and on page 55 customers is fundamental to our business. In Wholesale Banking, we continue to focus on deepening client relationships while in Consumer Banking our Customer Charter outlines our commitment to treat customers fairly. Our highlights in 2013 Our priorities in 2014 Wholesale Banking ¡¡Work closely with our regulators to implement and ¡¡Focused on deepening relationships with our clients and embed new regulations and best practices into our supporting them across multiple geographies with business in line with our Here for good brand promise relevant products ¡¡Continue to develop and implement our conduct ¡¡Strengthened product governance and controls to help agenda, which supports and encourages responsible improve the way we conduct business with our clients selling and marketing and ensures we always consider the fundamental question of not just whether we can ¡¡Continued to focus our employees on meeting the needs do this business or activity, but if we should of our clients as a long-term trusted partner ¡¡Continue to simplify and standardise controls, ¡¡Conducted surveys to capture feedback from corporate procedures and processes, including streamlining the clients on the services we provide. For example, we governance process of Retail Structured Products gathered feedback from more than 500 companies on through refining the Distributor Transaction Approval their use of offshore RMB products to understand the Group (DTAG) Procedures and the Know-Your-Distributor benefits and challenges. We shared the findings with (KYD) Procedures to deliver greater efficiency and clients and counterparties across our network improved client experience Consumer Banking ¡¡Reduced the number of complaints we received by 22 per cent over 2012 by analysing customer Customer 0.53 0.45 0.41 0.32 complaints complaints to identify root causes and areas for per 1,000 improvement 2010 2011 2012 2013 ¡¡Transitioned our Net Promoter Score (NPS)1 survey data collection in eight markets from a face-to-face survey to a centralised online or call centre-based survey. The benefits include an improved customer experience, larger sample size and greater NPS accuracy. In total, more than 35,000 customers across 25 markets took part in our NPS survey in 2013 ¡¡Conducted regular global and country Customer Experience Councils to identify areas to improve customer experience and outcomes. For example, we enhanced our independent sample customer call back process to ensure that customers fully understand key features and changes of products during the sales process ¡¡Continued to conduct risk-based reviews across our footprint covering topics such as complaints handling, investment suitability and new product approvals to identify areas for ongoing improvements to our processes 1 ‘Net Promoter Score’ and ‘NPS’ are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc., Bain & Company and Fred Reichheld. Standard Chartered uses Bain methodology recalibrated for financial services to calculate NPS. 27 Paperless banking in the UAE Straight2Bank Kenya Approach Our partnership with Safaricom in Kenya enables individual customers to access cash services on our mobile banking platform by using the electronic mobile payment system M-PESA. The demand for mobile banking is evident in the growth of customer numbers and transactions, which has quadrupled in Kenya over the last two years. In 2013, we extended the benefits of mobile banking to our corporate clients in Kenya. Our mobile offering is fully automated, which allows companies to make payments to any mobile phone in Kenya, from anywhere in the world, using our award-winning Straight2Bank online banking platform. “Straight2Bank wallet will lower the risks and costs associated with handling cash while simplifying and accelerating basic payment processes for many companies,” explains Apurva Jain, our Regional Head of Transaction Banking, East Africa. Outcome Our partnership with Safaricom’s M-PESA in Kenya means that individual customers can make a deposit or withdrawal from any one of M-PESA’s 80,000 outlets across the country, which is in addition to Standard Chartered’s Approach established branch and ATM network. iTill is an in-branch facility offering banking services on an iPhone and iPad. The initiative reduces paper usage while “The M-PESA partnership means our clients can access improving customer experience. The service was piloted in their bank accounts with ease and speed even in the our largest branch in the UAE and allows cash withdrawals, most rural areas. Customers can send money almost deposits and withdrawals by cheque via an iPhone or iPad. instantaneously from their account to any mobile phone across the country or deposit and withdraw cash at any one Outcome of M-PESA’s conveniently located outlets. We’re making iTill has improved transaction turnaround times by banking simple and easy,” added Eddie Ndichu, Regional 50 per cent with no need for debit cards and no limits Head of Digital Banking for East Africa. on transactions. What next? iTill benefits our customers and frontline staff. Customers Kariuki Ngari, our Regional Head of Retail Banking for Africa, receive SMS acknowledgement of transactions and said: “We believe mobile devices will become a primary tool electronic receipts. The instant ID scanning and data for financial interaction and transaction in the coming years, auto-fill reduces in-branch processing times and improves and Standard Chartered remains committed to innovating accuracy. our clients’ banking experiences through this integrated and iTill has received good customer feedback and has cost-effective channel.” contributed to almost doubling the Net Promoter Score of the Dubai main branch. What next? In 2014, iTill will be rolled out to other branches in the UAE as well as to branches in Bahrain and Oman. We are the first in the region to offer this service and will continue to improve branch experience and efficiency through the technology. 28 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Environment We seek to minimise the environmental impact of our operations and have targets in place to reduce the rate of our energy, water and paper consumption. Our environmental reporting covers all properties over 10,000 square feet in floor area, which represents 72 per cent of our total footprint. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) provides third-party assurance of our Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas emissions to ensure the credibility of our data. As of the end of 2013, 10 per cent of our property footprint was certified to Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) rating or an equivalent green building rating scheme. In 2013, our office in Dubai achieved a Platinum LEED rating for efficient use of resources with levels of consumption almost 50 per cent lower than equivalent properties. View our environmental data on page 58 29 Energy Switching to biomass electricity in Our highlights in 2013 Chennai ¡¡Reduced our energy consumption by 5 per cent. Approach However, our energy use intensity increased slightly due We have shifted our reliance on diesel generators for power to the increased frequency of power shortages across to biomass electricity at SCOPE, our global shared service some of our markets, which led to greater use of back-up centre, in India. In 2013, we signed a power purchase power generators. Our aim is to reduce our energy use agreement with our local energy provider, Auro Mira Energy intensity by 35 per cent in tropical locations and 20 per Company Ltd, which allows us to use biomass-generated cent in temperate locations between 2008 and 2019 electricity supplied via the local grid. ¡¡Invested more than $1 million in energy conservation This agreement builds on our existing use of renewable measures such as LED lighting in our new Hong Kong sources and now 78 per cent of our annual energy demand office and inverter air conditioning systems in our at our SCOPE offices is met by wind, solar and biomass branches in Malaysia. We continue to install solar power fuel sources. arrays. In 2013, we increased the installations across our footprint to a total of six properties Outcome ¡¡Continued to focus on the efficiency of our data centres To date, this solution has reduced our consumption of and have achieved energy savings equivalent to diesel-generated energy by 3.6 GWh, a 76 per cent $100,000 at our facilities in New York and Hong Kong decrease from 2012, while also reducing the risk of system through server virtualisation and optimisation measures. interruptions. The reduced use of diesel has contributed 20 per cent of our servers are virtualised as of the end to cost savings of approximately $384,000. of 2013 What is next? ¡¡Established a power purchase agreement to use We are exploring additional opportunities to leverage other biomass-generated electricity at SCOPE, our global sources of indirect renewable energy in India and across shared service centre, in Chennai, India. This allowed our global footprint us to reduce our dependency on diesel generators by 76 per cent and achieve an annual savings in diesel costs equivalent to $384,000 Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Continue to transition towards the use of LED lighting in our owned properties with a target of 5 per cent of all light fittings using LEDs by the end of 2014 ¡¡Optimise our data centres with a target to virtualise 40 per cent of our servers by the end of 2014 ¡¡Embed energy efficiency requirements in the contracts with our property service partners Our annual energy usage saved from 2008 is enough to power 13,030 homes 30 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Paper Recycling Our highlights in 2013 Our highlights in 2013 Reduced paper use to 20.4 kg per full time employee ¡¡ ¡¡Recycled more than 14,100 pieces of obsolete IT waste (FTE), a 13 per cent decrease from 2012. This is 22 per with a total weight of 107,600 kg cent of our target to reduce paper use by 10 kg per FTE ¡¡Donated nearly 500 laptops and computers to establish between 2012 to 2020 computer labs in schools and communities. For example, 54 per cent of our customers received electronic ¡¡ we helped build a computer lab in rural China to support statements, a 20 per cent increase over 2012. This saves digital education 153 million sheets of A4 paper and $12 million in printing ¡¡Distributed almost 150,000 kg of IT equipment through and postal services our asset disposal initiative where vendors purchase the Launched an end-to-end paperless solution for savings ¡¡ units we recycle and checking account opening processes in Singapore, ¡¡Raised $160,000 for Seeing is Believing in China through providing both operational and environmental efficiencies the sale of refurbished iPhones Our priorities in 2014 Our priorities in 2014 Continue to install multi-function devices with efficient ¡¡ ¡¡Continue to extend the life of our IT equipment by print settings with an aim of installing one device per reselling to staff and donating to local communities 50 employees Continue to digitise processes in order to reduce paper ¡¡ Water use in our business operations Encourage an additional 5 per cent of customers to ¡¡ Our highlights in 2013 receive electronic statements ¡¡Reduced our water use intensity by 20 per cent from 2008 to 2013. However, our water use intensity increased by 7 per cent in 2013 due to a rise in recorded Our reduction in office paper usage consumption at our branches. We continue to install from 2012 is equivalent to 8,320 trees water meters across our footprint, particularly in Africa, to improve the accuracy of our consumption data ¡¡Continued to reduce water demand across our portfolio through the installation of low-flow terminal fittings, greywater treatment systems and other water efficiency 14,100 devices. For example, in Kenya, we introduced a greywater recycling system that allows us to save nearly 2 million litres of potable water every year pieces of obsolete IT equipment recycled Our priorities in 2014 Our annual water usage saved ¡¡Continue to improve the quality of our water consumption from 2008 can ﬁll 218 data by installing 100 additional water meters across our Olympic-sized footprint, and through collaboration with suppliers to swimming pools enhance the accuracy of our consumption data ¡¡Advance our target to reduce water use intensity by 71 per cent of 2008 levels by 2019 31 Staff engagement Travel As an international organisation working across 70 countries, Our highlights in 2013 travel is an important part of building relationships with our ¡¡Engaged staff on environmental volunteering through clients, customers, regulators and colleagues in order to deliver EcoNET, our environment co-ordinators network. More our business strategy. We have a robust travel policy to guide than 13,500 staff volunteered for environment related travel decisions and link travel to commercial activity. initiatives in 2013, which represents 20 per cent of employee volunteering days globally Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Launched a food-waste programme in Hong Kong where ¡¡Managed our need to travel through implementation a total of 240 kg of food waste is composted into organic of a robust travel policy and optimising the use of video fertiliser each month for landscaping in our Kwun Tong conferencing instead of travelling where possible office ¡¡Reduced business related air travel carbon emissions by 3 per cent to 0.63 tonnes per FTE compared with Our priorities in 2014 2012 levels ¡¡Leverage EcoNET to engage staff and reinforce our local ¡¡Expanded our video conferencing rooms to 196 rooms environmental targets and priorities across 35 countries ¡¡Support country offices to raise greater awareness on ¡¡Continued to support the ‘Green your flights’ initiative reducing food waste by launching local initiatives such as by imposing a carbon fee per air travel ticket. With the the ‘Go for Green’ compositing project in Mauritius, proceeds from the fee, we planted more than 9,000 trees which involves employee volunteers providing training on in 2013 across cities in China, India, Kenya, Malaysia and composting to local communities Vietnam. Since the programme’s inception in 2009, we have offset more than 168,100 tonnes of carbon emissions and planted more than 211,000 trees across 17 countries through employee volunteering Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Continue to implement our travel policy and encourage the use of video conferencing ¡¡Further support the ‘Green your flights’ initiative to offset some of our emissions 9,345 tonnes of CO2 avoided from air travel equivalent to 12,296 four-hour roundtrip flights 32 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Being a responsible company continued Suppliers We support businesses across our footprint through our Our highlights in 2013 network of more than 27,000 suppliers. In 2013, we invested Strengthened risk awareness and transparency around ¡¡ over $3 billion in products and services through CRES our supplier spend globally through the refresh of our Technology and Corporate Services. procurement management policies and processes Created a preferred supplier base across 33 markets, ¡¡ Supplier Charter embedded across which allows us to drive sustainable standards, manage 27,000 risk and leverage our supplier spend suppliers Recommitted to DHL’s GOGREEN service for another ¡¡ three years to ensure that all of our essential international courier shipping is offset and carbon neutral Worked with the Singapore Government and IT ¡¡ companies to develop the ‘Singapore Standard for ICT Equipment Recycling’ as part of the Recycling Working Group of the Green IT Technical Committee. This ensures obsolete Information and Communications Technology (ICT) equipment waste is recycled correctly Conducted capacity building initiatives for our suppliers. ¡¡ For example, we held an energy conservation workshop with our suppliers in India to encourage resource efficiency and conservation Reinforced our position of banning shark fin from our ¡¡ corporate menus by requiring that our corporate caterers provide written confirmation of their compliance with our policy Supported the government of Korea’s green ¡¡ procurement initiative though measures such as: ensuring that our corporate vehicles are environmentally friendly, providing green office supplies to our staff, utilising energy efficient LED lighting and supporting local waste recycling programmes Our priorities in 2014 Continue to build upon our Supplier Charter and advance ¡¡ a long-term approach to mitigating environmental and social risks across our preferred suppliers Continue to manage risks through robust supplier ¡¡ due diligence 33 Investing in communities Promoting the social and economic well‑being of communities is a critical component of our strategy to support sustainable development in our markets. Our community investment activities focus on health and education, with youth as a target demographic. In 2013, we invested $54.1 million, or the equivalent of 0.79 per cent of our 2012 operating profit, in communities, including both direct investment and volunteering by our employees. 0.79% PYOP invested in local communities View our community programmes data on page 63 34 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Investing in communities continued Community programmes Health The economic prosperity of a community is closely linked with the health of its population. Through our health programmes addressing avoidable blindness and HIV and AIDS, we seek to improve health outcomes and economic opportunities for individuals in our communities. Seeing is Believing In 2013, we marked the 10th anniversary of Seeing is Believing (SiB), our flagship community investment programme. Blindness can have a devastating economic impact on individuals, families and communities. SiB raises funds to eliminate avoidable blindness, resulting in increased opportunities for education and employment. Our aim is to raise $100 million by 2020. Working with more than ten community partners, we focus on the prevention and treatment of avoidable blindness and strive to embed long-term sustainability in each project. Through our employee, client and supplier networks, we promote awareness and employability of people who are visually impaired. From 2003 to 2013, we raised more than $63 million, reached more than 45 million people, funded 2.91 million cataract operations, trained more than 100,000 health workers and distributed 494,000 pairs of spectacles. Our highlights in 2013 Raised more than $6 million in 2013, totalling $12.1 million ¡¡ with Group matching Watch how we are giving access to eye-care in Bangladesh Completed comprehensive eye-care projects in ¡¡ seven countries which impacted the lives of more than 14 million people Launched an Innovation Fund to uncover and promote ¡¡ solutions to tackle avoidable blindness Partnered with the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee ¡¡ Trust, committing $20 million between 2013 and 2017 with a focus on the elimination of blinding trachoma in Africa, Retinopathy of Prematurity (ROP) in India as well as supporting technology, fellowships and research. The establishment of the Trust was announced in 2011 to mark and celebrate Her Majesty The Queen’s 60-year contribution to the Commonwealth Continued to work closely with clients by raising funds ¡¡ and awareness to highlight the importance of eye-care Our priorities in 2014 Aspire to reach the $70 million fundraising mark through ¡¡ collaboration with employees, clients and other stakeholders Support The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust to ¡¡ implement ambitious trachoma programmes in Africa and ROP programmes in Asia Support successful Innovation Fund applicants through ¡¡ pilot and expansion phases 35 Seeing is Believing in Indonesia Celebrating 10 years of Seeing is Approach Believing Seeing is Believing (SiB) partnered with Helen Keller International (HKI) to help improve child eye-health in East Java, Indonesia. The three-year project concluded at the end of 2013. Key objectives included establishing a school and community screening programme, creating a referral system for children, improving human resource capacity to treat child eye-health by training teachers and community nurses, supporting a fellowship for a specialist paediatric eye-doctor and equipping a paediatric eye centre in East Java’s capital, Surabaya. Outcome ¡¡ Trained more than 1,200 teachers to conduct eye screening in schools ¡¡ Educated 132 nurses and midwives, including through community outreach training ¡¡ Screened more than 162,000 children in schools and community centres ¡¡ Dispersed more than 22,980 pairs of glasses In 2003, we founded Seeing is Believing (SiB) with a simple ¡¡ Provided surgery to 74 children mission: to help people see. 10 years later, we have reached The paediatric eye-doctor, Dr Niken Indah, oversees more than 45 million people. community outreach and ensures that referrals are brought An estimated 39 million people across the world are blind, directly to her attention. The community has benefited from and a further 246 million people are visually impaired. SiB having a paediatric specialist nearby as previously the clinic has helped tackle this issue by providing quality eye-care for had no capacity to treat children. More than 2,100 children people who have little or no access to health services. have been referred to the clinic. Set up in response to a call from our employees to help local What next? communities, SiB is a collaborative initiative between The government has committed to continue the schoolStandard Chartered, the International Agency for the screening programme and introduce eye-health education Prevention of Blindness (IAPB) and leading eye-care into schools. SiB plans to expand its support for child organisations. eye-health in Indonesia with the development of a $5 million programme. Making an impact So far, we have raised more than $63 million, with the Group matching all contributions dollar for dollar. Our employees contribute greatly to the programme by donating, fundraising and volunteering their time at local eye-care projects. Through a total of 84 projects in 25 countries, SiB has helped fund more than 2.91 million cataract operations and surgical interventions, protected 3.9 million people from Vitamin A deficiency and river blindness, distributed 494,000 pairs of spectacles and trained more than 100,000 community health workers. We are committed to raising $100 million by 2020, through donations and matching by the Group. In 2013, we further extended our support for eye-health by pledging $20 million to support the work of The Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust in helping to eliminate avoidable blindness. 36 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Investing in communities continued Living with HIV HIV and AIDS remain a serious challenge in many of our HIV prevention training markets. Living with HIV is our comprehensive internal programme to provide education about HIV and AIDS and to support employees who are HIV positive. We also work with external organisations to promote education and awareness in local communities. Watch how we are providing HIV and AIDS education in Tanzania Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Retrained more than 40 Living with HIV Champions and delivered 22 train-the-trainer sessions across 19 countries to support the redeployment of our internal training programme Approach ¡¡Raised awareness among more than 12,000 people in To strengthen our programme and improve the HIV our communities through our You, Me and HIV eBooklet prevention education we deliver worldwide, we brought distributed on World AIDS Day together 40 of our staff volunteer HIV Champions from 38 different markets to become Master Trainers at a ¡¡Increased our Living with HIV employee volunteering Living with HIV Train the Facilitator session in 2013. The days by 56 per cent over 2012 two-day session included training on group facilitation ¡¡Continued to leverage our expertise and educational techniques and stakeholder management. materials through other private, public and non-profit partnerships across our footprint Outcome The session launched our refreshed education materials and provided the opportunity for our Champions to share best Our priorities in 2014 practice from across our markets. ¡¡Mark our 15-year commitment to the prevention of HIV Subsequently, 40 country CEOs agreed strategies with each and AIDS with programmes across our markets HIV Champion tailored to their markets. The Master Trainers ¡¡Develop a three-year strategy to evolve our existing went on to deliver an additional 22 train-the-trainer sessions programme in line with global HIV and AIDS across 19 countries. developments Lyn Kok, our Thailand CEO said: “Sharing our HIV and AIDS education materials with our staff, their families and the people in the communities where we operate addresses the 12,000 people health impact, discrimination and stigma that exist and will ultimately have a positive effect on the productivity and economic strength of businesses and countries.” have read You, Me & HIV eBook What next? In 2014, we will continue to develop country-specific programmes that build on the Group’s long-standing commitment to HIV. 37 Education Education builds skilled and productive communities and Goal empowering girls in Nigeria improves livelihoods. Our education initiatives focus on building the financial capability of young people, with an emphasis on Approach adolescent girls, and SMEs to help them make the most of the Since 2009, we have partnered with the Youth opportunities offered by economic growth. Empowerment Foundation (YEF) in Nigeria to ensure adolescent girls are empowered to take ownership of their Goal lives and have an impact on other young people around Goal is our leading education programme that empowers and them. In Nigeria, Goal operates through 17 schools. equips adolescent girls with the confidence, knowledge and skills they need to be integral economic leaders in their families, Outcome communities and societies. The Goal programme consists of 18,902 girls benefited from the programme in 2013, either four in-depth training modules that combine sports with life through an intense, direct nine-month curriculum or through skills training. Goal is active in 18 countries. the peer education model. Since the programme began, we have reached more than 44,000 girls. The programme builds the confidence of girls and helps Watch how we are empowering youth them develop the skills to cope with potential risk issues. By through life skills and sports training engaging with our employee volunteers, participating girls have the opportunity to share ideas and discuss career choices. Our highlights in 2013 The support from government and community members ¡¡ Reached more than 39,000 girls in 2013, bringing the is critical to Goal’s sustainability and success, and more cumulative number of girls reached to more than 86,000 schools have requested to join the programme. since 2006 What next? ¡¡ Announced a commitment at the CGI to expand the Through our partnership with YEF, we plan to expand the scale and impact of the programme. From 2013 to 2018, programme by encouraging Goal girls to take on leadership we will reach an additional 500,000 girls globally and help roles in their schools and communities. With an aim to help girls access economic opportunities girls become more employable, we will introduce digital ¡¡ Conducted monitoring and evaluation (M&E) to measure literacy into the curriculum from 2014. our impact globally using pre and post training surveys. 86,000 The findings demonstrate the positive impact of the programme. For example, in Nigeria: –– 51 per cent of girls had written or edited a budget after girls empowered through taking part in Goal compared with 22 per cent before Goal since 2006 the programme –– Two in three girls held leadership positions in their schools, communities or sports programmes after participating in Goal. This is an increase from one in three girls before joining the programme ¡¡ Expanded the programme through local partners to two new countries: Bangladesh and Tanzania Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡ Add technology and digital education modules to the Goal curriculum ¡¡ Expand Goal to two new countries ¡¡ Integrate components of workforce development and entrepreneurship into the programme to better equip girls for employment 38 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Investing in communities continued Financial education for small and medium-sized enterprises Financial education for youth SMEs are the backbone of economies and key drivers of The lack of appropriate financial education limits economic innovation and job creation. Through training programmes to opportunities for young people across our markets. Without develop the capacity of the SME sector, we seek to help build financial education, many youth are not prepared to take a foundation for sustainable growth in our markets. advantage of financial services that could help them save and plan for the future. Watch how we are training our SME clients in China with PwC Our highlights in 2013 ¡¡Created a new global financial education curriculum geared to young people; that can be tailored to local Our highlights in 2013 markets ¡¡Grew our partnership with PwC and trained more than ¡¡Piloted the programme via employee volunteers in five 300 SME clients in Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria and China. We markets including India, Nigeria, Singapore, the UAE and have trained more than 720 SME clients in six countries the UK, reaching 1,400 young people since 2009 ¡¡Developed an ‘Education for Entrepreneurs’ curriculum Our priorities in 2014 for our staff volunteers to train non-client micro and small enterprises in our communities ¡¡Expand the geographic reach of the programme to at least eight countries ¡¡Committed at the CGI to provide lending and advances of at least $30 billion to SMEs and educate 5,000 micro ¡¡Introduce advanced modules for the 16 to 20 year-old and small enterprises between 2013 and 2018 demographic Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Expand the Education for Entrepreneurs programme to at least six countries 300 SMEs trained in 4 countries on financial education ¡¡Engage employees globally to volunteer as financial 1,400 education trainers youth trained in 5 countries on financial education 39 Employee volunteering We support our local communities by volunteering our time and Financial education for Emirati women seek to maximise our impact by encouraging skills-based Approach volunteering. All of our employees are entitled to take up to three In the UAE, we partnered with the Khalifa Fund for Enterprise days paid leave per year for volunteering. Development to offer financial education for female Since 2011, we have conducted an annual survey though entrepreneurs. True Impact, an independent organisation, to measure staff We aim to help create a new generation of women-owned engagement and business impact. In 2013, 96 per cent of the SMEs in the UAE and develop the financial management employees surveyed indicated that volunteering is a positive skills of women. contributor to their job satisfaction. Our employee volunteers delivered sessions to local women-owned SMEs covering a range of topics under Watch how we are training youth the financial management umbrella. on financial education Outcome More than 300 Emirati women were trained by 25 of our Our highlights in 2013 employee volunteers. ¡¡Contributed more than 90,300 employee volunteering One of the women attending said: “The training was days, an increase of 5 per cent from 2012 and exceeding beneficial to us as it served as a great check on our our target of 90,000 days. More than 62 per cent of staff spending habits. We should have more of these and invite participated in employee volunteering more women as they would certainly benefit.” ¡¡Increased skills-based volunteering related to education, One of our staff volunteers added: “It was a great including financial education, which accounts for volunteering opportunity and rewarding to see our sessions 7 per cent of total volunteering days adding value to the participants.” ¡¡Launched an Innovation Fund to support countries in What next? developing new approaches to skills-based volunteering. In 2014, we plan to provide additional training for Eight projects across our network were selected from women‑owned SMEs to advance our small business training 60 applications received from 28 countries commitment under the Clinton Global Initiative. 90,300 Our priorities in 2014 ¡¡Continue to embed our global employee volunteering programme to contribute 90,000 days to our communities employee volunteering days ¡¡Promote skills-based volunteering by encouraging staff to volunteer as part of our financial education training programmes 40 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Investing in communities continued Emergency response Unforeseen disasters can significantly affect the economic, social and physical health of individuals and communities. We support emergency relief and reconstruction efforts across our markets. Our highlights in 2013 Collaborated with the regional offices of the Red Cross ¡¡ and Habitat for Humanity to aid those affected by Typhoon Yolanda in the Philippines. Through Group and employee funds, we provided more than $500,000 to support relief and reconstruction efforts. 22 per cent of employee volunteering days in the Philippines supported recovery efforts Worked with the China Social Entrepreneur Foundation ¡¡ to provide emergency relief packs to more than one thousand families and donated $32,000 to help local victims of the Sichaun Earthquake in China Provided a donation of $74,000 and partnered with the ¡¡ Association of Bankers Bangladesh (ABB) and the Prime Minister’s Relief Fund to support the victims and affected families of the Rana Plaza building collapse in Dhaka, Bangladesh Our priorities in 2014 Refine our emergency response guidelines and introduce ¡¡ a grading system to inform our level of response across markets Provide additional training across our network to ensure ¡¡ institutional readiness to respond to disaster relief requests 41 Our engagement Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement is an important part of how we develop our business strategy. Input from key stakeholders helps us identify new business opportunities, respond to changing trends and manage risks. In 2013, we updated our strategic intent and more clearly set out our commitments to stakeholders. ¡¡ Clients and customers: building deep and long-term relationships ¡¡ Colleagues: a great place to work, enabling individuals to grow and teams to win ¡¡ Society: a force for good, promoting sustainable economic and social development ¡¡ Investors: a distinctive investment, delivering consistently superior performance via disciplined growth ¡¡ Regulators: a responsible partner with exemplary governance and ethics Our dialogue with stakeholders is based upon the topics that are most material to our business. We track key issues on a Material Risk Matrix that assesses issues based upon materiality to our business and level of stakeholder concern. The Matrix is reviewed and discussed by our Corporate Affairs Reputational Risk and Responsibility Committee (CARRRC), the Group Risk Committee (GRC) and the Brand and Values Committee (BVC). More information on the governance of these committees can be found in the Annual Report 2013 on page 125. We engage stakeholders through a number of methods including one-on-one meetings, roundtables, surveys and industry forums. The following tables summarise our engagement with key stakeholders in 2013. 42 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our engagement continued Clients and customers We engage with our clients and customers on a regular basis to ensure that our products and services are meeting their personal and business needs. Method Material Issues Response We continue to use our country and Group level CECs to track customer complaints and identify Customer compliant Customer Experience solutions. In 2013, we reduced the number of collection and analysis Councils (CECs) complaints we received by 22 per cent from 2012 by analysing customer complaints to identify root causes and areas for improvement. We continue to conduct NPS surveys across our markets to measure customer satisfaction and understand customer needs. In 2013, we transitioned our NPS survey data collection in eight markets from a face-to-face Customer satisfaction survey to a centralised online or call centre based survey. The benefits include an improved customer experience, larger sample size and greater NPS accuracy. In total, more than Customer research 35,000 customers across 25 markets took part in our NPS survey in 2013. We developed a quarterly survey capturing feedback from corporate clients doing business with China to understand the benefits and Offshore RMB financing challenges associated with offshore RMB products. We utilised the results to develop RMB-themed forums and events to help clients do business in China. We hosted focus groups with clients to understand their perspective on our social and economic impact in Kenya and Nigeria. Focus groups Social and economic impact The feedback from stakeholders is summarised in our Africa social and economic impact study. We will use the insights from the report to inform our business and sustainability strategies. 43 Employees We maintain ongoing dialogue with our employees to gather feedback on our role as an employer as well as our business strategy and sustainability priorities. Method Material Issues Response We hold regular town hall forums and calls led by senior management to seek employee input on our business strategy and engagement Town hall forums, Business strategy and around our sustainability priorities. global calls with sustainability strategy For example, we held a detailed working senior management session on our sustainability strategy during our European Management Committee off-site in October 2013. We maintain Diversity and Inclusion Councils across our markets to promote dialogue with staff on building and maintaining our commitment to diversity and inclusion. In 2013, Diversity and inclusion we launched new employee networks across six countries covering the topics of women, Employee networks parents and careers, lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (LGBT) and future leaders. We engage staff on meeting our environmental Environmental footprint targets for water, paper and energy through EcoNET, our internal staff environment network. Staff members are provided three days paid leave per year to contribute to our communities. We gather input from staff on volunteering through our network of EV co-ordinators across our markets. More than 90,300 staff Employee contribution to participated in EV in 2013. Employee volunteering (EV) our communities In 2013, we conducted a survey on EV engagement through an external partner, True Impact. Of the employees surveyed, 96 per cent indicated that volunteering was a positive contributor to their job satisfaction. We are refreshing our approach to employee engagement by building on our Q12 engagement survey. We did not conduct a Q12 Engagement surveys engagement survey in 2013. In 2014, we will implement a new employee survey that is more reflective of the different needs and drivers of our diverse multi-generational workforce. 44 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our engagement continued Investors and analysts We engage with investors and analysts on our approach to integrating sustainability into our business to promote long-term shareholder value. Method Material Issues Response Environmental and social risk management Through one-on-one meetings, we respond to specific questions from investors related to our County governance and approach to sustainability. This feedback is One-on-one meetings market entry process shared with our business teams and contributes to the development of our Approach to financial sustainability strategy and external disclosure. crime risk In 2013, we held roundtables with socially responsible investors (SRIs) to explain how we apply our Position Statements to our financing decisions. These roundtables were led by our Environmental and social Roundtables Group Executive Director and CEO, Wholesale risk management Banking, and our Group Head of Sustainability and Regions. We have incorporated feedback from investors in our updated Position Statements. We continue to be included in the leading sustainability indices: ¡¡Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World Index and DJSI Europe Index Investor surveys and indices Sustainability strategy ¡¡FTSE4Good ¡¡FTSE 350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index, Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), receiving a score in the top 10 per cent of FTSE 350 companies. 45 Regulators, governments and industry bodies We participate in initiatives led by regulators, governments and industry bodies across our markets to address sustainability issues. Method Material Issues Response In 2013, we offered more than 30 workshops to central banks and ministries of finance across a wide range of issues: ¡¡Leveraging the internationalisation of the RMB Financial sector deepening ¡¡Exploring Islamic finance Workshops We continue to provide capacity building ¡¡Deepening local capital markets and training support to government ¡¡Using derivatives to hedge financial risks clients. ¡¡Enhancing national payment systems, notably mobile ¡¡Improving AML standards ¡¡Supporting microfinance Development impact bonds The working group considered key questions We hosted a working group led by the for advancing development impact bonds as a Center for Global Development and Social tool for international development, such as how Working groups Finance to consider development impact to achieve social and financial returns that meet bonds as a new mechanism to enable the needs of investors, donors and community private investment in development beneficiaries. outcomes. We are members of trade associations to promote increased trade linkages across our markets and to share our experience with Trade facilitation companies looking to expand to new markets. We engage with business associations In 2013, we co-chaired the UK-Myanmar task across our footprint that are focused on force, which shared best practice with officials furthering international trade. in Myanmar on topics such as creating an These include organisations such as: enabling regulatory environment, anti-money Business associations UK-ASEAN (Association of Southeast laundering, developing appropriate products Asian Nations) Business Council, and providing effective education and training. UK-Myanmar Financial Services Through the Asia Securities Industry and Taskforce, UK-India CEO Forum, Asia Financial Markets Association, we collaborated Securities Industry and Financial Markets with other industry players to develop Association and the Asia Pacific Financial recommendations for policymakers related to Forum. financial sector deepening as a means to support emerging social challenges such as ageing populations. 46 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our engagement continued Regulators, governments and industry bodies continued Method Material Issues Response World Economic Forum (WEF) We participate in these forums to share the We participate in a number of WEF views from the financial services sector and to working groups and steering committees gather information to inform our business on topics such as: infrastructure, strategy. investment, healthy living and agribusiness. Our Group Executive Director and CEO B20 Wholesale Banking is on the steering The business conference sitting alongside committee of the ‘Green Growth Action the G20. Alliance’ which brings together leading political and industry experts to promote green growth. 2013 was the fourth year in which we took part in the B20 meeting where CEOs of Our Group Executive Director and CEO, large companies set out their views on Europe, Middle East, Africa and Americas is involved in the ‘Role of Finance in Society’ International forums how to address some of the key issues steering committee. The discussions from this facing the G20. committee align closely with our social and We participated in the B20 as part of the economic impact studies. Financial Services Group and considered issues relating to financial inclusion, global The Financial Services Group presented its regulation, financial markets, infrastructure findings to the G20 leaders setting out key development and the impact of regulation issues to address through the global regulatory on trade finance. reform agenda. The final report was published in September 2013. In 2013, we joined a G8 programme to provide technical AML support to regulators and central G8 banks across Sub-Saharan Africa in collaboration with the UK and US Treasury We joined a G8 programme to provide departments. Finance ministers from across training on anti-money laundering (AML). Africa participated in the launch. In 2014, the next stage will involve specific AML training projects at the country level. 47 Non-governmental organisations We seek input from international and local NGOs to identify business opportunities, understand local social and environment concerns and develop our social and environmental policies. Method Material Issues Response We engage in one-on-one meetings with NGOs in the UK and across our markets to discuss opportunities and areas of Feedback from NGO stakeholders is shared potential risk or concern. Topics of with business and functional teams to inform Individual meetings discussion in 2013 included access to the development of our sustainability strategy finance, impact measurement, tax and approach to external disclosure. transparency and financial crime prevention. We discussed the governance process around managing and embedding our sustainable Position Statements finance policies in our lending decisions. The We hosted a roundtable dialogue with NGO participants provided feedback on our Roundtables representatives from NGOs to seek input draft agriculture and fisheries Position on the proposed updates to our Position Statements. The feedback from NGO Statements. stakeholders informed the final Position Statements, which were shared publicly in December 2013. The input focused on recommendations that governments should mandate public institutions to leverage private capital effectively Post 2015 development from both domestic and international sources in agenda order to support the post-2015 development agenda. We coordinated input from several banks Working groups to the United Nations (UN) led dialogue for It was suggested that governments could make the High Level Panel on the role of the ‘success in leveraging private capital’ one of the financial services sector in the UN post key performance indicators for the post-2015 2015 development agenda. development agenda. The feedback was shared during the Bali consultation in March 2013. Impact measurement More than 100 people from across government, In collaboration with the Business private sector and civil society attended the Innovation Facility, Business Fights meeting in London to consider next steps for Forums Poverty and the UN Business Call to impact measurement. The discussion focused Action, we hosted a forum to discuss the on the need to turn insights from impact World Business Council on Sustainable measurement into tangible action to promote Development’s report on ‘Measuring social and economic benefits. impact’. 48 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our engagement continued Communities We collaborate with community partners to deliver our local community investment programmes. Method Material Issues Response Partnered with 10 international NGOs and local Avoidable blindness NGOs across our markets to deliver SiB. Collaborated with NGOs in nine countries as a Girls and youth funding partner to deliver Goal. empowerment Shared the Goal curriculum with NGOs in nine additional countries. Partnerships Collaborated with an international NGO for the development and distribution of the You, Me and HIV eBooklet distributed on World AIDS HIV and AIDS education Day. Shared our HIV and AIDS education materials with community organisations across our markets. 49 Our performance Clinton Global Initiative – Commitment progress 1. A New Vision – Tackling Avoidable Blindness Committed 2011 To be met 2020 Standard Chartered commits to invest $100 million in comprehensive and CGI Commitment sustainable eye-care services by 2020 to help 50 million people see. SiB, our community programme to eliminate avoidable blindness, celebrated its 10th anniversary in 2013. We have raised $63 million (more than halfway to our target), reached more than 45 million people, funded 2.91 million cataract operations, trained 100,000 health workers and distributed 494,000 pairs of spectacles. We have supported 84 projects Progress (54 completed) across 25 countries over the 10 years. In 2013, we launched an Innovation Fund of $3 million to uncover and promote solutions to tackle avoidable blindness. We also partnered with the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust, committing $20 million between 2013 and 2018 to tackle the issue in Africa and India. 2. Goal – Empowering girls through sport and education Committed 2013 To be met 2018 Standard Chartered commits to empower a further 500,000 adolescent CGI Commitment girls through Goal by the end of 2018. Launched in 2006, our sport-for-development programme Goal provides financial education and life skills training to adolescent girls. By the end of 2013, we had reached more than 86,000 girls in India, China, Indonesia, Progress Bangladesh, Jordan, Lebanon, Zambia, Tanzania and Nigeria, and through partnerships with local and international NGOs in Bolivia, Colombia, Ethiopia, Kenya, Liberia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Sierra Leone and Uganda. 3. Supporting the growth of SMEs Committed 2013 To be met 2018 Standard Chartered commits to increase SME lending and education CGI Commitment across Asia, Africa and the Middle East. We pledged to increase our SME lending in Asia, Africa and the Middle East by 45 per cent over the next five years, reaching at least $30 billion by 2018. In 2013, we provided $20.6 billion to SMEs across 32 markets. Progress As part of our commitment, we plan to expand our financial education programme to reach more than 5,000 micro and small businesses by 2018, with at least 20 per cent being owned by women. Since 2009, we have trained more than 720 SMEs in six countries, including more than 300 in 2013. 50 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Millennium Development Goals – Our contribution Goal 1 Eradicate extreme poverty and hunger Target Halve, between 1990 and 2015, the proportion of people whose income is less than $1 a day. Provide technical assistance for Our microfinance business currently supports 79 partners across 18 MFI clients in Asia and Africa to countries. In 2013, we provided $271 million of funding to 25 MFI partners. enhance the capacity to extended loans to more people in our In 2013, we also rolled out our Microsave Risk Management training toolkit markets. to MFIs in Nepal. Over 40 MFIs participated in the two-day workshop. Standard Chartered commitment and In 2013, in partnership with PwC, we trained more than 300 SME clients in Kenya, Ghana, Nigeria and China. Since 2009, we have trained more than progress 2008 MDG Business Call to Action 720 SME clients in six countries. – provide financing and training to SMEs to promote local job growth Through the CGI, we pledged to increase our SME lending by 45 per cent in our markets. to $30 billion between 2013 and 2018. In addition, we will provide training to 5,000 micro and small businesses, with at least 20 per cent being women-owned. This will help support job growth across our footprint. Goal 3 Promote gender equality and empower women Eliminate gender disparity in primary and secondary education, preferably by 2005, and in all levels of education Target no later than 2015. Empower more adolescent girls We aim to reach an additional 500,000 girls between 2013 and 2018. from low-income communities in Through partnerships with local and international NGOs, Goal has reached our markets through Goal. more than 86,000 girls from 2006 to 2013. Standard Chartered Provide financial education training We pledged to provide training to 5,000 micro and small businesses, with to women entrepreneurs in our commitment and markets. at least 20 per cent being women-owned, between 2013 and 2018. progress Strategies are in place to promote D&I across the Group, with a strong Continue to promote the Group’s governance network providing oversight. Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) agenda. Partnering with local disability NGOs, in India we recruited more than 100 employees with disabilities between 2012 and 2013. 51 Goal 6 Combat HIV and AIDS, malaria and other diseases Target Have halted by 2015 and begun to reverse the spread of HIV and AIDS. Continue to educate our staff and In 2013, we retrained more than 40 Living with HIV Champions, delivered external partners across our 22 train-the-trainer sessions across 19 countries and raised awareness footprint through our Living with among more than 12,000 people in our communities through our You, Me HIV programme. and HIV eBooklet, distributed on World AIDS Day. Standard Chartered We have raised more than $6 million in 2013, taking the total raised to more commitment and than $63 million since 2003. progress Provide sustainable eye-care In 2013, we completed eye-care projects in seven countries, impacting the services to 50 million people by lives of over 14 million people, launched an Innovation Fund of $3 million to 2020 through SiB. incubate new solutions to avoidable blindness, and partnered with the Queen Elizabeth Diamond Jubilee Trust committing $20 million between 2013 and 2018 to tackle the issue in Africa and India. Goal 7 Ensure environmental sustainability Integrate the principles of sustainable development into country policies and programmes and reverse the loss of Target environmental resources. Environmental strategy in place which focuses on i) reducing our operational impacts and ii) More details can be found in Environment and Sustainable finance on mitigating environmental and pages 14 and 28. social risks arising from client and Standard Chartered customer activities in Wholesale commitment and Banking and SME lending. progress Our environment employee engagement programme, EcoNET, promotes Engaging internal and external resource efficiency for our employees and our communities. stakeholders on reducing their impact on the environment. Through our Supplier Charter, we encourage our suppliers to adopt leading environmental and social best practice. 52 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Sustainable finance Number of employees trained in sustainable finance by business role1 2012 2013 Total number of employees trained 5,074 4,845 Completion rate for Wholesale Banking relationship managers 82% 68% Completion rate for SME relationship managers 70% 64% Completion rate for Risk 44% 38% Completion rate for Country Managers 44% 48% Completion rate for Wholesale Banking Management Group 67% 67% 1 Data in this table have been restated from 2012 Equator Principles lending and advisory mandates Lending Mandates 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cat A 3 12 5 3 9 20% 46% 15% 15% 22% Cat B 10 13 26 17 29 67% 50% 79% 85% 71% Cat C 2 1 2 0 3 13% 4% 6% 0% 7% Total 15 26 33 20 41 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Advisory Mandates Cat A 4 5 7 4 1 Cat B 0 2 5 3 3 Cat C 1 3 0 0 0 Total 5 10 12 7 4 2013 project finance lending and advisory mandates by region Asia Africa Middle East Americas Europe Cat A 5 2 3 0 0 Cat B 14 6 8 3 1 Cat C 3 0 0 0 0 Total 22 8 11 3 1 53 2013 project finance lending mandates by industrial sectors Bank share of Total project Standard Split between project value $ value $ Chartered sectors million million % Oil & Gas 10 1,130 84,674 1% Power 11 774 13,724 6% Mining 2 66 387 17% Infrastructure 6 321 2,238 14% Renewables 4 144 574 25% Telecom 1 90 368 24% Other 7 638 29,134 2% Clean technology investments 2007-2013 Deal Value ($million) Financing/Lending Wind 2,944 Geothermal 1,286 Hydro 891 Solar Power 1,936 Water 1,099 Waste to Energy & Others 226 Principal Finance Wind 1,275 Geothermal 67 Hydro 305 Solar 68 Waste to Energy & Others 125 Water 142 Total 10,364 Total funds provided and supported 2007 1,889 2008 4,234 2009 5,165 2010 6,356 2011 8,4351 2012 9,419 2013 10,364 1 The total of $8.4 billion reflects a restatement of our transactions from October 2007 to the end of 2010 from $4.98 billion to $6.3 billion, following a review initiated in 2011. The restatement is largely due to the capture of additional deals not originally reported and a revised estimate of corporate lending transactions to reflect the actual credit limits provided to clients where previously only amounts outstanding at year end were captured 54 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Access to finance Microfinance 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cumulative amount of loans extended since 2005 ($million) 540 7551 850 970 1,241 Average MFI funding ($million) 8 11 11 13 16 Individuals impacted2 3.6m 5m 5.6m 6.4m 8.3m Number of MFIs3 63 70 72 73 79 1 Updated 2010 cumulative lending figure 2 Based on an assumption of average loan size of $150 in local currency 3 Cumulative data Sector lending 2013 2013 Asia Pacific Middle East Americas Other Asia & Other UK & Hong Kong Singapore Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans to individuals Mortgages 23,252 13,983 12,641 14,224 2,176 1,868 290 1,355 69,789 Other 7,468 11,471 5,633 5,590 854 3,397 1,367 3,559 39,369 Small and medium enterprises 3,385 3,308 4,874 5,335 2,055 1,191 426 70 20,644 Consumer Banking 34,105 28,762 23,178 25,149 5,085 6,456 2,083 4,984 129,802 Agriculture, forestry and fishing 23 755 – 362 31 221 559 783 2,734 Construction 271 171 408 403 627 1,520 133 434 3,967 Commerce 5,948 16,693 475 3,978 881 4,776 779 9,679 43,209 Electricity, gas and water 503 711 41 897 31 438 308 2,481 5,410 Financing, insurance and business services 3,778 854 567 4,355 392 1,744 331 9,918 21,939 Governments – 339 – 776 22 313 – 249 1,699 Mining and quarrying 1,217 2,605 – 1,018 13 562 870 9,819 16,104 Manufacturing 6,891 4,136 3,700 9,399 2,939 2,604 2,086 10,311 42,066 Commercial real estate 4,023 2,959 1,181 1,813 1,311 1,006 10 1,327 13,630 Transport, storage and communication 2,312 3,260 230 1,181 502 995 721 4,952 14,153 Other 188 968 86 66 19 92 280 299 1,998 Wholesale Banking 25,154 33,451 6,688 24,248 6,768 14,271 6,077 50,252 166,909 55 Responsible selling and marketing Consumer Banking complaint metrics 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2013 vs 2012 Complaints per 1,000 0.83 0.53 0.45 0.41 0.32 Improved 22% First time resolution 39% 51% 63% 72% 78% Improved 8% Overall satisfaction 63% 67% 66% 71% 77% Improved 7% Complaint resolution Consumer Banking turnaround time < 2 days 59% 68% 76% 83% 86% Improved 4% Net Promoter Score (NPS)1 Index Net Promoter Score (NPS)1 Index 61 55 46 39 25 09 10 11 12 13 Aim To increase customer satisfaction with our products and services and to become the bank that customers recommend. Analysis Our global NPS is up 6 points from 55 to 61 in 2013. NPS gauges customer support for the Consumer Banking products and services we provide. We ask our customers “How likely are you to recommend Standard Chartered to a friend or colleague?” and apply a 10-point-scale where one is not likely at all and 10 is most likely. We then derive the NPS by subtracting the percentage of detractors (those who score one to five) from the percentage of promoters (those who score eight to 10). It operates on a scale from -100 (all detractors) to +100 (all promoters). 1 ‘Net Promoter Score’ and ‘NPS’ are trademarks of Satmetrix Systems Inc., Bain & Company, and Fred Reichheld. Standard Chartered uses Bain methology recalibrated for financial services to calculate NPS. NPS scores provided are for the fourth quarter. Previous reports are based on third-quarter data. Source: Market Probe Customer Satisfaction Survey (20 markets on average each year). The survey uses interviews completed in the second half of 2013 56 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Financial crime prevention 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Number of staff who have completed anti-money laundering 42,242 65,698 83,250 81,686 87,097 and sanctions e-learning Number of staff who have completed anti-bribery and 74,895 84,548 88,763 corruption e-learning Countries with specialised systems to monitor 19 19 22 39 48 transactions for money laundering Number of suspicious money laundering activity reports sent More than More than More than More than More than to the authorities 10,000 17,000 17,000 16,000 16,000 Staff able to access online systems to check new customers More than 19,672 19,233 18,065 27,222 against sanctioned lists 16,000 Number of alerts reviewed as part of the sanctions list 500,000 494,430 More than More than More than screening programme for payment messages a month a month 600,000 700,000 800,000 a month a month a month People and values Number of countries 2011 2012 2013 Global 71 68 70 Number of nationalities 2011 2012 2013 Global 130 127 132 Senior management (Director, bands 1 to 2) 1 25 28 27 Total headcount 2011 2012 2013 Global total 86,865 89,058 86,640 Growth 1,634 2,193 (2,418) Growth percentage 1.9% 2.5% (2.7%) Business function 2011 2012 2013 Consumer Banking population 63% 62% 59% Wholesale Banking population 22% 22% 24% Shared support 15% 16% 17% Region 2011 2012 2013 Africa 8% 9% 9% Americas 1% 1% 1% Europe 3% 2% 3% Middle East and Pakistan 10% 10% 9% Northeast Asia 29% 29% 29% South Asia 25% 24% 24% Southeast Asia 25% 25% 25% 57 Age group 20112 2012 2013 Age under 20 0% 0% 0% Age 20 to 30 39% 37% 33% Age 30 to 40 40% 41% 43% Age 40 to 50 16% 17% 18% Age over 50 4% 5% 6% Employee attrition 2011 2012 2013 High potential3 10.7% 6.8% 9.6% Years of service 2011 2012 2013 0-5 years 67% 62% 58% 6-10 years 18% 22% 25% >10 years 15% 16% 17% Diversity and inclusion Nationality 2011 2012 2013 Africa 9% 9% 9% Europe 3% 4% 4% Latin America & the Caribbean 0% 0% 0% Middle East & Pakistan 7% 7% 6% North America 1% 1% 1% Northeast Asia 27% 28% 27% Oceania 1% 1% 1% Others (no information) 6% 3% 4% South Asia 27% 27% 27% Southeast Asia 19% 20% 20% Gender 2011 2012 2013 Female representation globally 40,248 41,716 40,657 Percentage of female representation globally 46% 47% 47% Male representation globally 46,617 47,342 45,983 Percentage of male representation globally 54% 53% 53% Female senior management (Director, bands 1 to 2) 42 46 48 Percentage of female senior management (Director, bands 1 to 2) 15% 16% 16% Male senior management (Director, bands 1 to 2) 235 246 255 Percentage of male senior management (Director, bands 1 to 2) 85% 84% 84% Female Executive and Non-Executive Director including Chairman 2 3 3 Percentage of female Executive and Non-Executive Director including Chairman 13% 16% 14% Male Executive and Non-Executive Director including Chairman 14 16 18 Percentage of male Executive and Non-Executive Director including Chairman 87% 84% 86% 58 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Learning and development 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of employees receiving training 95% 92% 97% Percentage of high potential employees receiving training 99% 96% 100% Average training days per employee 3.7 days 3.3 days 3.4 days Recruitment 2011 2012 2013 Number of graduates 412 465 382 International mobility 2011 2012 2013 Number of international moves 277 258 235 Number of employees on international assignment 693 599 470 Performance management 2011 2012 2013 Percentage of employees appraised 99% 99% 99% Percentage of employees reviewed against agreed objectives and values 98% 100% 99% Shares 2011 2012 2013 Performance management 2011 2012 2013 Number of employees receiving discretionary share awards 3,817 3,998 3,943 Percentage of participation in Sharesave scheme 31% 30% 31% 1 In 2013, we revised the definition of senior management to include Directors and bands 1 and 2 2 Figures are subject to rounding 3 In 2013, we restated employee attrition to include all employees who are high potential Environment 2011 2012 2013 Measured Scaled-up Measured Scaled-up Measured Scaled-up Units Net internal area of occupied property 801,160 1,362,123 888,245 1,431,603 879,815 1,354,541 m2 Percentage of occupied net internal area where data is collected 65 69 72 % Full-time employees (FTEs) 68,161 86,865 72,942 89,058 73,851 86,640 FTE Greenhouse gas emissions – Absolute tonnes Scope 1 emissions (combustion of fuels) 8,399 21,632 14,620 25,557 13,687 23,878 CO2eq/year tonnes Scope 2 emissions (purchased electricity) 157,444 252,188 159,651 236,443 161,877 226,727 CO2eq/year tonnes Scope 1 & 2 emissions 165,843 273,820 174,271 262,000 175,564 250,605 CO2eq/year tonnes Scope 3 emissions (air travel) 50,956 56,537 51,812 64,472 50,220 55,127 CO2eq/year tonnes Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions 216,799 330,357 226,083 326,472 225,784 305,732 CO2eq/year 59 2011 2012 2013 Measured Scaled-up Measured Scaled-up Measured Scaled-up Units Greenhouse gas emissions – Intensity kg CO2eq/ Scope 1 & 2 emissions/m2 404 386 376 348 384 352 m2/year tonnes CO2eq/ Scope 1 & 2 emissions/FTE 2.43 3.15 2.39 2.94 2.38 2.89 FTE/year tonnes CO2eq/ Scope 3 emissions/FTE 0.57 0.57 0.65 0.65 0.63 0.63 FTE/year kg CO2eq/ Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/m2 271 243 255 228 257 226 m2/year tonnes CO2eq/ Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions/FTE 3.18 3.80 3.10 3.67 3.06 3.53 FTE/year Environmental resource efficiency Energy Total indirect non-renewable energy consumption1 226 371 230 349 226 328 GWh/year Total indirect renewable energy consumption 2 13 13 6 6 13 13 GWh/year Total direct non-renewable energy consumption3 33 84 57 98 51 90 GWh/year Total direct renewable energy consumption4 0 0 0 0 0 0 GWh/year On-site renewable energy consumption5 103 107 128 131 115 115 MWh/year Total energy consumption 272 468 294 454 291 431 GWh/year Total energy consumption/FTE 3,993 5,391 4,031 5,098 3,940 4,975 kWh/FTE/year Total energy consumption/m2 340 344 333 319 334 320 kWh/m2/year Water Total water consumption 978 1,896 868 1,868 838 1,902 ML/year Total water consumption/FTE 14 22 12 21 11 22 m /FTE/year 3 Total water consumption/m2 1.22 1.39 1.08 1.31 1.06 1.40 kL/m2/year Paper Total print paper consumption 1.68 2.14 1.71 2.08 1.51 1.77 ktonnes/year Total print paper consumption/FTE 24.67 24.67 23.39 23.39 20.43 20.43 kg/FTE/year Waste Total waste 5.5 8.2 5.4 9.3 5.5 8.1 ktonnes/year Total waste/FTE 81 94 74 105 74 93 kg/FTE/year Percentage waste reused or recycled 25 25 36 36 30 30 % 1 Indirect non-renewable energy refers to purchased electricity from non-renewable sources 2 Indirect renewable energy refers to purchased electricity from off-site renewable sources 3 Direct renewable energy refers to the gloss calorific values of renewable fuels consumed on-site 4 Direct non-renewable energy refers to the gross calorific values of fuels consumed on-site 5 On-site renewable energy refers to renewable energy generated and consumed on-site 60 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Additional notes for environment data ¡¡ In accordance with new guidance issued by the UK Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) in 2013, our 2013 and all reported previous year’s data have been restated to use year-specific conversion factors, including Scope 3. Please see the Group’s Reporting Criteria for a sample of the emission factors used. ¡¡ On-site renewable energy generation is not included in the energy intensity calculation. All other forms of renewable energy are included. ¡¡ Carbon abatement benefit from indirect renewable energy is not taken into account. ¡¡ Total energy use is normalised to reflect periods of vacancy in certain sites during the reporting period. ¡¡ Net internal areas used for water use intensity do not include sites that have reported zero water consumption in demised areas. ¡¡ Data cover an annual reporting period of October to September. This enables internal reporting and assurance to occur in time for external report publication. ¡¡ Total footprint includes Global Environment Management System (GEMS) properties, defined as all properties over 10,000 sq ft, and an extrapolation of a random sampling of a selection of branches smaller than 10,000 sq ft, producing figures for 100 per cent of our portfolio. ¡¡ Warehouses, empty land, car parks, unoccupied sites for business continuity purposes, residential properties, space occupied by automated teller machines, vaults and space sub-let to tenants are excluded from this extrapolation. ¡¡ Scope 3 emissions are drawn from reliable data collected from 29 countries, based on seating class and distance flown. ¡¡ As we operate largely outside of the UK, all flights domestic or international with flight distance < 463km, labelled by DEFRA as ‘domestic flights’, are classified as ‘Short Haul’. All flights with distance flown ranging from 463-1,108km, labelled by DEFRA as ‘Short Haul’ are classified as ‘Medium Haul’. 61 Independent Limited Assurance Report to the Directors of Standard Chartered Plc The Directors of Standard Chartered Plc engaged us to provide limited assurance on the information described below and set out in Standard Chartered Plc’s Sustainability Review 2013 for the year ended 30 September 2013. Our conclusion Assurance Engagements 3410 – ‘Assurance Based on the procedures we have performed engagements on greenhouse gas statements’ (ISAE and the evidence we have obtained, nothing 3410), issued by the International Auditing and has come to our attention that causes us to Assurance Standards Board. A limited assurance believe that the Selected Information for the engagement is substantially less in scope than a year ended 30 September 2013 has not been reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both prepared, in all material respects, in the risk assessment procedures, including an accordance with the Reporting Criteria. understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the This conclusion is to be read in the context of what assessed risks. we say below. Selected Information Our independence and quality control The scope of our work was limited to assurance over We applied the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW) Code of Ethics, the information marked with the symbol in which includes independence and other Standard Chartered Plc’s Sustainability Review 2013 requirements founded on fundamental principles of (the “Selected Information”). integrity, objectivity, professional competence and The Selected Information and the Reporting Criteria due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. against which it was assessed are summarised in the We apply International Standard on Quality Control table below. Our assurance does not extend to the (UK&I) and accordingly maintain a comprehensive completeness of the properties reported, system of quality control including documented information in respect of earlier periods or to any policies and procedures regarding compliance with other information included in Standard Chartered ethical requirements, professional standards and Plc’s Sustainability Review 2013. applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Our work was carried out by an independent team Selected Information Reporting Criteria with experience in sustainability reporting and Scope 1 ‘Measured’ The Standard assurance. Greenhouse Gas emissions Chartered Carbon from the on-site Emission Understanding reporting and measurement combustion of fuel. Criteria 2013 methodologies Scope 2 ‘Measured’ The Standard The Selected Information needs to be read and Greenhouse Gas emissions Chartered Carbon understood together with the Reporting Criteria. from energy generated offEmission site in the form of Criteria 2013 The absence of a significant body of established purchased electricity. practice on which to draw to evaluate and measure non-financial information allows for different, but The Standard Chartered Carbon Emission acceptable, measurement techniques. The nature, Criteria 2013 can be found at methods and precision used to determine nonhttps://www.sc.com/en/resources/globalfinancial information can result in materially en/pdf/sustainabilty/Carbon_Emissions_Reporting different measurements, affecting comparability _Criteria.pdf i between entities and over time. The Reporting Criteria used for the reporting of the Selected Professional standards applied and level of Information are at 30 September 2013. assurance We performed a limited assurance engagement in accordance with International Standard on 62 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Work done agreement between us, to assist the Directors in Considering the risk of material misstatement of the reporting Standard Chartered Plc’s corporate Selected Information, we: responsibility performance and activities. We permit • made enquiries of Standard Chartered Plc’s this report to be disclosed in Standard Chartered management, including the Corporate Plc’s Sustainability Review 2013 for the year ended Responsibility (CR) team and those with 30 September 2013, to enable the Directors to show responsibility for CR management and group CR they have addressed their governance reporting; responsibilities by obtaining an independent • evaluated the design of the key structures, systems, assurance report in connection with the Selected processes and controls for managing, recording and Information. To the fullest extent permitted by law, reporting the Selected Information. This included we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone analysing 9 countries, selected on the basis of their other than the Directors as a body and Standard inherent risk and materiality to the group, to Chartered Plc for our work or this report except understand the key processes for reporting site where terms are expressly agreed between us in performance data to the group CR team; writing. • performed limited substantive testing on a selective basis of the Selected Information in relation to 16 out of 201 sites to check that data had been appropriately measured, recorded, collated and reported; and PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP • assessed the disclosure and presentation of the Chartered Accountants Selected Information. London 12 February 2014 Standard Chartered Plc’s responsibilities The Directors of Standard Chartered Plc are iThe maintenance and integrity of Standard Chartered Plc’s website responsible for: is the responsibility of the Directors; the work carried out by us does • designing, implementing and maintaining internal not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, we accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to controls over information relevant to the the reported Selected Information or Reporting Criteria when preparation of the Selected Information that is free presented on Standard Chartered Plc’s website. from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; • establishing objective Reporting Criteria for preparing the Selected Information; • measuring and reporting the Selected Information based on the Reporting Criteria; and • the content of the Sustainability Review 2013. Our responsibilities We are responsible for: • planning and performing the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Selected Information is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; • forming an independent conclusion, based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained; and • reporting our conclusion to the Directors of Standard Chartered Plc. This report, including our conclusions, has been prepared solely for the Directors of Standard Chartered Plc as a body in accordance with the 63 Community programmes Total ($million) 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Cash contributions 20.3 19.4 17.8 21.4 15.4 Employee time (non-cash item)1 8.5 14.3 20.0 25.0 24.2 Gifts In Kind (non-cash item)2 0.3 2.1 1.2 0.1 0.2 Management costs 3.5 4.7 4.6 5.8 6.0 Total (direct investment by the Group) 32.6 40.4 43.6 52.3 45.7 Leverage3 5.7 7.0 10.8 10.5 8.4 Total (incl. leverage) 4 38.3 47.4 54.4 62.8 54.1 Percentage of prior year operating profit (PYOP) 0.84 0.92 0.89 0.91 0.79 1 A revision in methodology to calculate employee time has resulted in lower values in 2013 2 Gifts In Kind include all non-monetary donations 3 Leverage data relate to the proceeds from staff fundraising activity 4 Total figures subject to rounding 64 Standard Chartered Sustainability Review 2013 Our performance continued Sustainability awards 2013 Blue Dart – Star New Global CSR Awards 2013 Best in Healthcare for Seeing is Believing in India Global Capital Outstanding Enterprise Awards 2013 The Asset Triple A Awards 2013 Outstanding SME Bank in Hong Kong Islamic Loan House of the Year Specialist Award for SMEs Charities Trust Awards 2013 Payroll Giving Platinum Quality Mark in the UK Euromoney Islamic Finance Awards 2013 Best International Islamic Bank Hong Kong Occupational Safety & Health Awards 2013 Safety Performance Award Global Finance Awards 2013 Best Consumer Internet Bank Malaysia Greentech Awards 2013 Best Information Security Initiatives Greentech Financial Institution Award for Green Capital Funding Masala! Awards 2013 Best Charity Initiative (Corporate) for the Standard Chartered marathon/ Country Seeing is Believing in the UAE AmCham Shanghai CSR Awards 2013 Innovation Award in China National Centre for Promotion of Employment for Disabled People Shell Helen Keller Awards 2013 Role Model Company in India The Asian Banker Excellence in Retail Financial Services Awards 2013 Best Internet Banking Initiative in Singapore National Council for Occupational Safety and Health Excellence Awards 2013 Financial Services, Insurance and Real Estate Award in Malaysia Asian Banking and Finance Wholesale Banking Awards 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Programme of the Year in Thailand New York City National Disability Employment Awareness Awards 2013 Asian Photovoltaic Industry Association Awards 2013 Exemplary Employer Banking and Financing Initiative Award in India President’s Volunteerism & Philanthropy Awards 2013 The Asset Triple A Awards 2013 President’s Award for Volunteerism (Corporate) in Singapore Best in Treasury and Working Capital for SMEs in Hong Kong Best Islamic Investment Bank in the Middle East The Rotary Club of Shanghai Leadership Awards 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility in China Association of Tanzania Employers Employer of the Year Awards 2013 Equal Employment Opportunities and Diversity Award in Tanzania Tumaini Awards 2013 Corporate CSR Initiative for Seeing is Believing in Uganda The Banker Awards 2013 Islamic Bank of the Year in Pakistan 65 Sustainability indices Carbon Disclosure Project We were selected for the FTSE350 Climate Disclosure Leadership Index for the second time. The leadership index recognises our performance among the top 10 per cent of FTSE 300 companies. Dow Jones Sustainability Index (Member 2013/14) For the fourth consecutive year, we were included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) World Index and Europe Index. We were noted for our strong performance in stakeholder engagement, brand management, customer relationship management, environmental risk management and financial inclusion. FTSE4Good We were listed in the FTSE4Good Index, designed to measure the performance of companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards. © Standard Chartered PLC. All rights reserved. The STANDARD CHARTERED word mark, its logo device and associated product brand names are owned by Standard Chartered PLC and centrally licensed to its operating entities. Registered Office: 1 Basinghall Avenue, London EC2V 5DD. Telephone +44 (0) 20 7885 8888. Principal place of business in Hong Kong: 32nd Floor, 4-4A Des Voeux Road, Central, Hong Kong. Registered in England No. 966425. Designed by Fishburn™ thisisfishburn.com
