Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013-2014 UN Global Compact Nilfisk-Advance wishes to protect the environment, safeguard human and labour rights and work against corruption Nilfisk-Advance statement Our company has existed for more than a century, and there is no doubt in our minds that respect and proactive behaviour when it comes to sustainability are essential to a company’s long term prospects As one of the world’s leading manufacturers of professional cleaning equipment, we wish to head the industry by setting high business standards. Sustainability and responsibility are crucial to achieving our ambition of becoming our customers’ preferred choice. As a part of this ambition, we were first in our industry to become signatory to the UN Global Compact. By acting as a responsible business partner we can create a long-term advantage for both our customers and ourselves. The UN Global Compact sets high standards for how companies should act: Respect human rights, say no to bribery and take care of the environment. “ We as a company have always had high standards which are in line with those of the UN Global Compact, and we are convinced that committing to We wish to head the this agenda will help us develop our business in a positive direction and at the same time meet the growing demand from customers for sustainable industry by setting high and more efficient products and offerings. As examples, our whistleblower system, our annual Statement of Representation and our Code of Ethics are all business standards” initiatives that help us uphold high business standards. Our sustainability strategy is termed Green Meets Clean. In 2013, we launched Our Green Meets Clean promise to our a revised version of this strategy to further improve our sustainability efforts, customers: focus on innovative product development, green operations and increased We lower your total cost of operation and collaboration on recyclability. Green Meets Clean is our pledge to both maximise your return on investment by ourselves and our customers to dedicate our activities to offering cleaning developing products that use less energy, solutions that are efficient and improve the sustainability of the industry. It is water and detergent. also our pledge to continuously work to improve our environmental footprint as a company. We develop products with improved environmental performance and thereby Our Communication on Progress Report contains data and status on goals enhance your capacity for delivering and initiatives launched by Nilfisk-Advance. The data show that we have sustainable cleaning services as a customer. improved our performance in many areas and there is much to be proud of. We consider the results achieved to be a significant stepping stone on our We respond to the need for sustainable path to becoming an even more sustainable company. cleaning and develop new opportunities for you to create lasting value for you, your Jonas Persson employees and owners. President & CEO, Nilfisk-Advance CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 2/7 NilfiskAdvance Highlights 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance employees assembling consumer high-pressure washers and vacuum-cleaners in our ISO9001 and 14001 certified factory in Suzhou, China Courtesy of: www.issainterclean.com Sustainability concept Award to Nilfisk-Advance partner for Collaboration with universities on cradle-to-grave responsibility recycling Nilfisk-Advance continuously works to In May 2014, European Cleaning Machines Given the scarcity of resources and a improve its products. New products must Recycling (ECMR) was a proud winner of rising, global middle class, we believe that provide equal or enhanced cleaning ISSA Interclean’s Innovation Award in the recycling will be increasingly important efficiency and feature environmental Cleaning Management category. in our industry. We therefore collaborate improvements in at least one of four with a number of Danish universities on focus areas: Energy consumption, water Nilfisk-Advance donates life-expired life-cycle analyses to better understand consumption, use of detergents and equipment to ECMR, which strips out all the impact of our equipment in all steps of disposal. useful components. ECMR works to ISO the value chain. 26000, the international CSR guidelines. Both we and our customers see significant Together with the University of Southern potential in developing cleaning solutions Nilfisk-Advance is a partner of ECMR and Denmark (SDU), Nilfisk-Advance is now with improved environmental performance. was the company’s leading contributor, examining the possibilities for further donating approximately 20% of its recycling of its products an initiative We wish to be a leading player in this machine intake in 2013. which will meet the increasing customer development: Our approach is titled demand for products manufactured as Green Meets Clean. sustainably as possible. CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 3/7 HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS The next step, which is about to commence, is the provision of training to 300 of our leaders next in line. We consider it essential that all our employees are assured of good and fair working conditions, and we are committed to setting an example in the countries where we operate. As a global company we operate in parts of the world that have a long tradition of respect for individual rights, and also in areas 2013-14 Employee Engagement Survey where these rights may be less highly prioritised. Our approach on human and labour rights is defined and 45 4,930 91% globally communicated through the Nilfisk-Advance Code of countries respondents response rate Ethics and the Business Integrity Principles introduced in 2012. The subject of human and labour rights is also a mandatory  agenda component at local business board meetings at least once a year. Based on the results from the global Engagement Surveys, key We are firmly committed to providing equal opportunities to our focus areas such as knowledge of the future direction of Nilfiskemployees and will not tolerate discrimination or harassment Advance, employee recognition and strong customer focus  based on religion, race, colour, gender, age, sexual orientation, have been identified as main drivers for creating an even more political orientation, birth right or other status. We have therefore attractive workplace regardless of location and for ensuring that established a system for reporting cases of discrimination in our our people have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. whistleblower system. No incidents were reported in the COP  2013-14 period. Our customers want to be sure that the products we supply have Achieving our business goals is dependent on having a been produced in a responsible way. And we are committed to dedicated workforce, an inspiring working environment and ensuring that not only we, but also our suppliers, conform to our being able to continuously foster new talent. To ensure dialogue standards and observe the principles of the UN Global Compact. and promote commitment and engagement, our Employee These principles are now fully integrated in our standard   Engagement Survey was launched globally in 2012 and has supplier contracts, which achieved an 80% signature rate, an now been conducted for three consecutive years. To support improvement of 30% points compared to last year. Although   the development of our organisation and our leaders, 200 of our the end-2015 target of 80% has already been reached we will managers were selected for a comprehensive leadership training continue our efforts in this area. programme to ensure the continued development of our talent.  “ In order to support our Code of Ethics stating our position on this issue 2013-14    30.06.14 Goals & actions Human and labour rights Target Achieved Status Management All local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments, and have endorsed the policy. 100% () 100%  () ( Zero tolerance of acts of discrimination of any kind and hence no cases to be reported. 100% 100% We will foster talent so that skilled employees have the opportunity to achieve their full potential. With the 2015 target being a score of index 77 on the internal leadership assessment. Index 77 Index 74  ) Derived goal: To conduct global Employee Engagement Survey and set Employee Engagement targets Index. Procurement 100% () 100%  () 80% of procurement (above 50,000 EUR in value) to be supplied by partners who have agreed to abide by the 80% 80% principles of the UN Global Compact by end-2015. Occupational injuries  Improving performance with a short-term goal of a frequency less than 5.5 accidents per 1 million working hours. The long term goal is zero accidents. <5.5 7.0 () Labour rights () Our Code of Ethics is an integral part of Nilfisk-Advance’s M&A due diligence process and any 100% 100% non-conformities are reported. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 4/7 ENVIRONMENT least one of the four focus areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. We view environmental sustainability as an element of sound  business practice. If we can reduce our consumption of resources In collaboration with Technical University of Denmark (DTU) we it will not only benefit the environment but also our customers have created a life-cycle analysis of a few of our products in order and Nilfisk-Advance financially. Green Meets Clean is Nilfiskto better identify and understand the environmental footprint of  Advance’s environmental approach to developing new products products. for our customers. Our own consumption of resources is another focus area. Our Cleaning equipment naturally consumes energy, water and production units continuously strive to minimise environmental sometimes detergents. Designing future equipment which impact by use of low-energy light, natural light, internal wells and can clean to the same high standard, but uses less resources, is other initiatives. We also closely monitor our energy consumption therefore our foremost challenge. This is therefore also the area in and related CO2 emissions. which we can make the greatest possible environmental impact. For the present reporting period Nilfisk-Advance achieved a 4% The environmental impact of future products is a high priority reduction in CO2 emissions normalised to revenue, which is an  consideration in our technology development platform: important second step in achieving our overall CO2 emission Customer Focused Technology Development. 71% of all new reduction target of 8% over three years; 2013-2015. This goal was products launched by Nilfisk-Advance in the reporting period set in 2013 as a part of the sustainability strategy review. under review feature an environmental improvement in at  2013-14 30.06.14 Goals & actions Environment Product development  Target Achieved Status New products feature sustainability improvements in at least one and preferably more of the following four areas: Energy consumption, water consumption, use of detergents and disposal. 75% 71% () CO2 emissions  8% reduction over 2013-2015, equivalent of ~4% annually. 4% () 4% Product environmental footprint () Actively participate in industry-related activities, boards and committees to push for agreement 100% 100% on industry standard for measuring environmental performance of products. ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track Auto Booster 5M Nilfisk-Advance has introduced a new series of stationary high pressure washers with the choice of up to three detergents and five programmes from light to intensive cleaning. With these adjustable settings any cleaning requirement can be met while water and energy consumption is reduced. CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 5/7 ANTI-CORRUPTION As a global company doing business in all parts of the world, Nilfisk-Advance is committed to combat the negative effect that corruption has on fair competition and the development of a stable society. Based on the Transparency International Corruption Perceptions Index (www.transparency.org) we have identified areas of the world where business integrity issues are To ensure management commitment and to promote our   anti-corruption agenda the local managements in all NilfiskAdvance entities are obliged to personally sign a Statement of Representation on the UN Global Compact principles. The individual Statements are then consolidated and signed by the CEO of Nilfisk-Advance. The Statement of Representation receives  most likely to occur. significant attention from all parties. The findings for 2013-2014 revealed no major concerns. In order to support our activities in the domain of business integrity, our position is set out in the Nilfisk-Advance Code of Ethics. To further support these efforts a set of Business Integrity Principles has been introduced which guides all Nilfisk-Advance Nilfisk-Advance furthermore has a global whistleblower system which enables employees to anonymously report corruption and other unlawful incidents which are subsequently dealt  employees on what to do and what not to do in specific circumstances and situations.  with by an independent party. All reported cases receive the utmost attention, being discussed and dealt with by the Group Management of Nilfisk-Advance and NKT.    2013-14  30.06.14  Management Goals & actions Anti-corruption Target Achieved Status    Local managements have been informed of our policies, have issued their comments and have endorsed our policies. 100% () 100%  Anti-corruption  () No reported corruption or cartel cases. 0% () 0% () Ensure employees are knowledgeable regarding how to act in accordance with Nilfisk-Advance 100% 100% expectations on business integrity issues. Apply risk management in growth markets on business integrity issues. 100% () 20% ÷ Not accomplished () Partly accomplished or behind schedule  Accomplished or on track One of our many professional and trained service technicians inspecting a SW900 sweeper for a routine check. CSR Report 2013-2014 Nilfisk-Advance 6/7 Nilfisk-Advance A/S Sognevej 25 DK 2605 Brøndby Denmark
