WWW.KOPUN.HR Communication on progress Implementing UN global compact principles January 2014 1. Introduction I am pleased to confirm that the KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o., Zagreb, reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Stanko Kopun Managing Director 1|Page 2. About KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. Consulting company KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o., (Ltd) was established in the year 1990, when the beginnings of private initiative in Croatia. We are a completely private and completely independent company. The consulting activity covers the area of: o finances, o taxes, o accounting, o investments, o head hunting, o company and labour law, as well as o introducing of organization, respectively restructuring. KOPUN & Kopun d.o.o. is since 1995. only Croatian member of AGN International (an association of separate and independent accounting and consulting firms), with its main office in London, including more than 184 companies from 90 countries. Our associates are recognized professors from the appropriate faculties, engineers (one among them is a member of the International Academy of Productive Mechanical Engineering (CIRP) with its headquarters in Davos); economists; analysts etc. 2|Page 3. Our approach In February 2011 KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. signed up for the UN Global Compact program. At that point we could define three major stakeholders, which could guide the direction of our CSR policy – where we wanted to make a difference within the natural context of our business. These are: o People (employees); o Society (locally); o Society (globally). In this connection we decided to implement our initiatives in two stages: o First stage concentrate on implementing initiatives to ensure that all employees understood UNs basic principles and to ensure the willingness to implement sustainable solution throughout the organization; o Second stage would hereafter be directed at initiatives outside the Company, i.e. toward society – locally and globally. 3|Page 4. Contents of CSR policy The first set of CSR initiatives, which made sense in the context of our organization, have been initiatives concerning labour (employee rights) and environmental. 4.1. The environment Then environmental impact of a smaller business association and our scope for reducing the carbon footprint is smaller in scale than in many other industries. Even so, we find that this is no excuse not to make an effort. We have therefore adopted a green policy several years ago, which is based on: o use of recycled paper; o use of computers, monitors and printers that use less power; o use of low-energy lighting (energy efficient light bulbs). Our main goal is implementation of „paperless office“ for us and our clients. Due to this goal, during 2013 we implemented big monitors for employees in order to reduce printing. These big monitors have also impact on employee health (i.e. more suitable for eyes then smaller monitors). Our employees meet regularly (quarterly basis) in order to find additional ways how to reduce CO2 emissions. As most of our business is based on accounting services, we see it that out biggest possibility in reducing CO2 emissions is thru education of our clients about the use of „paperless office“. 4|Page 4.2. The working environment and health of the employees KOPUN i Kopun d.o.o. believes that all employees have the right to individual freedom of expression and opinion. This is upheld by regular meetings between management and employee on regular weekly office meetings. We have conducted a work place assessment, due to which we try to improve the satisfaction of our employees. Our goal is to have a high rate of employee satisfaction (with high employee retention rate) and low sickness absence. In having a good working environment, it is very important to have a good health. A bad working environment affects the health of the individual and vice versa – i.e. both have an impact on employee well-being and motivation. Some of the initiatives we have implemented thus aim at promoting and protecting our employee’s physical well-being. The employee rights therefore include home working, ensuring ergonomic work place, ensuring needed working clothing, and annual social activities. We believe that constant dialogue with employees is the best way of securing a good working environmental and preventing stress. Due to this, management is responsible of regularly monitoring employee’s well-being. 5|Page 5. Future initiatives For 2014 we plan to focus further on area of human rights and environment. We are planning to: o actively work on reducing CO2 emissions; o actively work on increasing employees health; o actively inspire our clients to implement CSR initiatives. 6|Page
