ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Company Information Editorial Policies Table of Contents Purpose of publishing this report ROHM Group Corporate Data ROHM is currently striving towards actualizing Major ROHM Group Offices/Centers ‘NEXT50,’ our vision of what the next 50 years will Innovation Report 2013 〈Japan〉 bring, by helping to achieve a sustainable society Company Name: ROHM Co., Ltd. through innovations in product and management qualHeadquarters: ity. Since 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, 2012, we have published an InnovationUkyo-ku, Report in order to present our progress towards this ● Sales Offices goal to our stakeholders asKyoto 615-8585 well as increaseJapan underEditorial Policies/ Japanese Sales ・・・・・・・・・・・ 1 Headquarters ・・・・・・ standing of the ROHM Group. Tel: +81 (75) 311-2121 Table of Contents ROHM began publishing the Environmental Data Book Kyoto TEL: +81-75-365-1077 Matsumoto TEL: +81-263-34-8601 Fax: published in 2001, and from 2007 to 2011 +81 (75) 315-0172 the report under the new title of the CSR (Corporate Social Date Established: September 17, 1958 Company Mission Tokyo andTEL: Policies +81-3-6280-0820 ・・ 2 Mito TEL: +81-29-300-0585 Responsibility) Report. This current report is a further Yokohama TEL: +81-45-476-2290 Nishi-Tokyo TEL: +81-42-648-7821 Representative: development Satoshi of these previous efforts.Sawamura, President Message from the President ・・ 3 Nagoya TEL: +81-52-581-8521 Sendai TEL: +81-22-295-3011 Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2013) Reporting organizations Fukuoka TEL: +81-92-483-3496 Takasaki TEL: +81-27-310-7111 Sales Volume: Consolidated 292,410 million JPY ROHM Co., Ltd. and all companies of the ROHM ProductHiroshima Quality TEL: +81-82-423-8153 (fiscal Group (affiliated companies in Japanyear ending March and abroad) 2013) Innovation Number of Employees: Consolidated 20,203 (as of March 31, 2013)Product Quality China Sales Headquarters TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Innovation Asia Sales Headquarters 6 ・・・・・・・ TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Reporting period Fiscal year 2012 (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013) Euro-American Sales Headquarters TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Reports on events and initiatives before and after this Technological Innovations period are also discussed in part. In General-purpose, ・・・ 7 Organization Chart Discrete● Production Facilities Semiconductors Date published ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-53-468-1000 Four Growth Engines ・・・・・・・・・・・ July 2013 President (Strategic Products) ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. 8 TEL: +81-865-67-0111 (Next issue: July 2014; previous issue: July 2012) ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-943-32-3000 Guidelines used for Research reference& Development Developing Next-generation ROHM ・・ 12 Mechatech Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-771-25-4717 R&D Headquarters GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Version 3.1 Technologies LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-45-476-9212 Japanese Standards Association’s ISO26000:2010 Ministry of the Environment’s Environmental LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-22-345-1211 LSI Corporate Strategy Headquarters Management Quality Reporting Guidelines 2007 Version LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-985-85-5111 Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Code of Innovation Conduct Version 4.0 LSI Product Development Headquarters Management AGLED Co., Ltd. ・・ 14 TEL: +81-72-770-8060 Production Quality Innovation Relationship with other reports ● R&D Centers LSI Operation Headquarters Information on CSR Organizational Governance ・・ 15 ROHM’ s website includes information on CSR InitiaKyoto Technology Center (Head Office) TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Discrete Production Headquarters tives that are not included in this report (they are availHuman Rights and Kyoto Technology Center (Kyoto Ekimae) TEL: +81-75-365-1073 able in Japanese only). Details on environmental ・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 19 Labor Practices Yokohama Technology Center TEL: +81-45-476-2131 conservation activities are Module & Lighting Production also provided Headquarters in the Environmental Data Book (PDF). Nagoya Design Center TEL: +81-52-581-0185 The following diagramSales outlines the relationship Environment ・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・・ 21 between these media forms and the current report. Japanese Sales Headquarters High Distribution Fair Operating / Other Practices Group Companies ・・・・・ 23 China & Asia Sales Headquarters ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-865-44-3181 Consumer Issues Degree of importance Euro-American Sales Headquarters This report Narita Giken Co., ・・・ ・・・・・・・・・ 25 Ltd. TEL: +81-6-6433-0410 (Customer Support) Administration Community Involvement for stakeholders Corporate Communications Headquarters and Development ・・・・・・ 27 Website Accounting Headquarters CSR Targets/Plans and High Results Sales Offices ・・・・・・ 31 Degree of importance for the ROHM Group Production Facilities Administrative Headquarters Financial results and financial information R&D Centers In addition to legally required reports, ROHM also Company Information ・・・・・・ 33 publishes Interim Reports and Annual Reports that are Production available on its website in PDF format.System Development Div. ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. Kyoto CSR Div. ROHMROHM is included in the Socially Responsible HQ Investment (SRI) Index Matsumoto Apollo Co., Ltd. Sendai Corporate information Takasaki Corporate Quality Assurance Div. Fukuoka Mito http://www.rohm.com/corporate/index.html Nishitokyo CSR initiatives Tokyo http://micro.rohm.com/jp/csr/ Nagoya Yokohama Investor relations Audit Div. Hirosahima http://www.rohm.com/financial/index.html AGLED Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu FTSE4Good Indexes Series MS-SRI LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. 1 33 Company Mission and Policies ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 ROHM has communicated the Company Mission to its employees since its foundation in order to become a company trusted and relied upon by society. COMPANY MISSION Quality is our top priority at all times. Our objective is to contribute to the advancement and progress of our culture through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, of high quality products in large volumes to the global market. Policies to achieve the Company Mission are laid out and serve as guidelines for all business activities. BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY Secure reasonable profit through a concerted company-wide effort for a comprehensive quality assurance program. Develop globally leading products by improving upon technologies held by each department for continued advancement of the company. Maintain healthy and vigorous lifestyles and refine intellect and humanitarianism, hence contributing to society. Search extensively for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY 1. Promote internal standardization for the whole company and establish structures for QC management by data. 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the development of new technologies and products. 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control for all areas of company activities. 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing processes. 5. Exert effort for cost reductions of each product by continual modernization of manufacturing systems. 6. Secure quality assurance programs of raw materials and components with our suppliers through contracts. BASIC GOALS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. Develop personnel at all levels to constantly strive to obtain new knowledge and to acquire empirical reasoning ability from a broad perspective. 2. Train staff to be dedicated as leaders in their field by utilizing their knowledge and experience. 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place the highest value on teamwork, resulting from the combined efforts of all individuals. BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING 1. All employees will use every available opportunity to enhance self-development. 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior at all times. 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary training off the job is also provided. 4. Each head of all management levels will appraise staff fairly and conduct effective training programs periodically and consistently. 5. Appraisals for each head of all management levels is based, as a general rule, on the success of staff education and training. Although the environment surrounding the company has changed with the emergence of an information-based society and increased diversification of values among the people, these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force and foundation in all business activities. 2 Message from the President Quality is our top priority at all times. The environment that surrounds us is changing greatly, and This company mission has remained and the time has come for us to reform the philosophy behind will forever remain ROHM’s DNA. corporate activities centered on CSR. However, this is by no means a new concept for ROHM. I believe that continuing to ROHM was established in 1958 as a manufacturer of chip unite the ROHM Group and meeting the diverse demands of resistors featuring unprecedented miniaturization. In 1967 our stakeholders by following the company mission and basic ROHM entered the semiconductor market and became the management policies that have remained our objectives since first Japanese company to establish a semiconductor base in ROHM was established is the best way to contribute to the Silicon Valley. In the more than 50 years since, ROHM has development of a sustainable society. continued taking on challenges in its corporate activities. In May 2011, ROHM signed the UN Global Compact And although the environment within and outside ROHM has (UNGC). Based on the ISO26000 international standard changed drastically during that time, each and every on social responsibility, ROHM has designated important employee has kept a strong desire in their heart to contribute CSR challenges across the entire value chain and set to society by seeking the highest quality and providing initiative themes, plans, and targets to build a global CSR products by the required delivery time for every single management system. customer. By always understanding the meaning of the words of our company mission, and by making it the mission for each endeavor and at times our foundation, we have been Creating new value-added innovative able to overcome many obstacles. high quality products through four growth engines In 2008 we celebrated our 50th anniversary and created a ‘NEXT50’ campaign as a mediumto long-term strategy focused on our goals, activities, and expectations for the next 50 years. One such activity is establishing four growth engines, centered on ‘LSI Synergy’ , ‘Power Devices’ , ‘LEDs’ , and ‘Sensor Networks.’ These are considered key areas for achieving a safe, comfortable, energy-saving lifestyle and consist of products that put the Creating Shared Value (CSV) concept into practice. What is the UN Global Compact (UNGC) The UNGC is an international initiative that enables businesses and other organizations to exercise responsible and creative leadership in order to achieve sustainable growth. Companies supporting UNGC must maintain 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. 3 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 ‘LSI Synergy Strategy’ involves creating new added value by 'Sensor Network Strategy' involves responding with a fully exploiting the synergy created through the combination diverse product lineup that meets the needs of the sensor of ROHM’ s expertise in analog technology and LAPIS market, in which there is a growing demand for sensors in a Semiconductor’ s strength in digital technology. At the core of variety of applications, including smartphones, security this strategy are analog power ICs that are used in power systems, and even medical instruments. supplies and motor drives and play an important role in reducing power consumption in all types of electronic We have also stepped up our initiatives for building a sensor devices. One example is the CPU power supply IC for network, and became a core member of the EnOcean next-generation tablets that was co-developed with Intel, our Alliance, an organization that promotes a next-generation long-term business partner. wireless communication standard, in October 2012. We will continue to expand our activities to new markets such as ‘Power Device Strategy’ concentrates on integrating globally HEMS (Home Energy Management Systems) and BEMS advanced power device, LSI control, and module (Building Energy Management Systems) and help people technologies in order to develop power semiconductors attain safe and comfortable lifestyles. capable of highly efficient power conversion. In particular, we are focusing our efforts on developing power devices In our existing product fields as well we will respond to the comprised of silicon carbide (SiC), a compound that diversifying demands of customers and society by achieves far better energy savings and miniaturization than continuing to develop products with high added value. conventional silicon (Si). ROHM was the first in the world to successfully begin mass production of full-SiC power Smartphones and other electronic devices are requiring modules in 2012 and continues to release new SiC even better energy-saving performance despite dramatic products. These modules are being used more and more in increases in functionality, resulting in a greater demand for fields such as industrial equipment, solar power systems, air miniaturization of semiconductors and electronic parts. To conditioners, and uninterruptible power supply (UPS) respond to these needs, the ROHM Group has utilized new equipment, and will likely contribute to energy conservation manufacturing methods and materials and merged for society as a whole. technologies to develop electronic parts (such as resistors, transistors and diodes) that are the smallest of their kind in ‘LED Strategy’ relates to contributing to the development of the world. peopleand community-friendly environments by providing LED components, driver ICs, various sensors that detect Going forward, we will continue to develop products in ambient conditions and people, and LED lighting solutions broad-ranging fields using ideas and approaches that break that integrate our industry-leading energy-saving power previous norms and concepts. supply modules. Action items for sustainability Creating new values ROHM’s journey through innovative products through the next 50 years Human Rights NEXT50 Labor Four growth engines Environment LSI Power Anticorruption ROHM’s DNA Synergy Device Strategy Strategy Company Mission and Policies ICs LEDs Sensor LED Adding value by communicating Transistors Laser Diodes Network Strategy and cooperating with stakeholders Strategy Diodes Resistors 1960 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 2060 4 Message from the President ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Increasing management quality and With the collaborative effort of the ROHM product quality and solving issues in Group we will fulfill our commitments in sustainability providing a stable supply to customers Becoming a company preferred not only by customers but It is also absolutely essential to build a reliable and by stakeholders throughout the world requires innovative, speedy supply system for meeting customers' delivery high quality, value-added products. We must therefore requirements. Through vertical integration, we will continue improve our management quality and product quality to to optimize the supply chain by leveraging the strengths of allow us to overcome key challenges in widely attaining our integrated production system and implementing the sustainability throughout the globe. PDCA (Plan, Do, Check, Act) cycle in each process. In an attempt to incre ase manage ment quali ty, we The Great East Japan Earthquake and Thailand floods that established a new CSR committee in June 2011 and formed occurred in succession in 2011 were major lessons for the a CSR Division under the direct control of the president. In ROHM Group. Following these two disasters, the Group June 2012, a CSR committee was formed and a CSR applied its collective strength in recovery efforts, achieving promotion representative was assigned to 20 major a stable supply more quickly than was expected. domestic and overseas production companies within the Nevertheless, great inconvenience was caused to many of ROHM Group. This system is expected to facilitate global our customers. CSR management. In response, the ROHM Group is revising its organizational Many electronics manufacturers perform CSR audits to framework and performing BCP drills at all companies to verify that their suppliers are meeting key CSR criteria, such minimize risks and maintain a supply system that can meet as the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC). The customer deadlines under any circumstances and restore ROHM Group also receives third-party CSR audits. operations quickly to prevent stoppages. In terms of product supply, we are strengthening our multiple-base production In addition to these external audits, we also began system and stock management in preparation for potential performing internal CSR audits in 2012 to verify the status of disasters to ensure a stable supply. We are also revising the internal CSR audits and compliance with EICC among all risk diagnostics cycle at each production site and working ROHM Group companies. on measures to thoroughly examine all types of risks including those against earthquakes, floods, and other As an initiative for ensuring product quality, the ROHM natural disasters. Group utilizes vertical integration, a style in which each step, from development to production, is integrated within the The ROHM Group will implement its company mission and Group. This is a feature of ROHM's mindset in which quality basic management policy and contribute to society by always comes first. continuing to improve the quality of each element and take on new challenges. We achieve reliable traceability by infusing high quality into every process, from wafer ingot pulling to completion of finished products. Furthermore, ROHM has created a global support system by establishing QA centers and marketing bases in different countries. Feedback from customers is relayed to the production lines to help build a high quality system. June 2013 Satoshi Sawamura President ROHM Co., Ltd. 5 ROHM Group Products ICs Memory Amplifiers & Linear Power Management Clocks & Timers Switch & Multiplexer & Logic Data Converter Sensors & MEMS Product LED / LCD Drivers Motor / Actuator Drivers Quality Innovation Interface Audio & Video Discrete Semiconductors Transistors Diodes SiC Power Devices Opto Electronics LEDs LED Displays Laser Diodes Optical Sensors IrDA Infrared Communication Modules Remote Control Receiver Modules Passive Components Resistors The ROHM Group is committed towards developing Tantalum Capacitors innovative products based on our four ‘growth Modules engines’ that can help mitigate social issues. Power Modules Wireless LAN Modules Contact Image Sensor Heads Thermal Printheads Commercial Products LED Lighting Banalyst ■Technological Innovations In General-purpose, Discrete Semiconductors P.7 ■Four Growth Engines (Strategic Products) P.8～11 ■Developing Next-generation Technologies P.12～13 6 Product Quality Innovation Meeting the needs of society and the times with ROHM cutting-edge technologies The ROHM Group offers products that not only meet the varied needs of its customers, but also contributes to resolving a variety of social issues, such as energy conservation and safety. This section outlines our leading technologies, from technological innovations in general-purpose products to strategic developments and new technologies that are expected to become a foundation for the coming generation. Developing Next-generation Technologies Power Device Strategy LSI Synergy Strategy LED Strategy Sensor Network Strategy Technological Innovations Four Growth Engines In General-purpose, Discrete Semiconductors Technological Innovations In General-purpose, Discrete Semiconductors Broad lineup of innovative products that bring high added value To meet the needs of smartphones, tablets and other electronic devices that are increasingly becoming smaller and thinner, ROHM develops the industry’s smallest products in each category by utilizing new manufacturing methods and materials and fusing technologies to improve on conventional designs. Industry’s smallest* Industry’s smallest* The industry’s smallest* class of Industry’s smallest* Ultra-small, chip resistor transistor conductive polymer capacitors tantalum capacitor ultra-thin chip LEDs SMR003 VML0604 TCSO (M Case) series TCT (U Case) series PICOLED® series Industry’s Industry’s Industry’s Industry’s Industry’s smallest* smallest* smallest* smallest* smallest* Under Under PICOLED® develop develop NEW is a trademark NEW ment ment of ROHM Co., Ltd. 03015 size 0604 size 1608 (0603) size 1005 (0402) size 1006 size [0.3×0.15 H=0.1] [0.6×0.4 H=0.36] [1.6×0.85 H=0.8] [1.0×0.5 H=0.6] [1.0×0.6 H=0.2] Industry’s smallest* diodes Thin compact single-package Industry’s smallest* EEPROM HMD package power supply CMOS LDO （CSP） Multiple diode chips can SMD0402 6MHz power supply IC embedded in circuit board facilitates microminiaturization TF2 series Lineup of the industy’s be embedded on a single chip smallest class of products* Industry’s Industry’s smallest* Industry’s smallest* Industry’s smallest* smallest* Under Under develop develop ment NEW ment (6 chips) (4 chips) 0402 size [2.4×0.8 H=0.3] [1.6×0.8 H=0.3] [0.4×0.2 H=0.12] [2.3×2.9 H=1.0 MAX.] [0.65×0.65 H=0.3] [0.8×0.8 H=0.3] *As of June 2013 7 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Four Growth Engines (Strategic Products) With four growth engines ‘LSI Synergy’ , ‘Power Devices’ , ‘LEDs’ , and ‘Sensor Networks’ -ROHM continuously takes on new challenges that include the development of next-generation products and pursuit of new businesses. LSI Synergy Product POWER LSI LED SENSOR Quality Innovation By actively combining ROHM’s expertise in analog technology with LAPIS Semiconductor’s renowned digital technology, we will continue to produce a succession of new products optimized for next-generation devices. One key product category is analog power ICs that are used in power conversion and motor drives, since they play a major role in reducing power consumption in all types of electronic devices. Analog Technology Digital Technology Optimized Solutions Collaborating with leading IC manufacturers to accelerate reference business ROHM has been collaborating with Intel since 2008. In 2013, the companies jointly developed a power IC for processors in next-generation tablets. Collaborative frameworks are also being built with other top manufacturers in a variety of fields. Reference business is accelerating in diverse markets, including smartphones, tablets, and industrial equipment. Development Status September 2010 March 2013 Reducing the development time Supporting longer of embedded operating times in devices tablets Chipset and reference board for Intel® Atom™ Low power consumption power management ICs Processor E600 Series for next-generation Intel® Atom™ Processors 8 Product Quality Innovation Power Devices POWER LSI LED SENSOR The ROHM Group combines industry-leading power device, LSI control, and module technologies in order to develop power semiconductors capable of highly efficient power conversion. In particular, we are pioneering cutting-edge development in the field of silicon carbide (SiC), a semiconductor compound that achieves far better energy savings and miniaturization than conventional silicon (Si). ROHM was the first in the world to successfully begin mass production of full-SiC power modules and commercialized numerous new SiC products in 2012. Developing industry-leading SiC products SiC products are being used more and more in fields such as industrial equipment, solar power systems, air conditioners, and UPS equipment while contributing to energy conservation for society as a whole. Winner of the 55th Annual Best 10 New Products Award from Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun (2012) March 2012 Internal power semiconductor components comprised entirely of SiC Full-SiC power modules Development status in 2012 June 2012 June 2012 December 2012 The industry’s first SiC The industry’s first SiC Industry low VF MOSFET with SiC SBD MOS module with no (Schottky Barrier Diode) Schottky Barrier Diode integrated into a single package 2nd generation SiC MOSFET SiC MOS module SiC Schottky barrier diode ■ Predicted energy conservation from utilizing SiC devices by 2030 Contributing to energy conservation with SiC （Crude oil equivalent: SiC is a semiconductor material that is garnering great interest from a number 10,000 kL/year） of industries, such as electric power companies, automakers, and industrial equipment manufacturers, from an energy conservation standpoint. ROHM was the first in the world to successfully begin mass production of full-SiC power modules in 2012 and commercialized numerous new SiC products. These products are already being used more and more in fields such as industrial equipment, solar power systems, air conditioners, and UPS equipment. SiC is Kazuhide Ino General Manager （Year） expected to make a significant SiC Power Device Production Division （When the effects of general-purpose inverters are included） contribution to energy conserDiscrete Production Headquarters Source: FED-recommissioned survey on NEDO energy-saving rolling ROHM Co., Ltd. vation for society as a whole. 9 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 LED POWER LSI LED SENSOR As the demand for energy conservation and power savings grows, LED lighting is being increasingly adopted in not only offices and factories, but in homes as well. The ROHM Group contributes to energy conservation throughout society by providing total LED solutions for the lighting industry, from LED components to driver ICs and high efficiency power supply modules. Wireless communication Product Quality Innovation Optimal control LED Lighting modules for that achieve LED driver ICs wireless networks Ultra-low energy consumption High sensitivity power modules ambient light sensors Market-proven high reliability discrete semiconductors and electronic Broad LED lineup components Integrated Advanced optical design quality control technology production system simulation ROHM LED lighting products are used by a variety of customers ROHM LED lighting solutions have received much acclaim from our customers. In the few years since their commercialization, they have been adopted in a number of places, including shops, factories, warehouses, universities, and offices. Our straight-tube LED lamp enjoys particularly high regard as a product that could only have come from a semiconductor manufacturer. As a result, it commands the industry’s no. 1 market share. Going forward ROHM will continue to provide energy-saving high quality lighting devices that meet market needs. GINZA TANAKA Shinjuku Store JR Nagoya Takashimaya Mita Hospital, International University of Health and Welfare Biwako-Kusatsu Campus (BKC), Ritsumeikan University Tokyo University of Science CO-OP Super Value Nishiogu Store 10 Product Quality Innovation Sensor Network POWER LSI LED SENSOR There is a growing demand for sensing devices in a variety of applications, including smartphones, security systems, and even medical instruments. In order to further expand its diverse sensor lineup, the ROHM Group welcomed global accelerator supplier Kionix in 2009 and established a collaborative system in 2013 with Aichi Steel, a company that features unparalleled performance in the geomagnetic sensor sector. In addition, ROHM utilizes LAPIS Semiconductor’s renowned low power microcontrollers and expertise in wireless technology, together with EnOcean’s next-generation wireless communication standard, in order to provide sensor networks that meet diverse needs. Motion Sensing Field Sensing Geomagnetic 4-Direction Pressure Pulse Sensors Capacitive Harvesters UV Sensors Proximity Temperature Sensors Accelerometer Sensors Switches Sensors Sensors Sensor EDLC (Storage) DSC (Energy Harvesting) Transmission-Type Triaxial Motion Sensor Touch Sensors Hall Sensors Infrared Image Ambient Photointerrupters Sensors ICs Key Sensors Light Sensors Technology WLAN Specified Low Power -web Low Power Microcomputers Bluetooth® UV Sensors Wearable Gas Sensors Power Management EnOcean® Terahertz CIGS Human Pulse Image Sensors Sensors Non-Volatile Logic Zigbee® Low Power Networks Banalyst Plasmon Saliva 4-Direction Gas Sensors Biosensors Sensors Accelerometer Sensor Health Care Sensing Infrastructure Health Care First in Asia to become a core member of the EnOcean Alliance EnOcean has established a cutting-edge wireless communication standard and developed technologies that enables the creation of switches and sensors that do not require a separate power supply, wires, or maintenance. Over 250,000 buildings in Europe use such switches in their lighting systems, and 300 top manufacturers across the world have joined an alliance that promotes the use of their standard. ROHM was the first company from Asia to become a member. Developing systems for a safer society Energy Health Infrastructure ROHM is simultaneously focuses its efforts on the research and development of various Medicine sensor devices as well as creating sensor networks that wirelessly link sensor signals. By merging the ROHM Group’s energy saving, wireless communication, and other techHEMS Logistics nologies with EnOcean’s energy harvesting solutions we can create a system with extremely low power consumption. These technologies can be used to monitor infraBEMS structures such as bridges and roads where maintenance is Construction an issue. Going forward we will Agriculture continue to develop systems that Koji Taniuchi Factory Unit leader Automation contribute to safer society. Transportation Education Food Incubation Unit/Device Solution R&D Unit Fire Research and Development Headquarters Protection ROHM Co., Ltd. 11 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Developing Next-generation Technologies ROHM pursues R&D activities that coordinate everything from materials, design and manufacturing technologies to quality improvement activities in order to develop products that meet the needs of next generation devices. New technologies are continuously being cultivated based on the concept of Product “MORE THAN MOORE*.” *MORE THAN MOORE: Goes beyond Moore’s Law, cultivating diversification and functional innovation by fusing different technologies and incorporating new materials. Quality Innovation POWER ROHM actively adopts new materials to pursue R&D of novel devices that achieve breakthroughs in efficiency and miniaturization. SiC AlGaN / GaN Silicon carbide Industry’s smallest Gallium nitride SiC power module for automotive In the field of SiC power devices, where applications Power devices by using we are continuing with industry-leading this material exhibit R&D, ROHM received a CEATEC Award* excellent switching charfor its pioneering innovations. The acteristics, making it theme of the award was SiC power ideal for use in highmodules that are one tenth the size of frequency applications conventional products. SiC-compatible that are not possible with gate drivers are built in – an industry conventional silicon first. These products and more were devices developed by combining the ROHM Group’s technologies. *CEATAC Awards are given to technology, products, services, and systems featuring superior innovation exhibited at CEATAC JAPAN, one of Asia’s largest international video, information, and communications exhibitions. Less than 1/10 the size of conventional models Highlight Developing a lightweight high-output solid hydrogen fuel cell ROHM has joined forces with Aquafairy and Kyoto you can hold in your palm, a portable hybrid high-output University in developing a solid hydrogen fuel cell for use type, and a model that offers longer operating times. They in portable generators that is lightweight, compact, and can be used for outdoor activities when there are no capable of high output. It uses electricity generated from nearby outlets and are applicable in cafes and public the oxidation reaction between hydrogen and oxygen, places such as hospitals or disaster evacuation centers making it extremely eco-friendly. In addition, the dedidue to their silent operation. Furthermore, they do not cated fuel cartridge lasts for 20 years or more. emit carbon dioxide or any other noxious gases, making Prototypes include a compact type for smartphones that them safe for indoor use as well. Key Features 1. Lightweight 2. Quiet 3. Eco-friendly 4. Fuel can be stored for 20+ years Compact type (73g, 2.5W) Hybrid high-output type (7kg*, 200W) Long-term operation type (3kg*, 800Whr) *Approx. 1/4 to 1/5 the weight of lead batteries with similar capacities 12 Product Quality Innovation ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Medical and Health & Fitness ROHM utilizes its semiconductor development and production expertise to cultivate sensor technology for the medical and health & fitness fields. In addition to reducing measurement time and simplifying operation, ROHM is working on non-invasive pain-free testing. B-analyst Micro-Sample Blood Analysis System The B-analyst system released in Japan in 2008 is a microsample blood analysis system that uses microfabrication and µ µTAS (Micro-Total Analysis System) technology, making it possible to measure diabetes and inflammation markers in trace blood samples in only minutes In November 2012, ROHM entered into a sales agreement with Italy-based A. Menarini Diagnostics to market and sell the system in 19 countries in Europe. Saliva Sensors CIGS Image Sensors ROHM is also breaking into the area These sensors are designed to detect of non-invasive testing where safe near-infrared light which can pass biological information can be through the body, making them ideal for obtained without causing pain medical, food inspection, and security or physical damage. One such applications. And since images can be example is the digital immuno chip taken of light passing through silicon, that can measure hormones that are ROHM is also pursuing their use in semiindicators of stress from minute conductor wafer inspection and monitorsaliva samples. ing devices. Wearable Human Pulse Sensors UV Sensors ROHM has developed wearable Intended for health and beauty applicahuman pulse sensors that integrate tions, ROHM’s UV sensor detects only a dedicated pulse sensor with a UV rays and can measure UV-A and newly developed noise suppression UV-B separately. Its applicability can be circuit, making it possible to meaexpanded through wireless data commusure pulse rate and other indicators nication in sensor networks and and other even during exercise in real time. systems. Highlight Success in Terahertz imaging Collaborative research with Pioneer bore fruit in March 2013 with the world’s first successful terahertz imaging used in the oscillation and detection of resonant tunneling diodes, which are compact semiconductor elements. Terahertz waves possess both light and radio wave characteristics, and thus are capable of obtaining transmission images within objects (similar to X-rays) as well as detecting molecule interactions. What’s more, they are safe and have no effect on the human body. As a result they are garnering strong interest for applications in medical care and other fields. 13 7 Core ISO26000 Subjects Human Rights Community Involvement Labor Practices and Development Organizational Governance Consumer Issues (Customer Support) Environment Fair Operating Management Practices Quality Innovation FY 2012 Initiative Highlights Organizational Governance Organizational ■ Appointed a CSR Promotion Representative to 20 ROHM Group companies P.15～ Governance ■ Building an internal CSR audit system ■ CSR education within the ROHM Group ■ OHSAS18001(2007) certification Human Rights and Labor Practices Human Rights ■ Promoting work-life balance ■ 18 consecutive years of zero accidents that require and Labor Practices time off from work at ROHM Headquarters P.19 ～ ■ Supporting employee growth througth personnel exchanges worldwide The ROHM Group pursues global CSR manageEnvironment ment based on ISO26000. Environment ■ 100% waste recycling rate at ROHM Headquartes In addition to strengthening the CSR promotion ■ Receiving the Award for Environmental P.21 ～ Excellence from Pathum Thani Province, system, ROHM is using ISO26000 as a guide for Thailand extracting priority issues across the entire value chain and establishing initiative themes, plans Fair Operating Practices and targets. ■ Strengthening internal education activities Fair Operating P.23 ～ Practices ■ Promoting CSR throughout the entire supply chain Consumer Issues (Customer Support) ■ Strengthening the quality assurance system Consumer Issues P.25 ～ (Customer Support) ■ Pursuing activities to acquire information security certification Community Involvement and Development Community Involvement P.27 ～ and Development ■ Social contribution activities ■ Disaster area reconstruction support efforts CSR Targets/ ■ CSR Targets/Plans and Results Plans and Results P.31 ～ 14 Management Quality Innovation Organizational Governance Corporate Governance System CSR Management Board of Directors (Directors) Societal demands ROHM limits the number of Directors on the Board that manages Stakeholders and international norms Group activities to 10 in order to encourage sufficient discussion Shareholders Business partners while allowing for adequate and swift decision-making. Additionally, UNGC and investors two independent outside directors are designated to enhance Customers Employees Local societies Business Conduct ISO and communities Guidelines mutual supervision among the directors. 26000 EICC Basic CSR Policy Remuneration and bonuses for directors are determined based on a performance pay system that uses the consolidated profits Company Mission Basic Management Policy of the relevant fiscal year as a performance indicator, and serve to clarify the management responsibilities of the directors. Contributing to sustainable development of Board of Auditors (Auditors) a fundamental society To ensure the transparency and objectivity of management pracFollowing the Company Mission, Basic Management Policy and tices, all 5 members on the Board of Auditors are independent other objectives and policies has allowed the ROHM Group to outside auditors. Each auditor reviews the management operacontribute to the sustainable development of the Group and tions of the directors by attending board meetings and other imporhealthy development of society by building a relationship of tant meetings and by inspecting operations. They also cooperate mutual trust with stakeholders. with the accounting auditor and ROHM’s Internal Audit Division to The ROHM Group Basic CSR Policy was established in order to increase the accuracy of audits. apply CSR concepts to conduct business conscientiously from a global perspective and contribute to the sustainable progress of society based on the company mission and basic management Internal Audit Division An Audit Division was put into place as ROHM’s Internal Audit policy. Basic ethical rules for consistently implementing objectives Division. The Audit Division meets with board members and and policies, including the Company Mission, Basic Management employees to talk about operations carried out throughout the Policy, and ROHM Group CSR Basic Policy, are specified in the ROHM Group and inspect documents and forms, among other ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines. duties. Staff members in the Audit Division also work together The Company Mission and Basic Management Policy remain with auditors and accounting auditors to review compliance of unchanged, but the ROHM Group CSR Basic Policy and the company regulations and the validity of assets. ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines continue to evolve in ■ Corporate Governance Organizational Chart ROHM GROUP General Shareholders Meeting Election/Dismissal Executive Directors Auditing Functions (Board of Directors) Functions Cooperation Auditors Chief Executive Officer Audit (Board of Auditors) CSR Committee Cooperation CSR Division (Office) Accounting Auditor Compliance Committee Administrative Division Total Quality Management Committee Central Safety and Hygiene Committee Risk Management and BCM Committee Information Disclosure Committee Environmental Conservation CSR Promotion Committee R&D Division Production Division Sales Division Audit Division (Internal Audit Division) Cooperation Management Committee Group Affiliated Companies (Domestic and Overseas) 15 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 line with changing societal demands and the latest norms, such Establishing 3 working groups as the UN Global Compact (UNGC), ISO26000, and the Electronic within the CSR Promotion Committee Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), in order to better meet stakeIn July 2012, ROHM established 3 new active working groups holder expectations. within the CSR Promotion Committee -Education, Culture & Exchange, and Environment. The groups pursue activities that Establishing a dedicated CSR Division respond to the views of each stakeholder, including local Management under the direct control of the president manufacturing classes, the Arigato-bon program (details on P.27), In June 2011, ROHM established a CSR Division as an organization and dissemination of volunteer information to employees. Quality Innovation that is under the direct control of the president. In November 2012, a CSR Promotion Division was installed at Group company LAPIS Semiconductor. ROHM pursues CSR activities through these dedicated CSR organizations. Organizational CSR promotion representative appointed to 20 ROHM Group companies in order to expand CSR measures globally Governance Establishing a CSR Committee In June 2012, CSR promotion representative was appointed to 20 ROHM considers CSR a pillar for sustainable management. In an affiliated domestic and international companies to expand CSR meaeffort to promote quick decision-making with respect to long-term sures globally based on the Company Mission and Basic Managegoals, current challenges, and the diverse demands of stakeholders, ment Policy. In addition, CSR Promotion Committee meeting is held ROHM established a CSR Committee headquartered in the CSR every month to verify compliance with the UN Global Compact, Division in June 2011. The Committee holds regular meetings. ISO26000, the EICC, and other international regulations and stanThe CSR Committee is headed by the president, and it is comprised dards. The Committee will continue working to ensure the ROHM Group is trusted as corporate citizen by of the Total Quality Management Committee, the Central Safety fulfilling its social commitments aimed and Hygiene Committee, Risk Management and BCM Committee, at building a better society. Compliance Committee, Information Disclosure Committee, Envi19 ronmental Conservation Management Committee, and CSR ProToshifumi Murai Head of a SectionDivision motion Committee. The Committee reports and discusses the CSR Division. ROHM Co., Ltd. status of and plans for activities concerning CSR to strengthen CSR management. ■ ROHM Group Basic CSR Policy We will conduct business conscientiously from a global perspective and contribute to the sustainable progress of society based on objectives and policies, including the Company Mission and Basic Management Policy. We will also endeavor to establish good relationships with our stakeholders (below), become trusted by society, and achieve sustainable company growth. ROHM seeks to obtain customer satisfaction and confidence by providing a stable supply of products featuring superior quality and performance along with timely, accurate service. ROHM Customers will also respond in good faith to customers, place the highest priority on the safety of its products, and strive to disclose relevant information whenever necessary. ROHM selects business partners according to equitable and rational criteria. ROHM values the relaBusiness Partners tionships with its business partners and conducts equal and fair transactions for mutual prosperity. ROHM strives to ensure a safe and comfortable working environment, respect human values and Employees individuality, and create a fair and appropriate workplace aimed at increasing job satisfaction. ROHM seeks to continuously improve corporate value and secure profits in order to provide a Shareholders and Investors steady return to both shareholders and investors. ROHM also offers financial information to keep shareholders and investors actively informed. ROHM works to deepen its relationship with each country and local community, respect their culture Local Societies and Communities and history, and implement and support social, cultural, and art activities. ROHM also endeavors to preserve the global environment throughout its daily business activities. 16 Product Quality Innovation Organizational Governance CSR Audits CSR audits from customers ■ Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Many electronics manufacturers perform CSR audits to verify that (EICC) Code of Conduct their suppliers are meeting CSR criteria, such as the Electronic A code formulated by an organization comprised primarily of Industry Code of Conduct (EICC). The ROHM Group receives electronics manufacturers and major suppliers. It involves such CSR audits, and considers them important opportunities to human rights and labor practices, health and safety, the environment, fair trade and ethics and a system to manage these increase management quality. Making continuous improvements areas. based on feedback received during these audits allows ROHM to strengthen its CSR management system. Stakeholder Voice Nikon Corporation Building an internal CSR audit system The Nikon Group designated CSR activity promotion in the In addition to audits from outside entities, the ROHM Group also supply chain as a priority in its mid-term business plan, and began carrying out two types of internal CSR audits from FY began visiting major partner suppliers to check the status of 2012. activities from FY 2012. We visited ROHM in October 2012 An internal CSR audit is held once a year by each of the 20 major and verified the status of our CSR requests, on the basis of domestic and overseas production companies to self-check their systems, operation, and management. We confirmed that compliance with the EICC. In addition, a comprehensive internal ROHM consistently employs the PDCA cycle in its CSR CSR audit is performed by the CSR Division at ROHM Headquaractivities, for example building a CSR promotion system that ters once every two years on the 20 companies to verify the includes verification of relevant laws and regulations and status of their internal CSR audits along with compliance with the compliance in all required areas, clarification of responsible EICC. departments, standardization of documents, and monitoring the status of activities with the CSR Committee. ROHM also performs internal CSR audits using the EICC standard, ■ Internal CSR Audits and Comprehensive Audit which is currently the de facto global standard for CSR. We confirmed that ROHM implements CSR activities that take CSR Division at ROHM HQ into account not only Japan, but the rest of the world as well. I hope we can continue to exchange information with ROHM and together build a win-win rela relaComprehensive Internal CSR Audit tionship to continue promoting CSR throughout the supply chain. ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group ROHM Group Production Company Production Company Production Company Production Company Production Company Takuya Hashimoto Internal Internal Internal Internal Internal Planning Section CSR Audit CSR Audit CSR Audit CSR Audit CSR Audit Procurement & Facilities Management Department Business Administration Center ・・・20 domestic and overseas production Nikon Corporation companies within the ROHM Group 13 FY 2012 The ROHM CSR Division HQ performs a comprehensive internal CSR audit Comprehensive Internal CSR audit on Group companies once every two years to check the status of their interNo. of Implementing Companies nal CSR audits. In FY 2012, the audit was performed at 13 domestic and international production companies (7 in Japan and 6 overseas). Areas for ■ Areas for improvement noted in the FY 2012 CSR overall internal audit improvement noted in Lounge / Office / the audits are rolled out First-Aid Room horizontally to raise the 6% Dorms level for the entire Group. 6% We will continue performDocument Production Confirmation Processes ing audits to strengthen 8% 53% the CSR management Hazardous Materials / Cafeteria system throughout the Waste Storage / 16% Ancillary Facilities entire Group. 11% 17 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 CSR educational and awareness programs Management system based on international standards CSR education within the ROHM Group OHSAS18001(2007) certification ROHM’s CSR Division plays a central role in implementing CSR In FY 2012, ROHM Headquarters acquired OHSAS18001(2007) educating for employees, from new recruits to new management. certification, which is considered the international standard for Management Education is aimed at increasing understanding of the 10 prinoccupational health and safety management systems. We are ciples of the UN Global Compact, the 7 core subjects of working towards certification for other companies in the ROHM Quality Innovation ISO26000, the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct (EICC), conGroup and will continue to further stimulate our occupational flict minerals, and other issues. CSR education initiatives were health and safety activities. also conducted at domestic and international affiliated companies in FY 2012 as well. In FY 2013, ROHM will implement initiatives ■ Management system formulation status Organizational at all affiliated companies in Japan and overseas and will conISO9001, ISO/TS16949 tinue to do so in the future. Governance All ROHM Group companies are ISO9001 certified, while the main factories are also ISO/TS16949 certified. CSR e-Learning Until now, ROHM has worked to spread the concepts of CSR ISO14001 throughout the entire Group through various educational opportuA management system for the entire ROHM Group was nities. And in an effort to further increase awareness of CSR established based on ISO14001. ideas and initiatives for each employee, ROHM held an (ROHM, domestic affiliates, and ROHM Korea Corp. have received third-party certification as an integrated system. Overseas Group companies have created a e-learning class in November 2012 for all personnel at ROHM management system based on the ISO14001 standard.) Headquarters via the company intranet. ROHM will continue to conduct such classes and will expand ISO27001 ROHM is currently preparing for certification e-learning to other domestic and international Group companies within the 2013 fiscal year. (details on P.25) in FY 2013. In addition, a CSR Month (October) will be desigOHSAS18001 nated in FY 2013 during which internal CSR awareness will be further strengthened through specific training seminars for all ROHM became certified in March 2013. ROHM Group employees. ROHM Group overseas production bases have begun activities aimed at acquiring certification. CSR education for all employees at the Dalian base in China The Dalian production base in China held a CSR training course for all of its employees, with over 2,000 participants attending. The training course explained systems concerning guidelines, including the UN Global Compact, ISO26000, and EICC, along with legal compliance such as anti-bribery and intellectual property rights, and management of working hours. As a result, they were ere able to reaffirm their professional conduct as ROHM Group employees and were reminded of the importance of CSR. Gao Min Assistant Manager Administration Devision ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. 18 Product Quality Innovation Human Rights and Labor Practices Respect for human rights and diversity in employment Employing people with disabilities Domestic companies in the ROHM Group seek to create an Respecting the Fundamental Principles environment that enables people with disabilities make full use of and Rights at Work their abilities, and make efforts to employ people with disabilities. The ROHM Group respects the Fundamental Principles and The employment rate for people with disabilities in FY 2012 was Rights at Work declared by the International Labor Organization 2.02% at ROHM Headquarters and 2.09% throughout Group (ILO). companies in Japan, both of which exceed legal requirements. The ROHM Group has set the ‘prohibition of forced labor and ■ Employment Rate for People with Disabilities child labor,’ ‘respect for equal opportunity and diversity and the prohibition of unfair discrimination based on sex, age, nationality, Legal Employment Rate 2.00 (as of April 2013) race, ethnicity, beliefs, religion, social status or physical disability,’ 2.09 2.05 and 'freedom of association and freedom of collective bargaining' 1.96 as its standards in regulations for respecting human rights, and 1.99 2.02 respects the human rights of each and every ROHM employee. 1.81 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Actively employing people of diverse ROHM HQ ROHM Group in Japan backgrounds Globally, ROHM actively accepts employees from diverse Occupational health and safety backgrounds, exceeding boundaries of academic history or gender. The female workforce at ROHM is gradually expanding, 18 consecutive years of zero accidents that with the employment rate of new female graduates rising every require time off from work at ROHM Headquarters year and women comprising half of the sales force. In addition, ROHM carries out risk assessments and internal patrols through international students are actively recruited each year to facilitate its Central Safety and Hygiene Committee with the goal of zero globalization at our headquarters. work-related injuries. These efforts have ensured zero accidents that require time off from work for 18 consecutive years as of FY Promoting work-life balance 2012. ROHM is creating programs to enable continuous employment Health and safety management is being enforced at each domestic through life events such as marriage, pregnancy, childbirth, and overseas production company with the goal of zero incidences child-rearing, and nursing care. Since 2010, ROHM has implemented of work-related injuries. a short-term service program for parents of children up to the 3rd ROHM also uses a Legal Compliance Checklist once a year to grade, as well as a program that makes a portion of childcare evaluate the degree of understanding and level of compliance leave a paid holiday. Moreover, ROHM reconsidered the importance with laws related to health and safety at each company. of volunteer activities following the Great East Japan Earthquake ■ Incidence Rate (Rohm Group) and introduced a volunteer leave system in 2012. ROHM has *ROHM HQ incidence rate is 0 for all years shown also established a system for moving work start and end times up 0.08 or down in order to increase the flexibility of working hours to 0.02 0.05 make room for child-rearing and/or nursing care. 2010 2011 2012 (FY) I took volunteer leave. Number of Casualties Incidence Rate from Work-Related Injuries (Frequency of Injury Occurrence)� ＝ × 1,000,000 I participated in a volunteer program in Iwate prefecture to help cultiTotal Labor Time vate a 'flower garden of hope' and help the flowers for the restoration bloom. Every time I found debris, bottles, and fragments of furniture ■ Severity Rate (Rohm Group) while digging in the soil, I felt that there is still much more for me to do. *ROHM HQ severity rate is 0 for all years shown Standing in the disaster-affected area, I learned for the first time the fear of a natural disaster and the importance of continuing to increase disaster prevention awareness so that the 0.0002 0.0005 0.0002 memory of the disaster does not fade. I am very grateful for the volunteer leave that enabled me 2010 2011 2012 (FY) to gain such a valuable experience. Severity Rate Total Number of Work Days Lost (Severity of Disaster)� ＝ × 1,000 Total Labor Time Emiko Yamamoto Supervisor General Affairs Division ■ Ref.: Electronic component, device, and electronic circuitry manufacturing industry average ROHM Co., Ltd. Incidence Rate: 0.34 / Severity rate: 0.01 Source: 2012 Workplace Accident Trend Survey, Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare Taken from general results [of the business establishment survey (with 100 or more people) and the general construction industry survey] 19 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Human Resources Development Conduct evaluation (visualization of desired characteristics) Supporting employee growth through ROHM's Company Mission and Basic Management Policy outline personnel exchanges worldwide the basic approach for all employees when conducting their In FY 2012, ROHM established a practical training system duties. Nevertheless, desired business conduct will vary by the Management wherein young employees (mostly in their 20s) are sent overseas type of business and position of each employee. The business for a short time. From FY 2013, ROHM will send about 5 employconduct criteria for each level in the hierarchy are outlined in the Quality Innovation ees each year overseas to gain practical experience working Conduct Evaluation Criteria. The Conduct Evaluation Criteria was under the local manager. The primary objective is to have them devised over roughly half a year by a project team formed acquire a global perspective from early on that will be needed for in October 2011. Based on the Company Mission and Basic conducting collaborative work with companies in other countries Management Policy, the team widely surveyed managers for their in the future. The program will start with managerial staff, and intentions and ideas as well as each site for opinions, and began potentially expand to other positions throughout the company. fully implementing the criteria from April 2013. Clarifying the ideal ROHM also actively engages in a system for hosting employees situation (business conduct) for each employee will enable more from overseas subsidiaries for practical training for a set period of efficient human resources development and help ROHM create time. In FY 2012, ROHM hosted 29 research, development, an environment where employees are highly motivated and can Human Rights sales, and other staff from China, South Korea, and the Philippines. improve their skills. After returning to their home countries, they are expected to Company Mission and Basic Management Policy and Labor Practices develop into core personnel who show promise as an interface Universal requirements for linking their country with Japan. ROHM is also looking into Ideal situation hosting employees from local subsidiaries in other countries as = Conduct evaluation criteria well, such as Thailand and Malaysia, based on this system. Feedback to managers Opinions from Expectations for 5-10 years later each operational base Respecting human rights in the supply chain Requesting business partners to observe human rights ing this agreement. In the future, by distributing the ROHM Group ROHM includes provisions for respecting human rights, such as CSR Procurement Guidelines and visiting companies to check the prohibition of inhumane treatment and discrimination as well the status of CSR activities, ROHM will actively continue educaas forced or child labor, in its basic transaction agreement, and tional activities to ensure respect for human rights throughout the requests that business partners respect human rights by concludentire supply chain. Supporting CSR promotion at our business partners through cooperation with the Philippines' Department of Labor and Employment Employees at production facilities in the Philippines participate in the Program to Promote CSR at our Business Partners held by the local labor bureau. Through this program, we provide special rules and training for business partners that are experiencing difficulty in managing health & safety and labor practices. We will continue to promote CSR at our local business partners. Katrina Malicdem Group Leader Organization Development Department Human Resource Division ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. 20 Product Quality Innovation Environment Environmental targets (2) Reducing greenhouse gas emissions Since PFC (perfluorocarbon) gases have a drastically stronger Environmental policy and priority issues greenhouse effect than CO2, the ROHM Group actively works to The environmental policy of the ROHM Group states: “We will reduce PFC gas emissions. Special equipment is being installed always consider the global environment and contribute to the at all Group companies to remove the gases. After reaching healthy continuation of humankind as well as to long-term business targets for the electrical and electronic industry in 2008 – two prosperity.’ Each year we set environmental targets and pursue years ahead of schedule – ROHM has continued actively reducing conservation activities. emissions. ■ Priority issues ■ ROHM Group PFC Gas Emissions (Thousands of tons of CO2) ① Use originality and ingenuity to achieve energy 300 297 conservation in all corporate activities. ② Develop eco-friendly products and strive to minimize 192 environmental load throughout the product's life cycle. 200 ③ Prioritize reducing the environmental load when purchasing materials, secondary materials, and products. 116 118 112 98 100 ④ Comply with domestic and international environmental laws and regulations and regional conventions. ⑤ Encourage employees to consider the living and global 0 environment and educate relevant individuals. 1995 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) ⑥ Form a healthy relationship with society by contributing to the global environment and appropriately disclosing environmental information. 100% waste recycling rate at ROHM Headquarters Regarding measures to reduce the amount of waste generated, ROHM Group companies optimize the amount of incoming and Activities to reduce environmental load secondary materials and strive to increase yield, as well as Reducing emission of CO2 and turning unneeded materials into valuable resources. other greenhouse gases ROHM is also striving to achieve zero emissions, which is defined (1) CO2 emissions as a recycling rate of at least 99%, for the Group, and has In order to systematically pursue energy conservation measures, reached this target in all of its domestic companies in 2004. From the ROHM Group promotes increased visualization of a number December 2012, ROHM Headquarters also achieved a 100% of factors, including power usage by each piece of production recycling rate of infectious waste, which is specially controlled equipment and energy used in the office, in order to eliminate industrial waste. unnecessary energy use. These measures are expanded horizontally throughout the Group. ■ ROHM Group Waste Volume and Resource Recycling Rate ■ ROHM Group CO2 Emissions (Domestic Bases) (Thousands of tons) （％） (Thousands of Tons of CO2) 99.7 99.7 99.9 99.9 1,000 25 100 900 329 21 98 800 311 20 333 326 95.6 96 700 272 600 232 15 94 539 500 12 92 429 10 10 400 379 381 376 355 10 9 8 90 300 88 200 5 100 86 0 0 84 2005 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Consolidated Overseas Consolidated Domestic Volume of Waste Resource Recycling Rate *Temporarily short of target in FY 2008 due to new addition to the Group 21 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Management of chemical substances in products Environmental communication The RoHS directive (Restriction of Hazardous Substances), REACH regulation (Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Environment poster contest Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals), and other laws and The ROHM Group has dedicated regulations related to the management of environmentally hazth e mo n th o f Ju n e , i n w h i ch Management ardous substances come into effect. When developing products, World Environment Day falls, the global environmental load must be considered. ROHM as Environment Month, and Quality Innovation pursues green procurement and endeavors to increase the h a s held a ROHM Group detection accuracy of chemicals contained in parts and procured Environmental Poster Contest as materials while at the same time placing great importance on the one of the events every year. internal chemical management system that was built to ensure One Grand Prize and two that no prohibited substances are procured, used, or shipped in Awards of Excellence are given order to provide a steady supply to preliminary poster winners of worry-free products. from each group company. 2012 Grand Prize Poster Winner Eco-friendly products Environmental conservation classes As independent initiatives, a growing number of customers are Environmental conservation classes requesting that banned substances such as halogen compounds for elementary school students be prohibited from use. In response, ROHM developed eco-friendly Since 2010 ROHM has been conducting environmental conserhalogen-free products that meet these needs. vation classes for elementary school students in Kyoto. Classes Environment ROHM has also created an environmental contribution evaluation are held in the schools, and in addition to lessons on topics such form that numerically and objectively as the mechanisms of global warming and actions children can assesses how much new products contribute take at home and at school to save energy, experiments are to the environment compared with previous performed using ROHM-made LEDs. During the experiments, the models (during the development stage), children can compare the amount of power used in LED bulbs and is building a system for comparing versus miniature bulbs using environmental performance and CO 2 a m a n u a l p o w e r g e n e r a t o r, reduction measures. giving them a chance to see the energy-saving effects for themEnvironmental Contribution Evaluation Sheet selves. Environmental Conservation Class Receiving the Award for Environmental Excellence from Pathum Thani Province, Thailand In 2012, our production facility in Thailand won an award for environmental excellence from the Pathum Thani Province. We have built an environmental management system, set targets for waste water, exhaust, and waste, and pursued initiatives to achieve them. We will continue our activities as a company that is friendly to the local environment. Ittiphon Boriboon Deputy HQ Manager EMR/Discrete Production Headquarters ROHM Integrated Systems (Thailand) Co.,Ltd. 22 Product Quality Innovation Fair Operating Practices Compliance Law, as well as provide legal e-learning and other classes for employees. In FY 2012, as many as 640 employees participated System and Code of Conduct in level-based compliance seminars and theme-based ROHM established and maintains an appropriate compliance workshops. system required as a company, and has formed a Compliance To respond to the compliance education needs of employees, a Committee to educate and promote the system in order to Legal Guidebook (Japan) and Compliance Training Program prevent compliance violations by any Group company. ROHM (overseas) were prepared based on the results of a compliance Group Business Conduct Guidelines specifying basic ethical awareness survey for use as educational tools. And with the rules that should be applied in daily business activities are increasing number of opportunities to use social media outlets utilized throughout all Group companies. In addition, ROHM such as Facebook for personal use, we strives to disseminate and increase awareness of the concept of have formulated a Social Media Policy compliance through internal educational in FY 2012 to outline conditions of use, activities such as workshops and legal which is being widely distributed e-learning. throughout Group companies. In FY 2013, ROHM intends to revise its Business Conduct Guidelines based on the UN Global Compact, ISO26000, and the Electronic Industry Code of Conduct Legal Guidebook (EICC), and issue a revised version. Intellectual property ROHM Group Business Conduct Guidelines Compliance hotline Basic views on intellectual property ROHM has set up a compliance hotline for consultations and to ROHM considers it essential to properly obtain and use intellectual receive non-compliance reports from employees, including non-regular property rights such as patents to ensure worry-free use of our employees working in any of ROHM’s domestic companies. This products. An original system is in place to encourage notification allows swift assessment of compliance breaches and enables of inventions and many patent applications are submitted both ROHM to take appropriate responses. Compliance hotlines have from within and outside of Japan. also been established at overseas affiliates. In addition, ROHM respects the intellectual property rights of In addition, compliance hotlines for business partners were set up other companies while at the same time created an integrated at ROHM Headquarters and in major overseas affiliates to ensure system that prevents the use of third-party intellectual property proper business transactions. rights that undermine customer interests. Comprehensive anti-corruption Patent application and trends (bribery prevention) measures To ensure effective use of created inventions, ROHM actively The ROHM Group established administration regulations to pursues acquisition of overseas rights. In particular, applications prevent bribery and seeks to eliminate corruption in all affiliated made in countries other than the United States, taking into account companies in Japan and overseas. In FY 2012 we conducted the markets and competitor companies. In order to effectively surveys of corruption risk regarding our distributors and intermemanage patent rights, patents for products or services of ROHM diary agencies and held educational activities for employees. and other companies that show no prospect for utilization are reviewed and abandoned when necessary. Strengthening internal education and ■ Changes in the Number of Patents Acquired awareness activities In addition to level-based compliance seminars for everyone from 0 200 400 600 800 new recruits to group leaders, assistant managers, and 2008 183 178 200 2009 153 137 219 managers, ROHM continuously holds internal compliance 2010 271 210 205 education activities, including workshops based on individual 2011 329 235 182 themes such as the Personal Information Protection Law, the 2012 330 172 257 Antitrust Law, the Subcontract Act, the Financial Instruments and Exchange Act (to prevent insider trading), and Product Liability Japan U.S.A. Other 23 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Promoting social responsibility throughout the value chain Risk management and BCM Promoting CSR throughout Risk management and our BCM system the entire supply chain In June 2011, ROHM established a Risk Management and BCM The ROHM Group signs basic transaction agreements with CSR Committee that merges the Risk Management Committee and Management clauses such as compliance with the Electronic Industry Code of Business Continuity Management (BCM) projects. Doing so Conduct (EICC) and requests self-diagnosis by business partners enables us to minimize risk in the ROHM Group and smoothly Quality Innovation of their CSR management status. continue or restore operations after natural disasters or other However, there is a societal demand to promote CSR throughout disasters. In addition, our system for preventing risk was all activities in the supply chain including all business partners improved for more speedy performance by changing from involved in business processes. Therefore, in addition to previous bi-annual assessments on important risks at each headquarters activities, ROHM is sharing its views and policies concerning CSR to quarterly assessments. After the flooding that occurred in Thailand by issuing the ROHM Group CSR Procurement Guidelines and in FY 2011, a BCM task force was immediately formed at visiting companies to check the status of CSR activities and strivROHM’s headquarters that worked together with the local task ing to disseminate CSR throughout the entire supply chain based force to quickly resume production. on mutual cooperation. BCP in the supply chain Initiatives towards the non-use of The ROHM Group considers it extremely important to construct a conflict minerals Business Continuity Plan (BCP) that is resistant to disasters and A Financial Reform Bill was passed in the United States in July unanticipated situations in order to 'contribute to the sustainable 2010. It was then adopted as a law by the U.S. Securities and progress of society.' ROHM is currently conducting a survey Exchange Commission (SEC) in August 2012, making it mandatory among business partners regarding alternate production methods, to disclose the use of conflict minerals that are a source of funds increased transparency of methods for procuring critical raw for armed insurgents and rebel forces in Congo and neighboring materials, and maintaining safety stock. ROHM will further areas. The ROHM Group cooperates with business partners and strengthen the supply chain BCP based on the results of this industry groups to control the supply chain of conflict minerals. survey. We will continue to pursue initiatives to prevent their use in order to ensure worry-free use of our products by customers. Fair Operating Drills to prepare for a massive earthquake Practices Previously, the Hamamatsu production facility took various measures such as making buildings ‘earthquake-proof’ (seismic isolation). In June 2012, we held a drill to prepare for a Level 7 earthquake (the highest level on the Japanese scale) in Hamamatsu City, together with ROHM Kyoto HQ. In the future, we will continue to take initiatives to minimize damage from natural disasters and ensure we can fulfill our supply commitments to customers. Masashi Ozaki Supervisor Administration Division ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. 24 Product Quality Innovation Consumer Issues (Customer Support) Quality Assurance Protection of confidential information Putting quality first Improved information security awareness The ROHM Group pays strict attention to the development and Regarding personal information from customers, based on the design of new products, from process design to production “Act on the Protection of Personal Information” and “Ministry of system development, raw material procurement, and all aspects Economy, Trade and Industry Guidelines on the Protection of of the manufacturing process. All employees, from sales to Personal Information,” ROHM makes every effort to clarify the management, strive for ‘Quality First’ on a daily basis. In addition, purpose for the use of private customer information, collects all employees are extensively trained to maintain and utilize the information appropriately, and manages information obtained quality assurance system in order to continue these activities． strictly and securely. ROHM also formulated an information security policy to appropriately protect confidential customer information Strengthening the quality assurance system based on contracts and took measures that included creating a At ROHM, there is a separate production department for each system for preventing security leaks and raising awareness product category (i.e. LSIs, transistors, LEDs) within the among employees. As one initiative to raise awareness, ROHM Manufacturing Division. These departments carry out daily holds e-learning classes on information security for all employees management duties from the development and design stages of via the company intranet. Feedback such as participation and new product to ensure high quality, low cost and quick delivery. degree of understanding were summarized in a visual format and Each production department has its own QC (Quality Control) appropriately disclosed to all participants, effectively increasing Division that is responsible for overall environmental and quality information security awareness among employees. ROHM will assurance for each product and implements a quality management continue to hold e-learning classes from FY 2013 after revising system based on the ISO9001 international standard. A Quality the content to reflect changes in the information environment. Assurance Division has also been established, under direct Once again, there were no reported incidents of leakage or loss control of ROHM’s President. This Division is responsible for of private or confidential customer information in FY 2012. building a quality management system for the entire company – not limited to the Manufacturing Division or Headquarters – and Pursuing activities to acquire performs duties such as information disclosure, providing feedback information security certification from customers, standardization, and supervising the activities of ROHM is currently pursuing activities to acquire ISO27001 the Manufacturing Division QC Department. In FY 2012, a Quality certification (Information Security Management System). It Assurance Group (Quality Assurance Office) for each product involves attempting to achieve continuous improvement in the category was established within the Quality Assurance Division to security level by making the PDCA cycle mandatory for matters bring previous quality assurance activities to the next level and concerning information security. It will enable measures to strengthen the quality assurance system. In doing so, ROHM can prevent information leaks and systematic response to unauthorized provide more finely-tuned assistance to customers and further access and will act to a steady increase in ROHM’s ability to improve design quality from the customer’s perspective. In addition, respond to system accidents, reducing business risks for dissemination of information throughout the company in a timely stakeholders. manner acts to strengthen the system and ensure even better customer satisfaction. Design Centers ■ Quality Assurance Department Organization (Excerpt) Promoting localized design and development When developing and designing products, the ROHM Group Market Quality Assurance Group places great importance on accurately assessing customer needs LSI Quality Assurance Office and promptly providing products that meet their requirements. To Quality Newly achieve this, multiple Design Centers have been established Assurance Div. Discrete Quality Assurance Office established throughout the world as local development bases, providing a Module Quality Assurance Office global system that can closely connect with customers. Placing developers and designers in each locale enables ROHM to achieve true globalization and makes it possible to create new Global QA Center Group products optimized to the needs of local customers. Analysis Center 25 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 QA Centers Analyzing quality issues from all angles order to determine the root cause of the problem and take corrective The ROHM Group has established product analysis centers actions to prevent recurrence. They also analyze countermeasures called QA (Quality Assurance) Centers, which are equipped with based on the 4Ms (man, machine, material, method) and carry a variety of analysis equipment, in 10 locations across the globe. out ongoing activities for quality improvement that include Management These centers enable ROHM to quickly respond to quality issues preventive measures. virtually anywhere in the world. Technical experts are on hand Quality Innovation that can provide the necessary assistance. The QA staff conducts a detailed analysis of past quality issues from every aspect in ■ A global system that connects closely with customers Dusseldorf Seoul Shanghai Santa Clara ● ● Detroit ● Yokohama San Diego ● Shenzhen Nagoya Kyoto Bangkok ● Taipei Singapore ● ● QA Center ● Design Center Customer assistance meeting at a Design Center At the Design Center in Dusseldorf, Germany, we respond to requests from customers in Europe in a Consumer Issues convenient location. In the course of many meetings, we discuss new customer requests and issues and (Customer Support) exchange ideas on possibilities regarding new applications for existing ROHM products. Adriana Butur Field Application Engineer ROHM Semiconductor GmbH Europe Design Center 26 Product Quality Innovation Community Involvement and Development Social contribution activities By pursuing social contribution activities centered on the three areas of Education, Culture & Exchange, and the Environment, the ROHM Group contributes to the sustainable progress of society. Education Culture & Exchange Environment Utilize ROHM technology to Revitalize local communities As a corporate citizen, strive to foster the next generation with through active participation and protect the environment and carry rich intellect and humanitarianism. cooperation and by deepening out active and autonomous activities. regional exchange. Disaster area reconstruction support efforts Disaster area benefit concerts In 2011 and 2012, the ROHM Music Foundation (details on P.29) promoted benefit concerts in areas destroyed by the Great East Japan Earthquake to give hope through music to people affected by the disaster. A total of 85 concerts were held in 75 locations by 27 orchestras and brass bands from around Japan, delivering heartwarming music to about 25,000 people. Disaster Area Benefit Concert (Ishinomaki, Miyagi) Arigato-bon program Since December 2012, the ROHM Group has supported the Arigato-bon program run by Shinrai Zaidan, and participated in a number of activities. Arigato-bon is a donation program that enables social contribution by donating books, CDs, games, DVDs, and other items no longer needed. As of April 2013, over 4,000 donated items have been collected at domestic ROHM Group companies, Arigato-Bon Logo Arigato-Bon Campaign at ROHM Headquarters and the support network is growing wider. 電話一本！ 書類一枚！ 業者が引き取り！ 社会貢献に！ Mini-marathon for charity On March 11, 2012, exactly one year after the Great East Japan Earthquake, a charity marathon was held in Bangkok to support victims of the earthquake and the Thailand floods. 44 employees from the Thailand production facility participated. Employees ran 3km and 11km courses to aid in reconstruction efforts in Japan and Thailand. Employees participate in a charity marathon in Thailand 27 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Education Academia-industry collaboration with April 2000 ROHM Plaza at Ritsumeikan University universities in Japan and abroad Management 組織統治 Collaboration with research institutes, universities and companies in dissimilar fields Quality Innovation In order to develop technology that can contribute to the advancement of culture and society, ROHM considers it essential to build strong relationships with research institutes, universities and companies in dissimilar fields and September 2003 take on cooperative initiatives. ROHM Plaza at Doshisha University In particular, to promote academic-industrial collaboration, ROHM donated ROHM Plazas to Ritsumeikan University, Doshisha University, and Kyoto University in Kyoto, ROHM’s hometown. These plazas are designed to carry out comprehensive academic-industry cooperative research. Product development through comprehensive academic-industry collaboration with Tsinghua University in China The ROHM Group actively pursues academic-industry collaborations with countries outside of Japan, such as the U.S. and China, and undertakes cutting-edge research and development of products that match the needs May 2005 ROHM Plaza at Kyoto University of each local region. In April 2006, ROHM signed a comprehensive academic-industry collaboration agreement with Tsinghua University in China. This partnership has already yielded results, such as the proposal and testing of photonics devices (surface plasmon sensor) based on new mechanisms and the creation of dedicated ICs compatible with China’s digital TV standards. ROHM has also held joint engineering forums with Tsinghua University since 2010, and donated and opened the Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering Hall that includes a clean room and an international April 2011 conference hall in April 2011 to celebrate Tsinghua’s 100th anniversary. Tsinghua-ROHM Electronic Engineering Hall Since 2012, the Tsinghua-ROHM International Forum of Industries and Academia (TRIFIA) was held with many special guests along with current and past students. A Tsinghua-ROHM Joint Research Center was installed on the 7th floor of the Hall as a base for a collaborative research system. In addition to interns that have also worked there in the past, it will also be home to ROHM employees to help cultivate even greater technological developments and promote social contribution based on interpersonal exchange and a deeper understanding of each other’s culture. With these centers as the axis, numerous research collaboration projects have been launched in a variety of fields, such as optical devices, communications and broadcasting, biochips, POCT (Point of Care Testing) and power devices and systems. The centers promise even more results in the future through increased interaction. Supporting students Community Involvement and Development Technology seminar for students at CEATEC JAPAN 2012 Young ROHM employees held a technology seminar for students at the ROHM booth at CEATEC JAPAN 2012, a general exhibition held in October that showcases the latest technologies in IT and the electronics industries. More than 200 students attended, where young ROHM engineers described their aspirations and told episodes about their continuing development to future engineers. Technology Seminar for Students 28 Product Quality Innovation Community Involvement and Development Culture & Exchange Contributing to musical culture Helping young musicians grow ROHM has been involved in a number of music-related support activities, beginning with music book publishing in 1965 and holding and supporting concerts continuously since 1989. Since 2000, ROHM has been sponsoring performances by the Seiji Ozawa Music Academy in response to Seiji Ozawa’s passion for nurturing young musicians. In addition, ROHM supported an educational initiative for young musicians called the Orchestra Project II, which Seiji Ozawa Music Academy Performance (Photo by Michiharu Okubo) gave performances in Kyoto and Tokyo on March 27 and 30, 2013, respectively, during FY 2012. Public Interest Incorporated Foundation ROHM Music Foundation The ROHM Music Foundation, a Public Interest Incorporated In FY 2012, a new blog was created to introduce the activities of Foundation, was established in 1991 with the goal of continually young music students receiving support. promoting and developing music culture through scholarships, The Foundation also holds music seminars to nurture professional public concerts, and other initiatives. The projected costs in FY musicians, hosts the Kyoto International Music Students Festival to 2012 were 798.88 million yen, with a total of 227.4 million yen allotted promote international exchange and nurture young musicians, and to scholarships for 96 students. The list of past scholarship recipients sponsors music-related performances and research. includes Daishin Kashimoto (1st Concertmaster of the Berliner Philharmoniker), Tatsuya Shimono (Principal Guest Conductor of the Yomiuri Nippon Symphony Orchestra) and numerous other musicians who are currently active around the world. Music Ceminar Conductor Class Kyoto International Music Students Festival (Photo by Tatsuo Sasaki) (Photo by Tatsuo Sasaki) Regional Exchange Factory tours The production facility in Malaysia regularly holds factory tours for students at local engineering colleges and high schools. By having students see an actual manufacturing site and learn the concepts behind the 5 S's (sorting, straightening, systematic cleaning, standardize, service) that are distinctive of a Japanese company, we hope to deepen their understanding of our facility's activities and become a familiar place that conFactory Tour Receiving a Letter of Appreciation tributes to the local community. 29 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 Environment Social contribution through products Donating LED bulbs forthe Kyoto Lantern Festival Management All of the lights used in the paper-covered lanterns and signpost lanterns at the Kyoto Lantern Festival were LED lamps donated Quality Innovation by ROHM (in March 2012). Amid the demand for increased power savings throughout the country, issues were raised about holding the festival due to energy conservation and eco-friendliness. However, by using ROHM's high-efficiency LED lights, the amount of power consumed by the lanterns was cut to roughly 1/6th. Twice a year, in March and December, ROHM's LED lights brighten the Kyoto night. Kyoto Arashiyama Lantern Festival Kyoto Higashiyama Lantern Festival Kyoto Higashiyama Lantern Festival (Hokanji Temple) (Takebayashi path) (Ishibekoji alley) Biodiversity initiatives Participating in cleanup efforts at a protected horseshoe crab habitat Employees of the production facility in Kasaoka, Okayama, participate in cleanup activities in Kasaoka Bay, the breeding ground of horseshoe crabs, which are designated as a protected species in Japan. Recently, the bay has become littered with empty cans, plastic bottles, and paper scraps that interfere with their breeding activities. In response, ROHM makes every effort to create an environment that protects biodiversity through cleanup activities such as this. Cleanup Activity Participating in a tree-planting project at the largest lake in the Philippines In February 2013, employees of the production facility in the Philippines participated in a tree-planting project at Laguna de Bay, the largest lake in the Philippines. This is a joint project with the Laguna de Bay Development Agency and the local community association, and will Community Involvement be ongoing over the next 2 years. We will continue greening the area and and Development strive to prevent global warming through activities rooted in the community. John Oliver Basco Section Chief Safety & Environment Department ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. 30 Product Quality Innovation CSR Targets/Plans and Results ROHM Group Priority CSR Issues ❶ Provide a stable supply of high quality products ❷ Resolve social issues through innovative products ❸ Develop human resources on a global level Core ISO26000 Issues Initiative Themes ＜❶❷❸ : priority issue number＞ FY 2012 Targets/Plans <*FY 2020 Targets/Plans> CSR management system maintenance and improvement Strengthening the CSR system · Assign a CSR promotions representative in major domestic and overseas production companies Responding to CSR audits from within the ROHM Group and establish a CSR Promotion Committee customers · Conduct internal CSR audits at major domestic and overseas production companies within the ROHM Group · Strengthen CSR audit response and aim for zero points of concern Promoting CSR activities based on · Provide training on the UN Global Compact, ISO26000 and other standards international initiative guidelines Maintaining and improving ❶ the Business Continuity Organizational · Review the BCP and implement it globally Management (BCM) system Governance for stable supplyy Maintaining and improving the quality management system ❶ · Maintain and implement a management system based on ISO9001 Maintaining and improving · Maintain and implement a management system based on ISO14001 the environmental management system Maintaining and improving the occupational · Obtain certification for ROHM HQ and ROHM Group companies in China health and safety management system · Consider obtaining certification for other ROHM Group companies Holding stakeholder dialogues · Consider further dialogues, etc. with various stakeholders Building a work and ethics management system · Consider expanding work and ethics risk management to other companies in the ROHM Group Respecting human rights · Renegotiate contracts with an agreement based on the EICC standard · Recruit a diverse staff (not limited by race or sex) capable of thriving in the global market Promoting diversity and creating · Maintain the legal employment rate of 1.80% for disabled people (Domestic Group companies) a comfortable working environment · Introduce and implement a system that enables a variety of people to work and continue working Human and fosters a good working environment Rights · Train staff that can capture global markets and establish a system to achieve this ❸ Developing human resources to · Continue implementing a system to develop global human resources and introduce a new overseas training program undertake global businesses for young employees Labor · Introduce global grading and promote standardization throughout the ROHM Group Practices Establishing a safe, comfortable working environment · Aim for zero work-related injuries and spiral up the occupational health and safety management system · Reduce CO2 emissions by 7% from the 2010 level<*25% reduction compared to FY 2005> CO2 countermeasures at each site · Reduce CO2 emissions (per unit production) by 9% from the 2010 level <*50% reduction compared to FY 1990> · Reduce greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) emissions by 43% from the 1995 level <*50% reduction compared to FY 1995> ❷ · Construct a mechanism for assessing the volume of CO2 emissions across the entire value chain CO2 countermeasures through the value chain · Increase the ratio of eco-friendly products that comprise sales profits to 60% <*100%> Environment · Reduce the volume of PRTR substances handled (per production unit) by 1% from the 2010 level <*10% reduction compared to FY 2010> Reducing environmental pollutants · Reduce VOC emissions by 38% from the 2000 level <*40% reduction compared to FY 2000> · Reduce the volume of consolidated waste overseas (per unit production) by 2% from the 2010 level <*60% reduction compared to FY 2000> Effective use of resources · Reduce water consumption by 2% from the 2010 level <*10% reduction compared to FY 2009> · Maintain zero emissions in domestic consolidation and reduce waste volume (per unit production) by 4% Implementing environment-related communication · Continue conducting environment-related classes Exhaustive chemical substance management in line with green procurement guidelines · Continue complying with guidelines for the use/non-use of designated chemicals Promote fair business activities · Expand Compliance Reinforcement Month to overseas ROHM Group companies · Continue providing level-based compliance education Strengthening the compliance system · Implement support for compliance education and training at overseas ROHM Group companies based on the ROHM Group · Develop ‘Legal e-learning’ for employees Fair · Consider revising the Code of Conduct in consideration of the UN Global Compact and ISO26000 Operating · Distribute the CSR Initiative Self-Assessment Checklist based on EICC to business partners, verify compliance, Fair competition and trading Practices Business Conduct Guidelines and provide guidance on making improvements as needed Corruption and bribery prevention · Provide bribery prevention education in level-based training courses and other courses Protection and appropriate · Continue holding online information security training courses management of information · Consider enriching course content based on the level of understanding of course participants Ensuring product quality ❶ · Carry out exhaustive analysis of quality issues and ongoing improvement initiatives Consumer Issues ❷ (Customer Accurately assessing customer needs · Promote sales activities of energy saving products including SiC power devices Support) and developing industry-leading products · Develop products that help resolve social issues, such as energy conservation Thorough implementation of policies related · Implement CSR procurement that takes BCM into account to CSR procurement Contribute to the Contribution to promote and · Continue to support music culture develop music culture Community growth and well-being Suitable donations and support Involvement of society as a good initiatives that respond to · Continue to provide donations and sponsorships in a timely and appropriate manner based on social needs and a broad range of social needs Development corporate citizen Activities that match the demands · Continue to support local communities and provide a forum for industry-government-university collaboration of local communities · Consider social contribution activities in cooperation with NGOs and NPOs 31 ROHM Group Innovation Report 2013 The ROHM Group pursues global CSR management based on ISO26000. In addition to strengthening the system and complying with ISO26000, ROHM is extracting priority issues across the entire value chain and establishing themes for initiatives, plans and targets. FY 2012 Results Evaluation FY 2013 Targets/Plans · Assigned a CSR promotion representative to 20 domestic and international production companie thin the ROHM Group and established a CSR Promotion Committee that implemented activities · Establish October as CSR month and hold internal CSR audits at · Established a CSR Promotion Division at LAPIS Semiconductor all ROHM Group companies · Conducted internal CSR audits at domestic and overseas production companies within · Perform comprehensive internal CSR audits at ROHM Group companies the ROHM Group (4 in Japan, 3 overseas) (4 in Japan and 5 overseas that did not do so in FY 2012) · Conducted comprehensive internal CSR audits at domestic and overseas production companies · Continue performing comprehensive internal CSR audits, within the ROHM Group (7 in Japan, 6 overseas) analyze common issues within the ROHM Group, and take appropriate measures · Translated the CSR Audit Manual into other languages and distributed to ROHM Group companies (Japanese, English, Chinese, Korean) · Perform EICC standard-based CSR audits on business partners and subcontractors · Created a comprehensive internal CSR audit checksheet based on EICC Ver. 4, and distributed to ROHM Group companies Management · Held CSR seminars at ROHM HQ and domestic and overseas production companies within the ROHM Group · Provide CSR education to companies that did not receive it in FY 2012 · Held CSR e-learning classes at ROHM HQ and domestic and overseas production companies within the ROHM Group (HQ, 6 in Japan, 2 overseas) · Provide CSR e-learning to companies that did not receive it in FY 2012 · Completed a full revision of the ROHM HQ Functions BCP in July Quality Innovation · Completed BCPs for domestic and overseas companies based on the HQ Functions BCP in December · Held drills to prepare for an earthquake at the Hamamatsu facility (June 26), · Revise the BCP and disseminate through education and training flooding at the Thailand facility (October 12), and an earthquake at HQ (November 27) · Maintained and implemented an ISO9001 management system by · Continue maintaining and implementing an ISO9001 management system entire ROHM Group, and renewed ISO9001 and ISO/TS16949 certifications *For in-vehicle products, maintain and implement an ISO/TS16949 management system · Comprehensive internal audits and self-audits were regularly conducted by the ROHM Group in order to maintain, manage, and implement an ISO14001 management system · Continue maintaining and implementing an ISO14001 management system · Received renewal audit from JQA and renewed ISO14001 certification · ROHM HQ acquired OHSAS18001(2007), which is an occupational health · Obtain certification at more overseas ROHM Group production companies and safety management system, in March 2013 · ROHM Group CSR Promotion Committee considered and held locally-based · Hold dialogues with government agencies, NPOs, NGOs, and stakeholders, dialogues with stakeholders and continuously pursue development of products that can resolve social issues · Created a work and ethics risk assessment checksheet, and using it · Implement a work and ethics management review throughout the ROHM Group on a trial basis at some companies · Signed a basic transaction agreement with over 80% of business partners globally · Enter into a basic transaction agreement with 100% of business partners globally · Achieved diversity in new hiring, with females making up 22% and · Implement a fair and transparent human resources and payroll system foreign nationals 7% of new recruits in FY 2013 · Expand the internship program to secure global staff · Expanded the employee support center to a four-person system · Maintained the employment rate for people with disabilities at more than 2.00% · Prepare an awards program to reward employee achievements · Introduced a system for moving work start and end times up or down for child-rearing · Introduce a new system to increase the flexibility of working hours · Provided language study, and held English presentation seminars and seminars for improving · Introduce next-generation leadership training English skills · Expand the overseas practical training system for young employees · Invited an outside English teacher to open an English school within the company that was introduced last year · Implemented an overseas practical training system for young employees, for which 11 people registered · Strengthen the global training and language training support infrastructure · Engaged in the gradual introduction of a global grading system at overseas sales companies · Engage in the standardization of the entire ROHM Group · Achieved zero work-related injuries requiring leave at ROHM HQ for 18 consecutive years · There were 3 work-related injuries requiring leave and 8 not requiring leave at ROHM Group · Aim for zero work-related injuries and thoroughly manage health and safety companies (frequency: 0.08, severity: 0.0002) · CO2 emissions were reduced by 17.3% from the 2010 level · Reduce CO2 emissions by 1% from the 2012 level · CO2 emissions (per unit production) were reduced by 16.9% from the 2010 level · Reduce CO2 emissions (per unit production) by 1% from the 2012 level · Greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) emissions were reduced by 67.8% from the 1995 level · Reduce greenhouse gas (i.e. PFCs, SF6) emissions by 1% from the 2012 level · Nearly completed construction of a mechanism for assessing the volume of CO2 emissions across · Construct a mechanism for assessing the volume of CO2 emissions across the entire value the entire value chain chain that complies with GHG Protocol Scopes 1 and 2 · The percentage of eco-friendly products that comprised sales profits increased to 51% · Consider how to calculate greenhouse gas emissions based on the GHG Protocol Scope 3, and formulate an operational model · Increase the ratio of eco-friendly products that comprise sales profits to 60% · The handled volume of PRTR substances (per production unit) was reduced by 19.5% from the 2010 level · Reduce the volume of PRTR substances handled (per production unit) by 1% from the 2012 level · VOC emissions were reduced by 38.5% from the 2000 level · Reduce VOC emissions by1% from the 2012 level · The volume of consolidated waste (per production unit) at overseas companies was reduced by 19% from the 2010 level · Reduce the volume of consolidated waste overseas (per unit production) by 1% from the 2012 level · Water consumption was reduced by 9.8% from the 2010 level · Reduce water consumption by 1% from the 2012 level · Zero emissions were maintained at domestic consolidated. · Maintain zero emissions at domestic consolidation and reduce waste volume The volume of waste (per production unit) was reduced by 19.5% (per unit production) by 1% from the 2012 level · Conducted a total of 12 environment-related classes at 5 elementary schools in Kyoto · Collaborate with relevant divisions and ramp up activities · Continued compliance with the use/non-use of designated chemicals · Continue complying with guidelines for the use/non-use of designated chemicals · Continue conducting educational and awareness activities during CSR month at · Established May Compliance Reinforcement Month and expanded to overseas ROHM Group companies all companies, including overseas companies within the ROHM Group · Continued conducting compliance training workshops for new recruits and newly appointed managerial staff · Use the Legal Guidebook that explains compliance, laws and regulations to employees, and conduct educational and · Created and implemented compliance education tools for overseas ROHM Group companies awareness activities at ROHM HQ and ROHM Group companies in Japan · Provided education on information management and the Copyright Act through legal e-learning · Revise the Business Conduct Guidelines taking into consideration the UN Global Compact and ISO26000 classes for employees · Continue providing level-based compliance education · Began considering revising the Business Conduct Guidelines in light of the UN Global Compact and ISO26000 · Continue to expand legal e-learning classes for employees · Conduct educational activities using compliance education tools at overseas ROHM Group companies · Implemented CSR self-assessments at business partners globally · Distribute the CSR Procurement Guidelines and enhance and establish self-assessment tools · Carried out improvement activities as needed based on the results of the self-assessments · Begin holding CSR audits based on assessment results · Provided bribery prevention education in level-based training courses · Continue providing bribery prevention education in level-based training and other courses · Acquire ISO27001 certification (Information Security Management System) · Held the 3rd online security training session for all ROHM employees in order to continually improve security level · Clarified the true causes of past quality issues through detailed analysis of the issues from various angles, took measures to prevent the same quality issue from reoccurring, and carried out continuous activities, · Further increase design quality of new products, conduct thorough analysis including preventive actions of quality issues, and carry out continuous improvement activities · Widely informed employees about SiC power devices through the ROHM HQ CSR bulletin board · Hold a study group for all ROHM managers on Creating Shared Value and internal intranet · Hold dialogues with government agencies, NPOs, NGOs, and stakeholders, · Introduced SiC power devices to those outside the company via news on the ROHM website and CSR website and continuously pursue the development of products that can resolve social issues · Surveyed matters concerning the BCP at business partners and made requests for improvement · Distribute the CSR Procurement Guidelines and enhance and establish self-assessment tools · Publicized CSR procurement in the Innovation Report · Carry our various activities to deepen mutual understanding concerning CSR procurement with business partners CSR Targets/ · Co-sponsored numerous concerts, including some performed by the Kyoto Symphony Orchestra in ROHM’s hometown · Continue to support music culture · Supported activities of the ROHM Music Foundation Plans and Results · Supported the redevelopment of the Kyoto Kaikan Hall by acquiring its naming rights · Continue to provide donations and sponsorships in a timely and appropriate · Contributed to the Kyoto region as a sponsor company of the Kyoto Sanga F.C. soccer team and Kyoto Gakusei Saiten festival manner based on social need · Continued supporting local events · Continue to support local communities and provide a forum for industry-government-university collaboration · Donated a ROHM Plaza to Tsinghua University, and set up scholarships for the University · Hold employee participation manufacturing classes · Made donations through the Arigato-bon program to NPO Kidsdoor, which supports victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake · Continue to support Great East Japan Earthquake recovery efforts Evaluation criteria: Achieved target/plan Slight gap between target/plan and achievements Large gap between target/plan and achievements 32 Company Information Corporate Data Major ROHM Group Offices/Centers Company Name: ROHM Co., Ltd. 〈Japan〉 Headquarters: 21 Saiin Mizosaki-cho, Ukyo-ku, ● Sales Offices Kyoto 615-8585 Japan Japanese Sales Headquarters Tel: +81 (75) 311-2121 Kyoto TEL: +81-75-365-1077 Matsumoto TEL: +81-263-34-8601 Fax: +81 (75) 315-0172 Tokyo TEL: +81-3-6280-0820 Mito TEL: +81-29-300-0585 Date Established: September 17, 1958 Yokohama TEL: +81-45-476-2290 Nishi-Tokyo TEL: +81-42-648-7821 Representative: Satoshi Sawamura, President Nagoya TEL: +81-52-581-8521 Sendai TEL: +81-22-295-3011 Capital: 86,969 million JPY (as of March 31, 2013) Fukuoka TEL: +81-92-483-3496 Takasaki TEL: +81-27-310-7111 Sales Volume: Consolidated 292,410 million JPY Hiroshima TEL: +81-82-423-8153 (fiscal year ending March 2013) China Sales Headquarters TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Number of Employees: Consolidated 20,203 (as of March 31, 2013) Asia Sales Headquarters TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Euro-American Sales Headquarters TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Organization Chart ● Production Facilities ROHM Hamamatsu Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-53-468-1000 President ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-865-67-0111 ROHM Apollo Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-943-32-3000 Research & Development ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-771-25-4717 R&D Headquarters LAPIS Semiconductor Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-45-476-9212 LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-22-345-1211 LSI Corporate Strategy Headquarters LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-985-85-5111 LSI Product Development Headquarters AGLED Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-72-770-8060 Production LSI Operation Headquarters ● R&D Centers Kyoto Technology Center (Head Office) TEL: +81-75-311-2121 Discrete Production Headquarters Kyoto Technology Center (Kyoto Ekimae) TEL: +81-75-365-1073 Module & Lighting Production Headquarters Yokohama Technology Center TEL: +81-45-476-2131 Nagoya Design Center TEL: +81-52-581-0185 Sales Japanese Sales Headquarters Distribution / Other Group Companies China & Asia Sales Headquarters ROHM Logistec Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-865-44-3181 Euro-American Sales Headquarters Narita Giken Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-6-6433-0410 Administration Corporate Communications Headquarters Accounting Headquarters Sales Offices Production Facilities Administrative Headquarters R&D Centers Production System Development Div. ROHM Mechatech Co., Ltd. LAPIS Semiconductor Miyagi Co., Ltd. ROHM Wako Co., Ltd. Kyoto ROHM CSR Div. HQ Matsumoto Sendai Apollo Co., Ltd. Takasaki Corporate Quality Assurance Div. Fukuoka Mito Nishitokyo Tokyo Nagoya Yokohama Audit Div. Hirosahima AGLED Co., Ltd. Hamamatsu LAPIS Semiconductor Miyazaki Co., Ltd. 33 Company Mission and Policies ROHM ROHM Group Group Innovation Innovation Report 2013 Report 2013 ROHM has communicated the Company Mission to its employees since its foundation in 〈Global〉 order to become a company trusted and relied upon by society. ● Main Sales Office ● Production Facilities ASIA ROHM Semiconductor Korea Corporation ASIA ROHM Korea Corporation TEL: +82-2-8182-700 TEL: +82-2-8182-600 COMPANY MISSION ROHM Semiconductor Trading (Dalian) Co., Ltd. ROHM Electronics Philippines, Inc. TEL: +86-411-8230-8549 TEL: +63-2-894-1536 Quality is our(Shanghai) ROHM Semiconductor top priority Co., Ltd. at all times. Our objective ROHM Integrated Systemsis to Co., Ltd. (Thailand) contribute to the advancement and progress TEL: +86-21-6072-8612 ROHM Semiconductor (Shenzhen) Co., Ltd. of our culture TEL: +66-2-909-7100 ROHM Semiconductor(China) Co., Ltd. through a consistent supply, under all circumstances, TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 TEL: +86-22-8398-9000 of high quality products in large volumes to theTEL: ROHM Semiconductor Hong Kong Co., Ltd. TEL: +852-2740-6262 global market. ROHM Electronics Dalian Co., Ltd. +86-411-8762-0001 ROHM Semiconductor Taiwan Co., Ltd. ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. TEL: +886-2-2500-6956 （9） TEL: +60 7741500 ROHMto Policies achieve theSingapore Semiconductor Company Pte. Mission Ltd. are laid out and serve ROHMasMechatech guidelines for all business Philippines, Inc. activities. TEL: +65-6332-2322 TEL: +63-46-430-2281 ROHM Semiconductor Philippines Corporation ROHM Mechatech (Thailand) Co., Ltd. TEL: +63-2-807-6872 TEL: +66-2-908-7271 to 5 BASIC MANAGEMENT POLICY ROHM Semiconductor (Thailand) Co., Ltd. ROHM Mechatech (Tianjin) Co., Ltd. Secure reasonable TEL: profit through a concerted company-wide effort for a comprehensive +66-2-254-4890 quality assurance program. TEL: +86-22-2388-8585 Develop globally leading products by ROHM Semiconductor Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.improving upon technologies held AMERICA by each department Kionix, Inc. for continued advancement of the company. TEL: +60-3-7958-8355 TEL: +1-607-257-1080 Maintain ROHM healthy Semiconductor Indialifestyles and vigorous Pvt. Ltd. and refine intellect and humanitarianism, EUROPE SiCrystal AGcontributing to society. hence TEL: Search +91-44-4352-0008 extensively TEL: +49-911-8177599-0 for capable human resources and cultivate them as cornerstones for building long-term prosperity. AMERICA ROHM Semiconductor USA., LLC BASIC QUALITY ASSURANCE POLICY TEL: +1-408-720-1900 ROHM Semiconductor do Brasil Ltda. ● R&D Centers 1. Promote internal standardization for the whole company and establish structures for QC management by data. TEL: +55-11-3539-6320 2. Conduct comprehensive and continuous research for the development ASIA Korea of new Design Center technologies and products.TEL: +82-2-8182-785 EUROPE ROHM Semiconductor GmbH 3. Proactively utilize methods of statistical control for all areas of company Shanghai Design Center activities. TEL: +86-21-6072-8612 TEL: +49-2154-921-0 4. Establish quality assurance structures for all manufacturing processes. Shenzhen Design Center TEL: +86-755-8307-3008 5. Exert effort for cost reductions of each product by continual modernization of manufacturing Taiwan systems. TEL: +886-2-2500-6956 Design Center 6. Secure quality assurance programs of raw materials and components with America AMERICA our suppliers through Design Centercontracts. TEL: +1-408-720-1900 (Santa Clara) BASICMain GOALS FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING Sales Offices America Design Center TEL: +1-858-625-3600 (San Diego) 1. Develop personnel Production at all levels to constantly strive to obtain new Facilities knowledge EUROPE and to Europe acquire Design empirical reasoning Center TEL: +49-2154-9210 abilityR&D fromCenters a broad perspective. 2. Train staff to be dedicated as leaders in their field by utilizing their knowledge and experience. 3. Develop personnel who can overcome any adversity and strive towards achieving targets. 4. Train staff to place ROHM the highest value on teamwork, resulting from the combined efforts of all individuals. Semiconductor(China) ROHM Mechatech (Tianjin) BASIC POLICY FOR EDUCATION AND TRAINING ROHM Integrated Systems(Thailand) 1. All employees will Mechatech ROHM use every (Thailand) available opportunity toDalian enhance self-development. ROHM Electronics Dalian 2. Those in leadership positions will exemplify model behavior GmbH at all times. SiCrystal 3. The emphasis of education is on-the-job training led by Korea the supervisors through daily operations. Supplementary ROHM Korea Kionix U.S.A. training off the job is alsoHong Kong provided. Santa Clara Shanghai 4. Each head of Thailand all management Shenzhen levels will appraise staff Taiwan fairly and conduct effective training programs periodically San Diego and consistently. Philippines India 5. Appraisals for each head of all management levels is based, as a general rule, on the success of staff education ROHM Electronics Philippines and training. ROHM Mechatech Philippines ROHM-Wako Electronics (Malaysia) Malaysia Singapore Brazil Although the environment surrounding the company has changed with the emergence of an Company information-based society and increased diversification of values among the people, these policies remain unchanged and serve as the driving force and foundation in all business activities. Information 234
