CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Index FOREWORD 3 INTERVIEW 4 FINANCIAL RESULTS 8 CSR Highlights 9 GOVERNANCE 10 Our csr approach 12 Stakeholders 14 Corporate governance 16 Shareholders 17 Safety 18 Risk management 19 Ethics 20 Public positions 21 ENVIRONMENT 22 Objectives and main achievements 24 Key figures 26 Climate change policy 27 Carbon footprint 28 Sustainable biofuels 30 Noise 32 Air quality 33 Waste 34 Water and energy 35 Research and innovation 36 Biodiversity 37 Sustainability in the Customer Experience 38 Our approach, objectives and main achievements 40 Dialogue with customers 42 Responsible procurement 44 A sustainable and innovative product range 46 Best Practices 48 Responsible Human Resources 50 Objectives and main achievements 52 Key figures 54 Group social policy 55 Health and safety at work 56 Equal opportunities 58 Sustainability across the business 59 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT 60 Objectives and main achivements 62 Economic footprint 63 Local development around our hubs 64 Local development at destinations 67 Social partnerships 68 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 70 2 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 B y bringing together people, economies and cultures, aviation opens the way to travel and trade. It is a tremendous driver of growth in the areas where we operate and which we serve. As with all transportation methods which depend on fossil energy, our environmental footprint is significant. We are aware of our responsibilities and, to continue to ensure our mission and achieve ever-higher levels of customer satisfaction, we actively seek to reconcile economic performance with social progress and respect for the environment. Imagination and innovation were behind the emergence of aviation. Today the most advanced technologies support the growth of air transportation by enabling the reduction or mitigation of some of its impacts, particularly CO 2 emissions and noise disturbance. Tomorrow, we plan to do even better. All of the players in the sector are aware of the major challenge represented by environment protection. Sustainable development is both a requirement to secure our sector’s long-term future and an opportunity to envision our activity in another way. For several years, our social and environmental commitment has been at the heart of our corporate strategy. This commitment is enshrined in our Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and Social Rights and Ethics Charter, and re-affirmed each year as a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. Thanks to everyone across the Group, eveAviation’s future rywhere in the world, Air France-KLM is recognized for its sustainable development perforwill be shaped mance. Conscious of the leadership role that we play with our customers, partners, suppliers by innovation and the industry as a whole, we are mobilized around the goal of making sustainable developand respect for ment an everyday reality in all our activities. the environment. As a driver of economic growth, aviation’s future will be shaped by innovation and respect for This is the exciting the environment. This is the exciting challenge facing our Group and every one of us. challenge facing our Group and Alexandre de Juniac every one of us. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Air France-KLM Group 3 Interview A look back at 2013 and the outlook for the next years Two years after the launch of the Transform 2015 plan, Camiel Eurlings what are the results for the Air France-KLM Group? Despite the challenging environment, 2013 showed improved finanAlexandre de Juniac cial results and growth in the passenger business. These encouraging 2013 marked an important stage in the turnaround of Air Francesigns showed that we can adhere to the course we have set and can KLM. We benefited from the implementation of new working condiadapt to changing circumstances. Thanks to strict capacity managetions adopted by all our staff and the industrial plans launched across ment, supported by cost reduction initiatives, the whole-hearted our businesses. Despite the persistently challenging environment, the dedication of our staff and a raft of innovative measures, we were able Group returned to a positive operating result and reduced its debt by to deliver what we promised. more than the initial targets. During 2013 we urged our staff to remain alert to potential process The additional measures announced in October 2013 are already improvements and efficiency gains in all parts of the company. It is this being implemented in medium-haul and cargo to accelerate their approach that allowed us to uphold the principle of “keeping the family recovery and will start to bear fruit during the second half of 2014. together”, in exchange for higher staff productivity and flexibility. We will continue to rely on their dedication, especially in the third challenAnd at Air France and KLM? ging year of the Transform 2015 Securing our Future program. Frédéric Gagey Transform 2015 is functioning and the positive effects are tangible. In Can you outline the main focus areas in 2014? 2013, Air France maintained its transformation momentum thanks to Alexandre de Juniac its staff who are mobilizing all their efforts around customer service The Group is experiencing a real commercial revolution. We are and the company’s successful turnaround. preparing for the future by launching significant investment to improve The short and medium-haul operations have been restructured and our service offer at both Air France and KLM. we took the decision to develop the activity of Transavia France The measures implemented in 2013 will be reflected in a very concrete on departure from Paris-Orly and adjust our domestic network. improvement in our offering aimed at making it the world’s best-in-class. To return to profitability we must be even more attentive to our We have invested in cabin equipment to ensure that our customers customers’ needs and the launch of HOP! is an integral part of enjoy the best-possible standard of comfort. We have also increased this dynamic. The new regional company constitutes an advantage the number of destinations and our Summer 2014 schedule reflects when it comes to addressing the needs of all our customer this aim with an expanded long-haul proposition. It is vital to pursue our segments more effectively. expansion on growth markets, which are the Group’s future. 2 231 hubs long-haul network 1 st destinations Paris-CDG and Amsterdam-Schiphol from Europe in 103 countries (Summer 2014) 4 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Alexandre de Juniac, Frédéric Gagey, Camiel Eurlings, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Air France-KLM Group Air France KLM The success of Transform 2015 will underpin the Group’s ability to responsible company. This Corporate Social Responsibility commitagain be one of the Top 3 global airline groups in terms of customer ment is mobilizing all our staff and is an integral part of all our projects. experience and be a major player in sector consolidation. Wherever possible, we aim to support initiatives which include both the environmental and the social and citizenship dimensions. We also Air France and KLM have developed new products and believe that research and innovation are key to a sustainable deveservices for their customers. What are the key factors lopment approach. In 2013, the initiatives we supported included the for a sustainable airline? Joining Our Energies program to back the development of a French Frédéric Gagey biofuel production industry and the IAGOS project with the loading on Thanks to more than €500 million of investment, our goal is to offer board one of our aircraft of measuring instruments which will enable the best standards of inflight comfort and to differentiate ourselves a better understanding of the impact of aviation on climate change. through exemplary standards of customer service. These new Another example in 2013 which is, perhaps, a little closer to ourselproducts and services will constitute significant competitive ves and our customers, the design of new long-haul crockery in the advantages in our commercial strategy. Premium Economy and Economy classes. This project mobilized a A company which makes a difference for its customers is also a number of divisions around an approach based on innovation and 3 77.3 1.3 businesses million million Passengers, Cargo, Maintenance passengers carried tons of cargo 5 eco-design, resulting in new tableware which is more pleasurable and At the end of 2013, KLM and the Ministry of Infrastructure & the practical in use and also enables the reduction by one third in the Environment, the Ministry of Economic Affairs, Schiphol Group, weight of the materials and the related CO2 emissions. SkyNRG, Neste Oil and the Port of Rotterdam signed a letter of intent for BioPort Holland, aimed at the large-scale use of sustainable biofuels. Camiel Eurlings This initiative shows that cooperation with different stakeholders is key. Investing in new products and services and engaging in new partnerships remain key priorities. In 2013, KLM entered into a unique At Air France, you have made local roots a cornerstone agreement with UNICEF the Netherlands, taking the lead in develoof your citizenship commitment. Could you tell us more? ping sector guidelines based on the Children’s Rights and Business Frédéric Gagey Principles. I would like to mention the social dimension of corporate sustainable Innovation not only brought us closer to our goals in 2013, it also responsibility since aviation acts as a link between people and ecoled to awards and appreciation from passengers and external parnomies. It is a driver of economic and social development everywhere ties. New initiatives contributed to cost reduction, sustainability and in the world. customer loyalty. Furthermore, our people remain our most important I place a great deal of importance on Air France’s local engagement asset. Their commitment, knowledge and dedication are key, espein the areas where it operates. Through these strong local roots, we cially in reaching our KLM Takes vision and ambitions for 2020. KLM demonstrate our commitment to regional and national development. will always seek the best solution in dialogue with all our stakeholders. With the signature of the innovative SME charter we set ourselves This is the key to building a sustainable and successful future – for our the objective of encouraging innovation and supporting small and customers, our employees, and society as a whole. medium-sized firms across our areas. Another of the company’s commitments becomes, every year, more The message in 2012 was “biofuels are here to stay”. concrete in our procurement from the adapted and sheltered sector. Could you tell a bit more about the developments By entrusting these companies with operational activities, we promote in 2013? access to employment for persons with disabilities and demonstrate Camiel Eurlings the confidence we have in their expertise. The airline industry will be dependent on liquid fuels. Therefore, KLM sees every flight on sustainable biofuels as an important step on our In 2013, Air France-KLM was again ranked number journey to sustainable aviation. In March 2013, we started the series one in the airlines sector and included in the Dow of weekly flights from New York to Amsterdam, and KLM invested in Jones Sustainability Index, the main international SkyNRG, world leader in sustainable biofuels. With them and other index evaluating companies on their sustainability partners, we continue to explore new possibilities and we are working performance. in various consortia to reach the breakthrough for scalable biofuels in Alexandre de Juniac the future. This year Air France-KLM was again recognized by the DJSI and Not only do we want to develop a market for sustainable biofuels and the extra-financial rating agency RobecoSAM. For the ninth conseset the standard, we hope to inspire others to join us in making the cutive year, the Group was ranked leader of the “Airlines category”. airline industry more sustainable. Since 2007, WWF-NL has been our Moreover, for the fifth year running, Air France-KLM was ranked strategic partner in achieving this ambition. I am excited to welcome number one of the broader “Transport category“, covering air, rail, City of Amsterdam, Loyens & Loeff, FMO, Siemens, TomTom and CBRE sea and road transport as well as airport activities. Air France-KLM Global Investors as new partners in our Corporate Biofuel Program. thus joins the 24 most sustainable companies in the world, each in In collaboration with Boeing, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, Air Traffic their sector of activity. Control The Netherlands and various research partners, KLM ran its I’m very proud that we are still sector leader on sustainability, and Optimal Flight program. This project demonstrated how the entire this for nine years in a row. It proves our commitment to pursuing our flight process can be optimized by using advanced technologies. efforts and to proposing new sustainable development initiatives. 95,961 552 SkyTeam 2nd largest alliance employees (FTE) aircraft in operation 20 members more than 1,000 destinations 6 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Aviation industry be concentrated in emerging markets in Brazil, China and Southeast Asia. International Air Transport Association’s prediction for 2050 for developments aviation is 16 billion passengers travelling by plane and 400 million tons of cargo being carried. Customer behavior Airline business Customers are well informed and sensitive to the value of the serThe airline industry is a facilitator of international trade and business, vice offered. They expect transparency in product, service, price and operating in a competitive environment, concerning a highly cyclical company policies. In addition, customers demand to be online at any business and standing out in the value chain as earning the lowest place and any time. Their needs are increasingly personalized and, returns and bearing virtually the highest risk. European companies are through social media, they expect a quick response. engaged in restructuring plans to restore profitability, particularly relative to competitors who benefit from a more dynamic context. Climate change Mitigating climate change remains an important challenge in a context Liberalization and consolidation of resource scarcity and volatility of oil prices; a shift towards sustainable Liberalization progresses slowly around the world with certain regions biofuels is crucial. Collaboration is needed to reduce CO2 by focusing moving faster than others. The consolidation trend continued through on new technologies, operational efficiency and improved infrastrucmergers, alliances and partnership agreements. Airlines can improve ture. Economic measures can fill the remaining emissions gap. their position in the air transport industry as shown by consolidation of airlines in the US. Middle Eastern airlines have entered into alliances, Regulations are continuing to expand and make conditions challenging for EuroStrict regulations are applied to consumer protection and security, pean airlines. resulting in more restrictions for customers and higher costs for carriers. Varying passenger rights around the world creates difficulties for Structural growth airlines. Unlike rail transport, aviation funds all of its own infrastructure The air transport industry is growing by about 5% annually, which costs, both on the ground and in the air, as well as flight security and should be maintained over the coming two decades. High growth will safety costs. AIR FRANCE KLM NETWORK (Summer 2014) Europe 111 19 North America Destinations Destinations Caribbean 12 Asia Pacific 51 23 Africa and Middle East Destinations South America Destinations 12 Destinations 3 Indian Ocean Destinations Destinations 7 Financial results T he Air France-KLM group comprises a single holding company Breakdown of revenues by sector of activity and two airlines, Air France and KLM, each of which retains its own brand and identity. Its three main businesses are passenger transport, cargo transport and aviation maintenance services, for its 79% own fleet and those of other airlines. For the period between January 1 and December 31, 2013, consoP  assenger transport 11% lidated revenues amounted to u25.52 billion, up by 2.32% on the Cargo previous financial year. The 2013 financial year was marked by a 5% A  viation maintenance positive result from current operations of u130 million versus a loss of O  ther businesses 5% u336 million at December 31, 2012. (Transavia, catering...) Revenues u 25,520 m Breakdown of passenger revenues by destination 33% 19% Income from current operations E  urope u 130 m North America A  sia-Pacific A  frica & Middle East 8% 18% South America Caribbean & Indian Ocean 9% 13% Distribution of the Group’s revenue Through its business activity and investments Air France-KLM contributes to economic development at its hubs and destinations. o 275 m o 452 m o 459 m o 2,068 m Others Aeronautical Fleet Repayment of debt o 1,887 m Revenues Loans o 25,520 m Investments Airports and developments o 272 m o 2,130 m Passengers Maintenance Disposal of aircraft Taxes on and financial assets State and local tickets authorities (not included in turnover) Cargo Expenses o 227 m o 14 m o 717 m o 1,122 m o 6,897 m o 8,187 m o 7,482 m State and local Non-profit Airports Air traffic control Suppliers Other suppliers Employees authorities (taxes & fees) (sponsorship) (fees) (en route charges) (fuel) (payroll tax o 2,058 m) Data for 2013 financial year in million euros. 8 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 CSR Highlights January june september november Collection of Air France staff Air France member of Air France-KLM ranked Launch of Air France uniforms to be recycled, see Joining our Energies project number 1 in the Dow Jones employees Participatory Innop.34 and p.45 for aviation biofuels, see p.31 Sustainable Index, see p.83 vation Program, see p.59 Air France EVP’s commitAir France involved in cliAir France-KLM received the KLM and various stakeholment on CSR issues through mate research with IAGOS Climate Performance Leader ders signed a Declaration of signature of 2013 CSR objecprogram, see p.36 prize awarded by the Carbon Intent for BioPort Holland, tives and action plan, see p.13 Disclosure Project, see p.27 aimed at the large-scale use of KLM Sustainable Inflight sustainable biofuels, see p.31 catering offer expanded with 16 New eco designed Air France new products, see p.37 and onboard meal tray, see p.48 p.45 2013 01 03 06 07 09 10 11 12 March july october december Start of KLM’s JFK Biofuel Pays de Roissy-CDG Better visibility for CO2 calcuLaunch of KLM partnership Flight Series and Optimal Association 10th anniversary, lator, see p.29 with UNICEF the Netherlands, Flight Program, see p.29 see p.65 see p.12 and p.68 KLM ranked “Best Employer” Air France-KLM-Martinair by Intermediair & Effectory, see KLM Takes Care vision Cargo innovative light weight p.55 and ambitions for 2020 finacargo nets, see p.28 and p.45 lized, see p.13 KLM partner of Schiphol Introduction of KLM’s New Aviation College, see p.58 and 7 new partners in KLM’s World Business Class, see p.49 p.66 Corporate BioFuel program, see p.31 and p.49 9 our CSR Approach 12 Stakeholders 14 Corporate governance 16 Shareholders 17 Safety 18 RISK MANAGEMENT 19 Ethics 20 Public positions 21 governance AMBI TI ON Our ambition is to set the standard in CSR and to remain the frontrunner in the air transport industry. 10 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 11 governance our CSR approach A s a global business, Air France-KLM connects people, economies and cultures, driving economic growth and social progress. Air France-KLM assumes its responsibilities and acts Local development to reconcile growth with environmental protection, social value and Create economic and local development at its hubs and destinations. social value at our hubs The Group’s commitment is laid out in its Corporate Social Responsiand destinations. bility Statement, Social Rights and Ethics Charter and Climate Action Plan. To integrate sustainability in its business and operations, Air FranceKLM works alongside all of its stakeholder groups on four key priorities: environment, customer experience, responsible human resources and local development. Customer experience Integrate sustainability within the entire value chain to offer customers sustainable and innovative products and services. Responsible human resources Environment Maintain a responsible social policy Reduce our environmental footprint and encourage personal development by improving our operations, to ensure the motivation and by innovating in the supply chain professionalism of our employees. and by mobilizing our entire staff and the industry. National and international commitments Air France-KLM works in line with fundamental rights: The UniverKLM has been working in partnership with WWF-NL since 2007 to sal Declaration of Human Rights, The Charter of Fundamental Rights develop a more sustainable air transport industry. of the European Union, The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) In 2013, KLM also became partner of UNICEF the Netherlands to Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the develop guidelines for the industry, based on the ten Children’s Rights Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) and Business Principles developed in 2012 by UNICEF, the UN Global guiding principles. Compact and Save the Children. Air France and KLM have been a signatory of the United Nations Air France and KLM are signatories to several national charters and Global Compact since 2003 and 2006, and are committed to agreements. In 2013, Air France signed the Charter for Public Comparespecting and promoting its ten principles (see p.82). The Group pronies in Favor of Innovative SMEs and the Gender Equality Convention. motes and encourages its partners and suppliers to commit to this KLM has signed the Sustainable Supply and Corporate Responsibility path. Manifesto, which aims to support the market for sustainable products Air France is a signatory of the Caring for Climate initiative led by and services. the UN Global Compact and the UN Environment Program. 12 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 csr Governance and implementation Board of Directors Air France-KLM Approves the strategic orientation of the Group’s activities and ensures implementation Reviews management reports, which provide information, among other subjects, on CSR performance The audit committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and of the Group’s risk management systems at group level Group Executive Committee Internal Audit Validates the Group's CSR policy, which is included in the annual  Independently assesses the effectiveness of the risk management Group Strategic Framework system and performs assurance audits Approves  the annual audit plan Air France Board of Directors, KLM Board of Managing Directors and Supervisory Board  Approve the strategic orientation and CSR policy and ensure implementation at airline level Executive Committees Air France and KLM Determine the CSR strategy and policy and associated risks and opportunities  QSE Management Review twice a year at Air France and KLM Safety & Quality Board CSR DEPARTMENTS Business, operations and support departments Define and implement policy and objectives Integrate CSR policy and objectives  oordinate the Environmental C Ensure the responsibility and monitoring of the Quality Safety Environment (QSE) systems Management System Manage emergency and crisis situations Sustainability in business and operations Netherlands. This certification was renewed for a period of three years Air France-KLM puts CSR at the heart of its strategy. This commitin 2011 for Air France and in 2012 for KLM. ment is spearheaded by management and shared by all employees who are encouraged to participate in the development of innovation Objectives and management indicators projects. The key priorities set by the Group are addressed by the two airlines The Group Executive Committee reviews CSR strategy and perforbased on stakeholder dialogue. Every year, Air France and KLM senior mance annually, as part of the overall Group Strategic Framework, executives formalize their commitment on CSR issues such as enviwhich is reviewed and approved by the Group Board of Directors ronment and health and safety, through action plans with specific during the annual Group strategy meeting. targets. At Air France, CSR is driven by an Executive Vice President who is a In 2013, environmental objectives were set for all Air France entities: member of the Executive Committee; at KLM this role is fulfilled by a improving CO2 efficiency: -1.5% per year; member of the Executive Committee. Each airline has committees in reducing the energy consumption of buildings: -8% at the end of place to monitor the integration of CSR and its associated risks and 2014, compared with 2011; opportunities. At KLM these are the quarterly CSR Council and the increasing the proportion of waste recovered to 50%. Safety and Quality Board, which meets six times per year. Air France has two Board Meetings per year dedicated to reviewing QSE “QuaIn 2013, the KLM Executive Committee developed a long term vision lity, Safety, Environment” objectives. and ambitions for 2020: The Air France and KLM CSR departments manage action plans energy: 20% CO2 reduction; and common reporting systems, and exchange best practices. sustainable catering: 100% sustainable inflight catering products Within each airline these departments define and implement CSR (from Amsterdam); policy, coordinate the Environmental Management System and moniwaste: 100% recycling and recovery; tor roll-out of policy within business and operational divisions. Both communities: All areas have a program in place positively impacting Air France and KLM have been ISO 14001 certified, respectively future generations. since 2008 and 1999, for all flights and operations in France and The These objectives are translated into annual programs and roadmaps. 13 governance Stakeholders S takeholder engagement plays a major part in Air France-KLM’s CSR strategy. As a worldwide operator, the Group interacts with various stakeholder groups. Ongoing dialogue To determine material issues and priorities, Air FranceKLM engages with various stakeholder groups including employees, suppliers, local communities, associations, local authorities and NGOs. This dialogue helps the Group to better understand the societal changes, challenges and questions it is faced with, and the issues and projects that it should focus on. This feedback also helps to improve the Group’s reporting. The 2013 report includes Stakeholder more detailed information on identification and employee involvement in CSR commitment strategy, observance of human In 2013, stakeholder engarights, as well as impact in the gement included: supply chain. internal barometers and events to collect staff suggestions; customer satisfaction and perception surveys; dialogue and evaluation of supplier CSR performance ; exchange of best practices, benchmarks and working groups within the industry and with other large companies; dialogue with shareholders and investors, recommendations from non-financial ratings agencies; reviews and comments collected via dedicated email addresses, websites and social media; various engagement pathways to enable stakeholders to express grievances. For more information about stakeholder dialogue, see p.72. 14 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 our stakeholders map Cargo Customers Scientific m e nt Passengers and Distributors Community on (BtoB, BtoC, BtoT) Certification e r Experience Environmental Cu nvir me NGOs Authorities to Maintenance Air Traffic s Airports Customers Control Bodies Rating and Industry Agency Air Transport International, European Employees and National Authorities Investors Shareholder and s Media iers and K ppl ey Op Su inion L eaders HU Professional MA Trade Union Organizations NR l esou Loca ca r ces Loc l Authorities Lo de al R Humanitarian esid ve NGOs ent sA lop sso m e nt ciat Local Economic ions Players Employees Local stakeholders Annual study on staff perceptions of CSR: 4,500 Air France Dialogue with residents: Air France and KLM are members of local employees surveyed. 75% of staff members feel that their division is committees around the airports which constitute the main forum for involved in the airline’s CSR policy, while 66% feel they are personally dialogue between the air transport professionals and local communiinvolved. 230 suggestions have been submitted, in particular concerties, thereby helping to orientate the environmental measures accomning the recycling of waste. panying airport development. Air France participates in the EnvironAnnual “Boussole” survey on home-work travel in the Paris region: mental Advisory Committees (CCE) and Advisory Committees for 3,000 Air France employees participated. Thanks to the suggestions Resident Assistance (CCAR) in the main French airports. KLM contisubmitted, telecommuting will be rolled out more widely in the comnues with its commitment to pursuing dialogue through Alders Table pany in 2014 (see p.33). and CROS (Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee). KLM Takes Care Strategy: in the process of shaping the KLM Grand Roissy area: Air France is contributing to the extensive disCSR strategy towards ambitions for 2020 over 100 KLM experts and cussions on projects set to shape the areas surrounding Paris-CDG managers, as well as the KLM Works Council, were involved through airport. Air France is also a member of local development associations interviews, dialogue meetings and workshops. to reinforce the international attractiveness of Paris-CDG airport area. Quarterly “CSR Cafés”: guest speakers are invited to inspire and Visits and meetings: Air France and KLM regularly organize visits to inform KLM employees on various current and future sustainability their facilities for stakeholders and government officials giving them an initiatives. In 2013, 4 CSR Cafés took place and over 200 employees impression of the airline business and exchanging views on a variety attended. of issues such as CSR and innovation. Customers Partnerships and NGOs Flying Blue customers CSR perception survey: the survey enables WWF-NL: In 2013 the joint partnership targets were evaluated and to better understand customer expectations and to identify those focused on biofuels and food impacts. In the process of reshaping the issues they consider a priority. Main issues identified in 2013: invesKLM CSR strategy towards 2020, WWF-NL was involved to reflect on ting in a modern fleet, reducing water and energy consumption and the choices and ambitions for KLM’s climate action plan and catering. waste, supporting aviation research and renewable energy (see p.43). Associations dedicated to CSR: as a member of associations such KLM Takes Care online platform: website provides articles and as ORSE, Comité 21, Global Compact France, Air France pursues a videos and gives customers the opportunity to share their ideas on dialogue with experts and other French companies on CSR issues. sustainability topics (see p.43). UNICEF the Netherlands: Strategic collaboration focused on Social media: 7.7 million fans on Facebook and 1.2 million followers Children’s Rights impacts by the airline sector. via Twitter. 15 governance Corporate Governance Limited company with a Board of directors and is organized under French Law. The Board of directors operates according to the French corporate governance principles, as set out in the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code. Board of Directors it Committee TAILLE MINIMUM 30 MM DE LARGE d Au LOGO GROUPE AFKLM Nº dossier : 2008356E 100 75 0 60 Date : 24/11/08 Validation DA/DC : 100 10 0 0 Validation Client : 0 100 100 0 Diversity of Directors’ profiles 5 female members on December 31, 2013, 35.7% of total Board members 6 independent directors, in view of the Group’s ownership structure (notably the French 14 6 members Board directors State and employees) and the specific rules 75% independent directors* governing the appointment of a number of its 5 meetings; 100% Board directors. Proportion of independent tion Comm era attendance rate Directors: 50% within the meaning of the itt AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code*. 11 directors un m appointed by the General Re ee Shareholders’ Meeting (of whom two are representatives of the employee shareholders). 5 members Combined functions of Chairman 75% independent directors* and Chief Executive Officer 3 DIRECTORS ments Comm 2 meetings; 100% The reunification of the functions of Chairman representatives of the French oint itt of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive p e attendance rate Officer (which had been separate between State appointed by ministerial Ap es January 2009 and October 2011) enables decree. everyone’s energies to be mobilized around a single function aimed at improving the 4 members company’s levels of performance. 60% independents directors* 1 meeting; 100% attendance rate Directors’ term Ethics and internal of office regulations 12 meetings 4 years (expiration dates for these terms of office Two documents adopted by the Board and regularly Average attendance rate: 91% staggered to facilitate the smooth renewal of the updated: Board of Directors). internal regulations regularly updated and available online**; code of ethics. Training of Board directors Compensation Auto-evaluation of the Board carried out by the members Newly executives appointed directors may carry out site Information published in the Registration Document, the of the Board of directors with respect to the 2013 financial visits, meet with key managers from within the company Management Report and on the Group’s website**: year. Conclusions: and undertake training organized by the company. criteria and amounts of compensation amounts paid to the operational functioning of the Board and its On appointment, they receive all the information executive directors; Committees has continued to improve since the last required to fulfill their mandates. allocation modalities and directors’ fees. evaluation carried out by an independent firm in 2013; Should they leave the company the executives directors t he succession of the Chairman and Chief Executive do not benefit from any special indemnities. Officer had unfolded in good conditions in 2013; the standards of presentations and debates within the Board had been high. Audit Committee: For the first time in July 2013, realization of an auto-evaluation of its functioning. For further information, see the Registration Document 2013 at www.airfranceklm-finance.com * In application of §9.2 et 16.1 of the AFEP-MEDEF Corporate Governance Code, the two directors representing employee shareholders are not counted in the calculation of the percentages of independent shareholders within Boards of directors and Committees. ** www.airfranceklm-finance.com, Governance section 16 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 governance Shareholders breakdown of share capital December 31, 2013 P ursuant to the obligation for air the business. The ACTION’air letter transport companies to moniis sent to the Club’s 7,000 members tor and control their shareholon a quarterly basis. Members are ders, Air France-KLM implements 75,5% Others also invited to information sessions a procedure for their identification. at regional sites and to visits of On December 31, 2013, Air FranceFrench state 15,9% Air France facilities. KLM was 57.5% owned by French The Consultative Committee for Indiinterests (compared with 61.6% on Employees (FCPE) 7,2% vidual Shareholders is consulted on a December 31, 2012) and more than Treasury shares 1,4% regular basis to improve the way the 75% by European institutions. Group provides information and services to shareholders. The Committee Investors is comprised of twelve members and Air France-KLM pursues regular meets with senior leaders of the Group dialogue with financial analysts, institutional investors and SRIs. four times per year, notably to prepare the annual general meeting. Beyond meetings organized to communicate financial results, senior In 2013, Air France-KLM was recognized for its quality relations with executives regularly take part in conferences on air transport in shareholders. The “Shareholder Relations Prize” organized by Les Europe and the US. The Group organizes Investor Days which are échos and Investir – Le Journal des Finances, in partnership with the an opportunity to discuss its strategic decisions. In December 2013, auditing group Mazars awarded the main prize to Air France-KLM in the Group was awarded the “Best Investor Relations by a CEO” for the “mid cap” category. the clarity of communication and the transparency of management techniques at the “Investor Relations and Financial Communication” Employee share ownership Forum. Air France-KLM has one of the highest proportions of employee share ownership of the companies in the SBF 120 stock index: more than Individual shareholders 40,000 current and former employees own 7.2% of Group equity on The Group pursues a policy of active dialogue among its individual December 31, 2013. shareholders. To address shareholder concerns and to present its Two employee shareholder representatives sit on the Board of Direcbusinesses, assets and growth potential, the Shareholders’ Club tors. These are appointed by the employee shareholders themselves provides access to all general and financial information related to and contribute to the work of the Audit Committee. employee share ownership shareholders’ general meeting, MAY 16, 2013 7.7% 7.6% One share equals one vote Yes Number of shareholders present, 13,582 shareholders 7.2% December 2011 December 2012 represented, granting power representing of attorney to chairman 142,218,928 shares or voting by mail Attendance rate 48,04% December 2013 17 governance safety S afety is the absolute priority for platform for reporting situations they Air France-KLM. It is imperative think may present a risk. In 2013, for both customers and staff the system for managing operational and imperative for the sustainability of incidents was extended to customer air transport. service, the environment, health and Safety covers all measures taken to safety in the workplace, food safety reduce the risks associated with aviaand hygiene. The system is being tion. Aviation security aims to combat progressively rolled out across all criminal and terrorist acts against airbusinesses and enables the sharing craft and passengers. of data in order to facilitate the implementation of consistent, comprehenInternational standards sive action plans. All of the Group’s businesses are Since the launch of the KLM online subject to extensive controls and cersafety awareness initiative Safetytification, and meet extremely strict F@cts in 2012, managers and standards and the highest level of employees have received information regulations in the industry, at an Euroon safety-related topics in an interacpean level with the European Aviation tive format, covering subjects such Safety Agency (EASA), and globally as safety principles and current SMS with the International Air Transport projects, on a periodic basis. Association (IATA), whose IOSA opeTo ensure staff skills are maintained at rational safety audit is a standard for the highest level, the Group constantly the industry. improves its training programs. Crisis prevention and management Following its IOSA safety audit in October 2012, both Air France and plans are in place at all destinations and exercise drills are carried out KLM were awarded renewed certification, without qualification issues on an annual basis. for a further two years. Almost a thousand points were checked. To achieve the highest attainable standard of flight safety, both airlines Ongoing vigilance have been in the process of upgrading and updating their respective The Group’s security procedures aim to ensure the protection of its Safety Management Systems (SMS). The SMS deals specifically with customers, employees and assets (aircraft, facilities and IT systems). the management of risks in aviation, is comprehensively integrated This includes various measures such as risk analysis of Air Franceinto the organization, processes and culture of the company and KLM’s business and operations, and the systematic inspection of is supported by a commitment at the highest level of management aircraft, passengers, baggage, cargo, and employees. These procewithin the Group and by training and awareness building initiatives dures, which are subject to strict regulation, are carried out with a among all staff members. constant concern for the privacy of passengers and employees. In this area, the Group is working directly with airports, government Culture of safety agencies, national civil aviation authorities, the European Commission, The safety of operations rests upon a shared commitment to rigor, the Association of European Airlines, IATA and the International Civil vigilance, individual responsibility and mutual trust. Aviation Organization (ICAO). Employees play a key role in the system, which involves a continuous In order to ensure the highest level of protection for their customers cycle of improvement. The responsibility of all employees in ensuring and employees in more than 100 countries and 200 cities, Air France flight safety was reaffirmed at Air France by a new awareness camand KLM’s security departments constantly monitor international geopaign launched in July 2013. By reporting issues, staff members help political developments. These dedicated teams are responsible for and facilitate the prevention of incidents. ensuring continuous flight operations and where necessary, for impleSince the end of 2012, Air France employees have used a single menting additional security measures. 18 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 governance Risk management A ir France-KLM is exposed On a quarterly basis, a presentation on the most significant operatioto general risks assonal and financial risks is made by Internal Audit and Internal Control, ciated with its business and presented to the Air France-KLM Executive Committee and to and has consequently implethe Audit Committee, together with the measures in place for their mented a system to identify, management. monitor, manage and control The Air France-KLM Group Strategic Framework determines straterisks. gic risk (competition, economic growth, etc.) as well as related action plans within the context of its work to establish the Group’s strategy. Identifying and These risks and action plans are also discussed with the Board of monitoring risk Directors. Strategic risk mapping and operational risk mapping proRules and regulations cesses have been established The Group meets regulatory requirements governing air transport and by all the relevant entities, complies with standards and regulations, particularly those related to supervised by Internal Audit flights, ground operations, aircraft maintenance and airport policing. and Internal Control. These risk Progress in these areas has resulted in certification from independent maps are regularly updated and organizations, such as IOSA for flight safety, ISO 9001 for the effecconsolidated by Air France and tiveness of management systems, ISO 22000 for the safety of onboard KLM and for the Air Francecatering and ISO 14001 for the validation of environmental manageKLM Group. ment systems. Examples are risks specifically linked to air transport, such Independent monitoring and auditing as the cyclical and seasonal In addition to this enterprise risk management system, Air Francenature of the business, operaKLM has put in place internal control and audit departments. Internal tional risks, the risk of terrorist control is based on the COSO framework (Committee of Sponsoring attacks, geopolitical instability Organization of the Treadway Commission), whose purpose is to draw or sanitary events, regulatory up framework guidelines to ensure the execution and efficiency of operisks such as rules related to rations, the accuracy of accounting and financial data and compliance the treatment of passengers, with laws and regulations. Internal audits contribute to improving the environmental risks or risks to IT operational processes and help in achieving objectives at Group level systems. Other risks are linked or specific objectives in the business. to the Group’s activity, such as the impact of competition with other For further information on risk management, see Air France-KLM carriers, or negotiating collective agreements and industrial disputes. Registration Document 2013. Market risks (fuel, currencies and interest rates) are managed by the Risk Management Committee. Every three months, each Group entity updates the content of its operational risks by indicating the risk itself, the probability it will occur and its potential financial impact. These risks are discussed within the management teams with ownership of the risks. Both specific risks to each entity and transverse risks potentially affecting the whole Group are the subject of reporting. For each of the reported risks, members of Air France-KLM’s Executive Committee are responsible for reviewing the measures implemented to control these risks. 19 governance Ethics A s signatories of the United Nations Global Compact, Air France respect the relevant codes of conduct. and KLM are committed to respecting fundamental human KLM has a public affairs represenrights principles and the fight against corruption. tative who is registered in the Dutch Parliament lobby register. KLM public Respecting human rights affairs representatives are member In its CSR Statement, Air France-KLM undertakes to respect human of the Dutch Association for Public rights and to oppose all forms of child and forced labor. Affairs Professionals and have signed The Social Rights and Ethics Charter affirms the Group’s commitment up to its Code of Conduct. Both to foster a climate of trust and mutual respect in the workplace, a Air France and KLM have lobbyists safe and healthy work environment and social dialogue. The Charter working with European Institutions applies to Air France, KLM and all European subsidiaries’ employees. and who are registered in the EU In 2013, an updated version of the Charter was signed by the Group’s Transparency register. CEO and by representatives of the Group European Works Council. Air France-KLM does not tolerate any The Group identifies and assesses risk factors related to human rights form of corruption. In line with the within its businesses which cover various areas: health and safety, evolving international legislative and equal opportunities, work-life balance, systems to protect the persoregulatory context, an “Air France and nal data of customers and staff. KLM Anti-Bribery Manual” was made The Group is committed to ensuring that suppliers and subcontractors available at the end of 2013. This throughout the world respect fundamental social rights. Suppliers are manual is accessible to all employees requested to sign a Sustainable Development Charter that includes and will be supported by an e-leaning social, environmental and ethical principles based on the UN Global module in 2014. Compact. To enable staff members to signal In 2013, the Group restated its commitment to children, in particular serious matters which they may be with regards to the Children’s Rights and Business Principles co-deveaware of, such as accountancy and loped by UNICEF. Air France contributed to the Vigeo-UNICEF study financial fraud or corruption, both on the integration of these principles by large companies. KLM signed Air France and KLM have set up a a three year partnership agreement with UNICEF the Netherlands with whistleblower procedure. In 2013, the aim to develop guidelines for the airline industry based on these KLM replaced its financial whistprinciples. leblowers procedure by a broadly applicable procedure which enables staff to report any type of irreApplying business conduct rules gularity or suspected irregularity. The policy applies to all employees Air France-KLM ensures that ethical principles are met in the way working for KLM and its subsidiaries in The Netherlands and abroad. it does business. As a framework for its operations, the Group has several rules of conduct. Some of these rules apply to all staff Complying with competition law members, while others are more specific. For example, the Air FranceAir France-KLM pursues a policy of preventing anti-competitive pracKLM procurement and Air France HR departments each have a code tices by making its “Air France and KLM Competition Law Comof ethics in force, which is signed by members of these departments. pliance Manual” available to all employees. In addition to this publicaThe Board of Directors has adopted a Compliance Charter and tion, several other means of prevention have been made available to a Financial Code of Ethics. KLM has a Code of Conduct in place employees, such as a telephone hotline dedicated to competition law that sets out the main principles concerning financial and business and training delivered by the Group’s legal staff. integrity, confidentiality, compliance and commitment to CSR. An e-learning module on competition regulations has been made Air France and KLM comply with legislation on lobbying and defense compulsory for all Air France and KLM employees holding posts of economic interests. Air France has a representative working with that require such knowledge. In 2013, commercial and procurement the French National Assembly and Le Sénat, and who is committed to managers completed an e-learning module. 20 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 governance public positions inclusion of airlines in the EU greenhouse gas emissions contributes to the emergence of an international market for trading scheme (EU-ETS) sustainable aviation biofuels that are environmentally friendly and which The EU Directive establishing the EU emissions trading scheme positively impact economic and social development. The Group sup(EU ETS) has applied to aviation since 1 January 2012. Air Franceports the European Commission’s Biofuel Flight path 2020 initiative, KLM has always supported the implementation of a market-based which is being conducted in partnership with Airbus, Air France, KLM measures mechanism that benefits the environment far more than a and other European airlines and European biofuel producers. The Dutch straightforward tax, provided the mechanism is non-discriminatory, government and KLM have signed a “Green Deal” for the period 2011workable and cost efficient. EU ETS, limited to intra-European flights, 2015 committing each to specific actions to accelerate the realization should be considered as a first step towards a worldwide system that of sustainable initiatives in the fields of biofuels and waste treatment. A should be defined at ICAO level. broad representation of stakeholders, including the Dutch government IATA and individual airlines such as Air France and KLM actively contriand KLM, has initiatied the BioPort Holland initiative. This 7 year initiative bute to the ICAO process. Air France-KLM welcomed the landmark aims to develop the first real bio jetfuel hub in Europe. agreement that was reached by ICAO Member States to develop a The French government also supports French stakeholders including global market-based measure (MBM) on aviation emissions capable of Air France in order to evaluate the opportunity of a French biofuel being implemented from 2020. production pathway. In 2013, the Ministry in charge of Transport Following the 2013 ICAO agreement, the EU put forward a proposal supported an 8.5 million euros budget project that aims to identify for revision of the EU ETS for aviation so as to align the EU approach new breakthrough industrial technologies for sustainable biofuels with the ICAO resolution. The Group supports the application of EU production from 2020. ETS to intra-European flights, and advocates greater stability in European regulations on CO2 emissions from aviation until 2020. Supporting the competitiveness of European aviation Air France-KLM shares the observations and analysis made by the Single European Sky European Commission in its external relations communication of the To date, the Single European Sky has not been implemented. The Single 27th September 2012. Air France-KLM applauds the Commission’s European Sky II regulation, passed in 2009 by the European Parliament, efforts to promote a level playing field for competition both within the was intended to overhaul air traffic control in EU and with countries outside the EU. European airlines have signiorder to enable a three-fold increase in capaficantly higher infrastructure costs in Europe than in other parts of city, improve safety performance by a facthe world. European regulations need to be structured to maintain tor 10, enable up to 12% less CO2 emissions the competitiveness of the industry, particularly in areas as air traffic and reduce ATM costs by 50%. Through control and airport charges. Innovation and support for R&D proactive cooperation in the ACARE, AIRE and jects is also key to ensuring our future competitiveness. ACARE’s SESAR programs, Air France-KLM is already (Advisory Council for Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe) involved in the development of measures strategic roadmap for research, innovation and appropriate regulation that will make implementation possible. is an instrument to support the right European initiatives. ACARE is Air France-KLM calls upon Member States chaired by Peter Hartman, Vice Chairman Air France-KLM and both to meet their responsibility by achieving all airlines are actively involved at various levels within ACARE. Single European Sky targets. Air France-KLM remains committed to contributing towards Consumer rights reaching this goal. Customer service, punctuality and service reliability are at the heart of our business. Both Air France and KLM have all necessary arranSustainable biofuels gements in place to ensure that all operational hazards are dealt Sustainable biofuels constitute a prowith as quickly as possible. The Group contributes to the European mising way to reduce air transport’s institutions’ work on consumer rights. It remains vigilant that rules are carbon footprint. Air France-KLM proportionate and are applied equally to all airlines operating to and provides support for research and from the European Union. 21 Objectives and main achievements 2013 24 Key figures 26 CLIMATE CHANGE POLICY 27 CARBON FOOTPRINT 28 SUSTAINABLE BIOFUEL 30 NOISE 32 AIR QUALITY 33 Waste 34 Water and energy 35 research and innovation 36 biodiversity 37 environment AMBI TI ON We aim to reduce our environmental footprint by improving our operations and processes, partnering and innovating in the supply chain and by mobilizing our entire staff and the industry. 22 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 23 environment Objectives Schedule Main achievements 2013 CO2 Air France: 1.5% improvement to energy efficiency per year 3.57 liters/passenger/100km or 89 g/passenger/km 2020 1.9% reduction compared to 2012 KLM: 20% reduction of CO2 emissions per ton/kilometer in 2020 86 g CO2/passenger/km (baseline 2009: 91.6g CO2/passenger/km) 2020 6% reduction compared to 2009 Air France: “New fuel Plan” resulting in a 1% reduction in fuel Fuel saving: 44 million liters consumption by 2015 (compared to 2011) 2015 (110,000 tons of CO2 emissions saved) KLM: 8 million liters fuel saving Fuel saving: 9 million liters 2013 (28,000 tons of CO2 emissions saved) KLM: Aim for aspirational target of 1% sustainable biofuel in the Series of 26 flights with biofuel from New York to Amsterdam context of WWF-NL partnership 2015 Increased participation in KLM BioFuel program for corporate customers noise Air France: Expand activity while keeping noise emissions below 33.3% reduction in noise energy compared to 2005 2005 levels (10 major French airports) 2013 KLM: Reduce noise at Schiphol in partnership with the aviation KLM and Alders Table parties jointly advised the Dutch government sector 2013 on a new regulatory and enforcement system BIODIVERSITY Air France: Madagascar project Results of First Phase (2008-13): 34,000 households informed about alternative agriculture (5,000 of these have already adopted at least one of the techniques suggested), 22,000 hectares of 2013 forests restored, 2,200 hectares reforested, 470,000 hectares of new protected areas created to conserve forests and biodiversity, 110 transfers of natural resource management (TGRN) to populations covering 332,900 hectares KLM: 100% sustainable inflight catering products 16 new products added to sustainable inflight catering offer (from Amsterdam) 2020 Roadmap established to phase out non-sustainable soy and palm oil 24 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Objectives Schedule Main achievements 2013 LOCAL AIR QUALITY Air France: Electrically powered vehicles and ground equipment 10% reduction of vehicules fleet 2013 6 new electric vehicules Air France: Contribute to the reduction of polluting emissions Rate of car use: 79% (80% in 2012) caused by Air France staff work-home commuting in the Paris 2013 Rate of public transportation use: 14% (12% in 2012) region with a 5% shift in transport modes Air France: Implementation of fuel efficient taxiing solutions Partnership with Safran and Honeywell in the development of the 2013 Electric Green Taxiing System KLM: Minimize the use of APU by towing with external power 2013 Nox emission reduction due to 4,300 hours less APU use KLM: Electrically powered ground equipment 11 new electric conveyor belts 2013 40% electric ground equipment (36% in 2012) WASTE Air France: Increase proportion of waste recycled to 50% 2014 Rate of recycled waste (hazardous and non hazardous): 38% KLM: 100% waste recycling and recovery 2020 17% increase of separated and recycled catering waste to 25% ENERGY Air France: Improve the energy efficiency of buildings through Energy efficiency of buildings improvement: 8.7% 2014 an 8% reduction in their energy consumption (baseline 2011) Objective exceeded in 2013 and will be updated in 2014 KLM: 2% annual improvement in the energy efficiency 2016 > 2% energy efficiency improvement of buildings 20% CO2 reduction in buildings and ground processes 100% green energy from water power 2020 (baseline 2011) 25 environment key Figures Carbon footprint noise 27.7 million tons CO2 35% reduction compared to 2000 and to a 14% increase in movements Breakdown of CO2 emissions for flight and ground operations Waste 54,966 tons Non-hazardous waste 3.7% reduction compared to 2012 < 1% 9% 13% 78% Ground opérations Short haul Medium haul Long haul 61% recycling Hazardous industrial waste +3 pts compared to 2012 8.7 million tons fuel consumed SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION water 3.5 liters /passenger/100km 18% reduction 825,000 m3 compared to 2000 +1.6% compared to 2012 FLEET energy 552 aircraft in operation 10.2 years average age of the fleet 917,980 MWh Energy consumption (electricy, gas, other energy) +1.3% compared to 2012 26 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 environment Climate change policy share of transport A viation’s contribution to man-made greenhouse gas emissions is between 2% and 3%. However, growth in global air traffic in global man-made co2 emissions over the coming decades will increase aviation’s contribution if Source: GIEC, Stern Review no action is taken. 2% 3% INDUSTRY COMMITMENT TO CO2 NEUTRAL GROWTH FROM 2020 Air transport was the first sector to take global action on CO2 emissions. 3% 4% In 2009, the International Air Transport Association (IATA) set an ambitious Air transport 15% 17% worldwide commitment with 3 targets for the short and long term: Marine transport 1.5% per year energy efficiency until 2020 (excluding economic Land transport measures) 76% 80% Other industries Carbon neutral growth from 2020 onwards 50% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050, compared with 2005 levels mapping out the industry comitments Air France-KLM’s Climate Action Plan Carbon Emissions No action The Group pursues fleet modernization and contributes to aeronautical research. The Group involves its entire staff and external stakeholders around ambitious environmental action plans, from saving fuel in flight operations to cutting emissions on the ground, and applying eco-design principles. Carbon neutral growth The Group actively stimulates the implementation of sustainable -50% by 2050 aviation biofuels and is involved in research for renewable energy. The Group supports environmental protection programs led by 2010 2020 2030 2040 2050 NGOs. The Group provides customers with information on their travel-reTechnology, operations, infrastructures lated CO2 emissions and opportunities to offset these. Additional technologies, biofuel The Group supports efforts towards achieving a global climate Economic measures agreement, with a fair contribution for aviation. Regulations at a global, sectoral level are required to effectively manage CO2 emissions. In October 2013, the Organization of International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) stated its commitment to putting in place Carbon Disclosure Project a single, global, market-based measure for carbon emissions in 2020. Air France-KLM received the Climate Performance Leader prize in 2013, A road map should be set out for the 2016 ICAO Assembly (see Public awarded after an analysis of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). position p.21). Air France-KLM is meeting its responsibilities and supports the sector‘s This award places the Group among the nine French leaders distinguished global commitment to make a fair contribution in the collective effort among the top 250 French stock market capitalizations. It is in recognition to reduce CO2 emissions related to air transport. In its Climate Action of the actions carried out by the Group to reduce its carbon footprint Plan, the Group sets out the ways in which it is mitigating impacts on and the transparency of its actions. climate change. 27 environment carbon footprint T hrough its Climate Action Plan, which focuses on fleet renewal, improving operational efficiency, use of sustainable biofuel and offsetting, Air France-KLM aims to reduce its carbon footprint. In all departments, staff members are involved to optimize operations. Air France’s Fuel Plan ambitions 2020 The Fuel Plan aims to identify and implement all possible means of saving Air France fuel, in strict compliance with flight safety. 150 measures have been 1.5% per year Improve energy efficiency identified and more than 30 have already been implemented. New initiatives by 1.5% per year (liters fuel/ were put into practice in 2013, with new cruise climb and approach passenger/100km). procedures tested on the 777 fleet. A project to optimize the amount KLM of water carried on board is being developed on the 777 20% by 2020 and 380 fleets. Air France is working on “eco-responsible” changes Reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by 2020 compared to 2009 to aircraft and systems, such as green taxiing which enables taxiing (tons / km). with engines stopped, and fitting sharklets to A320s; these wingtip devices reduce fuel use by 2-4% on medium-haul flights. Fleet modernization The combined effect of these A modern, more energy efficient fleet has a better economic and actions has resulted in a environmental performance. 110,000 ton reduction in CO2 Average age of the Air FranceOperational efficiency emissions, and a 35,000 ton KLM fleet: 10.2 years. Reducing weight carried on board Air France and KLM joint The heavier an aircraft is, the more fuel it consumes. Significant weight reduction in fuel consumed acquisition contracts for savings have been achieved through numerous improvements: Pilots’ in 2013, compared to 2012, twenty-five Boeing 787s and technical documentation, trolleys, carpets and seats. Since 2008, twenty-five A350s: Deliveries Air France has reduced the weight of cabin equipment by 15%. One a saving of 28 million euros. starting in 2015. kilo in weight reduction on board all Air France aircraft saves 73 tons Air France fleet in 2013: of CO2 per year. arrival of the ninth Airbus 380 Some examples: and three A320, withdrawal of one Boeing 747-400 cargo, one Air France has equipped its entire long-haul fleet with new, lighA340-300 and 13 A320. ter baggage containers in composite fiber: 3,650 replaced containers KLM fleet in 2013: Arrival of one Boeing 777-300, one Airbus resulting in a 8,000 tons annual reduction in CO2 emissions. A 330-300, one A330-200, one Boeing 737-800, withdrawal of three Air France-KLM Martinair Cargo has commissioned cargo nets MD11 and three Boeing 737-400. made with an innovative, lighter and more resistant fiber. The Group For more information on Air France-KLM fleet, see p.76 and also will replace all of its 22,000 nets, resulting in a 55,000 ton reduction in Registration Document 2013. CO2 per year (see p.45). 28 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 CO2 emissions and traffic KLM Optimal Flight Program % KLM, in partnership with the Schiphol Group, Delta Air 135 Lines and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey 130 executed the first flight in a series of biofuel-powered 125 flights between Amsterdam and New York on March 8, 2013. 122% 120 The sustainable jet fuel used during these flights was 100% 115 TRAFFIC US-produced fuel made from used cooking oil (UCO) and 110 camelina oil, sourced and supplied by SkyNRG. CO2 105% This flight of the KLM Boeing 777-200 also marked the 105 100 beginning of the Optimal Flight Program, by which KLM, together with Boeing, Amsterdam Airport Schiphol and Air 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Traffic Control in The Netherlands and research partners Air France and KLM figures (TU Delft, NLR), demonstrated that, apart from achieving gains by using biofuel, there are other ways to reduce fuel group specific fuel consumption consumption and CO2-emissons. For example through L / Pax / 100 Km G CO2 / Pax / Km shorter taxiing routes, gradual climb, choosing the best 4,3 possible route, speed and altitude, weight reduction on 4,2 105 board i.e. providing crew with iPads and electrical power 4,1 supplied from airport instead of aircraft. 4,0 100 3,9 The ultimate goal is to implement process changes that are 3,8 95 3,5 L / 88 g operationally feasible, so that airlines can benefit from them 3,7 3,6 90 on a day-to-day basis. Due to this integrated approach 3,5 almost 5% fuel savings were achieved compared to regular 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 flight schemes. Optimizing use of airspace KLM: Various operational efficiency measures were combined in Fuel efficiency improvement can be made through the optimization the Optimal Flight Program, resulting in a CO2 reduction of around of routes and flight paths, the reduction of aircraft waiting times and 7,000 tons in 2013. optimized altitudes (see Public position page 21). Air Traffic Control’s impact on Air France Group’s fuel consumption Using sustainable biofuels has been estimated at 6% or around 70,000 tons per year. Air France-KLM considers the transition from fossil fuels to renewables Air France has participated in the implementation of a new “Point as a priority to ensure the future of commercial aviation. The Group’s Merge” approach procedure for arrivals at Paris-CDG resulting in fuel strategy is to explore the entire value chain from research to comsavings. mercialization and to set an example for the rest of the industry. Improved airspace utilization resulted for KLM in a CO2 reduction of Partnerships are important to accelerate the development a market around 12,000 tons in 2013. for sustainable biofuels. For more information see pages 21 and 30. Eco-piloting in the air and on the ground Offsetting emissions The Group's pilots apply when possible the most fuel efficient procedures: Offsetting is a good option to reduce CO2 emissions. Air France Flight plan precision, speed adjustments and optimized procedures, and KLM provide their customers with CO2 emissions calculators, taxiing with one engine and use of electric Aircraft Ground Power Units based on actual emissions for each flight. These are available on (GPU), rather than Auxiliary Power Units (APU). the Air France and KLM websites and include the option to offset Air France: With WEFree Program Air France operates flights emissions. The Group offers certified sustainable carbon reduction between France and Italy with direct routes during the week-end, resulcredits through Air France’s partnership with GoodPlanet and KLM’s ting in fuel savings. In the Engage Program, flights between Paris-CDG CO2ZERO program. In past years 170,000 tons of CO2 have been and New York-JFK and Washington use optimized speed and altitude. offset through KLM’s CO2ZERO program. 29 environment Sustainable biofuels CO2 I n recent years, Air France and KLM have shown that flying on biofuel can be done safely and sustainably. The ambition is to create a market for bio-jet fuel that complies with strict environmental, social and economic criteria. This should lead to a significant increase of available bio-jet fuel in the years to come. Air France and KLM have entered into new and innovative partnerships both with corporate clients as well as suppliers, airports and logistic partners to achieve more volume and new markets for sustainable biofuels. The Group supports the use of different types of renewable feedstock, provided its production meets stringent sustainability criteria, including: substantial reduction in CO2 emissions, a minimal impact on biodiversity, no competition with food production or the availability of food resources, and a positive impact on the social development of local communities. Securing strict sustainability criteria Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials (RSB): Air France and KLM have been members of the RSB since 2008. This standard is included in the European Commission’s Regulation (RED) and was recently recognized by the WWF as best in class. SkyNRG independant Sustainability Board: To ensure the sustainability of biofuels supplied by SkyNRG, WWF-NL, Solidaridad and the Science Institute Copernicus in The Netherlands are represented in the Sustainability Board. Stimulating the industry SYNDIESE project of CEA: Air France is taking part in the SYNDIESE project to produce biofuel from forestry waste, conducted by the CEA (Atomic and Alternative Energies Commission), aiming to demonstrate the feasibility of a complete production line for sustainable biofuels, using Support regulatory incentives thermochemical processes. Annual production could eventually reach European Commission Biofuel Flightpath: Annual production 22,000 tons of biofuel (diesel/kerosene/naphtha), minimum 60% kerosene, of 2 million tons of sustainably produced biofuel for aviation produced from 75,000 tons of dry biomass sourced from local forests. by 2020. ITAKA (Initiative Towards sustAinable Kerosene for Aviation): ITAKA is Ini-FCA (Future Alternative Fuels Initiative) led by the DGAC: an European founded collaborative project, aimed to produce sustainable Production of 200,000 tons of biofuel in France by 2020. aviation biofuel and to test its logistics and use in normal flight operations Green Deal Biokerosine: Deal between KLM and the Dutch on board KLM aircraft. government from 2011 to incentivize the market of biofuels. CAER (Aeronautical Alternative Fuel) initiative: Identifying breakthrough industrial technologies for sustainable biofuel production from 2020. The project has a budget of 8.5 million and is supported by the French Ministry for Transport. 30 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Involving customers and partners Joining our energies: In cooperation with Airbus, Safran and Total, Air France executed a demonstration flight from Toulouse to Le Bourget using an Airbus 321, fitted with sharklets, powered by CFM56s and fueled partially using Biojet A-1 Total/Amyris, a biofuel produced through an innovative technology for processing sugar. One of the objectives was to illustrate the technical capacity of the French aeronautical industry to incorporate biofuels and emphasize the need to strengthen research in this area (see Public position p.21). KLM Biofuel Program: KLM doubled the number of corporate customers of this program (see p.49). SAFUG: Since its founding in 2008 Air France and KLM have participated in the Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) with 27 member airlines, covering 31% to the world commercial aviation fuel demand. SAFUG aims to enhance the development, certification, and commercial use of lower carbon renewable fuels, derived from environmentally and socially sustainable sources. WWF-NL and KLM collaborate on making the aviation industry more sustainable. BIOFUEL Innovation in the supply chain SkyNRG: Supplier for sustainable jet fuel established by KLM in cooperation with Argos and Spring Associates to develop a range of sustainable fuels from purchase to delivery. In 2013, SkyNRG became the first sustainable jet biofuel supplier to achieve industry approved RSB certification. Climate-KIC: Europe’s largest public-private innovation partnership, working together to address the challenge of climate change. KLM Climate KIC collaboration is the development of bio-economy. Bioport Holland: Joint initiative with KLM, Dutch Government, Neste Oil, Port of Rotterdam, SkyNRG and Schiphol Airport. These parties recently signed a declaration of intent aimed at the large-scale use of sustainable biofuels. 31 environment noise Global noise energy 114% % French and Dutch government policies N oise is one of the main issues of 125 include exposure to aircraft noise in Air France-KLM’s environmental 100 urban planning considerations. They policy. The Group aims to supreduce the impact of noise through 75 65% noise energy port the increasing demand for mobifinancial help for soundproofing movements lity, while maintaining noise hindrance 50 houses. Air transport is the only at an acceptable level for people living industry that fully finances such a near airports. The Group manages 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 comprehensive noise hindrance noise in two main ways: By operating reduction system. In 2013, Air Francea modern fleet and by implementing KLM paid 32.5 million euros towards Noise exposure in Europe noise abatement procedures. soundproofing. (Million people exposed to more than 55 dB) Reducing noise = 1 million Renewal and modernization of the Noise caused by air traffic 35% fleet have a major impact on the noise Noise caused by reduction at source. The Group purrail traffic sues its ongoing investment in fleet Noise caused by renewal. All aircraft operated meet the road traffic criteria laid out in the ICAO’s “Chapnoise reduction compared with 2000 despite a 14% increase in movements ter 4”, the most demanding in terms u 32.5m of acoustics for civilian aircraft. In 2014, KLM will finish phasing out its MD11-fleet, which is replaced by In France, rules on soundproofing apply to housing exposed to noise levels above 55 dB, located in the airport noise quieter aircraft to structurally impohindrance area (“Plan de gêne sonore”). paid in 2013 for soundproofing rove noise impact. Source: European Commission Report on the implementation of the Environmental Directive 2002/49/EC, June 2011. In addition to these investments, the Group is involved in developing noise abatement procedures. Both airlines are working to improve departure and approach procedures, along with the French and Dutch civil aviaDialogue with residents led to tion authorities, which are assessing environmental benefits. Night traffic is governed by strict rules on the number of allocated slots new solutions for aircraft noise and the respect of scheduled times. In addition, aircraft must comply In 2014, Air France will gradually fit all of its A320 family with noise criteria. aircraft (A318, A319, A320 and A321) with noise reduction kits. Dialogue with residents This decision is the result of a dialogue with local residents As members of dialogue platforms that bring airlines, airports and local concerning a particular noise produced by A320s. Following residents’ representatives together in dialogue, Air France and KLM complaints from residents living close to the airports, contribute to discussions on the development of air traffic and noise (see p.15). cooperation with Airbus and the French aviation authorities After two years of testing, the parties at the Alderstable jointly advised (DGAC) led to the development of solutions for new the Dutch government to implement the new regulatory and enforceand in-service aircraft reducing substantially the noise ment system. Given the successful cooperation in the Schiphol area, the dialogue with Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee (CROS) hindrance during descent. and various working groups will be continued in the “vicinity council”. 32 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 environment air quality breakdown of emissions per sector in Paris region area Source : Airparif 2013 ial ent Ro esid ad tr R Ot ort he 20 % sp rs 55 % an 19% Air France mobility plan for employees Aviation activity 6% Nox A Since 2008, Air France has been involved in a protection viation has an impact on the air quality in areas surrounding plan for air in the Paris area through its business travel airports, as a result of emissions plan for Air France employees based in the Paris region. and particules from aircraft, engines, % 36 50 ground operations and maintenance The plan aims to reduce emissions caused by commuting % 13% activities. thanks to measures to promote public transport use, Air France-KLM reduces local emisAviation 1% SO2 by creating open, shared offices and by setting up a car activity sions of its activities in three ways: through fleet renewal, investment in pooling website. Of the 44,000 employees concerned, cleaner vehicles and equipment and 79% travel to work by car and have an estimated average 29% operational procedures. % 25 daily commute of 1 hour and 30 minutes. This issue 20% % 29 Measuring emissions on the is important for the company both in terms of the ground and at low altitude 1% VOC environment as well as health and safety at work. Aviation At both Paris-CDG and Schiphol activity Air France is a partner in inter-company travel plans Airport, the majority of gases emitted are produced by aircraft movements at Paris-CDG and Paris-Orly airports, in order to take 31% (taxiing, takeoff and landing). The effective joint action on responsible transport. % 22 % remainder are produced by ground 16% 30 activities, including logistics and road For example, in 2013, a study on the accessibility of a access to the airport for passengers, maintenance site at Villeneuve-le-Roi should lead to the 1% PM 2.5 Aviation employees and suppliers. activity opening of a new bus route with a timetable designed Over the past ten years, aviation’s contribution to emissions in the around the working hours of employees at the site, as well new equipment, including an electric Paris region, which includes accesas a development study into eco-friendly transport. vehicle to transport technicians, their sing and operating the airport, has equipment and aircraft parts around remained stable. This is also the case Air France Industries maintenance for Schiphol Airport where the yearly sites at Paris-CDG and Orly. measurements on particulate matter (PM) indicated that the local air quality Operational procedures has even slightly improved over the last few years. Together with Paris-CDG and Schiphol Airport, Air France and KLM have taken measures to lower emissions of NOx and CO2 of ground Cleaner vehicles and equipment handling of aircraft. On the ground, Air France and KLM have chosen to prioritize electric Rather than using kerosene-powered APU (Auxiliary Power Units), vehicles when renewing their fleet. This plan extends to ground hanAir France and KLM use electric GPU (Ground Power Units) when dling equipment that is mainly powered by diesel. Almost half of the possible to power aircraft and ACU (Air Conditioning Units) to maintain 1,000 items of ground support equipment (GSE) used at Paris-CDG an acceptable temperature on board the aircraft. The GPUs, as well and 40% of the KLM GSE at Schiphol airport are electric. as an increasing number of aircraft towing trucks have been equipped In 2013, KLM replaced eleven fossil fuel powered conveyor belts with automatic power shut down systems. Currently 70% of the Pre with electric ones, resulting in a reduction of emissions in the direct Conditioned Air (PCA) units of KLM are electric. surrounding of the handled aircraft. The objective of KLM is to increase Towing of aircraft with the use of external power (not using APU) the percentage of electric GSE equipment to 60% in the coming resulted in a prevention of more than 2,000 tons CO2 emissions in 2013 years. Air France has contributed to the design of prototypes and at Schiphol. 33 environment waste 71% A Non separated ir France-KLM minimizes the generation of waste and increases waste dismantling and recyling recycling and reprocessing throughout the supply chain. Waste aircraft at the end of 2013. is also identified by customers as one of the main environmental Located in Norwich (United issues the Group should take care of. Kingdom), it is one of the To limit waste impact, Air France and KLM work with the four principles redesign, reduce, reuse, recycle. 13% Paper / Cardboard largest recycling centers in Europe. Recovered equipment is refurbished for Main targets: reuse or sold. Fuel, lubri50% of recycled waste in 2014 at Air France. cants and other poten6% “No waste of resources and materials” ambition targeting tially polluting products are 100% waste recycling and recovery in 2020 at KLM. collected and processed safely, while the frame of the Onboard waste Wood aircraft is cut into smaller The majority (70%) of the Group’s non-hazardous waste is related to parts before being recycled. onboard catering. 12 aircraft will be dismantAt Air France 80% of items used for service on board, including coffee servers, metal cutlery, trays, drawers, blankets, trolleys and reusable headsets are recycled every year. Items designed with eco-design 4% Plastic foil led in the facility in 2014, with the goal of doubling that number next year. approaches that take into account the entire life cycle of products are favored. Four families of materials are recycled: Plastics, metals, texGiving waste tiles, papers. Textiles are largely recycled in the manufacture of insulating materials for cars; plastics are mostly reused in the production of 3% Glass a new life At Air France the reuse new materials such as Air France drawers and serving trays. of 10.4 tons of used uniKLM Catering Services added the recycling of various types of waste: forms and clothing resulted Cardboard, plastic, polystyrene. On KLM European flights the coffee cups and disposable glasses are being separated during service on board for 2% in insulating fiber for car manufacturing (360 cars Recycled metals recycling purposes. Overall, 40% of KLM’s aircraft waste is reused as raw equipped). Additionally, in material for new products, instead of being disposed of or incinerated. 2013 Air France out-of-date Due to regulations, catering waste from means of transport operating 1% lifejackets were upcycled internationally has to be incinerated and is used to produce energy. Recycled organic waste into travel bags, while a colServair has been working on the future of non-incinerated waste for lection of bags was made several years. For example, non-reusable wooden pallets are pelleusing a giant advertising Breakdown of waste tized for heating, while used cooking oils are used to produce biodietarpaulin displayed at Parisper type at KLM in 2013 sel or combustible material. Orly. The handles for the bags were made from recyMetal and aircraft recycling cled seat belts. A sheltered As part of aircraft maintenance operations, Air France and KLM have sector company manufacintroduced a program for recycling aviation scrap metal, part of which tures these items in France. is used to manufacture new parts. A total of 60 tons of aircraft parts For KLM’s New World Business Class, fibers of old KLM uniforms and 160 tons of metal were recycled in 2013. were used for the carpets. In 2013 KLM received cradle-to-cradle This Scrap program has been extended to recycle materials from four take-back certificates for 9 tons of office carpets. The separated other types of waste: Carpets, equipment, pallets and blankets. materials will subsequently be re-used as a high-energy fuel for the Subsidiary KLM UK Engineering opened a new facility dedicated to cement industry or as raw material for new carpet (see P.49). 34 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 environment WATER and energy A ir France-KLM aims to reduce A single indicator at Air France Industries saving and employee well-being go energy consumption, improve As part of its environmental policy, the Maintenance division hand in hand. energy efficiency and increase the use of sustainable energy for their is monitoring several indicators, including energy and water Sustainable energy buildings, offices and warehouses. consumption, emissions of volatile substances, industrial KLM increased the percentage of sustainable electricity consumption waste, the use of toxic substances, etc. The results have been Main targets: from 83% in 2012 to 100% in 2013 8% energy efficiency combined in a single index, which is published annually by means of green energy in the improvement by 2014 (baseline on the Air France Industries website. form of hydro-energy. In addition, 2011) at Air France KLM operates aquifers with heat 2% per year resulting in 20% pumps. These are underground energy efficiency improvement in water-bearing layers from which 2020 (baseline 2011) at KLM water can be extracted. Five buildings are heated and cooled by Energy consumption using aquifers. The amount of susand efficiency tainable energy generated by these Saving energy is an ongoing challenge five aquifers in 2013 was an equivaand action plans raise awareness lent of 180,000 m3 natural gas and among employees. New buildings are 800,000 kWh electricity. designed to take into account environmental criteria, along with ergonoSaving water mics and the well-being of users. Air France and KLM make contiKLM has insulated a large part of all nuous efforts to reduce water the boiler houses that operate with consumption through better manahigh temperatures, with a flexible gement of its processes, making material that can be removed for its teams more accountable and by maintenance reasons. The first results factoring environmental criteria into indicate that on average up to 8% of natural gas is saved. the design and realization of its tools and work stations. Since 2013, Air France buildings in Toulouse have been heated by a The two water consuming businesses are catering, which represents new system of heat recovery from refrigeration units used for cooling around 45% of total consumption, and maintenance activities (around the data center. This system has resulted in a 86% decline of the 25%), including engines and aircraft cleaning. consumption of natural gas. Servair continues to deploy tools enabling the consumption of its Due to the implementation of energy saving measures in partnership industrial washing machines, which use a lot of water, to be monitored with suppliers, energy consumption of Air France buildings is expecclosely. This has led to 20% reduction in water use, a saving of around ted to decline by 5% to 12.5% in 2014, notably to heat aircraft 60 million liters of water since 2009. maintenance hangars at Paris-CDG. Reducing water consumption requires innovation. Since 2012, KLM Catering Services has started a pilot in their warehouse Air France has followed a new process to clean the exterior of air­unittesting six types of lighting compared to conventional ones. A craft. By using pads this process uses 100 times less water than combination of Eco-efficiency lighting, High Frequency and Lighthe previous system: 100 liters to clean a Boeing 777, rather than ting with Presence and Day-light detection is being tested. Energy 10,000 liters previously. This has resulted in water savings of 8 million consumption is measured every hour. Questionnaires devised liters, reducing the need to treat wastewater. together with KLM Health Services gather information from the In 2013, KLM implemented a new aircraft exterior cleaning system, employees to test well-being and performance. This way energy resulting in 40% water savings. 35 environment Research and innovation A ir France-KLM supports research and innovation to better IAGOS (In-service Aircraft for a Global Observing System) aims to moniunderstand the environmental impact of its businesses and to tor the climate and atmospheric pollution on a global scale. EASA-ceract on this effectively. tified, onboard instruments are used to measure the levels of several types of greenhouse gas, cloud particles, etc. The Air France A340 Progress on climate change, noise and air quality equipped with these instruments serves destinations including the Since July 2013, Air France-KLM has chaired ACARE, the Advisory Caribbean and West Africa, areas not widely served by the other airlines Council for Aviation Research and Innovation in Europe. ACARE mainsupporting this project. Long-haul commercial aircraft are of great intetains an European network for strategic research into aeronautical and rest for this research because, unlike traditional observation methods aviation policy. Through its recommendations to the European Comusing weather balloons or satellites, these aircraft fly at cruising altitude mission, ACARE contributes to the development of more environmenfor several hours and provide complete and consistent data. tally friendly aviation, while maintaining the competitiveness of EuroThese records are then automatically sent to the National Centre for pean airlines. This includes innovation in the field of biofuels, aircraft Scientific Research (CNRS). This data is made available to internatiodesign, passenger perceptions at airports and European certification nal meteorological centers and scientists worldwide, which is particuprocesses for aircraft components and systems. larly useful for studying the carbon cycle and verifying CO2 emissions Air France is a member of the steering committee of CORAC, the under the Kyoto Protocol. French ACARE national council. For six years, CORAC has brought By volunteering to participate in the IAGOS program, Air France together all stakeholders in French aeronautics research large demonstrates its commitment to increase knowledge of the environcorporations, small and mental effects of air transport. medium sized companies and research organizations Evaluating electric – to develop the aircraft taxiing of 2050. Six demonstraAir France and KLM have tion platforms have been begun work on evaluating launched to move from various electric taxiing sysbasic research to the devetems for their medium-haul lopment of a prototype. aircraft. Research areas range from In 2013, Air France worked the airframe and engines to on developing Honeywell energy systems. and Safran’s EGTS system Air France also participates (Electric Green Taxiing Sysin various working groups: tem). The system aims to IROQUA aims to reduce significantly reduce the use aircraft noise, and the FCA of engines and vehicles for works on the development the movement of aircraft of sustainable biofuels. on the ground. This system not only reduces costs, it Air France involved in also reduces the amount climate research of gases emitted and noise Since June 2013, Air France hindrance. Equipping a has been carrying atmossmall aircraft with the EGTS pheric measuring equipsystem can reduce nitrogen ment on board an Airbus oxide (NOx) emissions by A340. The European project around 50%. 36 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 environment Biodiversity Sustainability labels P reservation of biodiversity is a major challenge, Since 2009 KLM achieved although the impact of the to introduce at least airline industry is indirect. CO2 emissions contribute to climate 15 sustainable catering change, which is assumed to products onboard each year. have a large impact on biodiverKLM is currently offering sity. Another impact is related to the production of food for milk produced in inflight catering. The Netherlands by a supplier who Sustainable catering Air France and KLM serve a total guarantees animal of 85 million meals and snacks well-being and has per year. Given the amount of developed an animal products needed to produce these meals, the choices made food program based by the Group have a significant on responsible soy. impact on biodiversity. Air France and Servair favor A number of products that are local, seasonal and responsible local, labeled and respectful products for onboard catering. of animal well-being The aim of the program is to reduce deforestation and forest degraAir France is ISO 22000 food dation, to participate in the development of local communities while security certified. are served on board like protecting Madagascar’s unique biodiversity. The program also aims KLM strives for 100% sustaiMSCcertified fish, to contribute to further progress in scientific measurement of forest nable inflight catering products carbon stocks. All project objectives set in 2008 have been met. The UTZ certified coffee, by 2020, on all flights departing program now includes new partners (French Agency for Development from Amsterdam. The KLM susBetter Life chicken. – AFD), also involving Madagascan authorities. According to scientific tainable catering policy focuses studies, the maximum potential reduction of CO2 emissions is estiprimarily on preservation of biomated at 35 million tons of CO2 over 20 years (see also p.67). diversity in production areas, Air France-KLM supports the development of the REDD system by paying particular attention (Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and forest Degradation), to fish, palm oil and soy, in diawhich aims to reduce carbon emissions and protect species, while at logue with WWF-NL. the same time improving the living conditions of local people. To this end, KLM is a member of the Responsible Soy (RTRS) and Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) Round Tables and offers certified proIn 2013, KLM continued its participation in the International Union for ducts on board. Conservation of Nature (IUCN) and took part in “biobased EcoServices” workshops and contributed to the work of REDD. Partnering for biodiversity As part of its strategic partnership with WWF-NL, KLM also supports Air France and KLM are involved in conservation projects. three conservation programs: The Coral Triangle in Indonesia, projects The Holistic Conservation Program for Forests was launched in 2008 concerning sea turtle conservation and green economy on Bonaire by Air France, the Good Planet Foundation and the WWF, covering a and a reforestation program in Brazil. 500,000-hectare area in Madagascar. 37 Our approach 40 DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS 42 responsible procurement 44 A sustainable and innovative product range 46 Best practices 48 SUSTAINABILITY IN the customer experience AMBI TI ON We incorporate our CSR commitments into the customer experience by offering high quality products and services. Together with our suppliers and partners, we take sustainability into account throughout the entire value chain. 38 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 39 customer experience our approach A ir France-KLM’s commitment to CSR extends to the development of the products and services provided to customers. This approach integrates sustainability in the value chain: from the development stage to purchasing and delivery of our products and services; based on customer dialogue, taking into account environmental and social criteria in specifications; with an integrated responsible procurement policy, collaborating customers with suppliers and partners. Customer dialogue During all stages of developing products and services: Customer behavior analysis, Deliver Identification of requirements, Products Benchmark studies, & Services Customer trials, Monitor quality & customer satisfaction Involve customers in CSR initiatives For further information see pp.42-43 Objectives Main achievements 2013 CUSTOMER DIALOGUE Reinforce programs Deployment of e-Score: 574,000 customer satisfaction surveys from July to supporting customer December 2013 (+70%) dialogue Launch of Quality Observer program Further involve Update of CSR monitor study customers in CSR Further development of KLM Takes Care online platform initiatives 40 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 suppliers Sustainability in the products Develop and services development Products & Eco-design Services Applying eco-design principles in the product specification process. Integrating environmental and social criteria into the product specifications. Involving all stakeholders throughout the design process (branding, marketing, technical divisions, procurement, etc.). Rolling out a responsible procurement strategy At all stages of the procurement process, from the tender, to the signature of the contract and supplier monitoring. A five-fold approach: charters and norms, supply chain risk. assessment, supply chain improvement, managing non-compliancy and Purchase researching new CSR opportunities. Products Building a high level of awareness of CSR issues among buyers and & Services businesses. For further information see pp.44-45 Objectives Main achievements 2013 SUSTAINABLE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Continue integrating Eco-design of Air France’s new Economy and Premium Economy meal tray on long-haul flights CSR into products KLM new World Business Class configuration with sustainably upcycled carpeting and services 7 new partners in KLM BioFuel Program 16 new sustainable products onboard KLM flights RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Strengthen the Implementation of supplier CSR assessment platform in Air France-KLM responsible 75% supplier sign up rate for Sustainable Development Charter in 2013 procurement strategy 41 customer experience dialogue with customers C ustomer dialogue is key to providing high quality and sustainable Benchmarking products and services. Market research and industry-wide studies (such as Airs@t) enrich analysis of the competitive environment. Part of this information is shared within the Group via a dedicated intranet. Customer insight Air France-KLM Customer Insight Market analysis department is dedicated to customer In the context of rapid economic and surveys, measuring customer satistechnological change, tailored studies faction and benchmarking. provide insight regarding emerging trends. Co-creation The customer is placed at the heart Monitor customer satisfaction of product and service development. For example in 2013: Before Air France carried out several cusflight tomer tests of new long-haul seats. Customer feedback was integrated into the development process; after a satisfaction study of the Flying flight Blue loyalty scheme was carried out ground among Air France-KLM customers; services KLM organized a study on customer expectations about the “New World Business Class”. inflight services Customer analysis Air France-KLM carries out surveys, Quality observer study Air Franceinflight trials and focus groups to KLM launched its innovative “Quaensure that customer feedback is lity Observer” program in October systematically taken into account 2013. Flying Blue customers who are during the development of new promembers of this community can resducts and services: pond to questionnaires on the quality around 50 tailored studies per year of products and services, and their carried out among 22,000 FB @ home perception of the overall travel expecustomers and 500 Intouch cusrience, via a dedicated website and a tomers. mobile application. e-Score study in 2013, the SCORE survey (inflight questionnaire to meaSocial media sure customer satisfaction) became e-Score (online questionnaire). A cornerstone of Air France and KLM customer dialogue. This change increases the number of surveys carried out and so 112% increase to 7,708,370 FANS further improves our customer knowledge. 574,000 e-Score surveys 94% increase to 1,208,527 followers were answered from July to December 2013 (+70% compared to the same period in 2012). 42 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Our CSR priorities viewed by our customers save local developments sustainable reduce procurement onboard energy less waste weight and water modern fleet humanitarian Co2 compensation projects for customers The quality of service we reduce sustainable promote research catering diversity offer to our and equality customers noise depends on the quality of the sustainable and renewable relationship between the biofuels Eco designed products energies company and its employees. Nathalie Simmenauer Customer Culture Project VP, Air France Striving for excellence INVOLVING CUSTOMERS IN OUR CSR INITIATIVES in customer service CSR monitor study In 2013, Air France-KLM has The CSR perceptions study carried out among Flying Blue customers undertaken numerous iniwas updated in 2013. This study aims at determining which CSR tiatives designed to achieve initiatives are considered as a priority for the Group. As shown in excellence in customer service: the figure above (the size of text corresponding to the level of relejoint trials between Air France vance), the top three items quoted were: Investing in a modern fleet, and KLM in Customer reducing waste and supporting aviation research and renewable Experience Management and energies. employee rewarding, to strengthen the commitment all staff, KLM Takes Care managers and employees, KLM launched its KLM Takes Care have to customers and to the online platform in June 2012. The company; site is dedicated to providing “Signatures of Service”: information, engaging in dialogue a further 15,000 front-line and providing a forum for discusemployees (30% of all Air France staff) completed training in 2013. sion on sustainability topics. Over Training in the five core values of service has been rolled out across the course of 2013, more than all divisions. This training forms the foundation of the company’s 50 articles related to CSR were integrated approach to customer service; published on the site, focusing on customer Workshops gave 2,000 Air France staff members from all themes such as sustainable biodivisions an additional insight into projects which benefit customers. fuels and sustainable catering. 43 customer experience RESPONSIBLE PROCUREMENT Assessing our suppliers on CSR A proactive role of procurement is Integrating sustainability essential to remain frontrunner in in the Group’s purchasing sustainability. As a service sector criteria enables us policy to address and company, Air France-KLM’s business The Group integrates sustainability is to a large extent related to the purwithin the supply chain to provide mitigate CSR risks. chases it makes and the way it works customers with responsible and innotogether with around 4,200 suppliers. vative products and services, and The most significant purchases are fleet, fuel, airport and navigation fees, These assessments offers reliability with a proactive focus on sustainability. This creates value for onboard products and Engineering & Maintenance. Given the significant will result in a better customers and improves the social and environmental footprint of seramount of spending made outside the Group, optimization, innovation CSR performance vices. Suppliers play a crucial role in reaching the above objectives. and the integration of CSR in the supply chain are priorities and contribute in our whole Air France-KLM Procurement has had to improve profitability. supply chain. a sustainable purchasing approach in place for a number of years. This Peter Schelvis approach incorporates CSR prinAir France-KLM Group Chief Procurement Officer ciples into relations with suppliers and strengthens the management of ethical, social and environmental risks. To further formalize its CSR activities, Procurement has finalized in 2013 a CSR strategy paper, the orientations of which are presented below. CSR Charters and norms Every buyer at Air France-KLM signs a code of ethics. Prior to launch and/or during the tender, suppliers are asked to sign the Air FranceCSR opportunities KLM Sustainable Development Charter, which Together with the business and suppliers, is based on the principles of the UN Global The Procurement continuously identifies CSR Compact. At the end of 2013, 75% of Group’s Procurement opportunities in order to purchase sustainable strategy suppliers have signed this charter. centers products and initiatives that create value for around five customers and stakeholders. Environmental Focus Areas and social criteria are integrated into specifiSupply Chain Risk Assessment cations and contracts where relevant. To ensure that suppliers comply with the Sustainable Development Charter, Procurement has begun assessing its suppliers on a wide Managing non-commitment/ range of CSR criteria. The objective is to prioSupply Chain Improvement non-compliancy ritise the assessment of suppliers with most Assessments are used to improve supply Businesses and Procurement focus together relevant risks and opportunities (see focus chain. Suppliers are prioritized based on level on including CSR compliant suppliers in the Ecovadis p.45). of risk and CSR opportunity. tender process. 44 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 EcoVadis In 2013, Air France-KLM sustainable procurement program was supplemented with CSR supplier 4,200 suppliers 75% assessments in order to create a better insight on the CSR performance and the best practices of its suppliers. To do this the of suppliers have signed the Air France-KLM Group’s EcoVadis Sustainability Monitoring Sustainable Development Charter 150 platform has been used, allowing the The three following examples Cleaning and recycling illustrate areas and projects Group to assess the CSR performance crew uniforms where the Procurement departof its suppliers on a global basis. The collaboration between ment actively searched for Procurement and suppliers CSR opportunities and strong Each supplier is assessed using suppliers assessed by EcoVadis has improved the CSR perforpartnerships with suppliers. a customised model adapted mance of Air France uniforms life cycle management: to suppliers’ industry sector, size a trial recycling scheme was carried out in 2013. 10 tons of uniforms and its countries of operations. were collected from staff based in the Paris region and were recycled EcoVadis has already shown into fibers for use in vehicle insulation; Sustainable catering uniforms are now cleaned by a sheltered sector company, using an its added value and approximately KLM enjoys a leading position innovative and more environmental friendly process. in the aviation industry in the 150 suppliers have been assessed. field of sustainable catering and In addition, all buyers were aims to remain a frontrunner trained on the EcoVadis platform. in this area. The objective is to offer 100% sustainable inflight visuel en attente catering products on flights departing from Amsterdam in 2020. Each year the inflight offer is expanded with certified or organic products. In the sourcing process particular consideration is given to biodiversity (through responsible fish, soy and palm oil), animal welfare, environmental impact, social aspects and waste. In 2013, 16 products were added. For example, wine in 187 ml PET lightweight cargo nets bottles was introduced. The reduced weight of this material contriIn 2013 Air France-KLM-Martinair Cargo introduced lightweight butes to fuel saving. In addition, UTZ certified coffee which has been cargo nets in its operation. Developed in collaboration with the supserved on board to passengers since 2012 has now also been intropliers, these nets weight around 9 kg, half the weight of a traditional duced at KLM offices. net. This weight reduction is expected to save over 55,000 tons of CO2 emissions annually. In addition, they are more easily and safely handled by employees and have an extended lifetime of 5 years, compared to the current standard of 3 years. 3,000 nets introduced in 2013 2.5 tons CO2 reduction per net per year 50% lighter than standard nets 45 customer experience A sustainable AND INNOVATIVE PRODUCT RANGE 11 7 2 12 1 Inflight entertainment During their flight, passengers can choose a variety of videos on sustainability. In addition, Air France offers reusable headphones in its Economy class. In addition to generating less waste, these are refurbished by a sheltered sector company and offer improved sound quality. 2 Blankets Since 2012, 100% of Air France economy class and crew blankets are cleaned by a sheltered sector enterprise in the Paris region. 3 4 local culture programs Passengers with reduced mobility Air France’s “Phoenix” and KLM’s “Route Dedicated Service” Air France’s “Saphir” and “KLM Cares” by KLM, are designed programs are especially geared towards the culture and needs to offer a personalized service to passengers with reduced mobility of passengers. or special medical needs. 46 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 5 7 Sustainable catering Recycling On board KLM flights, products are offered which involve the Air France and KLM recycle disposed onboard equipment (such as preservation of biodiversity and are respectful of animal well-being. trays, drawers, blankets and trolleys). These include certified or local foods like MSC certified fish, organic eggs, chicken and milk and UTZ certified coffee (see p.45). Air France serves local and seasonal products on its flights. Babies 8 and children are offered organic meals. Aircraft interior KLM redesigned its New World Business Class and has equipped its Fokker 70 with new lighter seats. The seat covers are made of eco-leather, which is produced environmentally friendly with leather 6 Meal tray cut-offs. A new eco-designed meal tray has been introduced in Air France’s Economy and Premium Economy cabins (see p.48). 5 8 4 6 3 10 1 9 SOCIETAL Environment 9 11 Aircraft lighter equipments CO2 CO2 calculation and offsetting Air France-KLM-Martinair Cargo introduced innovative light weight Passengers are given the opportunity to calculate and offset their nets to save weight and reduce CO2 emissions (see p.45). flight’s CO2 emissions. Light weight baggage containers are used in Air France long haul fleet. Corporate customers are offered CO2 emission reporting as well. 10 Newspapers E-press: Digital newspapers and magazines are progressively made 12 available onboard Air France flights in close cooperation with Biofuel program all stakeholders. Newspapers and magazines are collected at the gateway upon Since 2012, KLM offers the world’s first biofuel proposition for arrival at Paris-CDG and at regional airports. contracted corporate accounts (see p.49). 47 customer experience Sustainable products and services Best practices Eco designed meal tray Method Air France used the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) method to measure the environmental impact of the old meal tray (comprising re-usable and disposable elements) and compare it with the new all-disposable tray. A specialized consultant firm in eco-design was appointed to drive the study. Environmental impacts reductions per category: no impact transfert CO2 Climate change -30% Energy and mineral -31% DISPOSAL manufacture ressources Since September 2013, Air France has offered a new eco-designed meal tray in long-haul economy and premium economy cabins. Human health -28% This innovative approach has improved quality for the customer and has reduced the impact of trays on the environment. Ecosysthem -23% quality 14 million flight Logistics Water -16% meal trays served annually onboard Air France aircraft in Economy class Key points Results Improved design. By replacing round serving dishes with rectangular shapes to improve -33% -30% weight reduction reduction in CO2 organization and layout, and reducing size, trays are now both lighter applied to emissions = = and easier to use. throughout life cycle Reduced weight. By replacing washable equipment with disposable items. 14 million 2,565 Reduced impacts. meal trays return flights served annually from Paris to The eco-design approach has helped to reduce all categories of envionboard -2,742 tons New York per ronmental impacts studied, including 30% for CO2 emissions. Air France flights of CO2 emissions passenger 48 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 visuel en attente Biofuel program Since June 2012, KLM has been the first airline in the world to enable its corporate customers to become partners in the BioFuel Program and to meet part of their travel needs with biofuel-powered flights. Through these partnerships, members contribute to the development of a market for sustainable aviation biofuels and demonstrate their commitment to CSR. In 2013, the number of partners in the program doubled to reach new World Business 14. City of Amsterdam, Loyens Class & Loeff, PGGM, FMO, Delta Air In 2013 KLM began a comLines, Siemens, TomTom and plete overhaul of the World CBRE Global Investors joined Business Class. In addition to existing partners Ahold, Accennew full-flat seats, the interior ture, DSM, Heineken, Nike, visuel en attente features new carpeting, panel Philips and Schiphol Group, who decorations, curtains, lighhave supported the scheme ting, blankets, cushions and since its launch. upholstery. The carpets are 14 produced using high quality recycled materials including old KLM crew uniforms. Combined with recycled Norwegian Corporate BioFuel partners wool, these uniforms were used to spin new yarn and are visible 26 in the blue details of the carpets. The carpets meet the highest sustainability standard and fullfil stringent requirements regarding fire safety, lifespan and comfort.KLM recycles all of its discarded carpets in collaboration witha carpet manufacturer based on the Flights from New York cradle-to-cradle principle. In 2013, 38 tons of used carpet were to Amsterdam recycled into new carpet. 49 OBJECTIVES AND MAIN ACHIEVEMENTS 2013 52 Key figures 54 Group social policy 55 HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK 56 Equal opportunities 58 sustainability across the business 59 Responsible human RESOURCES AMBI TI ON We aim to create a safe and motivating environment for our employees. We continue developing skills to ensure the professionalism and employability of our staff to achieve the best results linked to our overall business goals. 50 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 51 Responsible human resources Air France Objectives Main achievements 2013 SOCIAL POLICY Promote effective Cabin crew: Collective agreement signed in March 2013 dialogue with Ground staff: Agreement signed in November 2013 employees and their Central Works Committee and European Group Committee: respectively 19 meetings representatives and 4 meetings for information and consultation Enhance mobility Launch of Mobility kiosks at Paris-CDG, Orly and regions 1,300 jobs posted in the internal Job Exchange 1,700 employees received individual support to change jobs Develop the way 1,300 apprentices (700 FTE, i.e. 1.4% of total staff), representing a 40% increase (in FTE) relative to 2012 we welcome workstudy students TRAINING Train staff members 90% of ground staff and 100% of flight deck and cabin crew completed training to develop their 28 training hours per employee employability €e192 million spent on staff training Personal training entitlements (DIF): 12.3% of overall training HEALTH AND SAFETY Reduce the number Number of workplace accidents: +8%. Annual objective: -10% of workplace Frequency rate: +13%, severity rate: -16% accidents DIVERSITY Pursue A diversity section in the new Air France Jobs website commitments to Signature of a framework agreement with the French Ministry of Women’s Rights promoting professional gender equality promote diversity Disabled employees: employment rate 4.95 % (4.42 % in 2012), 38 new employees with disabilities hired within the Group 52 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 KLM Objectives Main achievements 2013 SOCIAL POLICY Stimulate 334 employees took part in a career program and 485 employees in a workshop employability 158 employees had the opportunity to be coached for skills improvement through mobility TRAINING Facilitate training Total training costs per FTE: 2,638 euros (+4% increase relative to 2012) and personal Validation of Prior Learning (VPL): 133 new participants in 2013 development In the past two years 269 employees succesfully finished intermediate vocational education through VPL Partnership with Schiphol Aviation College started HEALTH AND SAFETY Health and safety in the workplace: Ambition to reach New integrated health policy and three-year activity plan implemented in close collaboration zero accidents with the Works Council Total workplace accidents: Goal of less than 4 serious 7 serious accidents involving hospitalization accidents involving hospitalization (including staff hired) Frequency rate: 4.8 accidents involving time off per million hours worked Frequency rate for workplace accident: Goal of remaining below the ratio of 4.5 accidents involving time off per million hours worked (including staff hired) Decrease Absenteeism levels: percentage remained stable at 5.3% in 2013 versus 5.24% in 2012 absenteeism rate Various preventative health and lifestyle programs, such as ‘Fit on the ramp’ within the Ground Services division, implemented Increase flexibility Official launch (IT department) and further roll-out (Marketing) of New World of Work DIVERSITY Support diversity CSR café on Diversity Establishment of a Diversity Council aiming to develop specific action plans 53 Responsible human resources key Figures Total staff 2013 (headcount) 100,569 women men 95,961 FTE 42.9% 57.1% headcount by category of staff 2013 Part-time employees Ground staff Flight Deck Crew Cabin Crew 66,512 8,509 25,548 27.4% 66 % 8.5 % 22.5 % GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF employees Europe (except France and The Netherlands) 4% 30% 1% 59% The Netherlands Continental France 2% North America <1% 2% Asia and Pacific Caribbean Africa and (incl. French Middle East overseas territories) 1% South America <1% Indian Ocean 54 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Responsible human resources Group social policy Meeting Economic challenges KLM’s Sales division has run the “Room for Growth” program for a As part of the Transform 2015 plan, Air France-KLM reviewed all fourth year. This program supports employees in their career developcollective labor agreements related to payroll and working hours. ment by offering training or skills assessment: in 2013, 33 employees Structural measures, notably based on mobility and on staff reduction learned more about networking in Go and Get Linked workshops and on a voluntary basis, were pursued in 2013 to improve productivity 28≈participated in the Mindfulness training. and ensure a sustainable return to competitiveness. The transparency of social dialogue has been key since the Transform Internship development 2015 Plan was launched. Many agreements for all categories of staff As part of the sixth Internship charter, Air France is continuing to fulfill its and regarging all the themes of the HR policy signed, in order to responsibilities towards youg people entering the labor market: achieve the Group’s economic targets in 2014. 1,300 new apprentices welcomed in 2013, from further and higher education backgrounds; Training and Mobility initiatives to support access to employment for apprentices in the Air France-KLM maintained a high level of access to training in 2013. local area: Workshops for job seekers, jobs fairs, networking with Priority areas for training are: employers in the Paris-CDG airport employment area. supporting the Group's transformation projects; meeting regulatory requirements, particularly in the field of safety; KLM welcomed 887 interns in providing support for mobility and retraining; 2013 and continues to live up developing the skills of employees to improve their employability. to its responsibilities to stuTalent attraction dents by offering them the Mobility enables employees to grow professionally and is key to the Air France and KLM regularly opportunity to gain quality work success of the Transform 2015 Plan. experience. Both long and feature in rankings of the best At Air France in 2013: short internships are open to launch of “Mobility kiosks” employer to work for. In 2013, students from vocational and where employees can meet career Universum ranked Air France academic educational backmobility guidance specialists; grounds. The high number of in the top ten ideal employers 1,300 jobs posted in the applications for internships internal Job Exchange received in a survey carried out among illustrates the attractiveness of 7,000 applications; 34,000 French students. KLM as an employer. 1,700 employees received indiA survey carried out by vidual support to change jobs; 28 920 people took part in themed Linkedin ranks KLM in the top 5 conferences presenting the airline's favourite Dutch employers. different businesses. The findings of the survey were hours At KLM, several training programs backed up by KLM employees, are on offer to employees to help as was found by the “Best people familiarize themselves with Employer” survey by Effectory & the tools at their disposal and of training per employee at Air France Intermediair, which placed to facilitate mobility. Internal job u 2,638 fairs and events on mobility have the airline in first place in the been organized; these events “Best Employer for companies were focused on certain types of with more than 1,000 positions or targeted at specific ­ Training expenditure per opportunities. FTE at KLM employees” category. 55 Responsible human resources HEALTH and safety at work A ir France-KLM is aware of its responsibilities for health and Main types of accidents at work at Air France in 2013 safety at work, as well as maintaining quality of work life for all employees. Our key issues Ensuring health and safety at work is both a social, as well as a financial issue, and has a direct impact on business. Therefore, combatting risks, occupational diseases, and both serious and frequent accidents is a high priority. As part of the integrated management system at Air France, specific annual performance target contracts are signed by the CEOs of each 37% 27% 14% Falls Barometric otitis Physical constraints, handling, of the businesses. These contracts formalize quantified commitments manual handling to reduce accidents at work through action plans. Since 2013, Air France has been in the process of OHSAS 18001 certification to verifiy its management system of health and security deployed at all levels of the company. At KLM, occupational safety management will be part of the integrated safety management system, which includes operational safety as well as environment and security. Risks prevention Being vigilant and taking action are now more of a priority than ever. To place accident prevention and a culture of risk prevention at the heart of its business, the Group is taking action in several areas: integrating occupational safety criteria into project management and in the development of ergonomic procedures; involving field managers and staff to identify potentially hazardous situations and to encourage preventive action; feedback systems to share experience of incidents and best practices; global frequency rate, air france building awareness and providing information on occupational health Number of lost-time risks and their prevention, through dedicated conferences and forums; injuries per million maintaining skills by offering risk prevention training, updated on hours worked a regular basis to keep pace with changes in regulations and tools 35 Frequency rate: +13% available, as well as taking into account change and the emergence Severity rate: -16% of new risks. Results and objectives 25 Objective Following several years of progress, in 2013 Air France registered Frequency a deterioration in terms of workplace accidents in some divisions. rate: -10% However there was a decline in the severity rate of accidents. KLM’s occupational safety objectives were not met in 2013. A fatal road accident happened on the Schiphol Airport ramp. The number of 15 lost time injuries remained stable for KLM staff, but five were serious accidents, leading to hospitalization or permanent injury. 2005 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 56 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Our colleagues know where to find us ergocoaches. It is becoming more and more accepted that we engage in dialogue with colleagues about unsafe or unhealthy work situations. Together with the other ergocoaches we deal with issues concerning ergonomics and safety. Management supports us, and we also get the time we need to really fulfill the role of ergo coach. Ergo coach at KLM Engineering and Maintenance Fully involved in the project teams for the interior design of facilities, implementation of a new organization or IT tools, Quality of life in the Through “The New World of we provide a methodology that workplace Work” program launched in incorporates a multidisciplinary The Group pays particular 2012 and further developed in and participatory approach. We attention to quality of life in the 2013, KLM provides employees make recommendations and workplace. It is also developing with the opportunity to reconcile practical proposals that combine performance and prevention. initiatives to help employees with efficiency with comfort by prioErgonomist at Air France their work-life balance, while helritizing the workplace environping to improve performance. ment best suited to the tasks Being a Safety Champion is At Air France in 2010, all organiin hand. This program brings incredibly important. Because zations representing ground staff together efficiency, reduced Safety First is one of our main and cabin crew signed a threeinfrastructure costs and betpriorities. It is all about safe feeling, safe working and safe year agreement on preventing ter work-life balance, and has doing. As Safety Champions we all psychosocial risks, and improalready been rolled out in several divisions, such as IT and Marketing. operate together, within but also ving quality of life in the workacross all KLM departments. place. In 2013, the agreement Social policy for all employees KLM Safety Champion was extended for a further year. Air France-KLM employs around 11,000 people at its destinations at Ground Services division The agreement provides for: around the world on local contracts. a multidisciplinary approach: The Group applies local collective labor agreements, elaborated with I've been a PRADOS coordinator since 2012. This accident HR managers, doctors, social unions or other relevant parties, according to local standards. The prevention program is in place workers, managers and health majority of the Group’s local staff benefit from social security, incluat Cargo and is supported by and safety committees; ding a decent standard of living during their retirement. In addition, the occupational health. Thanks a network of contacts in all Group offers complimentary insurance where public provision does to my training, I help detect divisions to ensure proximity to not meet the required standards. risk situations and advise my employees Tools for monitoring safety in the workplace have been implemented colleagues on adopting better working postures. specific training for manaby KLM to prevent the risk of accidents, including a self-assessment PRADOS coordinator gers; tool. Subcontractors have to abide by safety regulations. at Air France Cargo factsheets accessible to all. An alert mechanism, which can be used to flag up issues related to To date, more than 13,000 working conditions, is available for employees. employees have responded to a questionnaire evaluating occupational stress. The questionnaire has become a key tool for managing and preventing psychosocial risks in the company. In 2013, KLM updated its whistleblower procedure, and extended its scope beyond purely financial and accounting concerns, enabling the MORE Energy app reporting of any type of suspected irregularity, including social practices. More than half of the 26,000 KLM employees work outside regular KLM launched a new approach to all health-related matters in 2013, working hours. Pilots for example are exposed to night flights and time in close collaboration with the Works Council. A three-year plan was zone crossings. Therefore, the VU University Medical Centre designed established for the longer term and for 2014, a detailed action plan a mobile application to help pilots to cope with their irregular working presenting a common vision across all business units on the company-wide goals for health and safety has been developed. The implehours. The MORE Energy application provides pilots with tailored advice mentation of this policy will be reviewed annually and, if necessary, the on light exposure, sleep, nutrition and physical activity. The app was well long-term plan will be updated. Particular attention will be paid to the received by 500 participating pilots and the results are positive. new Health Dashboard. 57 Responsible human resources Equal Opportunities Diversity gender equality In line with its Social Rights and Ethics Charter, Air France-KLM is Professional equality between men and women remains a key issue pursuing a social policy based on integration through work, respect for and progress area in HR management. equal opportunities, combating discrimination and promoting diversity. Under the third three-year agreement on gender equality, Air France At Air France, internal recruitment and selection processes are has made a commitment to reducing any wage disparities between governed by a code of ethics. Materials are available to managers, men and women. The percenand more broadly to all staff members, including an e-learning module tage of female staff among on “Diversity and Preventing Discrimination”. senior management and execuAir France is a signatory of national charters: the Diversity Charter, the Good Parenting Charter and the Charter for Corporate CommitWe have tive level rose to 28.1%. In April 2013, Air France signed ment to Equal Opportunities in the State Education System. In 2013, had a policy the Convention for Occupatiothe airline signed the 2013-2015 “Generation Contract”, the French government agreement for sustainable employment for young and to promote nal Gender Equality with the French Ministry of Women’s older people, and the passing on of knowledge and skills. gender equality Rights, formalizing a number of commitments, such as those In 2013, KLM organized a presentation by members of the European for more on work-life balance, increasing Parliament on diversity and equal rights. An important step forward the number of women on steewas the establishment of a Diversity Council within KLM. Four than ten ring committees and providing meetings have been planned for 2014. KLM became a partner of Schiphol Aviation College in 2013. One of years. It is a support for equality initiatives among SME subcontractors the main objectives of this organization is to offer work experience and vocational training opportunities to people with limited access to the dimension that and suppliers. At KLM Group, the percentage labor market. we integrate in of female staff grew to 42.3% in disabled people actual practice 2013, from 42.1 % in 2012. This increase also translated to the Air France-KLM is committed to a proactive approach to helping people with disabilities into work. in all our senior management and executive level, were the percentage Air France’s three-year agreement covers implementation and the achievement of objectives. In 2013: human of female staff went from 20% in 2012 to 20.2% in 2013. the share of workers with disabilities within the total workforce resources KLM is committed to equality continued to grow: 4.95%, 4.42% in 2012. 38 people with disabilities were recruited in the Air France Group. processes. and respect for sexual orientations. The “Over the rainWorkers with disabilities were kept in employment thanks to support bow” LGBT social network Patricia Chambaudrie-Bercy, initiatives and adapting jobs. Air France Diversity Officer was launched in 2010 by KLM. Increased use of companies and organizations in the sheltered The network brings together sector: 16 million euros of purchases from this sector. gay, bisexual and transgender employees, and provides advice In The Netherlands, a person is considered legally disabled when, to ensure they are treated fairly, after a period of sick leave, he or she is permanently unable to fulfill regardless of their sexual orientheir contractual duties. KLM actively supports disabled employees tation. The network had over returning to work, by offering them a position compatible with their 300 members in 2013 and holds disability, or where this is not possible, supports them in finding regular meetings, particularly on another job. In 2013, KLM Group employed 809 employees with the subjects of gender equality ­disabilities. and diversity. 58 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Responsible human resources Sustainability across the business Training on CSR Promoting individual creativity The “Economic Impact and An incubator for By offering ideas that improve work processes and safety or involve Managers” training program co-creation an interesting sustainable business case, each employee becomes an raises awareness among at Schiphol airport agent for change. In some divisions within Air France (Maintenance, Air France managers on the Cargo, Sales), schemes to collect suggestions for improvement or company’s economic fundaTo kick off the JFK biofuel series, innovation have been put in place for many years. These initiatives mentals. Around 225 employees KLM opened a “pop-up” Service generate both small changes and major improvements, all of which underwent training in 2013. result in efficiency gains. Design Studio at Schiphol Airport Air France-KLM offers e-learIn 2013 this scheme was extended to the whole company with DIP, ning training on CSR to all in March 2013 in collaboration with the new Participatory Innovation Program: 8,000 suggestions made employees. In 2013, more than Schiphol Group. During 8 weeks, per year. Employee suggestions not only result in improvements on 1,100 employees successfully a daily basis, from flight safety to health and safety, they also lead the studio acted as incubator for completed the CSR e-learning. to significant savings. 50 % of suggestions have been implemented, Specific training is also available co-creation and innovation between resulting in estimated savings to the sales team at Air France KLM and Schiphol staff, passengers of 20 million euros. and KLM, to enable them to and partners and offered KLM engage with their customers KLM Engineering and Mainteon CSR and to highlight the staff the possibility to personally 100 actions to improve nance runs an employee-involGroup’s initiatives. engage in dialogue on ideas around customer service ved innovation program called Cabin crews are regularly inforAir France has launched Moonshine. The program aims med on progress achieved in sustainable products and services. to improve work processes optimizing flight procedures, The cultural diversity of participants the 100 Actions Program, using safety, ergonomics and reducing onboard weight, with the aim of providing a better lean as the generic starting gave additional insight in the needs ­responsible catering and waste points for the design process. of travelers, which is valuable long haul service and improved reduction. Through regular Moonshine combines data training, flight operations for improving the customer working conditions. 500 employees, analysis and process observastaff are made aware of fuel both ground staff and cabin crew, tions with the expertise of the experience. Themes for discussion consumption. end users. The results exceeincluded sustainability, kids, are taking part in the program ded the expectations of all Connecting passengers carefree travel (“peace of mind”), by sharing their experiences involved. and staff and their concrete observations. In 2013, achievements included culture and being connected. In December 2013, for the the introduction of Blue Moon, second time, Air France brought Suggestions such as adapting a multi service cart used for together ten “Grands Voyathe wine offered on board according transporting and storing the geurs” customers, and around to the time of the flight, ensuring equipment required for Boeing twenty employees (cabin crew 737 wheel and brake changes. from the Europe Division, A320 pilots and airport staff), to discuss the cleanliness of cabins and Blue Moon enables ergonomic Air France’s products and services. This sharing of experience improving work clothing for ground and extremely efficient wheel between customers and staff helps to improve the products already and brake changes up to 60% staff were all implemented in 2013. available, as well as to develop new products and services. faster than before. 59 Objectives and main achievements 2013 62 ECONOMIC FOOTPRINT 63 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AROUND OUR HUBS 64 LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AT DESTINATIONS 67 SOCIAL PARTNERSHIPS 68 local DEVELOPMENT AMBI TI ON As an airline group, we connect people around the world. We strive to add economic and social value in the areas where we operate. By working together with local partners, we create new business opportunities and support projects that contribute to the future generations and local communities. 60 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 61 Local development Objectives Main achievements 2013 Economic development Impacting local By providing infrastructure, jobs and investment economies at hubs Air France: 40 million euros invested in a new excellence centre dedicated to aerostructures at Roissy-CDG and destinations KLM: Joint Venture with Kenya Airways extended to 6 routes Contributing to the improvement of ground transportation in airport areas Air France: Contribution to discussion on major projects (Nouveau Grand Paris) Through procurement creating a positive impact on local development Air France-KLM: over 4,200 suppliers worldwide, around 2,500 of which are located at destinations By participating in and encouraging innovation projects Air France: Signature of a charter and commitment in favour of innovative SMEs KLM: Investment in 6 start-ups through the Mainport Innovation Fund Through dialogue and long term cooperation with local stakeholders Air France: Air France’s headquarter hosted local and government officials working on local governance in April 2013 KLM: Continued cooperation between KLM, Schiphol and City of Amsterdam to strenghten the competiveness and sustainable development in the region Education Training and skills Business and aviation discovery programs for elementary and high school children development Air France: 3,990 students involved in aviation careers discovery program with Airemploi for young and In collaboration with local schools and partners, offering work placement schemes and internships vulnerable people KLM: 887 interns and higher education trainees Air France: 314 young people trained or provided with guidance by JEREMY (including 150 at Air France) and 455 young apprentices at AFMAé (56% of whom are at Air France) Providing support to young people who have dropped out of school and people with limited access to the labour market Air France: 16 million euros in purchases from sheltered sector companies SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL PARTNERSHIPS Stimulating Contribute to future generations through strong commitment to humanitarian development projects environmental and Air France: Air France Foundation (98 projects in favour of childhood), Acting for Life (29 programs promoting economic development and sustainable tourism) social development KLM: KLM AirCares (6 NGOs supported with miles donated by Flying Blue members, 19,000 euros onboard donations), partnership with Close the Gap (in 2013, 1,500 used ICT assets provided to 327 projects reaching 1,500,000 people), partnership with UNICEF-The Netherlands Air France and KLM invest in forest conservation projects through collaboration with GoodPlanet/Etc Terra/WWF Madagascar and WWF-NL 62 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Local development Economic FOOTPRINT W ith hubs in Paris and Amsterdam and destinations worldwide, on boosting the international Air France and KLM contribute to economic and social competitiveness of these secdevelopment, both locally and at the national level, through tors. KLM is involved in the direct and indirect activities and job creation. logistics and BioBased Economy sectors. Driving the local economy KLM continued collaboration The hubs at Paris-CDG, Paris-Orly and Amsterdam Schiphol provide with Schiphol Airport and the highly attractive business environments. City of Amsterdam to strenWith 89% of the Group’s employees based in France and The Nethergthen the competitiveness lands, Air France and KLM contribute significantly to job creation. With and sustainable development 44,000 employees in Ile-de-France, Air France is the largest private in the region. In 2013, the City sector employer in the Paris region. With 26,505 FTEs, KLM Group is of Amsterdam became a the third-largest employer in the Netherlands. partner in KLM's BioFuel ProConnections to French regions provided by HOP! contribute to gram. Schiphol Group has development at national level, been participating in this proensuring wealth creation that gram since 2012. enhances regional attractiveStudies reveal Air France’s ness. For example, thanks to Economic impact Support to innovation international connections with The Group supports innovaA study carried out in 2013 by the numerous other European cities tion through collaboration with operated by HOP!, the city of Pays de Roissy-CDG association has SMEs and start-ups. In 2012, Lyon provides an attractive underlined the significant impact Air France signed the “Charter for Public Companies in favour of business environment for large Innovative SMEs” and is committed to supporting SMEs in achieving and small companies alike. airline operations based at Paristheir innovation projects, such as IPI, a French SME which incorpoThe Dutch government contiCDG have on local businesses, rated eco-design in Air France's new crockery. nued the implementation of In 2009, KLM and its partners, Schiphol Airport, Rabobank and even businesses not its air transport policy (“LuchTechnology University of Delft jointly created the Mainport Innovation tvaartnota”), adopted in 2011, related to aviation. Another Fund which aims to accelerate innovation in the aviation sector by and reasserted the major academic study* drew similar investing in start-ups that contribute to sustainable, safe and efficient importance of the aviation air transport. The fund has invested in six innovative start-ups. conclusions at a national level: sector and Schiphol airport for the Dutch economy. This policy “The economic impact of Air France aims to achieve an innovagoes far beyond the transport of tive and competitive economy passengers (...). The Group makes and sustainable environment. Optimum international accespurchases from a number of local sibility by air is a key condiindustries and suppliers (...). Air France KLM Group 1st 3rd 356,000 tion for achieving these goals. Moreover, the government has This impact on the economy identified 9 sectors that are and on jobs in the French regions key to the economy and has private sector private sector jobs induced is not given due recognition.” employer employer by Air France activity brought together business, * Air France’s Economic Impact in the Paris region in The in France scientists and government = 44,000 Netherlands on Mainland France, EM Strasbourg, agencies to work together employees = 26,505 FTEs 63 Local development local development around our hubs Environment Long term cooperation on major projects BOUSSOLE Air France-KLM takes part in projects set to shape the Business Travel Plan to contribute to the reduction of emissions areas around its hubs over the coming twenty years, such caused by employee commuting in the Paris region. as the Grand Roissy project, the Paris Region Masterplan Landscape NORTH HOLLAND (Schéma Directeur d’île-de-France), the Nouveau Grand A nature conservation organization in the Schiphol area. Continued Paris. KLM participates in the national government SMASH partnership, support for projects that protect vulnerable nature programme which aims to optimise spatial planning and reserve in the North Holland Province. infrastructure around Schiphol. The Group takes particular interest in ground transportation, as efﬁcient ground transportation is vital to a leading global air transport network. The accessibility of our airports is also an important factor in the development and attractiveness of the areas where Air France and KLM’s main hubs are located, for the airlines, passengers and PARIS-CDG employees. Via the Inter-Business Travel Plans (PDIE) at por Paris-CDG and Paris-Orly, Air France works alongside other large companies based in the local area to take t Schiphol effective joint actions on transport and to support public transport infrastructure projects. Local structural initiatives Air The Group is involved in various initiatives to strengthen the economic attractiveness, reputation, international da m competitiveness, and sustainable development of its er st hubs. Examples are visualized on this page. Am Local economic development Pays de Roissy–CDG Association jobs and training Promoting socio-economic development of Paris-CDG area. Air France, founding member. More than 340 members (elected KLM Education Programs to attract future talent through representatives, businesses, institutions, local residents) participate collaborations with ROC's, Schiphol Aviation College, JINC in five themed working groups (on jobs, housing, economic and pilot project ‘‘ICT in the Clouds”. development, transport and culture). Airemploi provides information about jobs and training in aviation. Hubstart and Aerotropolis JEREMY promotes the integration of young local people who do not Promoting the hub region at an international level, facilitating hold formal qualifications. companies moving to Paris-CDG. AFMAé trains apprentices for careers in aviation at its training center Collaboration Amsterdam/Schiphol/KLM (ASK) representing 25% of French aviation training market. The three parties have cooperated since 2011 to improve Engineers for Schools 8 Air France executives are made international competitiveness, promote destination Amsterdam, available to the national education authorities, with the objective improve accessibility, education and sustainability. of bridging the gap between education and business. 64 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 “Pays de Roissy-CDG” association celebrates e 1.4 its 10th anniversary Through the association, of which billion Air France was a founding member in 2003, the airline works alongside local stakeholders to play a part Air France's Group purchases in local development. The economic in the Paris Region (exc. fuel) and social development of the Paris-CDG area is a strategic challenge for Air France and the Paris region. Projects carried out Knowledge and skills for future generations To promote employability of young people, a new partnership 3.1% of the GDP contribution of the aviation To ensure a match between the with the “Passeport Avenir” sector to the economy over 10 years have established links of The Netherlands. labour needs of the industry and association was set up in between elected officials, residents the qualifications held by job 2013. 23 Air France employees and companies. The association seekers, Air France and KLM volunteer to provide support to have been investing in various young people from underprivileged backgrounds up until their graduais recognized for its commitment associations and education tion from a Business school or university. to the area, its dynamism and programs for many years. Air France is a founding member innovative projects. Among and partner of four associathem, construction of housing, tions involved in information implementation of innovative and training programs on aviation careers: Airemploi, Jeremy, ground transportation solutions AFMAé, Engineers for Schools. for residents, apprenticeship promotion, support to employment As part of its commitment to equal opportunities, the Group for people living in neighboring led various initiatives in 2013 for districts, enhancement of middle and high school students: the cultural richness of the area. the OPEN internship enables around 200 students from ten local middle schools to be informed on the aviation industry and for a selected number of them to discover the airline; initiatives to promote careers in aviation maintenance and engineering among women were organized by Airemploi; a partnership with the JINC foundation in Amsterdam offers young people the opportunity to carry out a mini-internship at KLM. KLM participated in the project “ICT in the Clouds”, initiated by the Montessori School of Amsterdam, which aims to develop ICT talent in children at an early stage in order to anticipate the shortage of highly educated ICT experts in the labour market. In 2013, 15pupils developed a mobile application for KLM airline crew. KLM’s Engineering and Maintenance Division is partner to 5 Regional Community Colleges (ROC) across the country and provides students with aircraft mechanics apprenticeships. In 2013, 40 ROC students ­followed apprenticeships at KLM. 65 Local development Innovative social initiative for cleaning uniforms Air France crew uniforms are cleaned by an innovative SME and a sheltered company, based in the Paris region. The benefits are twofold: a Committed to the social aspect which enables people employement with disabilities to access the labor of vulnerable people KLM provides computers and market, and environmental because servers to a foundation for eduof the use of an innovative, cation and jobs, helping young ecological cleaning process, school dropouts and long-term unemployed people to gain traiwhich eliminates the need to use ning in IT and communications perchlorethylene. technology. In 2013, Air France’s spending Air France supports Second Chance Schools in various locain the sheltered sector represents tions throughout France and u 16 million. has signed the Businesses and Neighborhoods Charter, signaling its willingness to make a ­tangible contribution to priority neighborhoods. In 2013, KLM became a partner of Schiphol Aviation College, which brings together aviation businesses, vocational education institutions and the regional authorities in initiatives to stimulate the Schiphol region employment market and act as a resource center for information on aviation jobs and training. KLM and Schiphol Aviation College joined forces with a Dutch employment agency to offer temporary assignments to individuals with limited access to the labor market. Participants are offered the opportunity to gain valuable work experience and vocational training. 16 million euros Air France purchases from sheltered sector companies 66 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 Local development local development at Destinations Economic development By opening new routes to Africa, Asia and Latin America, the Group stimulates regional and international economic and social development. In 2013, Air France-KLM expanded its network with the inauguration of 27 new destinations. The Group offers 44 destinations in Africa, connecting the continent to Air France-KLM’s network. Partnerships were developed with local air transport operators which contribute to the development of the ShareBusiness countries served. Through the KLM-Kenya Airways joint venture the In 2013, KLM continued Group offers more frequent flights between Europe and Africa. This its collaboration with social long-standing and successful cooperation between KLM and Kenya Airways was expanded effective January 1, 2014, by adding four new enterprise ShareBusiness. routes, bringing the total number to six. This doubled the number of In this program employees weekly intercontinental services between Amsterdam, London Heatemporarily work in developing throw and Paris-Charles de Gaulle airports to East Africa. Air France-KLM supports local economies by offering employment, countries including India, participating in the transfer of skills, sourcing local products in onboard Kenya and Ethiopia, where they catering and through investment. Air France Industries KLM Engineesafety and security around airshare knowledge with local ring & Maintenance develops its network Repair and Overall worldports at our destinations, thewide with local presence in distant markets, through new partnerships entrepreneurs. reby improving the overall safety and has an industrial presence in China, Morocco, Germany, the Gulf Through this sustainable initiative, at these destinations as well. In countries and in the United States. 2013, one of these destinations Air France’s subsidiary Servair is present in 20 African airports and local entrepreneurs benefit from was Surinam. employs almost 2,500 people on the continent. Each Servair center new knowledge for further enhances the local economy. Servair is the number one African airline Environmental partners developing their business caterer in terms of number of stopovers, and has inaugurated in 2013 The forest conservation project its site in Morocco in partnership with Atlas Catering, a subsidiary of and employees gain valuable in Madagascar, supported by the national airline, Royal Air Maroc. Servair is a member of the AFRAA experience and develop their skills Air France since 2008 and led by (African Airlines Association), the organization responsible for ensuring the GoodPlanet Foundation, ETC and competences. effective cooperation between airlines which also aims to accelerate Terra and WWF, contributes to the the economic and social integration of African countries. development of local communities By developing tailor-made loyalty schemes for SMEs (BlueBiz while at the same time protecprogram) or for professionals in the oil and gas industry (Flying Blue ting the unique biodiversity of the Petroleum program), the Group facilitates trade, international expansion island. The project has already reached 34,000 households, 17% of of SMEs and stimulates regional development. which have adopted alternative agricultural techniques to slash and A contribution to local development is also made by the Masterclass burn, generating additional income (beekeeping, poultry, fish farming, Security Services, regularly organized by KLM. The aim is to increase cash crops), increasing crop yields and crop diversification. In Brazil, KLM supports a WWF-NL forest conservation program, which contributes to sustaining the environment and habitat of the 50% of the Air France Group = e 8.4 billion Amazon: in the Acre-Purus area 1,239 families joined the state certification scheme. In 2013, there was a reduction of 29% in deforestation as compared to the previous year and the number of fire spots registurnover is made abroad tered fell by 5.5%. 67 Local development social partnerships Longstanding humanitarian partnerships Docto 2 Doctor, Aviation Without Borders, Wings of Support and Get Air France-KLM has always played an active role in international deveit Done. This support exists of promotional, logistical and financial lopment, mostly by supporting initiatives led by NGOs and projects assistance. initiated by its own employees. In 2013, the Group’s total contributions were equivalent to 14 million euros. Logistical support In 2013, 881 Air France tickets and free transport of additional Air France and KLM on child baggage were donated to 28 NGOs, protection. Air France works to help principally involved in providing medical disadvantaged children through its assistance. Corporate Foundation, which was In November 2013, following the desinvolved in 98 projects in 2013. KLM truction caused by typhoon Haiyan in collaborates with UNICEF The Netherthe Philippines, KLM chartered a Boeing lands. Through the Children’s Rights B747 freighter free of charge to carry and Business Principles, an assessemergency relief supplies for the Dutch ment of all business processes and Red Cross and UNICEF. activities will be conducted and sector specific guidelines on children’s rights Involving employees will be developed. and customers Additionally, through concrete actions Air France and KLM inform passengers the aim is to increase internal and on social and humanitarian programs external awareness of children’s they sustain. Each month, in the rights. Air France informs passenAir France inflight magazine, an article is gers about the damage caused by devoted to a project supported by the child sex tourism by financing ECPAT A special experience for children Air France Foundation and Acting for International’s prevention campaign Life. In addition, Flying Blue members In October 2013, together with the Amsterdam Cares and by providing support to 16 other are invited to donate their frequent flyer ECPAT projets around the world on foundation, KLM created a special experience for a group miles to NGOs selected by Air France child protection. of children who don’t go on holiday often and of which most and KLM. had not been on a plane before. 280 six to eight year olds Air France has had a partnership Air France and KLM employees with the NGO Acting for Life for over were part of a pre-screening of the new Disney film Planes throughout the world take part in social, 30 years. The NGO promotes economic in on board an MD-11 which was surrounded by special humanitarian and nature conservation development and sustainable tourism. projects. In 2013, the organization supported effects to create a live setting. The “Friends of Air France Foundation” 29 projects in Africa, Asia, Latin Ame gets more than 2,200 employees involrica and Europe through many local ved in various types of volunteer work in NGOs. Air France has supported France, such as “Green Father Christhumanitarian air transport missions mas”, which works in partnership with carried out by Aviation Without Borders for many years. It also supSecours Populaire to distribute new toys to children from vulnerable ports the NGO through skills-based sponsorship. families. KLM and Martinair employees were actively involved with Wings of Support, with 400,000 euros invested in 59 new projects, In 2013, KLM's AirCares program supported 6 partners in the helping 8,500 children. In total, over 650 projects have been supported areas of education, health and sanitation: Close the Gap, Aflatoun, since the start of Wings of Support. 68 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 DISTRIBUTION OF GROUP’S CONTRIBUTIONS BY PROJECT CATEGORY 11%Environment 49% Sports, culture, 40%Humanitarian miscellaneous & education Geographical distribution of projects and some examples Europe (incl. France and The Netherlands) 24% 25% 16% Caribbean* 29% Asia and Pacific Africa and Middle East Central and Latin America 6% Indian Ocean* * Figures for Caribbean and Indian Ocean. India NGO Smile: The Air France-KLM local team organizes various France activities each year for the benefit of Smile, focusing Bluelink: Air France’s subsidiary has made staff available to the on providing care and education for underprivileged children. “Samu Social” humanitarian emergency service since 2008. The hotline benefits from the expertise of Blue Link advisors. Thailand Acting for Life: Creation of a charter for sustainable tourism Kenya for local tour operators drawn up. Doctor 2 Doctor: Cooperation between KLM, KLM Health Services and the VU University. Dutch paediatricians regularly Philippines and voluntarily travel to Eldoret in Kenya to train local staff. Typhoon Haiyan: In November 2013 a Boeing 747 freighter flew to Cebu carrying emergency relief supplies for the Dutch Red Madagascar Cross and UNICEF. Air France Foundation – “SOS Villages d’enfants”: Support for opening an inclusion and careers guidance service for young Australia people. “SOS Villages d’enfants” received the 2013 Air France Conservation Volunteers: Green activities such as tree planting Foundation award. by the Air France-KLM local team in Sydney. 69 performance indicators Performance indicators 70 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators 71 performance indicators Dialogue with our stakeholders Group’s Main engagement Main engagement pathways Outcomes 2013 stakeholders topics Shareholders Financial information Quarterly presentations to analysts Reporting improvement as a result of questionnaires of non Investors CSR performance Dedicated financial website financial rating agencies (such as Vigeo, SAM, EIRIS, CDP): more attention to role of human rights, and impact in the Financial partners Shareholder Club supply chain Rating agencies Advisory Committee for individual shareholders Other outcomes: see chapter Governance  early General Shareholders’ Meeting: presentation Y of financial and CSR performance Annual publications P  assengers and Customer satisfaction Customer satisfaction studies, surveys, information  74,000 e-Score surveys, Customer Insight surveys, crew 5 distributors (BtoB, and service quality from crew and ground staff reports, customer feedback analysis BtoC, BtoT) Health and safety Information on Group websites, social media, video Launch of Quality Observer program Assistance in case and information on board, anti-stress training ISO 22000 certification (Air France), sustainable catering Maintenance of unforeseen events Air France-KLM Connect real time information service policy with 16 new sustainable products on board (KLM) customers Accessibility Recovery assistance service, customer assistance Dialogue and follow up of the regulations Innovation, new desks Increased feedback on KLM Takes Care platform Cargo customers technologies Meetings, events, partnerships informing about Flying Blue members CSR Survey CSR sustainability on the group’s medias 7 new partners in KLM BioFuel program Business partners Reduce of CO2 CO2 calculation and compensation offers DSGC publication on Corporate Governance emissions KLM Corporate BioFuel Program Other outcomes: chapters Customer experience K  LM participation in Dutch Sustainable Growth and Environment Coalition (DSGC) Employees Working conditions Staff surveys Collective agreements signed (Air France) Trade unions Training and mobility CSR trainings French gender equality convention signed  rofessional P  ealth and occupational H Intranet and internal newsletters and papers Surveys to measure employee satisfaction associations and safety Dialogue with social partners Safety Culture program further implemented bodies Non-discrimination Meetings with governments on HR topics, e.g equal  aunch of the new participative innovation program L Diversity opportunities, occupation safety (Air France) Social dialogue Partnerships with universities Air France safety at work annual meeting Negotiation and W  ork council committees focused on working Air France Boussole annual survey on work-home travel collective labour conditions, CSR and HR policies Air France and KLM CSR week for employees agreement Air France Boussole mobility plan Four KLM CSR Café’s organized CSR awareness-raising Innovation program for Air France staff Over 100 KLM employees (experts, managers) involved Inter-company working groups (Global Compact, in development KLM Takes Care ORSE, Comité 21, AFEP…) Feedback on reporting during COP Peer Review Collaborative strategy development KLM Takes Care Other outcomes: chapters Governance and Responsible COP Peer Review session organized by UNGP NL human resources I nternational, Climate change and CO2  ialogue and joint actions with national air transport D D  raft proposals at AEA and IATA in particular for a global European and national reduction authorities, airports and air traffic services sectorial approach to climate change authorities Environmental Working group on new European regulations Regular working visits of government officials Certification authorities management Air France and KLM public affairs representatives CSR reporting according to article 225 of the application Passengers rights working with national and European institutions decree of the French Grenelle II legislation of July 12, 2010  etter knowledge of air B Other outcomes: chapters Governance and Environment transport issues Suppliers Environmental and Applying the Sustainable Development Charter and 7  5% of suppliers signed the sustainable development social performance sustainability clauses in contracts charter CSR integration in the Including more suppliers in REACH (Registration Supplier assessment via EcoVadis platform supply chain Evaluation and Authorization for Chemicals) monitoring French charter for innovative SMEs signed Eco-design Dialogue and cooperation with suppliers Collaboration with suppliers resulted in light weight Cargo  ocal economic and L Innovation work session KLM and Sodexo Altys nets and pallets social development Participations in consortia for biofuel supply Other outcomes: chapters Environment and Customer experience 72 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators Group’s Main engagement Main engagement pathways Outcomes 2013 stakeholders topics Air transport and Safety and security Air transport sector: member of major international Contribution to organizations that collectively represent the industry bodies Airport accessibility (IATA), European (AEA) and national bodies (European air transport sector and advocate its public positions Airports Regions Airline Association, FNAM, GIFAS, BAR) KLM Optimal flight program G  round handling Air Navigation Service services SkyTeam CSR working group Green Deal Biofuels Provider New aircraft Involvement in SESAR JU Partnership Joining our Energies  ustainable biofuels for S Involvement in ACARE and CORAC CSR best practices of SkyTeam partners aviation Involvement in SAFUG ACARE chaired by Vice Chairman Air France-KLM Peter Climate change Members of Roundtable on Sustainable Biomaterials Hartman Single European Sky Member of the Biofuel Flightpath’s Core Team of the  ialogue on sustainable aviation Rio+20 including D CSR involvement European Commission contribution to ICAO’s Biofuel flight Air France partner of Ini-FCA Other outcomes: chapters Governance and Environment Local authorities Noise KLM involvement in Alders Table and CROS J oint stakeholder advise to Dutch government on new  ocal residents L Air quality Air France member of the CCE and CCAR of the noise regulatory system Associations Local dialogue 10 biggest French airports Noise reduction kits on Air France A320  ocal economic L S  ocial and economic Air France member of associations for the international 2 issues of the publication “Courrier Air France” players development promotion of Roissy area Association Pays de Roissy-CDG : 10th anniversary B  etter knowledge of air S  upport to training and skills-sharing with local KLM partner of Schiphol Aviation College transport issues associations City of Amsterdam became partner in the Corporate 2  Air France staff dedicated to Pays de Roissy-CDG BioFuel program (ASK) association  ioPort Holland: Declaration of intent signed aiming B W  orking visits and tours at Air France and KLM at large-scale use of sustainable biofuels facilities Other outcomes: chapter Environment and Local Cooperation KLM, Amsterdam, Schiphol (ASK) development Stakeholder engagement events in airport areas Scientific community Climate change IAGOS Program Air France contribution to the IAGOS program Universities Operational procedures Research Technical University Delft (KLM) Advice on selected pathways feedstock for sustainable Research experts  echnological T Membership in IDUT and supporting the chair biofuels. performance Sustainable Tourism of Wageningen University Other outcomes: chapter Environment P  articipation in Independent Sustainability Board SkyNRG Environmental NGOs Climate change KLM partnership with WWF-NL  WF-NL advise in BioFuel program and sustainable W Fight against Air France reforestation project in partnership with catering deforestation GoodPlanet, ETC Terra and WWF in Madagascar Results of the first phase (2008-13) of the Madagascar  reservation of P  LM participation in IUCN and Leaders for Nature, K project biodiversity inspirational program on ecosystem services Financial support for specific Nature Conservation projects  artnerships to P P  artnership with Landscape North Holland to support of WWF-NL challenge CSR conservation work in the Schiphol region Financial contribution Landscape North Holland by KLM improvements Engagement with various NGOs on animal welfare, and Sodexo Altys sustainable resources and climate policies Other outcomes: see chapter Environment H  umanitarian and H  umanitarian and D  ialogue and cooperation in humanitarian projects: 1  4 million provided in funding for social and environmental development NGOs development programs Air France Foundation, Acting for Life, KLM AirCares projects  artnership through donation of tickets and free P 6 NGOs supported through AirCares program transportation of cargo Air France Foundation involvement in 98 projects, Acting Employees engagement: Friends of the Air France for life support to 29 programs Foundation, Wings of Support, Aviation without Other outcomes: chapter Local development borders (France and NL) Strategic partnership KLM – UNICEF the Netherlands 73 performance indicators Social indicators Air France-KLM Air France Group * KLM Group ** Consolidated social data Group Air France Group from which Air France KLM Group from which KLM for Air France-KLM Group 2011 2012 2013 13/12 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 Headcount at 31/12 (permanent contracts and fixed-term contracts) 1 Scope of NRE Social reporting √ 96% 96% 96% 0.0% 95% 95% 100% 100% 98% 98% 100% 100% Total staff √ 106,618 104,130 100,569 -3.4% 69,513 65,905 56,893 53,423 34,617 34,664 28,698 28,718 Ground staff 71,277 69,516 66,512 -4.3% 48,337 45,466 38,066 35,344 21,179 21,046 17,043 16,941 Cabin crew 26,380 25,863 25,548 -1.2% 15,941 15,450 14,762 14,215 9,922 10,098 8,973 9,086 Flight deck crew 8,961 8,751 8,509 -2.8% 5,235 4,989 4,065 3,864 3,516 3,520 2,682 2,691 Staff under permanent contract 101,603 100,273 96,368 -3.9% 67,201 63,262 55,728 52,029 33,072 33,106 27,819 27,926 Recruitment under permanent contract at 31/12 √ 2 2,481 848 1,253 47.8% 707 782 309 313 141 471 103 430 Recruitment under fixed-term contract at 31/12 √ 2 6,621 4,313 4,249 -1.5% 3,962 3,401 1,863 889 351 848 134 317 Departures at 31/12 3 11,612 8,571 9,975 16.4% 7,168 8,719 4,315 5,553 1,403 1,256 935 707 of which redundancies (incl. Economic) √ 995 640 492 -23.1% 542 414 247 179 98 78 71 49 Percentage of women at 31/12 √ 4 42.8% 42.8% 42.9% 0.2% 43.1% 43.3% 44.5% 45.0% 42.1% 42.3% 43.3% 43.6% Percentage of part time employees at 31/12 √ 4 24.5% 25.5% 27.4% 7.5% 19.0% 21.2% 21.1% 24.2% 38.6% 39.1% 39.9% 40.2% Breakdown of staff by age at 31/12 29 year and less √ 10,052 8,222 7,878 -4.2% 5,254 4,654 3,807 3,302 2,968 3,224 1,944 2,202 Between 30 and 39 year included √ 33,065 30,305 28,081 -7.3% 21,422 19,207 17,802 15,842 8,883 8,874 7,206 7,206 Between 40 and 49 year included √ 37,101 37,255 37,259 0.0% 24,266 24,371 19,857 19,908 12,989 12,888 10,999 10,970 50 year and more √ 26,400 28,348 27,351 -3.5% 18,571 17,673 15,427 14,371 9,777 9,678 8,549 8,307 Breakdown of staff by geographical area at 31/12 Europe (except France and The Netherlands) √ 5,072 4,607 4,483 -2.7% 2,346 2,204 1,652 1,584 2,261 2,279 931 933 North & South America √ 2,255 2,013 2,029 0.8% 1,655 1,582 1,369 1,309 358 447 357 446 Caribbean/Indian Ocean (including French overseas territories) √ 5 1,118 1,109 1,042 -6.0% 1,047 986 839 780 62 56 62 56 Asia/Pasific √ 1,710 1,678 1,728 3.0% 744 746 739 742 934 982 933 982 Africa/the Middle East √ 1,594 1,607 1,531 -4.7% 1,048 1,021 1,025 997 559 510 559 510 The Netherlands √ 31,533 30,562 30,496 -0.2% 161 154 24 32 30,401 30,342 25,814 25,743 Continental France √ 63,336 62,554 59,260 -5.3% 62,512 59,212 51,245 47,979 42 48 42 48 √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2013 (moderate level of assurance). * Air France Group: Air France and Air France subsidiaries. Air France subsidiaries: Aero Maintenance Group, BlueLink, Brit Air, CRMA, CityJet, VLM, Régional, Sodexi, Transavia France and Servair group: ACNA, OAT, Passerelle, Servair SA, PAC SA. ** KLM Group: KLM and KLM subsidiaries. KLM subsidiaries: Cygnific, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM Cityhopper (UK and BV), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V., KLM UK Engineering Limited and Martinair. (1) (2) (3) (4) (5): See Note on the methodology. Group’s employees, full time equivalent (FTE) Breakdown of departures by cause Air France-KLM Group 5% Redundancies 5% (incl. 16% economic) Financial year 2011 2012 2013 27% 12% 12% Resignations 44% Other Ground staff 70,705 69,994 66,384 depatures (of which 54% employees who are not present Cabin crew 22,749 22,347 21,646 and unpaid and 23% 12% voluntary departure plan) Flight deck crew 8,560 8,403 7,931 12% Retirements 44% 27% End of fixed Total 102,014 100,744 95,961 term contracts 74 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators Other social data for Air France Group Other social data for KLM Group (according to local legislation) (according to local legislation) Air France (100% of the staff headcount, registered KLM (100% of the staff headcount, registered and PAID at the end of the calendar year) * 2012 2013 13/12 and PAID at the end of the calendar year) * 2012 2013 13/12 Absenteeism 1 Absenteeism 1 Due to illness √ 3.74% 3.91% 5% Due to illness √ 5.24% 5.30% 1% Due to work accidents √ 0.54% 0.68% 26% Maternity leave √ 0.55% 0.54% -2% Maternity leave √ 1.06% 0.99% -7% Health and safety Health and safety Total workplace accidents √ 2 219 186 -15% Total workplace accidents √ 2 2,070 2,238 8% Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 0 1 Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 0 1 Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 4.73 4.01 -15% Frequency rate of workplace accidents √ 3 26.20 29.56 13% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.16 0.18 13% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 1.05 0.88 -16% Training 4 Training Total training costs in K€ √ 60,777 62,412 3% Number of training hours by employee √ 4 31 28 -10% Total training costs in € per full time equivalent 2,539 2,638 4% Disabled staff 5 Disabled staff Total staff with disabilities √ 1,691 1,727 2% Total staff with disabilities √ 5 696 710 2% Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 20 16 -20% Collective agreements √ 3 0 Yearly spending in the sheltered sector in M€ v 6 16 Collective agreements √ 40 47 KLM Subsidiaries 2012 2013 13/12 Scope of reporting for KLM subsidiaries 92% 94% 2% Air France Subsidiaries 2012 2013 13/12 Health and safety Total workplace accidents √ 2 92 72 -22% Scope of reporting for Air France subsidiaries 75% 73% -3% Number of fatal workplace accidents √ 0 0 Health and safety Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 8.46 6.77 -20% Total workplace accidents √ 2 993 1,048 6% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.15 0.09 -40% Training Training 4 Number of training hours by employee √ 4 20 20 0% Total training costs in K€ √ 19,736 18,524 -6% Disabled staff 5 Total training costs in € per full time equivalent 2,939 2,885 -2% Total staff with disabilities √ 543 609 12% Disabled staff Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 27 22 -19% Total staff with disabilities √ 5 88 99 13% Collective agreements √ 23 58 Collective agreements √ 7 2 √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2013 (moderate level of assurance). √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2013 (moderate level of assurance). * Data in italics concerns only Air France in Continental France and the French overseas territories. * KLM: Data concerns KLM without international staff. (1) (2) (3) (4) (5): See Note on the methodology. (1) (2) (3) (4) (5): See Note on the methodology. Women in the Group (in%) Board of Directors 35.7% Group 0% Executive Committees AIR FRANCE 23.5% Breakdown of staff by age (in%) KLM 9.8% AIR FRANCE 28.1% air france-klm group air france group klm group Senior managers/executives KLM 21.1% AIR FRANCE 32.0% 40% Ground staff managerial KLM 25.1% Cabin crew 52.7% 37 37 37 AIR FRANCE 30% Cockpit crew 2.2% Flight crew managerial Cabin crew 71.1% KLM 28 29 26 27 27 28 Cockpit crew 3.4% 20% AIR FRANCE 40.6% Ground staff non managerial KLM 30.5% 10% Cabin crew 65.7% AIR FRANCE Cockpit crew 7.3% 8 7 9 Flight crew Cabin crew 86.0% KLM 29 year and less Between 30 and Between 40 and 49 50 year and older Cockpit crew 5.0% 39 year included year included 75 performance indicators Environmental indicators Flight Operations Air France-KLM Group Air France Group 1 klm Group 2 Unit 2011 2012 2013 13/12 2011 2012 2013 13/12 2011 2012 2013 13/12 Consumption Consumption of raw materials: fuel √ √ ktons 8,950 8,956 8,755 -2.2% 5,047 5,078 4,918 -3.2% 3,903 3,878 3,837 -1.1% emissions Greenhouse gas CO2 √ √ ktons 28,193 28,210 27,576 -2.2% 15,899 15,997 15,491 -3.2% 12,294 12,213 12,085 -1.0% emissions Emissions of NOx low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 9.0 9.2 9.5 3.3% 6.2 6.3 6.2 -1.6% 2.8 2.9 3.3 13.8% substances contributing SO2 ktons 10.4 9.9 11.8 19.2% 7.2 6.4 6.8 6.3% 3.2 3.5 5.0 42.9% to acidification and eutrophication SO2 low altitude (<,3 000 ft) √ ktons 0.8 0.7 0.8 14.3% 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.0% 0.2 0.2 0.3 50.0% Occurences of fuel jettison √ number 29 41 33 -19.5% 23 27 23 -14.8% 6 14 10 -28.6% In-flight fuel jettison Fuel jettisoned √ tons 1,152 1,839 1,104 -40.0% 945 1,210 758 -37.4% 207 629 346 -45.0% Other emissions HC low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.0% 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.0% 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.0% Noise impact Global noise energy indicator √ 1012 kJ 1.65 1.69 1.62 -4.1% 1.11 1.16 1.12 -3.4% 0.54 0.53 0.50 -5.7% √ Figures verified by KPMG for 2013 (limited level of assurance). √√ Figures verified by KPMG for 2013 (reasonable level of assurance). 1. Air France Group scope: all flights under AF code operated by Air France, HOP!, CityJet, and flights operated by Transavia France. 2. KLM Group scope: all flights operated by KLM, KLM Cityhopper and Martinair. Transavia is included for fuel consumption, CO2 and SO2 emissions (exception of low altitude emissions of HC, NOx and SO2). Martinair and Transavia are excluded for the global noise energy indicator. AIR FRANCE-KLM GROUP'S FLEET Aircraft in operation as of December 31, 2013: 552 Average fleet age: 10.2 years Air France Group KLM Group Average age AIRCRAFT Number of Average age AIRCRAFT Number of aircraft (years) TYPE aircraft (years) TYPE A318, A319 737-700 Short and medium-haul 9.7 128 7.5 47 A320, A321 /-800 /-900 A380, A330-200 A330-200/-300 Long-haul 10.3 A340-300 106 11.9 777-200/-300 65 777-200/-300, 747-400 MD11, 747-400 CARGO 747-400ERF 47-400ERF/BCF AF 8.0 4 16.6 10 777F MD11-F KLM: KLM Martinair Regional fleet ATR, Embraer, AF: HOP! 10.4 101 10.9 F70, EMB190 50 Bombardier KLM: Cityhopper Other fleet 737-700/-800 AF: Transavia France 7.1 737-800 11 9.1 30 KLM: transavia.com Total 10 YEARS 350 10.5 YEARS 202 Air France-KLM Group's fleet as of December 31, 2013 including CityJet: 583 aircraft in operation. 76 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators Ground Operations Air France-KLM Group Air France Group 1 klm Group 2 Unit 2011 2012 2013 13/12 2011 2012 2013 13/12 2011 2012 2013 13/12 Consumption Water consumption √ Thousands m3 886 812 825 1.6% 694 624 640 2.6% 192 188 185 -1.6% Electricity consumption √ MWh 408,408 392,233 383,605 -2.2% 309,655 293,406 288,218 -1.8% 98,753 98,817 95,387 -3.5% Other energies consumption √ MWh 543,749 513,562 534,375 4.1% 316,650 295,757 304,890 3.1% 227,099 217,805 229,485 5.4% Emissions Greenhouse gas CO2 √ tons 89,841 85,680 88,885 3.7% 38,975 36,841 37,782 2.6% 50,866 48,839 51,103 4.6% emissions Emissions of substances Emissions of volatile organic tons 129 146 135 -7.5% 90 102 87 -14.7% 39 44 48 9.1% contributing to compounds VOC √ photochemical pollution Emissions of HC tons 167 145 137 -5.5% 108 86 76 -11.6% 59 59 61 3.4% Emissions of substances NOx √ tons 810 773 675 -12.7% 541 508 409 -19.5% 269 265 266 0.4% contributing to acidification and eutrophication SO2 √ tons 19.6 16.1 15.8 -1.9% 16.6 12.9 11.4 -11.6% 3.0 3.2 4.4 37.5% Waste Quantity of non-hazardous tons 58,964 57,060 54,966 -3.7% 42,155 40,236 38,185 -5.1% 16,809 16,824 16,781 -0.3% industrial waste √ Quantity of hazardous industrial Waste production tons 7,000 7,009 7,073 0.9% 4,748 4,474 4,420 -1.2% 2,252 2,535 2,653 4.7% waste √ % of hazardous industrial waste % 45% 58% 61% +3 pts 28% 43% 44% +1 pts 81% 85% 89% +4 pts recovered √ Effluents Nitrogen compounds √ % 100% 100% 98% -2 pt 100% 100% 90% -10 pt 100% 100% 100% 0 pt Compliance rate of effluents with regulatory Phosphorus compounds √ % 100% 99% 97% -2 pt 100% 98% 93% -5 pt 100% 100% 100% 0 pt limits Metals3 √ % 99% 98% 99% +1 pt 99.5% 98% 99% +1 pt 98.5% 100% 100% 0 pt √ Figures verified by KPMG for 2013 (limited level of assurance). 1. Air France and subsidiaries: Régional, Brit Air, Servair and its subsidiaries (France only), Sodexi, CRMA and BlueLink. CityJet and Transavia France are not included. 2. KLM and its subsidiaries: KLM CityHopper (KLC), KLM Equipment Services (KES), KLM Catering Services (KCS), KLM Health Services (KHS), Martinair and Transavia. 3. Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. Breakdown of type of energy co2 emissions OF GROUND ACTIVITIES 7% 19% 15% 42% electricity 41% Energy 41% 42% 19% natural gas 40% gse equipment 17% Diesel oil/gasoline 19% engine test runs 17% 15% Superheated/cooled water 7% others 40% 19% 77 performance indicators Note on the methodology for the reporting of the social indicators In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Disclosure Committee, and validated by the This table presents the indicators relating to employees, recruitment, departures, Air France and Air France subsidiaries college of Statutory Auditors, the Air France-KLM Group’s social performance the proportion of women employees and the percentage working part time. These Note 2: The Air France’s group definition of work-related accidents is in line indicators were defined in order to comply with the requirements of the French indicators are consolidated at the level of the Air France-KLM Group. with the definition under French law (at least one day of absence from work). New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles Régulations économiques, NRE, The notes below refer to the references in the tables on p. 74 and P. 75. Travel-related accidents are not included in the indicator but are the subject May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation (EC 809/2004). of specific monitoring and action plans. In 2011, work to optimize these indicators was undertaken to align, as of Employees this year, the NRE social reporting with the requirements of article 225 of KLM and KLM subsidiaries the application decree for the Grenelle II legislation. This update to the social Note 1: The number of people employed by the Group (expressed as Note 2: The KLM Group’s definition of work-related accidents only takes into performance indicators was submitted to the statutory auditors, KPMG Audit, headcount) on both permanent (CDI) and fixed-term contracts (CDD) on account accidents with at least one day of absence from work. Travel-related for review before the beginning of the 2011 NRE social reporting process. December 31 of the reference year. accidents are not included in the indicator but are the subject of specific Since the 2007-08 financial year, the Group has chosen to have a number of its monitoring and action plans. principal social indictors verified by one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit. Recruitment on permanent contracts The variation seen between 2012 and 2013 in the number of work-related Since 2013, pursuant to the provisions of article L.225-102-1 of the Code accidents and the severity rate is partly explained by the fact that the calculaof Commerce, it has been the responsibility of our Independent Third-Party Note 2: The indicator concerns employees hired on permanent contracts (CDI). tion method has changed. For the 2013 financial year work-related accidents Body to: involving external labor have been excluded. Attest that the required CSR information is present in the Management For Air France, the calculation of the number of employees recruited on Report or, in the event of omission, is the subject of an explanation in permanent contracts includes those initially recruited on fixed-term contracts Frequency and severity rates application of paragraph three of article R.225-105 of the Code of Com(CDD) transferring to permanent contracts (CDI) during the year. merce (Statement attesting to the presence of the CSR information); For KLM, only employees recruited directly on permanent contracts are taken Air France: To express a moderate assurance conclusion on the fact that the CSR data, into account. Note 3: The frequency and severity rates are calculated: taken as a whole, are presented in all their significant aspects, in a true for ground staff, based on the actual paid hours worked; manner pursuant to the standards (Reasoned opinion on the true nature Departures for flight crews, based on the hours of commitment. of the CSR information)1 The number of days of sick leave recorded for the year corresponds only to Note 3: The reasons for departure are detailed in the notes to the the accidents having taken place during the same financial year. Reporting scope Air France-KLM’s 2013 Corporate Social Responsibility Report. Only redundancies of employees under permanent contract are taken into KLM and KLM subsidiaries The Air France-KLM Group’s social reporting consolidation scope is based on account in the number of redundancies (including economic). Note 3: The frequency and severity rates are calculated for all the staff based the number of employees (expressed as headcount) on the payroll at the end of on the hours theoretically worked. the calendar year. Percentage of women c Organization of working time The NRE reporting scope covers 96% of the average employees in the Training Air France-KLM Group at the end of the calendar year, expressed in full-time Note 4: These indicators enable the percentage of women to be evaluated equivalent. The subsidiaries of Air France and KLM over which the Group has at relative to the workforce and the proportion of part-time employees on both Air France and Air France subsidiaries least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which permanent and fixed-term contracts at December 31 of the reference year. Note 4: The “Number of training hours by employee” indicator is calculated have at least 250 employees are included in this NRE social reporting scope. based on all the training sessions, independently of whether or not their nature Note that the number of employees for Air France and KLM comprises their entire Employees by geographical zone at December 31 requires them to be included in the 2483 Regulatory Declaration. workforce including staff employed internationally. The hours of training for the subsidiaries of the Air France Group are calculated Note 5: In 2011, the few KLM employees in the Caribbean and Indian Ocean without the data related to the Transavia France subsidiary. F or the 2013 financial year, the Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: Aero geographical zone have been included in the number of employees in the Maintenance Group, Bluelink, BritAir, CityJet, VLM, CRMA, Regional, Servair North and South American zone. KLM and KLM subsidiaries Group (ACNA, Orly Air Traiteur, PAC SA, Servair SA and Passerelle), Sodexi and In 2013, the Air France Group employees in the French Overseas Territories Note 4: KLM does not currently have a centralized reporting procedure Transavia France, representing 73% of the employees of the subsidiaries in and Dominions, i.e. 695 employees, are included in the Caribbean and Indian solely for the costs of training within KLM and its subsidiaries. Note that the the Air France Group. Ocean geographical zone. disclosure of the total number of training hours is not required by Dutch law. For the 2013 financial year, the KLM consolidated subsidiaries are: Cygnific, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM UK Engineering Limited, KLM Cityhopper (UK and “Other social data” tables Note 4: The reported costs of training take into account the external costs B.V.), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. and Martinair, representing of training invoiced, employee costs, the functioning costs of the training 94% of the employees in the subsidiaries of the KLM Group. The indicators reported in the other social data tables are subject to different departmetns and the productivity costs linked to the mobilization of the qualification and legal reporting obligations in France and the Netherlands, individuals trained. The latter are estimated by multiplying the number of hours In 2013, the reporting scope of the Air France subsidiaries and KLM subsidiaries meaning that they are not comparable and need to be presented separately of training declared by each employee by the average salary in the department. remains unchanged. for Air France and KLM. The subsidiaries concerned in these tables are listed The reference number of employees for calculating the coverage rate of the NRE in the Reporting scope section above. Number of disabled employees social reporting is the average number of employees in full time equivalent during 2013 derived from the Management Control division’s BFC tool. Absenteeism – Health and safety in the workplace Air France and Air France subsidiaries The reporting period for the Group’s social information is based on the calendar Note 5: For Air France, the number of disabled employees reported are those year to ensure consistency with the social performance indicators of other French A significant portion of the work-related accidents reported by Air France is for whom a valid certificate, pursuant to French law (article L.5212-2 of the companies. Note that, since 2011, the financial year has also been based on due to cases of barometric otitis and musculoskeletal disorders which are French Labour Code), is available, whatever their ability to perform the tasks the calendar year. recognized as work-related accidents in France whereas they are recorded involved in their position. Note that the data for international employees is as sick leave by KLM in accordance with Dutch law. reported based on local legislation. Reporting tools The absenteeism rate is not communicated for the Air France and KLM The number of disabled employees recruited corresponds to the number of The indicators are compiled and consolidated using the Osyris (Operating subsidiaries in 2013, the follow-up measures being in the verification process permanent and fixed-term employment contracts signed during the year; an SYstem for ReportIng on Sustainability) reporting software at the disposal at the level of these entities. employee recruited on a fixed-term contract who then transfers to a permanent of contributors from Air France, KLM and their subsidiaries across the entire contract during the year will be reported twice. reporting scope. Precise definitions of each indicator and user guides for Air France Note that the rate of employment of disabled employees for 2013 was not contributors to the Osyris tool are available in both French and English. Note 1: The absenteeism rates are calculated on the basis of a ratio of number yet known on the date the figures for the reporting of the NRE social indicaConsistency tests have also been incorporated within the tool. The data are of the hours of absence over the hours theoretically worked (excluding leave). tors were produced within the framework of the Management Report and verified and approved locally at the level of each subsidiary by a local verifier Registration Document. who is responsible for the HR statistical data. KLM and KLM subsidiaries This system is supplemented by a general reporting procedure which defines Note 1: In the Netherlands, there is no difference between the management KLM and KLM subsidiaries the process for compiling, calculating and consolidating the indicators, based of absence following a work-related accident or due to illness. Absences due Note 5: For KLM, an individual is deemed to be disabled if unable to carry out on an instruction memorandum circulated by the Air France-KLM Group’s to illness or work-related accidents are handled in the same way. For this his or her work or any other work at an equivalent salary level. This requires Finance Division. reason, all the days of sick leave or absence due to work-related accidents the employer and the employee to look for another position with a salary as The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s social information is carried are taken into account in the rate of absenteeism for illness. The absenteeism near as possible to the previous level and gives the employee the right to out by Air France’s Sustainable Development department. rates are calculated by expressing the number of calendar days of absence government benefits to compensate for any difference. as a percentage of the calendar days theoretically worked. Details and methodology/Commentary Air France on changes in the indicators Health and safety – work-related accidents Note 6: For Air France, 2013 saw the addition of an “annual revenues generated with the protected sector” indicator. This concerns useful revenues “Consolidated social data for the Air France-KLM Group” There are significant differences in the definition’s criteria for work-related accidents (which is the say linked to the cost of labot) expressed in millions of euros table between France and the Netherlands (see paragraph on absenteeism). generated with companies in the protected sector. 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage ments (ISAE 3000), specific to the verification of extrafinancial data verification. 78 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators Note on the methodology for the reporting of the environmental indicators In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Air France-KLM Group’s Disclosure based on the value reported for the previous year.  omestic Fuel Oil (DFO) for power generators; D Committee, and validated by the college of Statutory Auditors, the Group’s The reporting period for the Group’s environmental data is set at a rolling Off-road diesel fuel for a portion of the Air France runway equipment; environmental performance indicators were defined to comply with the twelve months from October 1 N-1 until September 30 N. Petrol and diesel fuel for Air France and Servair vehicles and Air France requirements of the French New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles When the data is not available, the figure reported for the year is estimated and KLM ground support equipment. Regulations Économiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation based on the value reported for the previous year. (EC 809/2004). The increase seen between 2012 and 2013 for the Air France Group is mainly As of the 2007-08 financial year the Group chose to have a selection of Flight operations explained by the use of a new test bench for very big engines. For the KLM environmental indicators verified by one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit. Group, the increase is mainly explained by natural gas consumption which From 2013, and in accordance with the provisions of Article L.225-102-1 CO2 emissions was higher in winter 2012/2013. of the French Commercial Code, it is the responsibility of our independent The Air France-KLM Group’s CO2 emissions decreased slightly between 2012 Note that when source data is missing for energy and water indicators third-party body to: and 2013, activity having seen little variation from one year to the other. (monthly invoices for example), the related consumption is estimated, based Attest that the required CSR Information appears in the Report of the Board Note that there are differences between the scope of the CO2 emissions on historical data. of Directors and that the exclusion of any information is explained in accordreported and those of the European Emissions Trading Scheme for greenhouse ancewith paragraph 3 of Article R.225-105 of the French Commercial Code gas emission quotas (EU-ETS), so comparison is not meaningful. Emissions from ground operations (CO2, SO2 and NOX) (Attestation of completeness of CSR Information); CO2, SO2 and NOX emissions and their trends are linked to the energy Express a limited assurance on the fact that the Information is presented SO2 emissions consumption listed above. fairly, in all material aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines (opinion The calculation of the SO2 emissions from flight operations is based on the For Air France, NOX emissions related to engine testing are calculated based on the fair presentation of CSR Information)1. average sulphur content of the fuel loaded, respectively, on the Amsterdam on a methodology similar to the one used for flight operations which reflects Furthermore, fuel consumption and the related CO2 emissions for air and Paris platforms which is applied, respectively, to all fuel used during the the actual testing conditions. operations have been verified with the highest level of assurance, reasonable year by KLM, Air France and the Air France subsidiaries. The decrease observed for the Air France’s group on NOX is explained by the assurance (indicated by the symbols √√) since 2007-08. For the KLM Group, the increase is due to the rise in the average sulphur change in the methodology for runway equipment emissions. This year the content of the fuel used. The same is true for the Air France group. assembly of fuel consumption data from invoices was carried out over the full Scope covered and scope N-1 scope, contrary to the previous years when these figures had been estimated. NOx and HC low altitude emissions (LTO) The decrease observed for SO2 is due to less FOD reported in 2013. For the flight operations, the environmental consolidation scope covers: The methodology used for the calculation of low altitude emissions, i.e. below All the Air France commercial flights operated by Air France and its 3,000 feet, is common to Air France and KLM. It is based on the LTO VOC emissions subsidiaries HOP!, CityJet and Transavia. (Landing-Takeoff) cycle and on engine data communicated by the ICAO2. VOC emissions are calculated based on the direct emissions of solvents contained All the KLM commercial flights operated by KLM and its subsidiary KLM The taxiing time taken into account is the actual taxiing time, which is more in the products used. VOCs contained in disposed waste are excluded. Cityhopper (KLC). The flights operated by KLM’s Transavia and Martinair precise than standard values recommended by the ICAO methodology. Note For the Air France Group, the decrease between 2012 and 2013 is mainly subsidiaries are also included, except for the indicators for Noise energy that, since the actual taxiing is not available for Transavia France, the standard due to fewer aircraft being painted in 2013. and the low altitude emissions of HC, NOx and SO2. Since 2013, Martinair ICAO values have been used for this subsidiary. has also been included in the indicators for low altitude emissions of HC, Note: following a review of the materiality of the reported indicators in the HC emissions NOx and SO2. light of the Grenelle II legislation, it was decided to no longer report total NOX Hydrocarbon (HC) emissions include the emissions from vehicles and ground and HC emissions but to concentrate on low altitude emissions impacting support equipment, engine testing and aircraft fueling. For the ground operations, the consolidation scope for the environmental mostly air pollution around airports. reporting is unchanged on last year and covers 100% of the sites in France As a result, starting from 2012, Air France-KLM has reported only NOX and Hazardous industrial waste and the Netherlands. The international outstations are not taken into account. HC low altitude emissions. When the quantity of hazardous waste has not been communicated by service Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: HOP!, CRMA, Sodexi, BlueLink and providers at the end of the reporting campaign, the quantity mentioned in Servair and its subsidiaries (only the activities in France). Transavia France In-flight fuel jettison the specification slip is taken into account. This is, however, estimated to and CityJet are not included in the reporting scope. An exceptional operation (less than one flight in 10,000 in 2013) involving the be marginal. Furthermore, for Air France, the indicators in the domestic outstations are jettisoning of a quantity of fuel in flight to avoid an overloaded plane on landing The reprocessing channels taken into account are those in the European not reported when there is no detail available on the fixed charges invoiced whenever a flight is aborted. Each operation is effected in close coordination regulation. by airports. The contribution of the domestic outstations affected by this with air traffic control under strict conditions governing geographical location issue is, however, marginal compared with the reported data. (avoiding urban zones) and altitude (generally at or above 2,000 meters). Effluents KLM consolidated subsidiaries are KLC (KLM Cityhopper), KES (KLM For the KLM Group, from 2013 the in-flight fuel jettison data includes Both Air France and KLM entities are required to comply with the French Equipment Services), KCS (KLM Catering Services), KHS (KLM Health Martinair’s operations. and Dutch legislation on effluents. Each relevant site has regulatory limits on Services), Transavia NL and Martinair. effluents and the frequency of measurement. Total noise energy The reported data reflects the number of times a regulatory threshold is Reporting tools This indicator was established by the Air France-KLM Group to manage the exceeded relative to the number of measurements for each type of effluent. evolution in the noise footprint of its activity. The total noise energy indicator For 2013 the results, expressed in terms of the number of times regulatory The environmental indicators are assembled at local level via two reporting is calculated according to the methodology defined by the DGAC3. It applies limits are exceeded as a proportion of measurements, were, respectively: tools: Osyris (Enablon software) for Air France and CaeSaR for KLM, which are to all flights with the AF or KLM Commercial Code operated, franchised and For Air France, 1/10 for Nitrogen compounds, 4/61 for Phosphorus available, respectively, at each Air France and KLM subsidiary. chartered, code share excepted. compounds and 8/723 for metals. The reliability of the reporting process is supported by definitions of each The noise energy calculation for the KLM Group excludes aircraft operated For KLM, 0/52 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/52 for Phosphorus compounds indicator and user guides for contributors available in both French and English. by Martinair and Transavia. and 0/280 for metals. Consistency tests have also been implemented. The trends in noise energy and traffic are determined by comparing total noise The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s environmental data is carried energy calculated for the calendar year with that of 2000. Note that the metals reported are Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. out by the Air France Environment department. Ground operations Details and methodology, comments on variations Water consumption The consumption of water is taken into account for all ground activities. Water At Air France-KLM Group level, the regulatory requirements and the reporting used on board flights is not included. and consolidation principles are outlined in a document entitled the Instruction Memo Environment, which is updated annually. The modalities for the Consumption of other energies assembly of the data, calculation methodologies and operational consolidation The indicator includes the different sources of energy consumed: are defined in procedures which are specific to Air France and KLM, and which Natural gas for heating buildings, aircraft painting workshops in Mainteare harmonized whenever possible. nance and cooking (the catering activity in particular). The conversion factor Within the framework of an approach based on continuous improvement, of the quantity of gas used as energy is calculated by taking into account the methodologies used for some performance indicators are constantly the quality of gas specific to France and the Netherlands; being improved and, notably, the precision of their definitions. When these Superheated and iced water for climate comfort. For Air France, superheated changes have a significant impact on the data, comparison with the figures and iced water is supplied by ADP (Aéroports de Paris) at the Orly and Roissy for previous years is not meaningful. sites. The KLM facilities do not consume this type of energy; When the data is not available, the figure reported for the year is estimated Jet fuel A1 for testing engines; 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) specific to the verification of extra-financial data. 2. International Civil Aviation Organization. 3. French Civil Aviation Authority (Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile). 79 performance indicators Group’s main subsidiaries The table presents the Air France-KLM structure and main subsidiaries over which the Group has at least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which have a significant number of employees. AIR FRANCE Brit Air Passenger transport, City Jet Maintenance, Cargo VLM Airlines ACNA Regional OAT Servair GROUP PAC SA Transavia Servair SA CRMA Passerelle BlueLink Sodexi Aero Maintenance Group KLM KLM Cityhopper B.V. AIR FRANCE-KLM Passenger transport, Transavia Airlines C.V. Maintenance, Cargo KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. Cygnific B.V. Cobalt Ground Solutions Ltd. KLM Equipment Services B.V. KLM Health Services B.V. KLM UK Engineering Ltd. Martinair Holland N.V. EPCOR B.V. International Aviation Services Ltd. KLM Luchtvaart School B.V. Passenger Maintenance Cargo (logistic Ground Catering Aircraft Call center Medical Assistance to Training transport or freight transport) services cleaning services passengers having limited mobility Grenelle II social, corporate citizenship and environmental information Pursuant to article 225 of the application decree of the French Grenelle II Legislation of July 12, 2010, the social, societal and environmental reporting found in chapter 4 of the 2013 Management Report of Air France-KLM Group that has been approved by the Board of Directors on the 19th of February 2014. This information can also be found in chapter 4 of this Registration Document. Social, societal and environmental reporting Air France-KLM Registration document 2013 Social Information Employment, work organization, training, labor relations Pages 106 to 111 Health and safety Pages 111 to 114 Equal opportunities Pages 114 to 116 Social indicators Pages 117 to 123 Corporate citizenship information Territorial, economic and social impact and and sponsorship Pages 126 to 128 Relations with stakeholders Pages 124 and 126 Subcontractors and suppliers Pages 128 to 129 Fair business practices, human rights Pages 124 to 125 Environmental information Environmental policy Pages 130 to 132 Pollution, waste management and sustainable use of resources Pages 132 to 134 Climate change and biodiversity Pages 134 to 136 Environmental indicators Pages 137 to 143 80 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators Statutory Auditor’s Assurance Report on a Selection of Environmental and Social Indicators of Air France-KLM Group for the Year ended December 31, 2013 As requested and in our capacity as Statutory given below relate solely to the Data and not to 100% of the Group’s quantitative environmental Auditors of Air France-KLM S.A., we have perAir France-KLM Group’s 2013 Corporate Social information. formed a review in order to provide: Responsibility Report as a whole. A limited level of assurance the environmenThe work has been performed by our corporate Reasonable assurance tal and social indicators for the year ended responsibility experts. Concerning the information selected by the December 31, 2013 selected by Air France We conducted our procedures in accordance Group and identified by the sign √ √, we con– KLM Group and identified by the symbol √, with International Standards on Assurance Enducted the same work as the one described on a reasonable level of assurance on the indicagagements ISAE 30001 and in compliance with paragraph hereinabove for the CSR information tors ‘Fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ the professional guidelines applicable in France. considered as the most important but in a more relating to air operations for the year end­ed extensive way, particularly concerning the numDecember 31, 2013, identified by the symNature and scope of our ber of tests. bol √√. procedures The Entities selected represent 100% of the This selection of indicators (‘the Data’) is preLimited assurance consolidated environmental Data identified by sented in the tables ‘Environmental indicators’ We conducted interviews with the people responthe sign √ √. and ‘Social indicators’ of the 2013 Corporate sible for preparing CSR Information in departIn our opinion, our work allows us to express a Social Responsibility Report of Air France-KLM ments in charge of data collection processes and, reasonable assurance on the information selectGroup (“the Group”). where appropriate, those responsible for internal ed by the Group and identified by the sign √ √. control procedures and risk management, to: Responsibility of the Assess the Guidelines with respect to their company relevance, completeness, reliability, neutralConclusion The Data were prepared under the responsibility ity and understandability, taking into account Limited assurance of Air France’s Environment and Sustainable Debest practices in the industry, if applicable; Based on the procedures performed, we did not velopment division, in accordance with internal Verify that a data collection, compilation, proidentify any material anomaly likely to call into performance reporting procedures (hereinafter cessing and quality control process has been question the fact that the Data in the tables ‘En‘the Protocol’), which may be consulted upon reimplemented to ensure the completeness and vironmental indicators’ and ‘Social indicators’ of quest to the Environment and Sustainable Develconsistency of the Information and review the Air France-KLM Group’s 2013 Corporate Social opment division of Air France-KLM. The method internal control and risk management proceResponsibility Report, identified by the symbol √, used to collect the data and calculate the social dures involved in the preparation of the CSR have been prepared, in all material respects, in and environmental indicators is explained in the Information. accordance with the above-mentioned Protocol. notes accompanying the tables “Environmental We determined the nature and scope of tests indicators” and “Social indicators”. and quality control processes, based on the Reasonable assurance type and importance of the CSR Information In our opinion, the indicators “Fuel consumption” Independence and quality with respect to the characteristics of the comand “CO2 emissions’ relating to air operations, control pany, the social and environmental impacts of its identified by the symbol √ √ in the 2013 CorOur independence is defined by regulatory rebusiness activities, its sustainable development porate Social Responsibility Report, have been quirements, our profession’s Code of Ethics strategy, and industry best practices. prepared, in all material respects, in accordance and Article L.822-11 of the French Commercial We performed consistency tests on the consoliwith the above-mentioned Protocol. Code. In addition, we have set up a compredated Data at Group level. hensive quality control system, including docuAt the entity level, for a representative sample of mented policies and procedures, to ensure comentities selected2 on the basis of their business Paris La Défense, April 10, 2014 pliance with ethical requirements, professional activity, contribution to consolidated indicators, standards and applicable legal and regulatory where they operate and a risk analysis, we conrequirements. ducted interviews to verify the proper applicaKPMG Audit tion of procedures and performed substantive Department of KPMG S.A. Statutory auditor’s tests using sampling techniques, to verify calresponsibility culations and reconcile data with supporting Our responsibility is to issue conclusions on documents. The selected sample accounted for Valérie Besson the Data, based on our work. The conclusions 78% of the workforce and between 51% and Partner 1. ISAE 3000 – Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical information. 2. Environment: Air France Industrial Division (Orly and Villeneuve-le-Roi), Air France ground vehicles & equipment, Servair group and subsidiaries (Servair 1, Acna Roissy), KLM Schiphol and headquarters for ground operations. Air France and subsidiaries CityJet, BritAir, Regional and Transavia France, KLM, KLM CityHopper, Transavia and Martinair for air operations. Social: Air France in France, KLM in the Netherlands and Cobalt Ground Solutions in England. 81 performance indicators Global compact: Communication on Progress Air France-KLM established a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement which covers the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Below an overview of where the information can be found in the report regarding these principles and where additional information can be found. Extra information available Global Compact principle Pages Source outside the CSR report Human Rights 12,13,20 Air France-KLM Social and Ethics Charter In-house documents, Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Contract clause on labour protection Air France-KLM Registration of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Document 2013 page 124 Sustainable Procurement Charter for suppliers Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Air France: http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/ sustainable-development KLM: h ttp://www.klmtakescare.com Labour Law 50-59 Air France – KLM: Social Rights and Ethics Charter. In-house documents, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Air France and KLM websites A  ir France: Charters for the prevention of harassment at the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; workplace, for Occupational Safety and Accident prevention, Air France-KLM Registration Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Agreement on psychological and social risks. Document 2013 pages 106-123 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  LM: Collective Labor Agreement, Occupational Health & Safety K Policy Statement. Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment 22-37 G  EP Code for Good Environmental Practices In-house documents, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach Air France and KLM websites E nvironmental protection clause for suppliers to environmental challenges; Air France-KLM Registration Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Document 2013 pages 130-143 responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Fight against Corruption 12, 20 Air France-KLM Financial Code of Ethics In-house documents, Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Air France and KLM Anti-Bribery Manual Air France and KLM CSR websites including extortion and bribery Air France-KLM Registration Code of Ethics to be signed by Air France and KLM buyers Document 2013 pages 124-125 Air France and KLM Whistleblower procedures, KLM Code of Conduct GRI correspondence: A level GRI3 principles and recommendations were taken into account for the writing of this report. GRI has performed the Application Level Check to show to which extent the GRI guidelines have been utilized in the report. The check confirmed the A level. The complete GRI indicators table can be found on the Air France and KLM website: www.klm.com/csr and http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/sustainable-development. Management approach and performance indicators Governance, Commitments Labor Practices & Decent Pages of the report Strategy and Analysis Organizational profile Report Parameters Product reponsibility and Engagement Economic Environmental work Human rights Society Main chapters of the report Foreword 3 x Interview 4 x Financial results 8 x Key figures 4-8 x x CSR Highlights 9 x Governance and organization 12-23 x x Our CSR approach 12 x x x x x Environment 22 x x Sustainability in the Customer Experience 38 x x Responsible Human Resources 50 x x x Local Development 60 x x x Indicators 70 x x x x 82 AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2013 performance indicators International non-financial indexes and rating 2013 Air France-KLM is assessed annually by the major international non-financial rating agencies, including RobecoSAM, Vigeo, Eiris and OEKOM. For the 9th year running, the Group is recognized by two Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI World and DJSI Europe) and has been ranked leader in the “Airlines” industry by RobecoSAM. Moreover, for the fifth year running, Air France-KLM is ranked leader of the broader “Transportation” category, covering air, rail, sea and road transport as well as airport activities. In this way Air France-KLM perpetuates the ranking at the 24 most sustainable companies in the world. Thanks to this performance the Group retained its listing on FTSE4Good Index Series and on the Vigeo indexes (World 120, Europe 120, Eurozone 120, France 20 and Ethibel Sustainable Indiex (ESI) Excellence Europe). Air France-KLM is included in the Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index (CDLI) France 2013, which ranks the 10% companies having the best scores for transparency, among the largest companies by market capitalization in France. Moreover, the Group is included in the Climate Performance Leader Index (CPLI) France 2013, which includes companies having achieved a grade A. Document produced by Air France KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Environment and CSR Division CSR Office 45, rue de Paris Postbus 7700 95 747 Roissy-CDG cedex 1117 ZL Schiphol France The Netherlands For more information please visit: http://corporate.airfrance.com and www.klmtakescare.com If you have any question, you can send an e-mail to: mail.developpementdurable@airfrance.fr and csr@klm.com Conception, rewriting and execution: BETC Content – Art direction and infographics: Katkar Artwork execution and engraving: La compagnie des couleurs – Cover: Harrison & Wolf Photographs: Air Fance, Servair and KLM photographic librairies, Joël Raveloson/ WWF-MWIOPO, Photo/UNICEF, Cécile Vic/Air France Foundation. As part of the Group's CSR approach, this report is printed using the most environmentally-friendly process at each step and a PEFC paper. The report is printed by Print Alliance, ISO 14001 certified. 83 www.airfranceklm.com
