Adding More Aluminum Creating Value Sustainability Report 2014 1 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Contents By adding highrecycled-content 2 9 Overview Strategy Novelis aluminum 3 Welcome 10 Pioneering a New to their products, 4 Letter from Our Chief Executive Officer Way of Doing our customers are 6 Performance Summary 7 About Novelis Business 16 Materiality creating value for 18 Stakeholder Engagement consumers – and 23 21 Sustainability for the world. The Management and Governance following sections Sourcing explain how. 24 Re-engineering Our Supply Chain Adding More 30 67 Aluminum Manufacturing Consumers 31 Our Manufacturing Creating Value Operations 68 Engaging with 33 Our Environmental Consumers Performance 72 Product Safety 46 Developing Our and Health People 52 Engaging with Our Communities 73 60 About This Report Customers 74 The Global Reporting Initiative Index 61 Delivering Value to Our Customers 81 UNGC Communication 62 Sector Focus: Automotive on Progress Index 64 Sector Focus: Beverage Can 83 Awards and 66 Sector Focus: Specialties Recognitions 2 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Welcome At Novelis, we have set an ambitious goal to use 80% recycled aluminum inputs in our operations by 2020. This goal is transforming our company and dramatically improving the sustainability profile of our products throughout their life cycle. This sustainability report, our fourth, reviews our We have aligned this report to conform to the new continued progress toward this goal – as well as G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global our other key targets – at each life cycle stage: Reporting Initiative (GRI) at the Comprehensive level. sourcing, manufacturing, customer use and Please see About This Report (p. 73) for an abbreviated end-of-life with consumers. GRI index and for more information about the report’s scope and boundaries. Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers Reached In FY14, reduced Invested approx. Helping 46% recycled energy intensity $550 million consumers content by 5% and water since 2012 to reduce their by the use intensity triple our capacity carbon emissions. end of FY14 and absolute to serve the Accepted into GHG emissions auto industry WWF Climate by 4% each by 2015 Savers Program. 3 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Letter from Our Chief Executive Officer To Our Stakeholders: At Novelis, we are relentlessly focused on achieving At the core of our company’s transformation is our our vision to lead our industry by producing the unprecedented target to use 80% recycled inputs by most innovative, technologically advanced, low2020, compared to 33% three years ago. This target has carbon aluminum flat rolled products on the market. implications for nearly every aspect of our business – Accomplishing this demands much more than business from the basic design of our products and our portfolio as usual. It requires us to pioneer a fundamentally mix, to the structure of our supply chain and our new way of thinking and operating. It also requires a relationships with our customers. But when we reach willingness to not only embrace disruption within our it, we will cut our absolute, life cycle greenhouse gas own company, but also to create it in our industry and emissions in half, even with significantly increased the markets we serve. production, and achieve our objective to be the low-carbon aluminum producer. This new way of operating entails shifting our business model from a traditional linear approach to an Another key component of our transformation is increasingly closed-loop one. This shift will enable us to a dramatic expansion of our capacity to serve the accelerate and capitalize on the sustainability potential automotive industry, the fastest-growing market for of aluminum as a lightweight, infinitely recyclable metal our products, as automakers increasingly turn to – and to dramatically reduce the embedded carbon aluminum to lightweight their vehicles. When our latest in our products. It demands we apply our industryprojects come online, our automotive sheet capacity leading research and technology capabilities to create will reach 900 kilotons annually – a three-fold increase the product innovations needed to close the loop. And, in just two years. in an increasingly energyand carbon-constrained operating environment, we are convinced it will be a By the end of our 2014 fiscal year (FY14), we had key source of competitive advantage for our company reached 46% recycled inputs, putting us firmly on track – and for our customers. to achieve our interim goal of 50% by 2015. We also reduced our absolute greenhouse gas emissions by 17% since our baseline – including 4% in FY14 alone. 4 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report While our increased use of recycled aluminum – In addition, we continued to work with all of our and corresponding decreased reliance on primary automotive customers to implement closed-loop aluminum – is central to our shift toward a closed-loop manufacturing processes in which we take back their and low-carbon business model, it’s just one element of production scrap, re-melt it, cast it and roll it again. And our broader sustainability strategy. We are also focused we advanced our efforts to take the closed-loop model on implementing sustainable manufacturing processes even further by developing new, more easily recycled in our own operations, and on what we see as the other alloys – and by leveraging higher-recycled-content foundations of being a sustainable company: operating materials – in automotive applications. ethically and responsibly, protecting the health and safety of our people, developing our employees and FY14 also marked the commercial debut of evercan™ contributing to the communities where we operate. – the world’s first independently certified, high-recycledcontent aluminum beverage can sheet – when Red Hare Our shift toward a closed-loop and low-carbon Brewing Company announced it would package its craft approach is also requiring us to engage and partner beer exclusively in cans made of Novelis’ evercan sheet. with a broader and more diverse set of stakeholders, The product is a technical breakthrough and represents to challenge and inform our thinking and to advance a huge step forward in enabling aluminum to realize its shared objectives that cannot be achieved on our own. full sustainability potential. We remain focused on closing In FY14, for example, we launched a new partnership the gap to our ultimate goal of creating a 100% recycled with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Novelis was content aluminum beverage can. accepted into WWF’s Climate Savers Program, an exclusive initiative to encourage companies to reduce During the year, we also expanded recycling capacity their operational carbon footprint and act as agents of in all of our operating regions – including putting change within their spheres of influence. the finishing touches on our new recycling center in Nachterstedt, Germany, commissioned in June 2014. We also remain committed to the United Nations Global The new facility will be the world’s largest and most Compact, to which Novelis is a signatory. This report advanced aluminum recycling center – and it will serves as our third Global Compact Communication on firmly solidify Novelis’ position as the largest recycler Progress, and we are continuing to work to implement of aluminum in the world. its 10 principles. As we acknowledged when we set our ambitious sustainability targets in 2011, I have fundamental confidence in we were committing to do things we didn’t Novelis’ ability to create and apply yet know how to do, using technologies we had not yet invented. But then, as now, the disruptive innovations required to I have fundamental confidence in Novelis’ ability to create and apply the disruptive drive the radical change we envision. innovations required to drive the radical change we envision. Our FY14 Progress Since then, we have made great strides and filled As we detail in this report, in FY14 Novelis continued to in many of the unknowns – though certainly many execute on its aggressive growth plans, and we made challenges and uncertainties remain. In the process, solid progress toward our business and sustainability we’ve also rocked the boat, at times seeking to move objectives, even in the face of some significant faster or more aggressively on sustainability than some market challenges. The scale and pace of change of our stakeholders. But I am firmly convinced that the and expansion underway in our company remains transformation Novelis is leading is what society wants unprecedented – and yet our execution remains – and what the planet and the global economy need superb, which is a testament to the talented, committed – and that it will be the key driver of our company’s and hardworking Novelis employees around the world. long-term success. Building on our long-time partnerships with Jaguar Thank you for taking the time to learn about Novelis’ Land Rover and other major global carmakers, we vision to lead our industry through sustainability and further strengthened our position as the leading innovation. We invite your feedback and partnership supplier of aluminum sheet to the automotive industry as we work to make it a reality. when we were selected in FY14 as a key supplier for Ford Motor Company’s new aluminum-intensive 2015 F-150 pickup truck. Philip R. Martens, President and Chief Executive Officer 5 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Performance Summary Our overall progress toward our targets continues to be strong. While there is some variability in our year-on-year performance, we believe we are firmly on track to achieve the targets. Safety Profitability Recycled metal Billion content % Zero recordable cases per 200,000 Approximately double FY11 80% by 2020 hours worked adjusted EBITDA by FY16 Performance Summary Chart: [Flag: Let’s update last year’s graphic (below) by deleting 1.01 0.60 0.99 0 the FY12 data$1.1 $0.96 and adding in FY14 $0.89 data, and adjusting >$2 30 43 46 80 FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 is:] FY11 FY13 FY14 FY16 FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 Average Target Target Average Target is not trending in a positive direction) The profitability target was set in 2011 o Recycled metal content: 46 (keep the arrow pointing and will not be met by FY16. Energy usage forward)] o Energy usage: 9.5 GJ/mt (keep arrow going forward) GHG emissions GJ/mt M mt Water usage o Water usage: 3.0 m3/mt (keep arrow going forward) o GHG emissions: 17M mt (keep arrow going forward) Reduce by 39% per metric ton of sales Halve our absolute amount m3/mt (Scope 1, 2 and 3) of increases, I think we need a backward arrow here Reduce instead of the by 25% per metric equals sign) ton of sales o Safety: .99 (again, since we have two successive years of increase, I suggest changing the equal sign to a back12.4 10.0 9.5 7.6 ward arrow) 21 18 17 11 FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 o Community: same as last year Average Target Average Target 3.7 3.1 2.9 2.7 o Code of Conduct: same as last year FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 o Employees: percentage for FY14 still TBD Average Target Landfill Community K mt Employees Zero landfilled waste 100% of operations have implemented % local community engagement process 100% of eligible employees receive annual performance feedback 63.1 53.6 62.1 0 Code of FY07–09 Average FY13 FY14 FY20 Target NA 52 46 100 Conduct FY07–09 FY13 FY14 FY20 Employee and supplier codes rolled out, Key Average Target process in place for noncompliance Improved  since baseline but not improved in most recent year World-class leadership development Key Behind schedule program, benchmarked in the top K = thousand M = million Improving, and on track to meet target mt = metric tons m3 = cubic meters 10% of companies These corporate-wide sustainability targets use the average of fiscal years 2007–2009 as a baseline and fiscal year 2020 as an end date (with the exception of the profitability target). We will review our targets for 2020 in next year’s report. 6 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-17 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report About Novelis Novelis is the world’s largest manufacturer of rolled aluminum and the global leader in aluminum recycling. We deliver environmentally sustainable solutions for the In FY14, 46% of our aluminum inputs were recycled most technologically demanding applications in sectors aluminum. To recycle aluminum, we shred and de-coat including automotive, beverage can and high-end scrap, remelt it (mixing in primary aluminum and alloys specialties such as architecture and consumer electronics. when necessary) and cast it into ingots. Aluminum is infinitely recyclable; the quality is not degraded in the We are primarily an aluminum converter – that is, we recycling process. When we use primary aluminum, we convert aluminum ingots into flat rolled products (FRP). buy the ingots from aluminum producers and traders. Key Novelis Facts and Figures for FY14 Headquarters Employees1 Sales Operating facilities1 $9.8 2,895 11,410 billion metric employees globally in net sales kilotons2 of FRP shipments Global HQ and Global Research & Technology Center (GRTC) Atlanta, Georgia, USA, and Kennesaw, Georgia, USA 395 (280 HQ + 115 GRTC) Global Research & Technology Center North America South America Europe Asia Atlanta, Georgia, USA São Paulo, Brazil Zurich, Switzerland Seoul, South Korea 2,755 1,820 4,550 1,890 $3.1 billion $1.6 billion $3.3 billion $1.9 billion 10 plants (including 2 rolling plants 9 plants (including 3 plants (2 with 2 fully dedicated (1 with recycling 1 fully dedicated recycling operations) recycling facilities operations), recycling facility and 1 plant with 1 primary aluminum and 2 plants with recycling operations) smelter recycling operations) 1 As of March 31, 2014. 2 One metric kiloton (kt) is 1,000 metric tons. 7 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-17 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Where Novelis Aluminum is Used Novelis aluminum is used in four key market categories: can, automotive, high-end specialties and other. The following percentages show how our business breaks down by market, as measured by flat rolled product shipments in FY14. 62% 9% Can: Aluminum cans – used for both Automotive: Aluminum is used in beverages and food – are light, stackable vehicle structures as well as body panels, and use space efficiently, making them side walls, doors, hoods, trims and other 12% convenient and cost-efficient to ship. While applications. Aluminum components our automotive and specialty categories are are lighter weight and thus deliver High-End Specialties: Specialty applications include growing, aluminum for cans still makes up a better fuel economy and improved consumer electronics such as large part of our product portfolio. emissions performance compared smartphones, tablets, laptops, Sector focus: page 64 to traditional metals. e-readers and flat-screen TVs; Sector focus: page 62 architecture and building materials; transportation applications in vehicles other than cars; industrial equipment; heating and cooling systems and more. Sector focus: page 66 17% Other: This category includes aluminum for foil and other light-gauge products. 8 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Strategy Our goal is simple: to be the undisputed leader in the aluminum rolled products industry. Innovation and sustainability are the foundations of the strategy that will get us there. We’re Adding… Sustainability Commitment Expanded Capacity Disruptive Innovation Novelis is building our company’s future Our low-carbon business strategy is based We are applying an entirely on sustainability. It is integral to our on aggressively positioning our company new, more sustainable way of business strategy and driving changes in to meet the rapidly growing demand thinking – combined with our our processes and decision making across for aluminum flat rolled products. We unrivaled technical capabilities literally every aspect of our company. are making record capital investments – to fundamentally re-engineer to expand our recycling operations and how we operate and the production capacity. products we make. Novelis has invested approximately $2 billion since 2011 to expand our recycling and production capacity We’re Creating… A Closed-Loop Business Model Competitive Advantage Value for Our As we increase our recycled inputs, we are We are convinced that Novelis’ Customers and Society transforming our business model from a commitment to sustainability is In a carbonand resource-constrained traditional linear approach to a closed-loop a key differentiator and source world, we are halving the embedded carbon one – dramatically reducing the life cycle of competitive advantage for in our products, enabling our customers to impacts of our products and pioneering the our company. Our customers make their products more sustainable and way toward the circular economy. are increasingly focused on helping facilitate the transition to the lowsustainability – and Novelis is carbon economy of the future. their go-to partner. 9 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Pioneering a New Way of Doing Business Sustainability is at the heart of our business strategy – and will be a key source of our competitive advantage. In short, our strategy is designed to reduce the However, recycled aluminum avoids 95% of the energy embedded carbon in our products, and we are use and greenhouse gas emissions associated with achieving it by pioneering a fundamentally new way primary aluminum production. Consequently, Novelis of doing business. believes that realizing the full sustainability potential of aluminum depends on the industry decreasing Traditionally, the aluminum industry has relied on a its reliance on primary aluminum by shifting toward largely linear business model, with primary aluminum recycled aluminum as the predominant input. Doing – made through a process of extracting alumina so will dramatically reduce our company’s – and the from the mined substance bauxite – as the key input. industry’s – carbon footprint, as well as our production Recycling has also always been a part of the value costs, and increase the security of supply. chain, but primary aluminum has remained the predominant material input. At Novelis, for example, Novelis is leading the way toward this shift – and in primary aluminum comprised an average of 70% of doing so, we are not only strengthening our company, our aluminum inputs between FY07 and FY09, with the but also disrupting our industry and delivering value to remaining 30% made up of recycled aluminum. our customers and society. Waste to Landfill Figure 1: Novelis’ Goal: A Novelis Closed-Loop Business Model Target: 0% We are in the process of transforming our business model from the traditional linear one to a closed-loop and low-carbon model Novelis Customer – driven by our ambitious target to Fabrication Production reach 80% recycled inputs by 2020. Post-Production Scrap Take-Back Ingot Consumer Casting Use Primary Waste Aluminum Novelis Objective: Inputs To Minimize Novelis Objective: To Minimize Novelis Recycling End-of-Life Operations & Collection Processing Our vision is that our recycled inputs will comprise 25% post-production scrap and 75% post-consumer scrap. Waste to Landfill Novelis Target: 0% 10 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Drivers of Demand for Our Products We are in the midst of a period of rapid growth in our potential to reduce energy The average amount industry. Demand for aluminum flat rolled products use and greenhouse gas of aluminum in every (FRP) is expected to grow by more than 55% worldwide emissions – and those new vehicle produced in North America is from 2013 to 2020 – from 21 million metric tons to benefits are even more expected to increase 30 million metric tons. The increasing demand is dramatic when recycled being driven, in part, by economic growth in emerging markets that is enabling more people to buy more aluminum is used. As a result, manufacturers are 75% between 2012 consumer products, many of which contain aluminum increasing their use of and 2025 (Source: – from food packaging and beverage cans to cars aluminum in a growing Ducker Worldwide) and electronics. range of products. Equally – or more so – demand is being propelled The largest growth in demand for FRP is in the by sustainability drivers such as climate change, automotive sector, with a projected annual growth rate rising energy demand and natural resource scarcity. of approximately 25-30% per year through 2020. Car Aluminum is inherently strong, malleable and manufacturers are dramatically increasing their use conductive. It is also infinitely recyclable and lightweight of aluminum as a means of lightweighting vehicles, a – which is critical in an energyand carbon-constrained key enabler for achieving the fuel-efficiency increases environment. Indeed, because of the very nature of that consumers are demanding and governments are aluminum, substituting it for other materials has the mandating around the world. Creating Business Value Through Sustainability The centerpiece of our sustainability strategy is our While a slower than expected recovery in the global target to reach 80% recycled inputs by 2020, which has economy will prevent us from achieving our FY16 implications for nearly every aspect of our business – profitability target, we firmly believe in the long-term from our operational footprint and value chain structure trends driving demand for flat rolled products and remain to our manufacturing processes and product design confident that our three-pronged strategy of increasing specifications. It is also why we are reshaping our product recycled content, optimizing our global footprint and portfolio to be concentrated on higher-value, lowergrowing our premium product portfolio will enable us carbon products. Our low-carbon product strategy to improve our financial performance in coming years. is focused, in particular, on dramatically expanding our capacity to serve the automotive industry, where In addition, the shift that Novelis, as the world’s largest carmakers are increasingly turning to aluminum to aluminum buyer, is making toward a closed-loop model lightweight vehicles. has significant benefits beyond our own company. The investments we are making will increase global recycling When we reach 80% recycled inputs, we will eliminate capacity by more than 3 million metric tons and will 10 million metric tons of greenhouse gases (GHGs) from stimulate end-of-life recycling rates. the aluminum production chain – cutting our absolute Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions in half. Sustainable manufacturing is also integral to our shift toward a closed-loop model, and our targets for The benefits of the closed-loop model are not only energy, water and waste are driving changes across tremendous from a sustainability perspective, but from a our operations. In addition, we are focused on what we business perspective as well: closing the loop enables us view as the foundation of being a sustainable enterprise: to secure reliable, independent sources of input material, operating ethically and responsibly; protecting the health and improves the efficiency of materials procurement, and safety of our people; ensuring we develop and manufacturing and supply chain operations. maintain an adequate talent pipeline; and contributing to the communities where we operate. 11 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Positioning Novelis to Meet Growing Demand Our business strategy is based on aggressively In particular, we are increasing our capacity to meet the positioning our company to meet the rapidly growing fast-growing demand in the automotive sector – when demand for aluminum FRP. We are making record all of the new lines are commissioned in late 2015, capital investments to expand our recycling operations Novelis’ global automotive sheet capacity will reach and production capacity to serve the automotive, approximately 900 kilotons (kt) per year, a three-fold beverage can and high-end specialties markets. increase from 2013. Since 2011, Novelis has made nearly $2 billion in capital investments in strategic geographic locations. Recent highlights include: 1 2 3 3 3 USA: Oswego, NY U.K.: Latchford Germany: Göttingen Germany: Alunorf Germany: Nachterstedt Commissioned Commissioned Expanded Expanded recycling Expanding automotive finishing two new plant for closedautomotive sheet capacity and lines (to come online in 2015), automotive sheet loop automotive production capacity expanding finishing and constructed the world’s finishing lines in aluminum recycling 20 kt capacity for largest recycling facility 2013/2014, and a 65 kt beverage can sheet (commissioned in 2014). third to go online 50 kt recycling 120 kt of automotive and in 2015, along with 400 kt recycling plans to upgrade and expand recycling operations 360 kt automotive sheet 1 2 3 5 6 7 4 4 5 6 7 Brazil: Pinda Italy: Pieve China: Changzhou South Korea: Ulsan and Yeongju Expanding rolling and recycling Emanuele Commissioned a Completed a two-year capabilities and adding a Commissioned new automotive rolling and recycling coating line for can end stock new aluminum sheet finishing expansion project 220 kt rolling, 190 kt recycling, recycling and plant in 2014 350 kt rolling and and 100 kt beverage can casting line 120 kt 265 kt recycling finishing 15 kt Rolling capacity Automotive sheet production and finishing Can coating line and/or finishing Recycling expansion 12 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Unlocking Advantage Through Innovation and Technology We believe that disruptive innovation and groundbreaking has put Novelis at the forefront of our industry. There, our technology will be the essential enablers for achieving scientists, researchers and engineers work together under our ambitious business and sustainability goals. Reaching one roof – alongside our commercial and operational 80% recycled inputs – and fully capitalizing on the teams and in close cooperation with our customers – to sustainability potential of aluminum – will require create the product and process innovations to meet our rethinking the fundamental design of our products, and customers’ needs today, and develop the next-generation, re-engineering the processes to make them. low-carbon aluminum products of the future. Our Global Research & Technology Center, located near our headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia, USA, serves as a global hub for our research and development efforts and In Partnership with Universities to Advance Research Graeme Marshall, Director, Global Research & Development, Novelis “Through partnerships with universities, Novelis has leveraged the knowledge, resources and research capabilities of professors and students to help make our company the technology and innovation leader in our industry. At the same time, these partnerships have enabled the next generation of scientists and engineers to gain hands-on experience in applied research and development.” While Novelis has its own industry-leading mentoring by Novelis scientists and engineers, research facilities, we are extending our research typically through funding of PhD students, and technology capabilities further by establishing collaborative work or intern programs. These partnerships with leading universities with programs partnerships also help Novelis create connections in materials science, chemistry and engineering. with potential future employees, as researchers Through these relationships, Novelis scientists can or as participants in our Engineering Development leverage their research by tapping into the extensive Program – a valuable benefit given the intense knowledge of university professors and students, competition among companies to recruit as well as access unique research equipment that young engineers. has limited availability. For example, in recent years Novelis-sponsored PhD projects have investigated Novelis seeks to partner with the best research mixed-metal corrosion, developed algorithms establishments in our technical fields, and we for automation systems, explored the origin and collaborate with internationally renowned evolution of surface structures and researched the universities in Canada, Europe, the U.K. and the atomic behavior of high-strength automotive sheet. United States. Examples include McMaster and University of British Columbia in Canada; Aachen The partnerships also enable university researchers and Zurich (ETH) in Europe; Manchester and to get hands-on experience in industrial aluminum Swansea in the U.K.; and Georgia Tech and the applications and rolled products processing with Colorado School of Mines in the United States. 13 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Strategy and FY14 Highlights We’re Adding… Our Business Strategy Sustainability Strategic Objectives Reduce the Re-engineer and Grow our premium embedded carbon minimize risk within Sourcing in our products by our supply chain product portfolio increasing recycled to focus on high-value, low-carbon products in the content automotive, beverage can and specialties markets Expand production Maintain Ensure an adequate capacity safe, efficient supply of talent Manufacturing and optimize our geographic operations and footprint to serve key markets minimize natural Maintain our resource use social license to operate Expand our recycling capacity Provide value to our customers, Customers in particular by helping them meet their sustainability objectives For more details on our recent investments in expanding our production and recycling capacity, see p. 12. Increase postHelp our customers consumer recycling make sustainable Consumers of aluminum products that consumers want 14 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We’re Creating… FY14 Highlights Reached 46% Recycled 50 billion Continued recycled content by used beverage cans roll-out of Sourcing the end of FY14 Supplier Code of Conduct Reduced energy Graduated the first Donated intensity by 5% class of 53 young $3.3 million through Manufacturing and water use engineers from Novelis Neighbor, intensity and our Engineering and our employees absolute GHG Development volunteered emissions by Program 20,626 hours 4% each Announced the Invested Selected as one of the commercial debut approximately key aluminum Customers of evercan™ high$550 million suppliers for Ford’s recycled-content since 2012 to 2015 aluminumaluminum beverage triple our capacity intensive F-150 can sheet to serve the auto pickup truck industry by 2015 Worked with Helping consumers Continued to support Forum for the Future reduce their carbon several key programs Consumers to explore consumer emissions. Accepted that educate and stakeholder into WWF Climate consumers about attitudes about Savers Program. recycling sustainable packaging and brand preference 15 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-18 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Materiality In 2011, Novelis conducted a materiality assessment to help us identify the issues that are most important to our business and our stakeholders. We regularly review and evaluate these material issues to determine if they remain consistent and relevant, and if there are any new and emerging issues we need to address. Our original assessment Figure 2: Novelis’ Material Issues and informed the development the Location of Their Impacts of our sustainability strategy and priorities, and helped S OUTSIDE TH IMPACT E OR us establish our 2020 IM ARY GAN PR IZA TIO targets. Our regular review N of the issues takes place as part of our ongoing engagement with external D OUTSIDE HIN AN THE stakeholders, as well as our Consumer S WIT OR PostCT GA business planning, strategy in-use MPA NI consumer sustainability I Metal and other ZA recycling development and risk RY resource availability benefits PR management processes. IM ON A TI Since conducting the initial assessment, engagement Reducing Recycled metal ITHIN THE O waste and SW RG inputs with a range of internal resource use CT TION and external stakeholders – IMPA IZA Metal and other resource Profitable growth availability including our Sustainability PRIMARY AN Profitable growth Attracting and Advisory Council – has Sustainable Responsible product Attracting and retaining retaining talent talent sourcing affirmed that the broad set of innovation Health Healthand andsafety safety issues we identified as most Ethical behavior Ethical behavior and compliance material for Novelis and our and compliance stakeholders remain relevant Policy Quality of Environmental Community and accurate. customer impact and engagement engagement service carbon emissions In transitioning to use of our products the new Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines for Environmental footprint of this year’s report, we also our operations re-evaluated our materiality assessment, analyzed how our material issues aligned with the new G4 framework Environmental impact and and took steps to ensure carbon emissions from our our report content reflects customers’ products Novelis’ most material issues and impacts (see About This Report, p. 73). 16 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-18, G4-19, G4-20 and G4-21 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Material Issues Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers/Society Novelis Material Issue Applicable Aspects in the Global Reporting Relevant Life Cycle Stage Initiative G4 Guidelines1 (Boundary Determination) Metal and other resource None Applicable availability Recycled metal inputs EN: Materials Responsible sourcing EN: Supplier Environmental Assessment LA: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices HR: Supplier Human Rights Assessment SO: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Profitable growth EC: Economic Performance Attracting and retaining talent LA: Employment LA: Labor/Management Relations LA: Training and Education LA: Diversity and Equal Opportunity LA: Equal Pay for Women and Men Environmental impact EN: Emissions and carbon emissions of EN: Products and Services our products Environmental footprint of EN: Materials our operations EN: Emissions EN: Effluents and Waste EN: Energy EN: Water Health and safety LA: Occupational Health and Safety Ethical behavior and EN: Compliance compliance Quality of customer service None Applicable Environmental impact and EN: Emissions carbon emissions from our EN: Products and Services customers’ products Sustainable product innovation EN: Products and Services Post-consumer recycling EN: Products and Services EN: Materials Reducing waste and EN: Effluents and Waste resource use Policy engagement SO: Public Policy Consumer in-use EN: Products and Services sustainability benefits PR: Customer Health and Safety Community engagement SO: Local Communities 1 For more information about the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 guidelines, go to: globalreporting.org. 17 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 and G4-27 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Stakeholder Engagement Engaging with our stakeholders has been a critical part of helping Novelis identify the material sustainability issues facing our business, and we have used the insights provided by stakeholders to help inform our strategy and priorities and establish our sustainability targets. Our stakeholders include employees and employee representatives, customers, suppliers, debt holders, our board and investor, regulators and policy Partnering to makers, the communities in which we operate, and sustainability organizations, including nongovernmental Achieve Our Goals organizations and academic institutions concerned about the social, environmental and climate impacts of the production and use of aluminum products. Beyond helping to inform our sustainability strategy, stakeholder engagement is an essential component As our efforts have shifted from defining what we want of implementing our strategy. Our life cycle approach to accomplish to focusing more on how we want to requires working to shape and shift policies, practices achieve it, we have found that ongoing stakeholder and behaviors that are outside our direct sphere of engagement is also valuable in helping us reaffirm control – most notably related to post-consumer our material issues and identify emerging ones. recycling, consumer product design, scrap collection Stakeholder engagement also enables us to get external infrastructure, and recycling and climate policies. As a perspectives on Novelis’ sustainability performance result, achieving Novelis’ goals requires partnering with and insights on new strategies and approaches for a broad range of external organizations and initiatives addressing key issues. to advance our common objectives. We engage with our stakeholders through a variety In FY14, for example, we engaged with Forum for of means. For example, as part of our daily operations, the Future to leverage its expertise on consumer we work closely with our suppliers and customers. attitudes about sustainability. As part of this effort, We also have formal community engagement, giving Novelis commissioned Forum for the Future to explore and volunteer programs in place at all our sites, which consumer and stakeholder attitudes toward sustainable provide insight into the priorities and concerns of local packaging and brand preference (see p. 68). In addition, community members. In addition, we communicate we sponsored and participated in the BoP Global and partner with a range of nongovernmental Network Summit in Brazil, organized by Enterprise organizations directly or through participation in for a Sustainable World and Global Social Impact. The events and other forums. For example, in FY13 we goal of the Summit was to share information about expanded our relationship with SustainAbility, a think business models focused on the base of the pyramid tank and strategy consultancy, by joining the Engaging (BoP), an area Novelis is exploring as we increase our Stakeholders network. And in 2014, we began a procurement of scrap aluminum from “street level” partnership with the World Wildlife Fund by joining collectors in emerging economies (see p. 27). its Climate Savers Program (see p. 20). We also engage with fellow companies in our industry and other stakeholders through our involvement in various industry associations, such as the Brazilian Aluminum Association (Associação Brasileira do Alumínio), European Aluminium Association, the Aluminium Stewardship Initiative, and others. 18 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-18, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 and G4-27 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainability Advisory Council Our Sustainability Advisory Council, established in FY12 To ensure the Council has a direct line of and made up of highly respected experts and leaders communication with the most senior decision makers in the sustainability field, is one of the key ongoing in our company, Novelis’ CEO, Chief Commercial and mechanisms we use to solicit external expertise, Strategy Officer and Chief Sustainability Officer are also advice and critical analysis of our sustainability efforts. members of the Council. The Council has two formal Members include: meetings per year, and members provide input on an •  Matt Arnold, Managing Director and Head of ad hoc basis between meetings. Sustainable Finance, JPMorgan Chase In FY14, we established a regional-level Sustainability • Stuart Hart, Steven Grossman Endowed Chair Advisory Council in Brazil. Members of the Council in Sustainable Business, University of Vermont include Miguel Milano – who also sits on our corporateBusiness School; and S.C. Johnson Chair Emeritus in level Council – senior leaders from Novelis’ Brazilian Sustainable Global Enterprise, Cornell University business unit, and Novelis’ Chief Sustainability • Jeffrey Keefer, Former Executive Vice President, Officer. The purpose is to provide a mechanism for DuPont gaining insight and informing strategy with a focus on the unique sustainability issues, challenges and •  Miguel Milano, Board Member Instituto LIFE, opportunities in Brazil. Over time, we hope to replicate Fundação O Boticário de Proteção a Natureza the model in other Novelis business units and regions. •  Jonathon Porritt, Founder, Forum for the Future Engaging on Policy Advocating for Increased Transparency in the Recycling Supply Chain To date, the majority of Novelis’ advocacy on global For decades, Novelis has been actively involved and national public policy issues has been conducted in recycling and policy development programs in through industry associations, rather than directly with the U.K., but we felt that more coordinated action policy makers. Increasingly, however, we are looking to was needed to help strengthen supply chain organizations such as Ceres, As You Sow, The Container accountability and improve the quality of recyclate. Recycling Institute and others not only for their expertise, That is why, in 2011, we helped establish and became but also to enable Novelis to be more engaged in policy a founding member of The Resource Association, an issues. In particular, we are focusing on policies relating advocacy body for the materials reprocessing and to climate change and end-of-life recycling, which will recycling industries (www.resourceassociation.com). be key to achieving our strategic goals. The organization quickly established a wide For example, Novelis was a signatory to a letter membership of reprocessors of aluminum and other submitted to U.S. President Barack Obama in June 2014 materials, such as paper and plastics, and supply from the Business for Innovative Climate and Energy chain companies, which collectively recover and Policy (BICEP) coalition, a project of Ceres, expressing recycle more than 7 million metric tons annually and support for the administration’s proposed Carbon employ over 7,000 people. Pollution Standard for Existing Power Plants. One of the early actions of the Association was to launch The End Destinations of Recycling Charter, a voluntary commitment to provide comprehensive information about the end destination of materials collected for recycling. The Charter aims to improve transparency in the recycling supply chain and enhance public confidence in recycling by enabling people to see what happens to the recyclable material they provide. By mid-2014, there were Photo: Andy Doran (seated), Senior Manager Sustainability & 95 (and growing) signatories to the Charter, all Recycling Development, Novelis – who served as the Chair of the committed to providing transparency for the Resource Association from its founding in 2011 to 2014 – signing materials that residents treat as waste, but Novelis the Charter with representatives of the Surrey Waste Partnership, and other companies know are valuable resources. October 2013. 19 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report 100 million Phil Martens, President and Chief Executive metric tons Officer, Novelis “We believe that reducing greenhouse of greenhouse gas emissions gas emissions, increasing the amount of have been cut by Climate recycled materials we use, decreasing water Savers member companies and energy use in operations and reducing as of May 2012 with the landfill waste are not just important parts of support of the WWF since the program began in 1999 a sustainability effort – they are an integral part of our overarching business strategy. By partnering with the WWF, such a well-known and respected leader in sustainability, Novelis not only demonstrates its commitment to sustainability, but leads the future of an entire market category.” In Partnership with the World Wildlife Fund Carter Roberts, President and CEO of WWF “To meet the challenges of resource scarcity and risks to the planet in the 21st century, we need bold leadership from all sectors. Novelis understands this and is making the kind of ambitious commitments that can not only change their company, but transform an entire industry.” As part of our effort to become the low-carbon leader that Novelis develop a renewable energy goal as part in our industry, in 2014, Novelis joined the World of the company’s overall carbon strategy. As a Climate Wildlife Fund (WWF) Climate Savers Program, an Savers Program member, Novelis has established exclusive initiative of the WWF to encourage companies WWF commitments that align with the company’s to reduce their operational carbon footprint and act sustainability agenda, and outside experts will track as agents of change within their sphere of influence. Novelis’ progress. Following a rigorous review of Novelis’ strategy, policies and commitments related to carbon, the WWF We believe that partnering with the WWF will help accepted Novelis into the program – making us the Novelis advance its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas only metals company to be accepted to date. emissions and lead our industry in addressing climate change. Additionally, we look forward to expanding our Through the review process, the WWF provided Novelis partnership with the WWF over time to focus on other with valuable feedback, including a recommendation key issues, such as water and recycling. 20 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sustainability Management and Governance At Novelis, we take an integrated, cohesive approach to managing sustainability issues alongside, and on par with, our other financial and operational objectives. Corporate Sustainability Governance and Management Policy Framework at Novelis Management of our company starts with our strict Our Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer, adherence to corporate governance principles. Novelis’ who reports to our CEO, is responsible for leading Board of Directors is composed of six directors, all implementation of the company’s sustainability of whom were appointed by our sole shareholder, strategy. Because our sustainability strategy is integrated Hindalco Industries Limited, which is a publicly held into our corporate strategy and cuts across all aspects company whose shares are listed for trading on the of our business, implementation is by necessity crossMumbai Stock Exchange, the National Stock Exchange functional. All of Novelis’ senior executives have of India and the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. Our responsibility for delivering on some aspect of the plan, Board oversees and provides guidance on the overall and sustainability aspects are integrated into a range of direction of our company, while our executive officers policies and systems we use to manage our company. are responsible for the day-to-day management. Our sustainability targets, alongside financial and Novelis has a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial operational ones, essentially form our company’s Officers, which reflects our commitment to financial scorecard, which we use to monitor the company’s integrity and to full and accurate financial disclosure in performance against our strategic objectives. Novelis’ compliance with applicable accounting policies, laws sustainability programs, initiatives and progress and regulations. are reviewed at a minimum at the monthly Global Operating Committee meetings, and adjustments Novelis’ employee Code of Conduct provides guidelines are made based on the results of these reviews. for employees to ensure that they are acting within Where relevant, the Board of Directors is briefed on Novelis’ standard of ethics. The Code covers five key sustainability issues as part of Novelis’ strategy review areas: acting with integrity and in Novelis’ best interests; by Novelis’ President and Chief Executive Officer. promoting a desirable work environment; safeguarding the company’s assets; engaging in ethical interactions with government; and dealing fairly with third parties. Novelis’ Supplier Code of Conduct provides guidelines for how we expect our suppliers to conduct business in an ethical and responsible manner (see p. 29). 21 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Q&A with John Gardner Chief Sustainability Officer, Novelis : What’s your role in the company? : Why was brand management recently : Novelis had been doing solid work in many areas added to your portfolio? of sustainability for years, but hadn’t fully glued it all : It’s a reflection of how fundamental sustainability together or linked it to business strategy. That is why is in our business strategy. We operate in what has my role was created. Our core Sustainability team is traditionally been viewed as a commodity business, very small, which is deliberate. We didn’t want this but Novelis’ strategy is driven by the belief that to be a standalone department. But our definition of sustainability will be a key source of competitive sustainability is very broad, and it is core to our strategy advantage for us. So sustainability needs to be a central for growing our business. So, the Sustainability team’s part of what we communicate and engage with our role is to facilitate the whole company thinking about customers and other stakeholders about. and taking ownership for sustainability. And what we say needs to be totally robust and credible One way we do that is to bring in a longer-term and – it can’t be just PR. So, the new structure is designed to externally focused perspective about future trends and ensure that sustainability thinking is fully integrated into their implications. But we can’t just star gaze. We have our brand – and that it’s fully informed by, and aligned to find that magical spot of looking and thinking both with, what we’re doing on the ground. short and long term across the whole business and then engage our colleagues in the conversation. We : How do you assess Novelis’ sustainability also serve as internal consultants to help people address progress to date? What are the most sustainability issues, and we are helping grow our recycling business and expand our sustainable product significant challenges ahead? offerings. For example, the Sustainability team has : Our progress has been amazing. There are some been deeply involved in the development and launch “two steps forward, one step back” cycles – for example, of evercan™. We are also working with customers and last year a few construction projects caused an uptick other stakeholders on life cycle and circular economy in our waste numbers – but the overall trend is firmly issues to improve sustainability performance, from in the right direction. The talented people across our design to post-consumer recycling. business are driving that progress. We have fantastic in-house experts in a whole host of areas who are I feel so incredibly lucky to be given this opportunity – working to find the innovative solutions we need. And I think I have the best job in the company. we have strong interest and emerging partnerships with customers and others on developing low-carbon sustainable products. But we do have challenges. We always knew that achieving what we set out to would require going into Sustainability is core to our business strategy. uncharted territory – and that there are important variables over which we don’t have a lot of control, The Sustainability team’s role is to facilitate such as post-consumer recycling. We’ve also come the whole company’s thinking about and to more fully appreciate the challenges that can arise taking ownership for sustainability.” because of the ways we are disrupting our industry. We want to move faster or further than some of our stakeholders, and so we need to work harder at making the case for the shared benefit of going where we’re trying to lead. 22 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sourcing Novelis’ sustainability strategy is driving profound changes in how we structure and manage our supply chain as we work to dramatically increase our use of recycled metal inputs. We’re Adding… An Unprecedented Goal A Comprehensive Strategy We are working to reduce the embedded Our strategy for reaching 80% touches on carbon in our products by increasing every aspect of our business and requires our recycled inputs to 80% by 2020 – up us not only to re-engineer our supply from just 30% five years ago – which is chain, but also to redesign our products transforming our company and setting a and the processes we use to make them. new benchmark in our industry. The World’s Largest Recycling Network We are making significant investments to increase our global recycling capacity by expanding existing facilities and building new ones. We’re also expanding our scrap purchasing system and diversifying the kinds of recycled aluminum we purchase and process. We’re Creating… A More Resilient and Sustainable Supply Chain An Improved Life Cycle Footprint Because recycled aluminum avoids 95% 46% recycled metal By shifting our sourcing model and of the greenhouse gas emissions associated with primary aluminum production – and inputs in FY14, implementing a responsible sourcing uses less energy and water – our increased up 16 percentage program, we are increasing the security of use of recycled inputs dramatically improves points from our supply of essential raw materials, reducing the life cycle environmental footprint of baseline risk and improving sustainability practices within our supply chain. our products. 23 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Re-engineering Our Supply Chain Our Target Baseline (FY07– FY14 FY20 FY09 Average) Performance Target Recycled metal 80% by 2020 30% 46% 80% content See p. 6 for our full performance summary. Novelis’ sustainability strategy is driving profound changes in how we source our aluminum inputs. At the heart of our strategy is our goal to reduce the embedded carbon in our products by increasing our recycled inputs to 80% by 2020. Achieving this goal will require not only re-engineering our entire supply chain, but also redesigning our products themselves and the processes we use to make them. But when we reach our goal, we will dramatically improve the life cycle footprint of our products and increase the security of supply of essential raw materials. Our Supply Chain Impacts and Risks Novelis’ recycled inputs target is a central focus of Mining operations also have the potential to impact our sustainability strategy because our most material local biodiversity, water quality and other natural environmental impacts and social risks occur resources. In addition, because some mining operations “upstream” in our value chain through our sourcing take place in locations where laws regarding working of primary aluminum. As a result, the most significant conditions and human rights are not well-established way that Novelis – the world’s largest purchaser of or consistently enforced, they also have the potential primary aluminum – can reduce its environmental to present a range of social risks. and social impacts is by decreasing our reliance on primary aluminum. At the end of FY14, primary aluminum comprised 54% of Novelis’ aluminum inputs. Our goal is to reduce Primary aluminum is produced through a process of primary aluminum to 20% of our inputs by 2020, with extracting alumina from the mined substance bauxite the remaining 80% made up of recycled aluminum. and then refining it into liquid metal. While primary Recycled aluminum requires approximately 5% of aluminum producers have increased their resource the energy needed to produce primary aluminum, efficiency substantially over time, primary aluminum so when we reach our goal we will eliminate 10 million production remains a relatively waterand energymetric tons of GHGs from our value chain and cut our intensive process, and therefore generates significant absolute GHG emissions in half – even with increased amounts of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. production volumes. 24 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report However, even when we reach 80% recycled inputs, to engage directly with our primary aluminum suppliers we will continue to utilize primary raw materials. As a – which also have their own sustainability programs result, we are involved in industry associations, such as in place – as well as a range of other stakeholders to the Aluminum Stewardship Initiative, that are working continue to find ways to support reducing the impacts to find ways to minimize the environmental impacts of primary aluminum production. and social risks associated with primary aluminum production and raise the performance bar across the industry. Through initiatives such as this, we are able Figure 3: Novelis’ Supply Chain Novelis Customer Fabrication Production Bauxite Alumina Primary* Post-Production Mining Refining Smelting Scrap Take-Back Ingot Consumer Casting Use Recycled aluminum Primary aluminum * This evaluation considers supply chain the impacts of the primary supply chain 46% aluminum industry’s current significant use of 54% hydropower electricity during the smelting process. of inputs as of inputs as of FY14 of FY14 End-of-Life Collection Novelis Recycling Key for primary impacts Operations & Processing** Energy & GHGs Water ** Within the context of the full value chain, the energy and GHG impact Recycled aluminum Waste Human rights supply chain of this phase is small relative to the target 80% primary aluminum production phase Biodiversity (5% vs. 95%). However, within Novelis’ own organizational boundary, the impact is more material. of inputs by 2020 Security of Aluminum Supply In recent years, the supply of aluminum into the market Even as we increase our use of recycled inputs, we will has been artificially constrained – and premiums have nonetheless still purchase some primary aluminum. been artificially inflated – as a result of speculative As a result, we are collaborating with a broad range of financial transactions and the systematic delaying of other aluminum purchasers, through an organization metal shipments from London Metal Exchange (LME) called the Aluminum Users Group, to address the LME warehouses. Approximately two-thirds of all aluminum in warehousing issue. We also continue to advocate for LME warehouses is in only two locations, both of which changes to LME warehousing rules to prevent supply have waiting times where it can take up to two years for and price manipulation. companies like Novelis to get access to the metal. Our strategy to increase our recycled content to 80% will increasingly insulate Novelis from such supply issues in the primary sector. In addition, as primary and sheet ingot are generally purchased at prices set on the LME (plus local market and product premiums), we will also be insulated from potential price volatility by reducing our dependence on primary sheet ingot. 25 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Global Recycling Strategy On the surface, our 80% recycled inputs target is a sourcing issue. In practice, however, achieving it will require taking steps at every stage of the value chain – and will have implications for nearly every aspect of our business. Getting to 80% The pillars of our recycling strategy Increase Expand Reshape Evolve Increase recycling scrap product design postcapacity purchasing portfolio specifications consumer to process system to be more to develop recycling greater volumes to increase focused on products with to grow the and more the volume higher-value, greater recycled supply of variable types of and diversify lower-carbon inputs and that aluminum aluminum scrap the types of products that are more easily scrap available aluminum scrap offer greater recycled by expanding we buy end-of-life (see p. 60) post-consumer recycling and collection recycled input infrastructure and supporting recycling education programs (see p. 67) Why only 80%? While our 80% target is aggressive, it nonetheless recognizes that we will continue to require some primary aluminum to manufacture our products. This is due to the long life aluminum has in use in many products, as well as overall increasing global demand for aluminum – which means recycled content alone will not be sufficient to satisfy demand. We will also continue to need to add primary aluminum to some recycled scrap to ensure the appropriate alloy composition. However, in order to further decrease our reliance on primary aluminum, we are focusing many of our current research and innovation efforts on developing new scrap-friendly alloys. Our launch of evercan™ can body sheet – already certified to contain a minimum of 90% recycled content – is a key output of those efforts, and we are hard at work developing can sheet with even higher recycled content. 26 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Expanding the World’s Largest Building a Scrap Pipeline Recycling Network To achieve our recycled inputs goal, we need to not Novelis is already the world’s largest aluminum recycler, only expand our capacity to process aluminum scrap but with our company’s aggressive growth plans and – we also need to dramatically increase the supply of ambitious recycling target, we are continuing to invest aluminum scrap we purchase. Currently, UBCs are our in expanding our recycling operations. Our strategy largest source of scrap – making up approximately calls for Novelis to achieve global recycling capacity of 38% of the scrap we process. We currently buy the more than 3 million metric tons of scrap by 2020 – up equivalent of approximately 50 billion UBCs a year – from 1.2 million metric tons in 2010. Since 2011, we but we expect that to grow to around 60 billion have invested approximately $500 million to expand our annually by 2015. We have also significantly increased, recycling operations, which will take us to 2.1 million and will continue to increase, our purchase of non-can metric tons of recycling capacity by 2015. post-consumer scrap. In FY14, we expanded recycling facilities and To increase our supply of UBCs, we have created capabilities in all of our operating regions (see p. 12). scrap collection networks in Vietnam and Brazil that At our Latchford plant in the U.K., for example, we are designed to enable us to connect directly with commissioned an expansion project that increases scrap collectors at the “street level,” rather than only the plant’s recycling capacity by over a third – and purchasing from large dealers. Our new recycling center makes the plant Europe’s largest closed-loop recycling in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, handles the procurement, operation for automotive aluminum rolled products. cleaning and baling of UBCs – which are then sent to During the year, we also completed an upgrade to our recycling facility in Yeongju, South Korea, to be Latchford’s sorting capabilities. The state-of-the-art recycled and re-rolled into can sheet. An equivalent equipment enhances the plant’s ability to remove amount of can sheet is then sent back to Vietnam to residual plastic and paper from contaminated bales be remade into beverage cans – creating an effective of used beverage cans (UBCs), prior to them being closed-loop system. In FY14 – the first year the center melted down and recycled – doubling the plant’s was in operation – Novelis collected as much as 2,000 capacity to process UBCs. In addition, we opened metric tons of aluminum scrap per month and over a new aluminum recycling and continuous casting 13,000 metric tons in the first year. line at our Pieve Emanuele facility in Italy and an In Brazil, we currently operate seven scrap collection expansion of 190 kilotons of UBC recycling capacity centers through which we buy UBCs directly from at our Pindamonhangaba (Pinda) mill in Brazil. small collectors. Each center was designed to purchase Although we realize that more investments will need and process around 500 metric tons of scrap per to be made to achieve our target, all of the upgrades month, of which 200 metric tons are from UBCs, with and investments in FY14 will be necessary to help us increased volumes at certain times of the year, such as reach 80% recycled inputs by 2020. warmer seasons. Looking ahead, our plan is to expand the centers into other regions, and to open two new collection centers per year. The Largest Aluminum Recycling Facility in the World In FY14, we reached several key milestones in the construction of our new, $250 million aluminum recycling and casting center in Nachterstedt, Germany. The center began operations in the summer of 2014 and is projected to be the largest and most advanced recycling facility in the world. It will be able to process 18 different types of aluminum scrap, as well as remove paper, plastic and nonferrous metals from the scrap stream. Once fully online, it will produce up to 400,000 metric tons of aluminum sheet ingot from recycled material annually – and it will take Novelis to 50% recycled inputs in our products globally. Photo: The first production-sized trial ingot – almost 10 meters long – was successfully cast at Novelis’ new recycling and casting center in Nachterstedt, Germany, in June 2014. 27 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Turning Our Customers into Our Suppliers Securing an adequate supply of scrap to meet our ingots, each ingot saving More than recycling target also depends on diversifying beyond 227 metric approximately 100 metric UBCs. One of the key tools we are using to do that tons of GHG emissions is establishing closed-loop agreements with our customers. It’s an approach we have used with our beverage can customers for several years but, more when compared to ingots produced from primary aluminum. The ingots tons of GHG emissions are saved recently, we have begun to make it standard practice are then rolled back into per ingot using recycled with our customers in the automotive sector, in automotive sheet at aluminum scrap, compared particular, as well as other sectors such as electronics. to primary aluminum (for a Novelis’ specialized typical 25 metric ton ingot) rolling facilities. In As much as possible, our contracts include an some cases, we are agreement to buy back the aluminum scrap our even taking our approach a step further by making customers generate during production, which we then the transportation logistics of our products and recycle and roll into new products. In the automotive our customers’ scrap even more efficient. By using sector, for example, as much as 50% of the aluminum specially designed trucks, we are able to deliver coils of sheet we supply to our customers could end up as aluminum coming off our lines to our customer, which scrap – so the potential volume of scrap coming back will then be loaded with aluminum scrap from the to us is significant. We expect that, by 2020, these customer’s stamping plants and returned back to our arrangements with our customers across all of our plant to be made back into coils for that same customer. markets will provide approximately a quarter of our total recycled inputs. This emerging closed-loop model reduces the environmental footprint of Novelis’ operations and These agreements also provide an opportunity to that of our customers, such as JLR. The expansion dramatically advance the closed-loop business at Latchford will avoid nearly 530,000 metric tons of model Novelis is working toward. When we expanded GHG emissions over the total aluminum value chain our recycling operations at our Latchford plant in annually compared to using primary aluminum. It also Warrington, U.K., in FY14, for example, we invested in strengthens Novelis’ cooperative, long-term relationships new equipment for recycling automotive aluminum with JLR and other customers, driving the development scrap from Jaguar Land Rover (JLR), one of Novelis’ of innovative, sustainable products and processes. long-standing customers. During the recycling process, the scrap is re-melted and cast into 11 metric ton The 2014 Range Rover: the world’s first all-aluminum-bodied SUV Photo: Credit JLR 28 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Responsible Sourcing Alongside our efforts to shift our sourcing model, In FY14, we began roll-out of the Code by distributing we are also taking steps to minimize risk across our it to our key global suppliers. By the end of the year, supply chain broadly by encouraging transparency, we had received signed affirmations from 60% of those responsibility and sustainable business practices among suppliers. In FY15, we will distribute the Code to our our suppliers. remaining global and regional suppliers. In FY13, Novelis launched a new Supplier Code of Conduct that provides guidelines for how we expect our suppliers to conduct business in an ethical and responsible manner. While many of our suppliers already have robust policies and practices in place consistent with the expectations in our Code, we nonetheless wanted to ensure all of our suppliers are aware of, and adhering to, Novelis’ standards. The Code, available on our website, is based on externally accepted principles, including the United Nations Global Compact, of which Novelis is a signatory. The Code outlines expectations for our suppliers in the areas of legal compliance, labor and human rights, abolition of child labor, health and safety, environmental protection, and promotion of the Code within their own supply chains. All Novelis suppliers will be expected to agree to the terms of the Code and uphold the Code in all their operations. Suppliers will be required to provide Novelis with an affirmation that they have read and understand the Novelis Supplier Code of Conduct and agree to adhere to its provisions. We will monitor compliance through supplier self-assessments, conducted via questionnaires and surveys. In addition, in instances where we have reason to believe a supplier may not be in compliance with our Code, we will conduct supplier audits and inspections. In addition, we are building the Code into our procurement processes, such that the Code will be part of the contract agreements for all new suppliers. Conflict Minerals Update In 2012, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission Based on our internal assessment, none of the aluminum or alloys issued a rule as part of the Dodd-Frank Act that requires public in our supply chain contain conflict minerals that are necessary companies to disclose whether they use conflict minerals, and to the production or functionality of Novelis products. However, whether the minerals originated in the Democratic Republic of certain of the products we produce for the beverage can market the Congo or adjoining countries. The concern is that mining for have a thin coating produced using a tin catalyst applied to them certain minerals – particularly tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold before shipping to our customers. These tin catalysts are used at – often takes place in environments where armed conflict and very low levels by certain of our coatings suppliers. human rights abuses are present, and that proceeds from the sale of the minerals help to finance the conflict. Novelis has engaged with our suppliers and determined that, based on our reasonable country of origin inquiry, we have no reason to believe that any necessary conflict minerals in our supply chain originated in the Democratic Republic of the Congo or an adjoining country. 29 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Manufacturing Across our manufacturing operations, we focus on delivering strong environmental performance, robust human resources and safety programs, and meaningful engagement with the communities where our facilities are located. We’re Adding… Ambitious Environmental A Comprehensive Goals to Drive System for Performance Managing Safety We have set challenging The motto of our Novelis Safety goals in the areas of GHG System is “Together We are emissions, energy use, water Safe,” and we are spreading use and waste to landfill, and this mindset and associated we have put global programs behaviors throughout our and processes in place to help global operations. achieve them. Employee Engagement in Community Programs Our Novelis Neighbor program makes a real difference in the communities where we operate by putting employee volunteers to work on key local projects and programs. We’re Creating… Innovative Solutions A New Generation of A Company Tradition to Get to Zero Waste Talented Engineers of Giving Back Our facilities are finding new, Our two-year Engineering Development October 2013 marked the second annual innovative ways to recycle Program is educating our young engineers One Novelis Volunteer Month – a successful, hard-to-handle wastes, such in all aspects of our business and helping focused effort to complete multiple as spent refractory bricks and to make Novelis a go-to employer for top employee volunteer projects near our sites baghouse dust. engineering talent. around the globe. 30 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our Manufacturing Operations The manufacturing phase of Novelis’ product life cycle presents a range of sustainability issues and impacts. These include environmental impacts from our operations; the recruitment, development and engagement of our employees; and our interactions with the communities in which our facilities are located. Our sustainability strategy focuses on driving progress in all of these areas. Our Targets Baseline (FY07– FY14 FY20 FY09 Average) Performance Target 2020 Operational Targets Energy usage Reduce by 39% per metric ton of sales 12.4 GJ/mt 9.5 GJ/mt 7.6 GJ/mt Water usage Reduce by 25% per metric ton of sales 3.7 m /mt 3 2.9 m /mt 3 2.7 m3/mt GHG emissions Halve our absolute amount (Scope 1, 2 and 3) 21M mt 17M mt 11M mt Landfill Zero landfilled waste 63.1K mt 62.1K mt 0K mt 2020 People Targets Safety Zero recordable injuries 1.01 0.99 0 Employees 100% of eligible employees receive annual performance NA 46% 100% feedback World-class leadership development program, NA In progress Benchmarked benchmarked in the top 10% of companies in top 10% Community 100% of operations have implemented local community NA 100% 100% engagement process Code of Employee and supplier codes rolled out, process in place NA In progress 100% Conduct to handle noncompliance See p. 6 for our full performance summary. 31 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Our One Novelis Approach As a fast-growing global company operating on four continents, it’s essential that our people and facilities stay Sharing Global aligned and focused on our company’s business strategy Best Practices and sustainability goals. To help foster that alignment, we have developed an approach we call One Novelis. One outcome we are working to facilitate One Novelis is helping to drive consistency and through One Novelis standardization in both people and process management. is more collaboration On the people side, we have been working to transform among our global and align our talent management practices to eliminate employees. Recently, regional and local differences. On the process side, we Novelis employees are more consistently initiating lean manufacturing from Europe and South principles, strengthening and standardizing health and America traveled to the safety practices and environmental management, and United States to gain developing new ways to maximize use of our plants, training in key areas that will be important as our increasing both productivity and customer service. operations expand. Specifically, employees from our Nachterstedt, Germany, recycling center, which As part of One Novelis, we have launched a new is due to come online in 2014, traveled to Berea, integrated enterprise resource planning system called Kentucky, USA, to learn more about the recycling and Novelis 2.0. This system, which was launched in the casting process at that site. Similarly, employees from United States in 2012 and continued to be rolled out Brazil traveled to Warren, Ohio, USA, for a two-week globally in April 2014, is allowing us to operate as a more training in can coating, in preparation for the can integrated company with consistent business processes coating line opening at our Pinda plant. and information systems. For example, this system is now more consistently tracking our financial, manufacturing, commercial and other business data at the global level. Our Environment, Health, Safety and Quality Management Systems To ensure rigorous, consistent management of Novelis’ Chief Technical Officer oversees our operations, environment, health, safety and quality (EHS&Q) engineering, research and development, and EHS&Q issues, all Novelis manufacturing sites are certified functions. Our global EHS team develops standards, according to the following internationally recognized provides expertise and facilitates best-practice sharing management systems: across Novelis, while local line managers and plant EHS staff throughout our many manufacturing sites are • The ISO 14001 environmental management standard accountable for EHS performance at the plant level. • The OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety Specification Our CEO leads our EHS Steering Committee, which oversees EHS strategy and performance at the global • Either the ISO 9001 or ISO/TS16949 quality level. Similar cross-functional teams operate at the management system standards1 regional and plant levels and are championed by senior line managers with the support of EHS professionals, Human Resources staff and Communication partners. The teams provide leadership, direction and strategy to effectively implement programs and initiatives. 1 Except our Toronto foil packaging plant, which was not ISO 9001/TS16949. We sold this plant as of June 30, 2014. Our new Changzhou, China, plant is in the process of commissioning and therefore has not yet been certified to ISO standards. 32 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We also operate a network of committees at the global For FY15, Novelis piloted a more collaborative approach and site levels focused on energy use, water use and to our annual EHS audit program, with the audit teams waste sent to landfill. These committees are charged being drawn from operations, molten metal processing with developing strategies for achieving their respective and line management, as opposed to solely from the environmental goals, recommending annual targets for EHS function. The approach also includes a focus on plants and regions, developing mechanisms for sharing preventing the most serious potential injuries. Thus far, best practices, and reporting out successes, roadblocks our plants in Sierre, Switzerland; Santo André, Brazil; and needs. The site-level committees conduct surveys, Bukit Raja, Malaysia; and Warren, Ohio, USA, have each develop action plans, and coordinate and implement undertaken audits using this new approach, which has specific activities at their location. been broadly well received. We report on our EHS performance through this sustainability report and to various regulatory agencies as required. We also report our carbon dioxide emissions and energy use to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). Our Environmental Performance From a life cycle perspective, our most significant environmental issues are the use of energy, the emission of GHGs, the use of water, waste sent to landfill and, to a lesser degree, non-GHG air emissions. We are undertaking an array of efforts to help reduce the impacts of our manufacturing facilities in each of these areas. Since our baseline (an average of FY07–09 performance) we have achieved a: 17% 24% 20% 2% reduction in our reduction in our reduction in reduction in our absolute Scope energy intensity our water use absolute waste 1, 2 and 3 GHG intensity sent to landfill emissions 33 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions We believe society must address climate change by transitioning to a more sustainable, low-carbon economy. For Novelis, the increasingly Rail Transport in Europe evident risks and opportunities related to climate change have been In December 2013, we began a central driver of our business strategy. The risks for Novelis include, operating a dedicated round-trip for example, increased costs for energy and energy-intensive raw railway service that efficiently materials, as well as the costs of adhering to increasingly stringent delivers material between Novelis GHG emission regulations around the world. locations in Germany and the U.K. The opportunities for Novelis are equally compelling, however. We Three times a week, aluminum are transforming our business model to dramatically decrease the coils (destined to become can embedded carbon in our products by increasing our use of recycled product) from Norf, Göttingen aluminum inputs. In so doing, we are positioning our portfolio to and Nachterstedt are loaded capitalize on new business opportunities, as consumer demand for onto the train for delivery to our sustainable alternatives continues to rise. can customers in the U.K. On the return trip, aluminum ingots – We view our efforts as not only the right thing to do for society, but weighing up to 27 metric tons also as a key competitive advantage for our company today and each – are loaded from Novelis’ in the long term. Our current GHG footprint (for FY14) is shown in Recycling Center in Latchford. Figure 4. Once in Norf, the ingots are transformed into coils, then shipped back to customers in Primary the U.K. The round-trip railway Figure 4 Raw Materials service takes less than three days, Novelis Greenhouse Gas compared to the previous barge Footprint FY14 – transport by sea, which took 12– Metric Tons Carbon 16 days. The train also has a lower Dioxide Equivalent (CO2e) environmental impact than the Primary aluminum 15,311,397 previous combination of road and sea transport. Our intention is to GHG emissions increase the train’s frequency later Ingot this year by shipping automotive Avoided GHG emissions Casting product this way as well. Manufacture of flat rolled products 1,861,996 Novelis Avoided Recycling Fabrication due to energy Avoided due efficiency to recycling NOVELIS 25,400 12,009,179 Reduced Life Cycle Impacts of Aluminum Products Transportation 209,243 End-of-Life Customer Collection Production Consumer Use 34 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Greenhouse Gas Emissions: An Absolute Target for an Absolute Challenge Society’s Challenge The vast majority of scientists and climate change experts believe there is an upper safe limit for absolute concentration of carbon dioxide (CO2) in the Earth’s atmosphere. That’s why our company is taking a life cycle approach to GHG emissions, aimed at reducing absolute emissions by 50% across our entire value chain. We know this will be more beneficial for combatting climate change than focusing on emissions from our own operations alone. Our Targets 50% reduction in absolute Scope 1, 2 and 31 GHG emissions by 2020 10M even while growing our production and recycling operations 95% metric tons of reduction GHG emissions in embedded avoided 80% carbon per year recycled inputs into our aluminum in recycled aluminum and reduce our use of primary aluminum Novelis’ Challenge Increasing recycled inputs will increase Our Response our Scope 1 and 2 emissions, due to the Our Response additional energy required to de-coat, shred and remelt recycled aluminum scrap. Decrease our Improved energy efficiency of our indirect (Scope 3) operations GHG emissions so we go beyond through increased use offsetting the additional of recycled inputs into energy needs related to our aluminum using recycled inputs 1 Scope 1 and 2 emissions are those that result from our own operations, either from burning fuels ourselves (Scope 1) or from our purchase of power (e.g., electricity) from other entities (Scope 2). Scope 3 emissions are those outside of Novelis’ direct operations but within our products’ life cycles, e.g., emissions related to our purchase of primary aluminum, which is made using energy-intensive processes, and emissions related to transportation to Novelis customers. 35 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We have set a goal to reduce our absolute Scope 1, 2 Figure 5: Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions and 3 GHG emissions by 50% by 2020, compared to our (metric tons CO2e) baseline, which is an average of fiscal years 2007–2009 (FY07–09) emissions (see Figure 5). So far, we have Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 FY14 vs. reduced these absolute GHG emissions by 17% since the Base Baseline baseline. In FY14 alone, we achieved a 4% reduction in (FY07–09 20,981,391 -36% absolute emissions. Average) -22% FY11 The majority of this decrease is attributable to a -15% reduction in Scope 3 emissions resulting from our FY12 reduced purchases of primary aluminum, though we Total -17% did also reduce Scope 1 and 2 emissions significantly in FY13 FY14 through energy-efficiency efforts and switching from fuel oil to natural gas at one of our largest plants. FY14 17,382,636 Looking forward, we expect continued absolute GHG 7.2 reductions to be driven largely by reductions in Scope 3 5.8 emissions, as our Scope 1 and 2 emissions will be more Figure 6: Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG Emissions Intensity challenging to reduce as we increase the size and scale (metric tons CO2e/metric tons FRP sales) of our recycling operations. Scopes 1 and 2 FY11 Scope 3 FY12 FY13 FY14 Our GHG emissions per metric ton of sales (i.e., our FY14 vs. emissions intensity) have decreased by 17% since our Baseline Base baseline, and by about 8% in FY14 (see Figure 6). (FY07–09 7.2 -26% Average) To further demonstrate our commitment to reducing -15% FY11 emissions, in 2013 we became a signatory to the United Nations’ Caring for Climate initiative. Caring for Climate Total FY12 seeks to help stem climate change by mobilizing business -17% leaders to implement climate change solutions and FY13 policies. (See www.caringforclimate.org.) Also, in 2014 we joined the WWF Climate Savers Program (see p. 20). FY14 6.0 Energy Use We use several sources of energy in our manufacturing Figure 7: Direct and Figure 8: Types of Direct operations (see Figures 7, 8 and 9). The majority of our Indirect Energy Use, Energy Use, FY14 energy usage occurs at our recycling casting centers, FY14 during the process of hot rolling and cold rolling Other Heavy aluminum, and at our small Ouro Preto smelter in South Liquid Fuel Oil <2% America, where we continue to operate one pot line. Indirect Direct Fuels Natural gas used directly at our facilities (particularly for 29% 71% 3% Hydro 8% melting) and purchased electricity (particularly for rolling) are the most significant types of energy use for Novelis. We Other also use fuel oil, transport fuel and other energy sources. Gases <1% Of the energy we purchase, 30% comes from renewable sources and 23% from nuclear power (see Figure 9). Through FY14, our South American segment operated its own hydroelectric facilities to provide power to the Ouro Natural Preto smelter. The sale of these hydroelectric facilities Gas 88% was agreed to as of March 31, 2014, but we anticipate the Total Total transaction will not be finalized before the end of 2014. 27,452,207 GJ 19,525,174 GJ Moving forward, as part of our partnership with the World Wildlife Fund, we plan to develop a global renewable energy strategy and an associated renewable energy goal (see p. 20). 36 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 9: Types of Indirect Energy Use, FY14 Total Total NonRenewable Renewable 30% 70% Hydro Coal 25% 31% Biomass 2.5% Nuclear 23% Other Renewables Refined Petroleum Products 2% > 2% Total 7,927,035 GJ Natural Gas 14% We have set a goal to decrease our energy intensity by Progress toward our energy intensity goal is affected 39% by 2020 from our FY07–09 average baseline. By the by a variety of competing factors. Energy-efficiency end of FY14, our energy intensity had decreased 24% projects and increased sales drive our results in the right compared to our baseline; it was down 5% in FY14 alone direction, while increases in recycling and changes in (see Figure 10). Our total energy use has also decreased product mix offset those improvements. For example, our 24% since our baseline, but was down only 1% in FY14 manufacturing35,981,870 processes run most efficiently when they (see Figure 11). operate at close to capacity; in times of lower output, our energy intensity performance may fall off. 27,452,207 FY14 vs. Base Figure 10: Energy Intensity Figure 11: Total Direct and Indirect (GJ/metric ton FRP sales) -12% Energy Use (GJ) -42% Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 (FY07–09 Total average) -24% 15.00 FY14 vs. 12.4 Baseline Base 11.25 (FY07–09 35,981,870 -12% 9.5 Average) 7.7 FY11 -42% 7.50 6.7 Total 4.7 FY12 -24% 3.75 2.7 FY13 FY14 0.00 Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 27,452,207 (FY07–09 Average) Direct Indirect Total Direct Indirect 37 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report In Partnership with the U.S. Department of Energy Mark Johnson, Director, Advanced Manufacturing Office, U.S. Department of Energy “Novelis’ commitment to reducing its energy intensity by 25% over 10 years establishes the company as a leader in industrial energy efficiency and helps advance the nation’s progress toward a sustainable, clean-energy future.” Novelis Joins the DOE’s Better Plants Program For our part, Novelis has pledged to reduce the energy intensity of our U.S. plants by 25% over the next 10 In FY14, we began partnering with the U.S. Department years, which aligns with our existing energy goal. The of Energy (DOE) as a part of the DOE’s Better Buildings, DOE will work with our U.S. facilities to help analyze Better Plants program. This national partnership each plant’s energy usage, assist in implementing program aims to help companies save billions of advanced technology and software to support the dollars in energy costs, create new jobs, strengthen plant’s energy-saving goals and provide in-plant competitiveness and promote greater energy security training to take on energy-saving projects. Although across the U.S. manufacturing sector. the DOE is limited to assisting plants only in the United States, we will share best practices learned from this partnership with our facilities around the world. How We Are Managing Our Energy Use We are taking a variety of actions to help reduce In FY14, we developed an operational energy policy, our energy use and improve our energy efficiency. to accelerate our progress toward meeting our 39% For example, our plants are working to improve the reduction goal and reduce our contribution to climate metering and monitoring of their energy use. The change. The policy calls on us to aggressively improve largest energy users do monthly energy reporting our energy efficiency, reduce carbon emissions and use by major process operations (i.e., remelt, casting, a systematic approach to energy management. It also rolling and finishing), and we are now working with makes clear that Novelis leaders maintain accountability operators at the asset level on their specific processes for our energy performance and are committed to and equipment. Enhanced monitoring and reporting providing the necessary resources to meet our energy allow us to compare and benchmark in detail the objectives. The policy will be deployed in FY15. performance of similar operations, as well as organize “rapid improvement events” to address specific Also for FY15, we have developed a program of “energy processes at one plant or several. challenges,” through which each plant will be challenged to reduce their compressed air leaks. We will give the In FY13, we established energy specifications for capital plants a timeline – such as one quarter or six months projects and conducted energy assessments; we – to reduce such leaks in a specific area. We will then continue to do this at all plants on a rolling basis. Also, recognize and give awards to plants that meet the goal. we have built a formal energy training program into We hope to conduct at least two of these challenges per our Engineering Development Program (see p. 49). The year, going forward. training covers a variety of issues relating to energy efficiency and management. 38 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report How We Are Optimizing Our Operations In FY14, our plants undertook a variety of specific • After aluminum is rolled, heat is sometimes used initiatives to drive down energy use and GHG emissions. to alter its physical properties, a practice called We estimate that these initiatives resulted in energy annealing. Heat may also be used to dry paint savings of over 770,000 gigajoules (GJ), which is lacquer. We have increasingly planned production equivalent to nearly 3% of our total energy use in FY14. such that processes with similar temperature requirements are conducted in succession, We seek to improve efficiency at every step and limiting the energy associated with raising and to evaluate our operations as a whole to improve lowering temperatures. performance. For example: • We have long recognized that compressed air is one • In our operations, large furnaces melt aluminum and of the least-efficient energy systems in a plant, so we alloying agents with heat generated by burning fuel. are always looking for ways to make it more efficient During fuel combustion, an optimal air-to-fuel ratio and/or reduce its use – for example, by changing air ensures that all the fuel is completely burned. We pressures, identifying leaks and upgrading systems have learned to adjust the fuel supply with increasing where possible. levels of precision in order to ensure that burners do not release more fuel than can be optimally burned. We make every effort to maintain and optimize our existing equipment, but as new technology is • We have also improved the way we add alloys to discovered we seek to implement the most energymolten aluminum, such that we reduce the number efficient upgrades. The largest use of natural gas in our of times the furnace is opened and minimize the heat operations is for melting aluminum scrap and producing that escapes. specific alloys. Consistently advancing our furnace • Molten aluminum must be maintained at a certain burner technology is therefore a priority, and we have temperature to be transferred to the next step in undertaken several large-scale projects to upgrade and the process. Limiting upstream operations until replace burners in the past year. We are also working downstream capacity is available has resulted in to upgrade the wide variety of motors in use in our reduced holding times during which the aluminum operations. Motors with variable-speed drives allow for must be maintained in a molten state. more-efficient use of electrical energy and enable us to respond quickly to ever-shifting energy demands. Energy-Efficiency Projects Our facilities implemented a variety of projects in FY14 to help improve our energy efficiency, including the following: Brazil South Korea Multiple Efficiency Initiatives in Pinda Reducing Natural Gas Use in Yeongju At our Pinda, Brazil, facility, we reduced On the coating line at our Yeongju plant, we installed a bleed damper our electricity energy intensity by 5% in between the exhaust duct and the incinerator. This enabled us FY14 by implementing a wide array of to speed up the coating line, making production faster and more efficiency initiatives. efficient, without creating unsafe heat conditions in the incinerator. The bleed damper helps to control the pressure of the volatile organic For instance, we replaced seven standardcompounds and create an optimal air mixture for incineration. In so efficiency motors with high-efficiency models. doing, it also reduced our natural gas use on the coating line by 25%. We also optimized the set points of our air compressors to maximize efficiency and conducted a complete air compressor leakage assessment, fixing numerous small leaks. Also, we implemented a daily energy inspection, to check that all lights and equipment are turned off at the end of the day. In addition, Novelis South America developed and implemented a communications campaign to raise employee awareness of natural resource use, including energy. 39 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Water Use Our processes are not very water-intensive compared to We have achieved this progress to date in part due many other manufacturing industries and agriculture. But to water-efficiency improvements throughout our because water scarcity has become a worldwide concern, operations, including: establishing cleaning practices we are working hard to optimize our water use. and schedules for cooling towers, regularly cleaning and inspecting boilers, repairing leaking water pipes, In our operations, the process that uses the most water is upgrading to chemical feed systems for water treatment, the casting of ingots after remelting recycled materials. As installing metering and valving systems, and installing we increase our recycling of scrap (in line with our goal to temperature monitoring to control cooling operations. use more recycled inputs), we will do more ingot casting, which could push up our water use. We have thus been During FY14, we conducted a detailed water survey at all working to use water in this process more efficiently. Of of our facilities. The survey requested that sites provide course, the smelting process by which primary aluminum information on their water usage, including water is made is more water-intensive than the recycling intake and discharge types and volumes (i.e., the “water process, so even if our absolute, direct water use rises the balance”), operations in which water is used in the facility, more we recycle, the overall life cycle water use for our and water management techniques and procedures. The products will decrease. 21.5 survey results will be used to drive future water reductions 20.4 10,632,801 and best practice sharing. For FY15, we are continuing We have set a goal to reduce our water use intensity by to operationalize our regional water committees, with a 8,523,306 25% by 2020. As of the end of FY14, compared to our focus on best practice sharing between the plants and the baseline, we have reduced water use intensity by 20%, scoping of key water-efficiency projects. which puts us on track to achieve the 25% goal. In FY14 alone, we decreased our water use intensity by 4% (see Figure 12). From FY13 to FY14, our absolute water usage was relatively flat; however it is down 20% since our baseline (see Figure 13). Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 (FY07–09 (FY07–09 average) average) Figure 12: Water Use Intensity (cubic meters/ Figure 13: Water Withdrawals (cubic meters) metric ton FRP sales) FY14 vs. FY14 vs. Base 10,632,801 Base Baseline Baseline (FY07–09 3.7 (FY07–09 +22% Average) Average) -48% FY11 FY11 -20% -24% FY12 FY12 Total -20% FY13 FY13 FY14 2.9 FY14 8,523,306 Water Use Ground Water Surface Water Water from Public Net 40 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Water Conservation Projects The following are a sampling of the water-efficiency and water-reduction projects undertaken by our facilities in FY14: Brazil South Korea Water Intensity Improvements in Pinda Small Projects for Big Reductions In FY14, we set out to reduce our water use in Ulsan intensity at our Pinda facility by 2% over FY13, to At our facility in Ulsan, South Korea, we help drive progress toward our companywide identified old, underground water piping goal. We not only met this facility goal, but as a significant source of water leakage. exceeded it, achieving nearly a 6% reduction. We In FY14, we repaired this piping, saving accomplished this through a number of measures, 15,364 cubic meters of water per year. including automating some of the systems that We estimate that this and other smaller were previously manual (e.g., for maintaining water-reduction projects, including proper water levels in storage tanks, and for water repairing other leaks and installing “blowdown” in the cooling towers); implementing metering, will result in a reduction in a more rigorous leak inspection program; and water usage in South Korea of over reusing water that was previously discharged. 30,000 cubic meters per year. Also in FY14, a sustainability campaign was launched in order to improve engagement around natural resource consumption and provide tips to identify and reduce the water consumption inside and outside of the plant. United States Recycling Water in Replacing Heat Exchangers in Fairmont, Oswego, New York West Virginia Deionized (DI) water Our Fairmont facility decreased its water use intensity is a key ingredient in by 15% in FY14. This was accomplished by replacing the the coolant used in our heat exchangers in one of the mills, and replacing leaking hot rolling processes. underground piping with above-ground piping. DI is produced from potable water through Reducing Water Use in Greensboro, Georgia a physical separation At our Greensboro facility, we have reduced our water process known as consumption and wastewater discharge by 31,000 cubic reverse osmosis. The meters (together) by working hand in hand with our water demineralized portion of the water represents approximately treatment chemical supplier. For example, we were able 75% of the feed water supply; once separated it is blended to identify inconsistencies in the chemistry of our water with other products to produce hot rolling coolant. At our obtained through on-site wells. We switched over to a Oswego facility, prior to 2013, the remaining 25% of DI municipal water source and, with the use of an electronic concentrate water was discharged to the local sewer authority. monitoring and control system (which reads the conductivity, Separately, we use raw water from Lake Ontario for aluminum pH and chemicals in the water), we have increased our ingot casting at this facility. An analysis of the DI concentrate recycling and reuse of the water from two to six times. discharge water showed similarities to this Lake Ontario raw water. So, we diverted the DI concentrate water to our casting water process, reducing our raw water intake from Lake Ontario by approximately 49,000 cubic meters per year. 41 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Waste to Landfill Novelis operations produce a wide variety of wastes (see below). In FY14, we recycled 77% of all of the wastes we produced – an 18% increase over FY13 (see Figure 14). 3% Filter Media 14% C&D Absorbent media and filter Construction and demolition (C&D) waste paper are used to clean rolling includes items such as concrete, asphalt and coolants so that the coolants roofing materials. These wastes vary by type can be continuously treated and are not typically generated consistently. for reuse. 3% Other Landfill wastes, including general trash, generated from other site activities. 4% Sludge Sludge wastes are generated from our process or waste Novelis’ Waste treatment operations. Profile 63% Dross Dross forms during the process step in which we remove impurities and prevent oxidation of the molten metal. By increasing the scrap content of our inputs, we create more dross and lower-quality dross. Most dross generated by Novelis is sent offsite to be processed by companies that specialize in recovering aluminum from it. We count the remaining landfilled waste as our own, even if it is technically landfilled by a third-party processor. 8% 5% Baghouse Dust Refractory Baghouse dust, or particulate We use refractory materials material, is collected from our (i.e., insulation bricks) in our furnaces to air pollution control systems. maximize energy efficiency during melting. Periodically, the refractory material deteriorates to the point that it must be replaced. 42 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We have a goal of sending zero waste to landfill by Figure 14: Waste by Process Method, FY14 2020. To accomplish this, we are working diligently to reduce waste generation and find feasible recycling Landfilled Incinerated solutions for wastes that currently have limited markets. 23% <1% We have engaged both our operational and research and development experts to develop solutions for 62,508 these wastes. 58,779 Since our baseline, our total waste has increased as our company has grown and as we have increased our use of recycled inputs. The use of recycled inputs currently results in an increase in dross production and makes the dross – our largest waste product by volume – more difficult to recycle (see p. 42). Despite our progress in Recycled Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 decreasing the amount of non-dross waste going to 77% (FY07–09 Total average) landfill since our baseline, an increase in dross production 273,519 metric tons as well as construction and demolition waste resulted in just a 2% decrease in our overall waste to landfill and a 1% decrease in waste-to-landfill intensity in FY14 as Figure 15: Waste 21.5 to Landfill (metric tons) FY14 vs. 20.4 compared to our FY07–09 baseline (see Figures 15 and 16). Baseline Base (FY07–09 63,135 In FY14 alone, both dross and non-dross waste to landfill Average) increased. The increase in non-dross waste was primarily FY11 -2% due to a significant increase in construction-related wastes associated with our South American operations. FY12 We expanded and upgraded the roadways at our Pinda Baseline FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 plant in Brazil in FY14, sending much of the associated FY13 (FY07–09 debris to a landfill. As a result, in FY14 our absolute waste average) to landfill increased by 16% and our waste-to-landfill FY14 62,102 intensity rose by 11%. If the one-time construction and demolition waste is not factored in, however, our absolute waste to landfill increased only 1% in FY14 and waste-to-landfill intensity decreased 4%. In FY15, Figure 16: Waste-to-Landfill Intensity considerations for alternative roadway construction (metric tons/metric tons FRP sales) FY14 vs. and demolition repair work should result in a significant Base Baseline reduction in this type of waste sent to landfill. (FY07–09 21.8 Average) Determining solutions for all of our waste types is -1% FY11 essential for us to meet our ultimate goal of zero waste to landfill by 2020. However, the production FY12 of dross associated with recycling scrap presents our most significant challenge – especially because FY13 dross from recycling certain types of scrap contains significantly less recoverable aluminum. We will FY14 21.5 continue to look for creative solutions for dross recycling using global best practices and by developing new processing technologies. 43 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Waste Reduction Initiatives The following are among our examples of progress in waste reduction for FY14: United States South Korea Refractory Waste Reductions Baghouse Waste Reductions in Berea Recycling Pilot Projects Over the last two years, Novelis North American In Berea, Kentucky, one of our wastein Yeongju remelt sites (Berea and Logan, Kentucky; Oswego, related initiatives in FY14 was to reduce Our Yeongju facility in New York; and Greensboro, Georgia) have initiated waste from the air pollution control South Korea has been programs to recycle their refractory waste. As a system (the “baghouse”). This system actively exploring options result, the region as a whole recycled 1,550 tons uses lime to neutralize emissions from for achieving zero of refractory in FY14, for a 63% recycling rate for our de-coater incinerator and holding waste to landfill. In FY14, this material. Berea had the highest individual rate, furnace units. The spent lime collected Yeongju began recycling recycling 90% of their refractory waste in FY13 and in the baghouse has traditionally then sludge for use in cement, FY14. Oswego just began recycling this material in been landfilled. In FY14, we optimized which will reduce the FY14, but already achieved a 47% rate in the first the lime feed system, allowing us quantity of landfilled year. The goal within North America is to increase to meet emission standards while waste by 500,000 kg per our recycling programs so that 100% of refractory reducing associated baghouse waste year. The average landfill is ultimately recycled. by 180,000 kg per year. of sludge at this plant was 94 metric tons per month and dross to landfill was 880 metric tons per month, but as of October 2013, both of these metrics were reduced to zero. This is saving our Yeongju facility approximately $300,000 per year in landfill costs. United Kingdom For FY15, we will continue to explore opportunities to Baghouse Waste Reductions in Latchford reduce, reuse or recycle the various types of landfill At our Latchford, U.K., facility, baghouse waste was one of the only remaining waste streams that was still sent to wastes that we generate. Many of these wastes are landfill. In FY14, this facility began working with a company recycled in some regions of the world but not others. to use the baghouse dust for void filling in aggregate and These differences are due to market conditions, resource road hardcore. This project is expected to result in landfill availability and/or local regulations. We will continue to waste reductions of 300,000 kg per year. share best practices around the globe and look to create markets for all landfill wastes in all regions. Biodiversity Novelis operates in many locations across the globe and of maximizing recycling is to reduce demand for primary knows that conserving diverse ecosystems is important to aluminum, minimizing the need for new bauxite mining the communities in which we operate and to our overall and alumina refining. mission to reduce our impact on the environment. None of our currently operational or newly announced The most significant biodiversity impacts in the life sites exist within the boundaries of a United Nations cycle of our products occur in our supply chain, during Biosphere Reserve, Ramsar Wetland or UNESCO World the production of primary aluminum. Bauxite mining Heritage Site. Thus, at this time, none of our facilities have results in land disturbances, and alumina refining may been identified as within the boundaries of protected or require the construction of red mud lakes. Our strategy high-biodiversity areas. 44 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report 10,005 Non-GHG Air Emissions 4,168 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 Novelis’ total non-GHG air emissions declined by Figure 17: Total Estimated Air Emissions (metric tons) 25% in FY14 (see Figure 17). The primary reason for this was the reduction of our smelter operations in FY09 10,005 Ouro Preto, Brazil, resulting from the shut down of one of our pot lines. We experienced small increases FY10 in air emissions at facilities that have either increased FY11 their aluminum recycling efforts or have completed expansion projects, such as our cold mill expansion in FY12 Yeongju and our hot mill expansion in Ulsan (both in FY13 South Korea). However, the new expansion projects have been designed with modern air emissions control FY14 4,168 equipment, as described below, which should improve air emissions going forward. Note: Figures represent estimates of pollutants tracked from stack emissions only. Novelis has not developed emission estimates for persistent organic pollutants. Air Emission Reduction Projects The following are examples of our facilities’ efforts to reduce non-GHG air emissions. South Korea Upgraded Cold Mill in Yeongju N  ew Hot Finishing Mill in Ulsan Our Yeongju facility recently installed a new cold In FY14, our Ulsan, South Korea, facility mill to increase production at the facility. The completed the installation of a new new cold mill is designed to operate using water hot aluminum finishing mill, which for cooling aluminum sheet, thereby decreasing will considerably increase the facility’s the amount of oil-based lubricants required and capacity. The new mill is equipped lowering the air emissions associated with such with an advanced air filtration system lubricants. In addition, the new mill was installed (including hooding, exhaust and with high-efficiency pollution control equipment filtration), which is designed to capture equipped with double impact filters for oil removal. 90% of particulate emissions over 1 micron in size. United States Decreasing Dust in Berea Our Berea, Kentucky, facility was faced with the problem of dust accumulation from aluminum melting operations. The accumulation of dust may be dangerous and needs to be properly managed. In FY14, the facility installed a dust collection system to better control the problem in the melting area. 45 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Developing Our People Every day around the world, Novelis employees contribute their talents, ingenuity and commitment to quality and top performance to help the company succeed. In return, we seek to provide a meaningful and rewarding place to work, including not only competitive pay and benefits but also a safe working environment and ample opportunities for professional growth and development. Health and Safety One of our core values as a company is to keep our education, communication, appearance, recognition, employees and contractors safe on the job. And doing process and accountability. The motto of the NSS is so requires commitment and vigilance, as our operations “Together We Are Safe,” and we have sought to spread present an array of potential safety risks. this mindset and associated behaviors and practices throughout our global operations. These risks may arise from the use of mobile equipment on the shop floor, for example, or from the extremely hot In recent years – and in line with our One Novelis temperatures used to melt aluminum. To minimize such effort to function as a cohesive global entity – we have risks, we employ solid safety programs at all of our plants, standardized the signage and safety icons in our plants, to train extensively on safety procedures and behaviors, ensure the clear communication of safety messages and require the use of personal protective equipment and to enable our staff and management to understand those machine safeguarding instruments, and eliminate safety messages when they travel between plants. In another hazards wherever possible. standardization effort, our Corporate Communications teams recently developed a global standard protocol for The Novelis Safety System (NSS) is our comprehensive crisis communications. The protocol outlines exactly system for identifying and mitigating risks, ensuring how employees and their families, customers and local that employees work safely and monitoring their communities will be contacted if business operations are performance. The NSS has six key components: ever disrupted due to a crisis. 2013 Safety Milestones Our Berea, Kentucky, USA, Our Terre Haute, Indiana, Two plants recently Our Warren, Ohio, USA, plant achieved USA, plant reached reached plant achieved 2 million 2,500 one year four years man hours days without a recordable injury: Santo André, without a lost-time injury or more than seven or almost seven years, Brazil, and Greensboro, years, without a without a lost-time injury Georgia, USA lost-time injury 46 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 18: Recordable Case Rate from 0.60 cases per 200,000 hours worked in FY13 to 0.99 such cases in FY14 (see Figure 18). Our ultimate goal for FY10 0.86 this rate remains zero. We are now working to address key issues raised by the OSHA-based standards, such as noise FY11 0.76 levels in our plants, so we can drive decreases in this rate in the coming years. We experienced no fatalities in FY14. FY12 0.59 Our plants conduct safety-related activities throughout FY13 0.60 the year, to keep the issue top of mind and engage employees in developing safe practices. In December FY14* 0.99 2013, for example, our Yeongju and Ulsan plants in Korea 0.50 FY14 target held a safety campaign to educate employees more fully *A new, stricter system for recording injuries was adopted in FY14. in the Novelis Safety System. Employees were also asked to brainstorm safety improvement ideas; they submitted In the past we have collected and tracked global safety nearly 300 entries. Plant EHS leaders selected the top data for our employees and contractors using our Novelis three ideas at each site, which were then implemented Injury and Illness Recordkeeping System (NIRS). In 2013 over the following months. we adopted a new system based on U.S. Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) standards Our internal Global EHS Awards recognize Novelis sites and applied it globally in our business. Though the two that meet strict, metric-based safety criteria. For FY14, systems are very similar, the OSHA-based system is more four Novelis plants earned Gold awards in this program: stringent in some respects, requiring us to record things Pieve and Bresso (Italy), Santo André (Brazil) and Logan (such as a very small amount of hearing loss) as illnesses (Kentucky, USA). Celebrations are held to recognize or injuries that we previously only recorded for OSHA each site’s achievement, and the plants receive funding recordkeeping requirements. from Novelis for grants to drive safety awareness in their communities. Gold winners, for example, receive $2,500 In part because of the change in our measurement to donate. This money can be used to support any safetysystem, our recordable case rate – the aggregate measure related organization of the plant’s choosing. of injuries, illnesses and fatalities – increased last year, Employee Engagement In recent years, as our company has expanded and communication (especially regarding the future of our implemented a range of changes to harmonize our business), better change management and additional business processes and systems, we have bolstered our opportunities for professional growth. Action plans are efforts to communicate with our employees, solicit their currently being developed at the global and plant levels feedback and engage them in building the Novelis of the to help us improve in these areas. future. Such rapid change within a company can present exciting new opportunities for employees, but we know In recent years, we have also taken steps to increase our it can also be challenging and raise concerns, so we are internal communications efforts. For instance, our CEO working to be responsive to those concerns. now conducts regular interactive webcasts for employees, and our senior leaders frequently visit plants and conduct In October 2013, we conducted a companywide town hall meetings. We also develop and distribute employee engagement survey called “Our Voice.” a wide variety of informative publications and other Nearly 6,800 employees, or about 71% of our workforce, communications for employees. In February 2014, we completed the survey, which was designed to gauge launched an enhanced corporate intranet, which includes attitudes and opinions about working at Novelis. new features that employees can use to connect with their Novelis colleagues around the globe. Overall, the survey showed that employees are engaged in and energized by their jobs, are proud to work for We are committed to continuing open communication Novelis and are committed to the company. The feedback and dialogue with all of our employees – unionized also indicated that employees understand how their work and nonunionized. In FY14, approximately 63% of our contributes to the success of the business, which is critical employees were represented by labor unions, and their for us achieving our goals. employment conditions were governed by collective bargaining agreements. The survey also revealed areas for improvement, including a desire for increased open and honest 47 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Employee Evaluations We believe employee evaluations are essential to both performance reviews. In FY14, we recognized that individuals and our company as a whole. For individuals, we had regional variation in what was defined as a such evaluations provide valuable performance performance review – especially for non-management feedback and help employees understand how they employees working on the shop floor. In FY14, we can advance their careers at Novelis. Collectively, such clarified and tightened up that definition. Measuring evaluations help keep employees focused on how they using the new standard, we determined that 46% of can contribute to the success of the business – which employees received performance reviews in FY14, helps to propel the whole organization forward. including 100% of our managers. In FY11, we established a corporate-wide sustainability target regarding employee evaluations. Our goal for 2020 is that 100% of eligible employees will be receiving annual performance feedback. In FY13 we reported that 52% of our eligible employees received annual Employee Recognition Recognizing individuals and teams for outstanding Bob Wagstaff, Director performance is one way to drive excellence throughout of Molten Metal the business. In the past year we have launched three Processing, and new recognition programs to do just that. Novelis Fellow Our Culture in Action program honors teams of Novelis Bob Wagstaff is one employees that have made important contributions of the world’s leading to the company in the categories of safety, results experts in the melting orientation, consumer focus and sustainability. The and solidification of purpose of this program is to help create a One Novelis aluminum and its alloys. corporate culture based on a shared set of values and During his 30-year career, he has invented several attributes. The first Culture in Action winners were leading-edge technologies for aluminum processing announced in September 2013. that have improved efficiency and safety. Bob holds To recognize the most exceptional engineers and more than 20 U.S. patents and more than 40 with scientists within Novelis, we created the Novelis the World Intellectual Property Organization, all Fellowship program, the company’s most prestigious focused on applying complex engineering principles technical honors. The program designates Distinguished to normal workday processes. He has been honored Engineers and Distinguished Scientists and, at the with many industry and leadership awards, both highest level, Novelis Fellows. To be considered for one inside and outside of Novelis. One leading industry of these designations, candidates must be highly skilled publication called Bob “an innovative giant and an technical experts with a sustained body of independent industry pioneer.” and innovative engineering and scientific work that demonstrates a measurable business impact. In October 2013, we announced four, first-ever designees in this program, including one Novelis Fellow (see sidebar). Finally, we also created the Novelis Technical Achievement Awards program. These annual awards celebrate innovative business solutions that are achieved by teams through outstanding work in technology and engineering. The Technical Achievement Awards are based on four components: complexity of the project, inventiveness or disruptiveness, technical outcome or Photo: Sustainability-related Culture in Action winners impact, and applicability across multiple sites. 48 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Talent Management As we continue to grow as a company, so does our Once employees are onboard, we aim to help them need to recruit, develop and retain top talent across further develop their skills and leadership abilities the organization. through our extensive talent management programs. We are working to develop a world-class leadership Finding qualified engineers and scientists, in particular, development program that is global in scope, with is an ongoing challenge. To help ensure we continue to consistent, high-quality offerings across regions and attract the best candidates, our global Human Resources departments. Our specific goal is that by 2020 our team has launched an employee referral program, called program be benchmarked, by a qualified external Novelis Connects, as a way to reward existing employees expert, within the top 10% of world-class companies for bringing new employees into the company. We have that have development programs. seen that referrals by existing employees tend to be better cultural fits, stay longer and are more successful at Novelis. All salaried employees are eligible to participate in Novelis Connects, and if a referred candidate is hired, the current employee earns a monetary reward. Investing in Young Engineers 200+ individuals have been involved in the Engineering Development Program (EDP) since the first wave began in mid-2011. The first class of 53 graduated from the program in 2013. The EDP has since grown to around 80 participants per class. Peter Evans, EDP enrollee and Mechanical Engineer at Novelis’ Novi, Michigan, USA, facility “The EDP gave me a 30,000-foot view of the company and a good understanding of what Novelis is all about. The opportunities [this program] will supply you, and the growth it will offer you in the future, are unbelievable.” As a company, we need to hire and develop a Novelis’ plant in Sierre, Switzerland, where he works significant number of new engineers over the next on creating new products and processes to serve the decade in order to maintain our leadership pipeline and automotive market. support our aggressive growth plans. Our two-year EDP is helping us to do just that. Through the EDP, Vinzenz gets to experience and learn about Novelis’ full range of operations and products. Launched in 2011, the EDP is designed to strengthen “My favorite part of the EDP is visiting different plants Novelis’ engineering talent pool by accelerating the and facilities around the world during the learning development of early-career engineers through weeks,” Vinzenz said. classroom learning and on-the-job experience. The EDP is also helping to grow the Novelis brand on Vinzenz Hofmann, a current EDP enrollee, is just the college campuses and at recruitment events. Asked kind of person we had in mind when we developed why he came to work for Novelis, Vinzenz said, “I this program. Two years ago, Vinzenz was completing thought I would go into the forming business and do his engineering degree at the University of Stuttgart in deep drawing of automotive parts. But the atmosphere, Germany. Today, he is a Development Engineer at the people and the Engineering Development Program put Novelis at the top of the list.” 49 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engineering Development Leadership Essentials I Leadership Essentials II Program A four-day course on A three-day course on foundational A two-year development program foundational leadership skills for leadership skills for new site/function tailored to engineering graduates and first-line leaders leaders early-career engineers (see p. 49) • Delivered locally in all regions • Delivered in all regions • Placement in one of our 29 • Open enrollment • Open enrollment manufacturing plants across • Leadership topics include • Leadership topics include the globe coaching, conflict resolution developing talent, global mindset • Structured learning curriculum and influential leadership and emotional intelligence for technical, professional and leadership skill-building experiences • Special assignments designed to provide broad exposure to Novelis operations • On-the-job assignments and projects to accelerate learning and development • Networking, mentoring and coaching 166* 423* 64* Our six leadership development programs 106* 105* 85* Leadership Launch Program Accelerated Leadership Global Leadership Program A two-week course (over three Program A four-week program (over nine months) for first-line managers A three-week program (over six months) for executives focused focused on leadership skills for months) for managers, focused on on leadership for developing and building One Novelis leadership skills for driving implementing global strategy and • Delivered in all regions profitable growth operational excellence • By nomination only • Delivered in two locations around • Delivered in multiple locations the world around the world • Tools to optimize leadership effectiveness • By nomination only • By nomination only • On-the-job, work-based • Includes a focus on business • Focus on global leadership assignments and financial acumen, global and strategy and operational mindset, strategic thinking, talent excellence, as well as talent • 360-degree multi-rater assessment development and optimization optimization and leading change • Mentoring and coaching • Project teams focused on solving • Project teams focused on solving current Novelis complex, global and current business challenges Novelis business challenges • Multiple leadership self• Multiple leadership selfassessments including the assessments including the 360-degree multi-rater assessment 360-degree multi-rater assessment • Global networking • Global networking • Mentoring and coaching • Capstone activity • Mentoring and coaching * Number of participants to date globally 50 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Investing in Women in the Workforce Joanne McInnerney, VP of Global Talent Management “We know that women provide immense value not only to our business, but to any business. The fact is, genderdiverse boards and leadership teams make better, more profitable and more sustainable business decisions. As such, we are working to develop a formal strategy around further engaging women in our workforce.” Photo: Rehana Hashmi presenting in Atlanta, Georgia, USA At Novelis, we have a vision to increase the visibility diversity quotas, but rather are using the “fair share” of and promote the career advancement of women concept as a benchmark to determine where we may leaders within our company, ultimately increasing the have gaps in how we attract and retain women. number of women in leadership positions. We recently conducted an internal analysis of where we stand with In March 2014, we showed our support of women regard to attracting, developing and retaining women in leadership by organizing our first annual events in leadership positions. From this, we are developing a for International Women’s Day at our headquarters formal strategy around further engaging women in our in Atlanta and our offices in Seoul, South Korea. The workforce as well as female potential candidates. Atlanta event featured a keynote address by Rehana Hashmi, a renowned human rights activist from One question we are asking ourselves is if we have Pakistan, as well as remarks from Novelis CEO Phil our “fair share” of women in the industry. That is, we Martens and VP of Global Talent Management Joanne are comparing the percentage of female graduates or McInnerney, followed by small group discussions. We professionals in different fields (such as mechanical are committed to holding similar events in all regions engineering or metallurgy) against our employee next year. diversity in those fields. We are not seeking to set Employee Code of Conduct and Human Rights At Novelis, we are committed to acting with integrity, style trainings will be administered in the first and second in good faith and in accordance with good corporate quarters of FY15. The trainings are designed to ensure governance. We are also committed to human rights, that everyone fully understands the Code and their role in nondiscrimination and sustainability. upholding it. In FY13, to ensure that our employees act in accord with Also, we remain a signatory to the United Nations Global these commitments, we updated our Employee Code of Compact. As such, we commit to align our operations Conduct and distributed it to all employees. In April 2014, and strategies with universally accepted principles in all office-based employees were required to complete the areas of human and labor rights, including child an online training module on the Code of Conduct. For and forced labor, as well as the environment and employees who work on the manufacturing floor or who anticorruption (see p. 81). do not have regular access to a computer, classroom51 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engaging with Our Communities Novelis is a global company with a global reach – we have production sites on four continents. But we are deeply engaged at a local level as well. In each of the communities where our facilities are located, we seek to be good citizens by listening and being responsive to the needs of the community. We have formal processes to engage with community members, which in turn enables us to target our charitable investments and employee volunteering to issues and causes of importance in that location. Novelis Neighbor Safety All Novelis operating sites have community We extend our initiatives in place, managed through a program “safety first” value we call Novelis Neighbor. Novelis Neighbor beyond our facilities enables our employees to connect with the by supporting people who live in the communities where organizations that Novelis operates and, in the process, engage Our Novelis help to keep our in a personal way with our neighbors. Novelis Neighbor programs neighbors and Neighbor “site champions” at each location are responsible for managing and tracking the have three primary communities safe community outreach, charitable investment and areas of focus: volunteer activities at their facilities. Through the Novelis Neighbor program, each Novelis region is allotted funds for charitable giving, which they in turn distribute to individual Novelis facilities for use in their communities. Through Novelis Neighbor, we have achieved our goal of having formal community engagement processes at 100% of our Math and Science Recycling operations. And we continue to implement formalized processes for routinely engaging Education We support aluminum in dialogue with neighbors, nongovernmental We aim to address the recycling – and education organizations, local government officials, other global need for more about recycling – companies and community stakeholders. Our scientists, engineers and in communities around objective is to receive input that enables us to technologists through the world better identify, understand and address the most the support of math and important issues in the communities where science education at all we operate. In addition, we have instituted a school levels formal process of documenting dialogue with community stakeholders. 52 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report One Novelis Volunteer Month One major Novelis Neighbor program is the One Novelis Volunteer Month – a focused effort to fund and execute large-scale employee volunteer projects in October. The second annual Volunteer Month took place in October 2013. Four new sites (three in Asia and one in Europe) joined this year. All told, 35 Novelis sites in 12 countries completed 49 projects. With more people and sites involved, we are increasing our global impact, as noted below. In our FY14 One Novelis Volunteer Month We Added... 10,600 $400,000+ 2,000+ volunteer hours invested employee volunteers We Created... Nearly 1,200 1,600 kg 100,000 meals served of food cans collected for 35,000 donated recycling people positively affected 200 49 34 38 trees volunteer projects shelters or homes built planted 23 safety-related other centers (most in partnership 11 math/science-related improved with Habitat for 15 recycling-related Humanity) 53 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Community Engagement Initiatives We engage in a wide array of community initiatives, many of which are run through our Novelis Neighbor program and others that are separate. Either way, these initiatives typically fall into our three main areas of focus: safety, math and science education, and recycling. Two of our initiatives – Habitat for Humanity (see below) and FIRST (see p. 56) – are global in scope. In Partnership with Habitat for Humanity Jonathan T.M. Reckford, CEO, Habitat for Humanity International “We are so grateful for the additional resources Novelis brought to the partnership [with the Aditya Birla Group], and for its commitment in green building practices that will strengthen our work in North America and around the world. We look forward to a continuing partnership that reflects our shared goal of environmental stewardship and our shared vision of a world where everyone has a safe, decent and affordable place to live and thrive.” The Safety and Security of Home Novelis has been involved with Habitat for Humanity for more than a decade, providing financial support Greensboro had recycled 2.2 million cans – enough $500,000 and giving employees the opportunity to volunteer to fund the construction pledged to support to build homes for underprivileged families. At the of a Habitat for Humanity Habitat in a multi-year corporate level, we have pledged $500,000 to support home. In October 2013, agreement (2011–2015) Habitat in a multi-year agreement (2011–2015). As part our Greensboro employees helped to build the home, of this support, we helped to sponsor Habitat’s Affiliate which was dubbed “The House that Cans Built.” Conference in March 2013, which attracted 84 exhibitors and 2,100 registered delegates. In October 2013 in Atlanta, Georgia, Novelis sponsored employee volunteers to build alongside a partner Many of our facilities and offices around the world family as part of a “blitz build.” More than 200 Novelis partner with local Habitat affiliates. In South Korea in employees – from both Novelis headquarters and our 2013, for example, we donated $75,000 to the Habitat Kennesaw, Georgia, research center – helped construct Korea affiliate, and our employees helped to build a the Habitat home over the course of a week. housing complex for 24 underprivileged families in the Korean city of Chuncheon. Novelis also helps to support Habitat’s IndiaBUILDS North America campaign, which is seeking to raise In another example, our recycling plant in Greensboro, funds in North America to support Habitat homeGeorgia, USA, partnered with Habitat beginning in 2005 building in India. (Our parent company, the Aditya Birla on a communitywide can collection campaign. As part Group, has had a long partnership with Habitat for of the partnership, Novelis provided two trailers for Humanity in India.) IndiaBUILDS North America plans to collection and also agreed to receive and refund Habitat mobilize $20 million from 2013 to 2018 to help at least for the value of the cans collected. By 2013, residents of 15,000 families in India gain access to decent housing, clean water and proper sanitation. 54 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Improving a Children’s Upgrading a Center for People with Home in Pinda Disabilities (pictured below right) (pictured below left) Employees from our Latchford, U.K., Employees in Pinda, Brazil, facility volunteered at the Walton Lea volunteered to improve a local Partnership, a charity that provides children’s home called Lar da educational and work opportunities Criança Nova Esperança (“New for adults with disabilities. Our Hope Children’s Home”). They made employees painted the interior of a safety improvements to the building, “learning cabin,” set up rain barrels collected books to donate to the Safety to catch rainwater, improved the children and spent time teaching facility’s recycling program and the children about recycling, helped to make the living space safer sustainability and future career paths. for the winter. We were inspired to support this charity in part because they use recycling as a way to raise money. They recycle and resell furniture and bicycles, for example, which not only provides work for their clients but also raises muchneeded funds for the group. 55 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Don Bossi, President, FIRST “I am excited that Novelis is such a strong supporter of FIRST and our mission. Together, we can help young people explore their entrepreneurial thinking and leadership potential. I look forward to working with more Novelis volunteers who believe that FIRST is truly an investment in the future.” In Partnership with FIRST Tim Stanistreet, Lead Rolling Process Scientist, Novelis Global Research & Technology Center and FIRST Robotics Competition Mentor “Novelis is interested in hiring good engineers. We don’t put money into FIRST to get something out straightaway, but we know that in five to six years when participants of the FIRST robotics teams come out 30,000+ people attended this year’s of college, they will have the skills we need to develop our business. annual FIRST Robotics We are looking to develop the World Championship held engineers of the future.” in April 2014 in St. Louis, Missouri, USA Educating the Next Generation of Engineers: Supporting FIRST Robotics In 2012, Novelis began an international partnership with and find it both professionally and personally rewarding FIRST, supporting robotics teams and competitions in to share their expertise with the FIRST teams and every region in which we operate. FIRST stands for “For contribute to the development of the next generation Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology,” of engineers, technologists and scientists. and its mission is to inspire the next generation of engineers, technologists and scientists through mentorWe also help to sponsor the annual FIRST Robotics based programs and robotics competitions. World Championship. This year’s competition was held in April 2014 in St. Louis, Missouri. More than 30,000 Novelis supports FIRST International by funding 15 people attended, watching student-designed and FIRST teams worldwide; funding regional tournaments -built robots compete to do things such as throw balls in Europe, South Korea and the United States; and in baskets and move objects. Four Novelis-sponsored volunteering as mentors for local FIRST robotics teams. teams from the United States and South Korea made it Many of the Novelis mentors for FIRST are engineers to the World Championship in 2013. 56 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Making STEM Education Fun Outfitting a Science Classroom (pictured right) (pictured below) As part of the One Novelis Volunteer Employees from our Ulsan plant Month, our plants in Göttingen, in South Korea provided a local Lüdenscheid and Ohle, Germany, elementary school with a full suite visited local secondary schools to of science equipment and materials, interact with students and encourage to help improve science education education in the STEM fields – at the school. The children were science, technology, engineering and previously using a music room math. The Novelis facilities donated for science class, and did not LEGO® Mindstorms sets, which have appropriate equipment for allow students to build and program the science curriculum. The new robots, and held training sessions to classroom has been dubbed the help students build the robots. We Novelis Invention Laboratory. also donated notebook computers to the schools. All told, the three facilities contributed nearly $70,000 worth of equipment. As part of this effort, nearly 70 elementary-age students from eight different schools Math and Science in Göttingen participated in a local Education robotics contest. Over four months, the students worked together to construct unique, programmed robots. At the contest, the top two teams won a Novelis-sponsored trip to the National Phaeno Robot Festival, a perfect place for the Scholarships for Students STEM Scholarship Program for students to expand their interest in South Korea Children of Employees in science. (pictured below) Since 2009, our Yeongju plant in South Korea has provided In 2013, we began offering four scholarships to academically $5,000 scholarships to dependents Family Day at the Museum outstanding local students of Novelis employees based in (pictured below) who come from economically North America. Applicants must Our office in Shanghai, China, disadvantaged families. In early be in pursuit of a STEM-related planned a special outing for 46 2014, we continued this tradition undergraduate degree. The first underprivileged children from a by presenting scholarships worth four scholarship recipients were local home. As part of the day, nearly $10,000 to 18 students from announced in April 2014 – two high Novelis employees and their families nine local high schools. Two of the school seniors and two college accompanied the children to the scholarships were for excellence in sophomores. We will consider Shanghai Science and Technology math and science. Separately, our expanding the scholarship program Museum, where they were able Yeongju plant’s marathon running to other regions in the future. to experience science and club has provided scholarships technology firsthand. to underprivileged students by donating one Korean won (the local currency) for every meter they run in organized marathons. All told, the club has raised more than 1.2 million won (about $20,500) since 2004. (The money has come from a combination of employee fundraising and Novelis.) One of the beneficiaries, Gyeongmi Kim – who received scholarship money from the club for three years in a row – recently received her teaching degree and is now a schoolteacher. 57 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Recycling Promoting Recycling in South Korea In July 2013, Novelis Korea held a In a separate effort in November “Novelis Greenbiz Camp” – a three2013, the Yeongju plant held a twoday recycling education camp for day recycling competition, in which 50 elementary-aged children. The units and teams competed to see camp’s programs aimed to raise who could bring in the most used awareness of the need for aluminum beverage cans for recycling. About recycling and the environmental 350 employees participated, together benefits of such recycling, and to with their friends and families, extend Novelis’ sustainable business collecting a total of approximately philosophy into the local community. 8,000 cans for recycling. During The camp was co-sponsored by the same event, 30 members of Junior Achievement Korea, a global the Yeongju employees’ volunteer youth education group. Campers club conducted a river cleanup also visited the Novelis Yeongju day, picking up trash – including Recycling Center, Asia’s largest aluminum beverage cans – along aluminum recycling facility. the nearby Seo River. In Partnership with Can Collector Cooperatives Camille Carletti, Coordinator of Reciclázaro Association for the Selective Collection Program “This project was crucial for boosting management within the cooperatives, strengthening their work, providing new ways for selling the material generated and envisioning a better quality of life for cooperative members. Some companies have the conscience to focus on the reverse logistics of their products. The partnership between Novelis and the cooperatives does this, and the benefits are enjoyed by all.” Supporting Collector Cooperatives in Brazil In addition, the NGO gave the cooperatives a shared computer and – with input from cooperative In Brazil, we have begun to develop relationships with members – developed software that will help the several can collectors’ cooperatives. The 200+ members cooperatives with sending invoices and bookkeeping. of these cooperatives, who are typically poor and in Members are now being trained to use the software. some cases recovering addicts, sort through recyclables The NGO also hired a safety expert to advise on safe to separate them by material so they can be sold. working conditions. We have interacted closely with five of the cooperatives In addition, a photographer was hired to take photos over the past year. Specifically, we contracted with of the collectors’ work. Each cooperative will be given a local nongovernmental organization (NGO) to a photo album that will illustrate the importance of the have it assess these cooperatives’ needs and provide collectors’ role in the recycling process and show the assistance to increase their productivity. Some of the transformation that their work inspires – both for the needs identified included better business management aluminum material and for the collectors personally. (including invoicing and accounting), improved safety conditions and more secure relationships with In addition to efforts with these five cooperatives, we buyers of the used cans (as buyers are sometimes have begun buying cans from an additional three – undependable and unscrupulous). bringing to eight the total number of cooperatives from which we purchase in São Paulo. The NGO’s work has produced several outcomes. First, Novelis began purchasing cans from the cooperatives, providing a dependable outlet for their recyclables. 58 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 19: Novelis’ Charitable Investments in FY14 $3,034,990* $253,088 Novelis Employee Contributions Donations $3,288,078 Total Community Investment 20,626 Number of Volunteer Hours * All monetary figures are in U.S. dollars. The total amount contributed includes $946,833 in tax redirects in Brazil. (Novelis South America has the opportunity, at the encouragement of the Brazilian government, to earmark a portion of our corporate taxes each year to benefit nongovernmental organizations. These are known as “tax redirects.”) Candonga Consortium The Candonga Consortium, a joint venture between Since the Consortium’s inception, Novelis has been Novelis and Vale, was formed in 2003 to construct a actively working with the affected families on a variety hydroelectric power plant to supply energy to Novelis’ of community economic development projects, such primary aluminum smelter in Ouro Preto. The power as small business development and vocational training, plant, which became operational in 2004, required the and to raise awareness about environmental issues. In flooding of a river valley and the relocation of 137 families. June 2014, Novelis received partial regulatory approval Those affected were consulted regarding resettlement for the sale of our hydroelectric energy assets in Brazil; and, in collaboration with the state government, the full approval is still pending. The buyers of those facilities Consortium committed to a variety of actions to will thus be responsible for the ongoing Candonga compensate and provide future support to those affected. Consortium community dialogue. 59 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Customers We are delivering value to our customers When our recent investments come online in late 2015, Novelis will not simply as a supplier of high-quality aluminum products, but also as a key partner triple its in developing solutions to improve the automotive sustainability of their products. sheet capacity compared to just a year ago, reaching approximately 900 metric kilotons per year. We’re Adding… A Lower-Carbon Material Novelis’ unprecedented goal to reach 80% recycled aluminum inputs means we are providing our customers with aluminum sheet with ever-lower embedded carbon – which in turn reduces our customers’ carbon footprints. Innovation Capabilities We have an unrelenting focus on innovation across our technical, commercial and operational teams aimed at developing solutions to meet our customers’ needs and help them improve the sustainability of their products. We’re Creating… Lasting Partnerships Our customers include some Innovative and Sustainable Products Closed-Loop Business Models of the Future of the most well-respected We are collaborating with our We are developing new brands in the world, and customers to create the most models for closed-loop we have forged long-term innovative and advanced manufacturing and recycling, relationships with them by aluminum products and to including taking back our providing value as a reliable evolve product design to customers’ production scrap, and trusted design, technical increase recycled content working with them to collect and sustainability partner. and make it easier to recycle post-consumer scrap and aluminum at the end of redesigning products to product life. facilitate end-of-life recycling. Photo: The aluminum-intensive Jaguar F-Type sports car 60 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Delivering Value to Our Customers Novelis’ customers span numerous sectors and include many of the most well-known and respected brands in the world. We work closely with our customers not simply as a supplier of aluminum flat rolled products, but also as a technical partner and catalyst for innovation. Together, we’re imagining and designing the most advanced, sophisticated and sustainable aluminum products in the world. Novelis’ commitment to lead our industry through sustainability and innovation is an increasingly important differentiator for our company – and a key reason we Partnering to Meet are the partner of choice for our customers. Driven by consumer preferences, government regulations Sustainability Goals and natural resource constraints, customers in our core markets of automotive, beverage can and highend specialties are keenly focused on reducing the Novelis’ target to reach 80% recycled inputs has environmental footprint of their products – as is Novelis. clear benefits for our customers. When we improve the sustainability profile of our products that, in The inherent properties of aluminum – lightweight, turn, improves the sustainability of the end product. recyclable and versatile – make it an obvious solution But we cannot achieve this target in isolation. We for improving product sustainability. But, as we like to must collaborate with our customers to evolve the point out, our customers aren’t just buying aluminum – fundamental design of products and to develop new they’re buying Novelis aluminum. And that means they models for closed-loop manufacturing and recycling. are buying aluminum with ever-decreasing embedded carbon, as we work toward our goal of using 80% For example, different alloy compositions can make it recycled inputs by 2020. either easier or more difficult to recycle aluminum. That’s why one of our key areas of focus is developing alloy compositions that make it easier to recycle aluminum at the end of a product’s life – as we did with evercan™ and as we are doing with our key automotive customers (see p. 62). Product design also impacts how easily aluminum can be separated and recycled at the end of life, so we are working with our customers to integrate end-of-life thinking into product design to facilitate recycling. We know that by partnering with our customers to provide them the innovative, high-quality products they need, while at the same time helping them achieve their sustainability objectives, we will help ensure the longterm success of their companies – and ours. Photo: Exhibition Hall in Basel, Switzerland 61 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sector Focus: Automotive Automotive is the single fastest-growing market for our products, and sustainability is the biggest driver of the increasing demand. As automakers face more stringent fuel economy and CO2 emissions standards, they are turning to aluminum to lightweight their vehicles – accelerating the virtuous circle of reduced weight enabling smaller engine size and better fuel efficiency. Novelis is the world’s leading supplier of aluminum sheet to the automotive industry. And, with our unrivaled research and technology capabilities, our company has helped to pioneer the aluminum revolution that’s underway in the auto industry. Redesigning the Ford F-150 Aluminum takes center stage in Ford’s dramatic redesign of its 2015 F-150 pickup We’re Unmatched Global Capacity truck – and Novelis is pleased to continue our long-time relationship with Ford as one of the key aluminum suppliers for the revolutionary Adding… We are aggressively increasing our capacity to meet the growing new vehicle. With a body and bed that for demand for automotive sheet the first time includes high-strength, militaryand positioning our operational grade aluminum alloys, the new F-150 Highest-Quality, Mostfootprint to be the only company weighs in as much as 700 pounds less than Advanced & Lowestin our industry serving auto manufacturers on three continents its predecessor – making it more capable and Carbon Products – including the world’s first more efficient than ever. Our products are featured aluminum automotive sheet Engineers at Ford designed the F-150 to set in more than 180 vehicle facility in China, which began the new standard in full-size pickups. Not models – including the allcommissioning in July 2014. With only is the aluminum body stronger, more aluminum Range Rover and recent investments of more than dent resistant and more corrosion resistant new aluminum-intensive Ford $550 million, Novelis will triple its than ever before, but the new truck can tow F-150 – and are fundamentally automotive sheet capacity by 2015. and haul more, accelerate and stop faster, and changing the automotive operate more efficiently. industry by enabling new levels of effectiveness and In redesigning the truck, Ford also improved efficiency. And as Novelis the ease and efficiency of repair and progresses toward our 80% maximized the opportunities for recycling recycled inputs target, we of aluminum scrap. are dramatically lowering the carbon footprint of our – and With the all-new F-150, Ford has designed and our customers’ – products. built the toughest and smartest F-150 ever. Industry-Leading Research & Innovation In partnership with our customers, Novelis has developed a comprehensive, leading-edge automotive technology package. And recently we’ve taken it a step further with an exciting technology for the use of tailored welding with aluminum for the auto industry – a potential game-changer because it will enable carmakers to substitute tailored aluminum blanks for body parts and structural components, eliminating reinforcements and overlapping joints. This change has numerous benefits – it reduces material use and weight, improves crash performance and cuts both costs and CO2 emissions. 62 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We’re Creating… Lighter, More FuelBusiness Growth & Closed-Loop Arrangements Efficient & Safer Vehicles Customer Value We’re creating closed-loop arrangements with our Every 10% reduction in vehicle Expansion of our leadership in the auto customers through which we buy back their weight results in 5–7% fuel automotive sector is a cornerstone of production scrap aluminum. The benefits in supply savings, so automobiles Novelis’ aggressive growth plans. We chain management efficiencies – as well as the made from aluminum expect our business in the automotive reduced carbon footprint – of these arrangements offer better fuel efficiency, sector to grow from 9% of our portfolio are tremendous. We’re also developing new, more without compromising size today to approximately 25% by 2020. easily recycled alloys for automotive applications and or performance. The allWe are also providing value to our auto leveraging higher-recycled-content materials to close aluminum-bodied Range Rover, customers by designing and delivering the loop even further. for example, is 420 kg lighter the innovative products they need than the previous model – while to satisfy their customers and meet its CO2 emissions have gone regulatory standards. from 253 g/km to 196 g/km. Not only is aluminum light, it’s For vehicles produced in North America, also strong: Aluminum absorbs by 2025: more energy per kilogram than steel. That means aluminum structural components offer equivalent – or superior – safety 7 in 10 46% new pickups Aluminum performance compared to will have an allpenetration in traditional steel designs. aluminum body doors will reach 46% 85% 18% Aluminum Aluminum penetration in penetration in hoods will complete bodies reach 85% will reach 18% Source: Ducker Worldwide, “2015 North American Light Vehicle Aluminum Content Study” 1 Aluminum Applications in Vehicles After decades of using aluminum for components such as doors and hoods, automakers are now going a step further by introducing all-aluminum vehicles. Key applications for aluminum in cars include: 2 1 Body-in-White or Complete Vehicle Body 2 Structural Components 3 Body Panels and Side Walls 3 4 Doors, Hoods and Trunks 5 5 Car Trims and Sealings 4 Photo: Credit JLR 63 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sector Focus: Beverage Can In an ever more carbonand resource-constrained world, aluminum beverage cans offer many sustainability advantages over other materials. Their light weight cuts down on the energy required to ship them. They are also 100% recyclable; used beverage cans are melted down and turned into a new can inexpensively and efficiently, with a “can-to-can” cycle of about 60 days. It’s a good start – but Novelis is not content to stop there. That’s why we are working to re-engineer a 100% recyclable, up to 100% recycled aluminum can of the future. We’re Adding… Innovation & Consumer Insights Technological Expertise In 2014, we commissioned consumer While aluminum cans are market research, in partnership with Bringing evercanTM to Store Shelves something many take for Forum for the Future, to help us refine In 2014, Red Hare Brewing Company granted, for Novelis they our understanding of consumer views announced it would package its craft are the subject of ongoing regarding recycled content in consumer beer exclusively in cans made of Novelis’ technical refinement and products. The research showed that evercan aluminum sheet, marking the innovation. We deliver consumers react positively toward commercial debut of evercan, the world’s industry-leading technological companies that use sustainable packaging, first independently certified, high-recycledexpertise and facilities via and they would consider switching to a content aluminum sheet for beverage cans. our applied can technology comparable brand that offered a more Red Hare, based in Georgia, is one of the laboratories around the world. sustainable option (see p. 68). fastest-growing micro-breweries in the And our own can pilot line United States. The company selected evercan at our Global Research & aluminum as part of its commitment to Technology Center has been reduce its environmental footprint, while invaluable in enabling us to preserving the freshness and enhancing the quickly and efficiently develop taste of its beer. and test customized solutions for customers. “Novelis’ evercan is a perfect fit for Red Hare,” noted Roger Davis, founder and CEO of Red Hare. “The independent certification of the closed-loop recycling process behind evercan The World’s Largest strengthens our commitment to employing Recycling Network the best in sustainable business practices, making evercan a natural extension of the Red Novelis is not only the world’s Hare brand.” largest producer of beverage can sheet, but also the Red Hare was the first craft brewery in world’s largest recycler of Georgia to package its products in aluminum aluminum beverage cans. cans, following a trend in the micro-brewery We recycle approximately industry to move from bottles to cans as a 50 billion UBCs per year. way to expand distribution and appeal to Novelis operates aluminum consumers. Nearly 400 craft brewers in beverage can recycling nearly every state in the United States are facilities on four continents canning more than 1,300 different beers. and drives increased recycling of cans across the globe. Our recycling efforts are a key part of achieving our goal of using 80% recycled inputs by 2020 – and helping close the loop in the aluminum can market. 64 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report We’re Creating… A Smaller Carbon Footprint for Solutions to Improve Today’s Can Tomorrow’s Ultimate Our Customers We are continually working to improve Sustainable Package Like Novelis, our beverage can customers the design, profile and attributes of today’s With the introduction of the are actively working to reduce the aluminum can. For example, we are first generation evercan™ – carbon footprint of their products. As exploring opportunities to further “downindependently certified can we implement our recycling strategy, gauge,” meaning use less material, while body sheet to be made of at we are dramatically reducing the carbon maintaining or improving performance. least 90% recycled material – footprint of not only our products, but We also worked with our customers to Novelis has taken a critical step our customers’ products as well. And develop a laminate can-end coating that toward our ultimate goal: a can the impact is significant: At our target of takes significantly less energy to produce made with up to 100% recycled 80% recycled content and high end-ofthan the traditional liquid coatings. material. We will progress our life recycling, our can sheet will generate And we are focused on innovations to alloy development, can design 2.5 metric tons of CO2 per metric ton of secure – and expand – the future success and recycling capability to product – 75% less CO2 than if there were of aluminum cans, such as re-sealable enable this. no recycling. aluminum bottles. 23 million metric tons reduction in GHG emissions for can production globally if all cans were made from 100% recycled aluminum, instead of the current average of about 50% – equivalent to eliminating the emissions from more than 4.4 million automobiles every year Reinventing the Aluminum Can with evercan™ Aluminum beverage cans are already 100% recyclable, but to fully close the loop they need to be made from 100% recycled content – a technical challenge that requires evolving the design specifications of today’s can. Novelis has been hard at work doing just that. Our recently launched evercan aluminum beverage can sheet is: • The world’s first independently certified, high-recycled-content aluminum beverage can sheet – certified by SCS Global Services, a trusted leader in environmental, sustainability and food quality certification, auditing, testing and standards development. • Certified to contain at least 90% recycled content – the highest guaranteed recycled content aluminum can sheet available today – which, when combined with the can ends during the can-making process, enables the creation of a beverage container containing a minimum of 70% recycled aluminum. • Industry standard aluminum can body sheet – meets all current beverage can-making requirements – that helps our beverage can customers and their supply chain partners lower their carbon footprints, and enables environmentally conscious consumers to purchase low-carbon-footprint products. 65 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Sector Focus: Creating a Specialties Carbon-Neutral City Sønderborg, Denmark, has set a goal of becoming a CO2-neutral city – and Novelis aluminum is going to help the city achieve it. As part of Novelis’ Specialties group has a diverse portfolio that includes the effort, renowned architect Frank Gehry designed the new “Kontor C” consumer electronics, architecture and building materials, office building, which features a industrial equipment and more. Across all these markets, demand 4,000-square-meter façade made from Novelis pre-painted aluminum for aluminum is increasing, driven by a variety of factors – not ff2®. The material was chosen based least of which is sustainability. Electronics manufacturers, for on its 100% recyclability, durability and recycled content. Compared to example, value aluminum’s light weight, recyclability and recycled other metals, Novelis’ ff2 aluminum content – especially important where there are product take-back is easy for architects and builders to use due to its excellent workability laws. In architecture and building, aluminum enables architects to and mechanical properties. Novelis is bring innovative designs to life, while also improving the durability proud to have created such a reliable and environmentally friendly material and efficiency of buildings and increasing recycled content – a that is making its mark on sustainable key requirement for achieving many “green building” certifications. cities around the world. We’re Adding… We’re Creating… Innovations in Design More Sustainable Safer Products and Applications Products We are researching ways to make Our technical group works closely with our We’re helping customers make products safer, such as finding alternatives specialties customers to design aluminum their products lighter, not only to materials identified as potentially components that can be substituted for by substituting aluminum for hazardous that are used in food contact parts previously made of other materials other materials, but also by aluminum applications. For example, – helping improve performance and downgauging the aluminum we developed an alternative to BPA, a durability and reduce weight. In 2014, for we provide – meaning we use substance found in coatings and banned example, we debuted new high-strength less material, with no sacrifice in France starting in 2015, to coat our aluminum sandwich panels – commonly to performance. And with finished food serving trays and lids. We used for exterior building walls and roofs – aluminum’s recyclability – and commercialized this new technology, that weigh only one-third as much as steel Novelis’ ever-increasing use which was then adopted by Air France and resist corrosion and discoloration. of recycled content – we are for use in their food trays. providing our customers with products that have a lower Life Cycle Thinking carbon footprint, use less We are innovating to provide our energy to transport, take fewer customers with aluminum for resources to produce, and their products made with alloys create less waste at the containing more recycled content end of their life. – and that are more easily recycled at the product’s end of life. For example, we have begun testing a new design that will enable us to increase the use of recycled inputs from 25% to 80% in a range of applications, from electronics to architecture, while still meeting our customers’ alloy specifications. Photo: Novelis shines at 2014 Olympics in Sochi, Russia. 66 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Consumers We are working to increase post-consumer For every ton of aluminum that replaces traditional metal aluminum recycling rates through consumer in a vehicle, consumers save education and advocacy for robust recycling 20 metric systems. We also seek to better understand tons CO2 consumer viewpoints about sustainability. over the lifetime of the car We’re Adding… A Commitment to Improving Recycling More Low-Carbon Aluminum We’re Creating… Infrastructure We’re providing our customers We are developing tailored with high-recycled-content strategies – in partnership aluminum, which ultimately Deeper Insight into Reduced Consumer with customers, municipalities gives consumers more environmentally friendly Consumer Viewpoints Impacts on the and other stakeholders – that address gaps in recycling product options. We have commissioned Environment infrastructure in key markets. market research to help us By buying products that have Post-Consumer assess support for recycled a lower carbon footprint, Recycling content in consumer products consumers’ own impacts on Capacity – knowledge that is useful for the environment are reduced. both our own business and that We operate stateof our customers. of-the-art collection and recycling centers in Vietnam, the U.K. and Brazil, More Informed to help increase the Consumers processing of postThrough sponsorship of consumer used consumer education programs, beverage cans. we’re raising awareness of the critical importance of recycling and the infinite recyclability of aluminum. 67 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Engaging with Consumers While Novelis does not sell products directly to consumers, we nonetheless engage with consumers in a number of ways. For instance, we work to gain insight into consumer viewpoints about sustainability and recycling, and to educate consumers about the importance of recycling. We also support efforts to make post-consumer aluminum recycling easy and convenient, since such recycling is essential to our efforts to “close the loop” on the aluminum life cycle. Consumer Viewpoints on Sustainability “Green” products are big business these days. More and Figure 20: Consumer Research Findings more, consumers are considering the sustainability attributes of the products they buy. In response, companies across sectors are increasingly touting the environmental benefits of their offerings. At Novelis, we 68% of respondents agreed that if are actively helping these companies, which are our taste and price were the same, customers, to create products that are more sustainable. they would consider switching This is a natural fit for us, as aluminum – and in particular, to another drink/beverage low-carbon, high-recycled-content aluminum – offers brand that had a better a number of environmental benefits compared to environmental impact. alternative materials. To succeed in this realm, we know we must listen to what consumers want and need and find ways to meet those 82% of respondents agreed that needs. In early 2014, we commissioned market research companies should increase of consumers and key stakeholders to help us refine our the amount of recycled understanding of their views regarding recycled content material in packaging. in consumer products. The research was undertaken by Forum for the Future, a sustainable development NGO. This research was part of a broader collaboration between Forum for the Future and Novelis that is exploring how to take sustainable disruptive innovation to scale. 75% The project involved desk research, stakeholder of respondents agreed that interviews, focus groups and a quantitative survey. companies should make it easier for consumers to help The researchers surveyed more than 3,000 canned the environment. drink purchasers in the United States, United Kingdom and Poland, for instance, and interviewed 12 expert stakeholders in the United States and United Kingdom from major retailers, NGOs and other organizations (see Source: Commissioned survey of 3,000+ individuals in the U.S., U.K. and Poland by Figure 20). Madano Partnership, in conjunction with Forum for the Future consumer research 68 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Taken together, our consumer research efforts yielded the following key findings, among others: • Sustainability does influence consumer choice at • Waste reduction is an important issue for the grocery store, and people want to get involved consumers, and people increasingly say they in corporate sustainability efforts. are prepared to switch or boycott brands that • People react positively toward companies that use behave irresponsibly. sustainable packaging, and they would consider • Consumers see recycling as a shared switching to a comparable brand that offered a responsibility among themselves, governments more sustainable option. and beverage companies. • However, consumers are bombarded with • For many of these reasons, the high-recycledenvironmental messages, so brands must convey content evercan™ innovation was appealing to information about the issues as well as the consumers in all the countries where the research expected individual and collective impact. took place. We found these findings insightful and useful, especially as they are supportive of our efforts to increase the recycled aluminum content and offer high-recycled-content products such as evercan™. Forum for the Future produced a downloadable, public-facing report summarizing the key findings from this research; search for “Scaling Disruptive Innovation in Sustainable Packaging” at the following website: www.forumforthefuture.org. Increasing Post-Consumer Recycling Consumer behavior helps to determine how much fact that recycling policy, consumer motivation and aluminum makes it back into the recycling stream and infrastructure are often local in nature. In many areas, how much ends up in landfill. That’s why we work well-developed systems exist for collecting, sorting and to make recycling easy and convenient and support processing aluminum cans. Elsewhere, systems are less programs that educate consumers about the importance developed, more fragmented or more limited. Also, UBC of recycling. recycling services may be provided by government agencies, by the private sector or by public–private partnerships, depending on location. Why Post-Consumer Recycling is Important While UBCs will remain the primary source of postAs discussed in the Sourcing section (see p. 23), we are consumer material we purchase, we are also working to making significant efforts to increase the amount of scrap buy and process more of other types of post-consumer aluminum we buy and process, so we can achieve 80% aluminum as well – for example, aluminum from recycled inputs. At present, post-consumer recycled automotive and electronic products. Electronics collection aluminum accounts for about 67% of our total scrap and recycling systems are often not as well developed as inputs. And the majority of that post-consumer material is UBC systems, and are also variable among locales and used beverage containers (UBCs) – i.e., aluminum cans. regions. In the longer term, we will be seeking to grow UBCs are the world’s most-recycled beverage containers, the take-back of aluminum from high-aluminum-content and Novelis is the lead recycler of UBCs in the world. We vehicles that have reached the end of their useful lives. currently process about 50 billion cans a year, and we Clearly, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to expect that our global consumption of UBCs needs to developing and expanding the collection and recycling grow to more than 60 billion cans in the coming years. of various types of post-consumer aluminum, and it is Securing that volume of UBCs, however, depends on challenging for a single company like Novelis to drive increasing post-consumer recycling rates. large-scale change. That’s why we seek to develop UBC recycling rates around the world vary significantly. tailored strategies – in partnership with customers, Although the global average is around 70%, we estimate municipalities and other stakeholders – that address that only about 51% of UBCs in the United States important gaps in key locations. are recycled, compared to 68% in Western Europe and 98% in Brazil. These differences stem from the 69 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Figure 21: Recycling Opportunities for Consumers 60 days 15 to 20 years 50 years to recycle cans and is the average lifespan of is the approximate lifespan return to the shelf an automobile of aluminum in buildings Recycling of Consumer Goods Curbside (for cans) Local/municipal Away from home Can drives/ E-waste take-back Scrap dealers/ drop-off points (for (for collecting cans fundraisers programs (for dismantlers (for cans, computers, at sporting events, computers and other construction scrap, electronics, appliances, concerts, etc.) electronics) aluminum siding, construction scrap) appliances, vehicles) Making Recycling Convenient We are strong advocates for the expansion of recycling micro-enterprise collectors, not just from large, thirdinfrastructure – and increasingly we are directly creating party traders (see p. 27). We have plans to open two new that infrastructure ourselves. We now operate a recycling scrap collection centers each year, in other regions, for center in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, to handle the the next several years. procurement, cleaning and baling of UBCs in that country. And in Brazil, we operate seven scrap collection centers We also support efficient post-consumer recycling policy to help us increase our supply of material for recycling and infrastructure development appropriate to local in that country. In both of these countries, we buy needs. In addition, we are involved in several programs aluminum directly from many small community and that seek to boost recycling through improved collection and infrastructure, including the following: Every Can Counts Curbside Value Partnership This initiative in Europe, sponsored by Novelis In the United States we are an active member and and other supply chain stakeholders, focuses on funder of the Curbside Value Partnership (CVP), increasing away-from-home recycling by providing a nonprofit that seeks to increase household more than 11,500 recycling collection points at participation in curbside recycling programs by businesses, schools, concerts and sporting events. consulting with communities and carrying out Since its founding in 2009, Every Can Counts has education and data analysis. worked with more than 1,500 organizations to start The CVP has worked with 31 communities and up and promote beverage can recycling for their four states since its creation in 2005, and these staffs and customers. The program launched initially communities have seen an average 23% increase in in the United Kingdom and is now active in seven recycling volume and 18% increase in participation European countries. as a result. Currently, the CVP is focused on helping Recently, Every Can Counts developed an easy-tocommunities switch from recycling bins to larger use tool that illustrates the energy savings created by rolling carts, which are expected to increase recycling aluminum can recycling. The “Can-culator” works out rates (because people won’t stop recycling when the how many beverage cans could be recycled in a year bin gets full). at a given workplace or school (based on the number of employees or students), and then shows how long a PC or a light bulb could run on that saved energy (see everycancounts.co.uk/canculator). 70 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Educating Consumers We organize and support recycling-related consumer education and awareness efforts in locations around the world – particularly where recycling rates are relatively lower. United Kingdom South Korea ThinkCans Program Greenbiz Camp Our ThinkCans program has In South Korea, Novelis promoted education and Korea held a “Greenbiz awareness over the past Camp” in 2013. This threedecade about aluminum day camp educated 50 can recycling at work, home, elementary-aged children school and charities. The about recycling and Cash for Cans aspect of sustainability. See the the program (which was Manufacturing section (p. 58) actually set up earlier, in for more on this program. 1991) provides the recycling bins and educational leaflets needed for schools and charities to run can drives, and then pays the organizations for the cans collected. MetalMatters A recycling education program called MetalMatters has reached more than United States 2.4 million households since it launched in 2009. One More Generation MetalMatters’ educational We also partner with a unique Atlanta-based environmental campaigns focus on organization called One More Generation (OMG). Started by “transformation” – that is, the two pre-teens, OMG developed a week-long curriculum for fact that metal packaging can elementary-aged children about the importance of recycling. be endlessly recycled into OMG delivers the curriculum itself and, through funding from a wide variety of products. Novelis, also developed a guide that allows teachers to deliver Funded and supported by it. While the materials originally focused on plastics recycling, Novelis and other industry Novelis worked with OMG to incorporate information about partners, MetalMatters the critical need to recycle aluminum as well. The OMG campaigns have increased founders have given their recycling presentation to thousands recycling rates in every of students, parents and teachers across the United States, and community in which they now have plans in place to expand internationally – first to the have run. United Kingdom. Atlanta Falcons As the “Official Recycling Partner” of the Atlanta Falcons professional football team, The Great American Can Roundup School Challenge Novelis sponsors messaging Through our membership in the Can Manufacturers Institute, at Falcons’ games that we help to sponsor the Great American Can Roundup School educates fans about the Challenge. This competition – which awards monetary prizes importance of recycling. to schools in each U.S. state that collect the most beverage Novelis also partners with the cans – educates students about the importance and benefits Falcons to sponsor a Green Team Ambassadors contest with of recycling cans. In 2013, more than 1,000 schools competed local schools. More than 50 schools participated in the fourin the contest, ultimately diverting more than 200,000 pounds month Green Team Ambassadors contest in 2013, all agreeing of aluminum cans from landfills. to promote the recycling of aluminum cans. 71 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Product Safety and Health At Novelis, we work to ensure that our products meet high standards of safety and quality for our customers, and, in turn, for the consumers of their end products. We comply with the rigorous safety requirements of our Novelis recognizes, however, that some consumers automotive customers. And for some food and beverage have become concerned about potential health hazards applications, we certify that we meet demanding associated with BPA. And, some governments have begun regulatory consumer safety requirements. All scientific to regulate the use of BPA in certain products (e.g., plastic evaluations to date, produced by internationally respected baby bottles), and they are considering the regulation organizations, have found aluminum to be safe for use in of BPA in other products. In early 2013, for example, the the full range of its current applications. state of California held a consultation on whether to add BPA to a list of what it considers to be potentially Aluminum is present in various chemical forms in harmful chemicals. The French government has taken a rocks, soil and vegetation, and is found naturally in more aggressive approach: Beginning in January 2015, most water supplies. As a result, humans regularly it will prohibit the manufacture, import, export and ingest it. However, the body has highly effective commercialization of all food and beverage packaging barriers to exclude aluminum and similar metals, and using BPA. in healthy individuals, the kidneys quickly excrete most of the absorbed aluminum. Patients with severe kidney As a result of consumer concerns and these types of problems, including those on dialysis treatment, often emerging regulations, Novelis has been actively working face problems, including the inability to excrete absorbed to develop sustainable alternatives to the current BPAaluminum. The use of modern aluminum-free dialysate based epoxy coatings. Because we are but one link solutions now prevents “dialysis dementia.” in the long beverage packaging supply chain, we are collaborating with coating suppliers, can makers and Acute dialysis dementia described in the early days of beverage companies to research and develop solutions, renal dialysis has no connection with Alzheimer’s disease. whether new coatings or other potential alternatives to In 1997, a task group under the auspices of the World BPA, for our customers. As discussed on p. 64, our can Health Organization and the United Nations Environment pilot line has proven particularly useful in enabling us Programme concluded that no evidence exists to support to test BPA alternatives for our customers in real-world the premise that aluminum causes, exacerbates or manufacturing conditions. accelerates Alzheimer’s disease. The work to find alternatives is complicated by the fact Bisphenol A (BPA) is a basic building block of the resins that each region in the world has somewhat different used in epoxy coatings that serve as protective linings requirements for coatings based upon government for metal packaging as well as many plastic products. regulations, customer preferences and the types Coatings containing BPA are currently found in almost of beverages sold. In Asia and the Middle East, for all aluminum and steel beverage cans. Regulatory instance, many beverages must undergo a “retort” (mild agencies in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Japan, Australia and pasteurization) process, which creates an additional New Zealand have stated that scientific evidence has demand on the coating. In North and South America, consistently shown that these coatings are safe. In March press speeds are quite fast, so the coating must exhibit 2012, the United States Food and Drug Administration superior forming and toughness characteristics. said that no compelling scientific evidence exists to justify At present, several BPA coating alternatives for cans new restrictions on BPA. Also, a report by Health Canada meeting these various regional requirements are relatively concluded that the average adult would have to consume far along in development and are being evaluated in 940 canned beverages in a single day to approach the market trials and assessed for regulatory approval. “tolerable daily intake” level of BPA exposure. 72 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 G4-17, G4-20, G4-21, G4-22 and G4-23 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report About This Report This is Novelis’ fourth annual sustainability report, published in the fall of 2014. Scope and The full Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) content index lists details of organizational changes that could affect the future year-on-year comparability of data, where Boundaries applicable. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, if relevant, are noted with the data graphics and tables. In some cases, the data may have This report was prepared in accordance with changed slightly since our last report due to the following: the principles of materiality (see p. 16), as well as improved processes for calculations, estimations, completeness, balance, comparability, accuracy, conversion factors, reporting periods (calendar year to reliability, timeliness and clarity. We applied quality fiscal year), or improved methodologies (e.g., tracking principles to its data collection and reporting process, actual numbers instead of using estimates). For example, and used Global Reporting Initiative reporting principles our baseline average for our landfilled waste target has (see p. 74) in compiling the data. been updated the past two years due to an effort to better track and improve our estimation of the amount of The report focuses on our most material impacts and waste from dross processing that is ultimately landfilled. opportunities – those that are of most importance to our Also note, some data points (e.g., percent reductions company and our stakeholders. These issues are either of environmental metrics) may not appear to calculate currently affecting, or will affect, our business activities, correctly, but this is due to rounding. and Novelis has some level of indirect or direct influence over them (see p. 17). This report covers all Novelis Inc. divisions, subsidiaries and legal entities in the nine countries in which we Reporting Period are present. It includes our joint ventures. We have included 50% of the Alunorf joint venture in Germany The primary financial and environmental data and where we have 50% of plant output, and 55% of the information contained in this report cover the period Logan facility in the United States, where we own 40% from April 1, 2013, to March 31, 2014, which is Novelis’ of outstanding common shares, but receive 55% of plant 2014 fiscal year (FY14). Additional relevant baseline data or output due to equipment investments. The financial context from preceding years is included where specified. and environmental data results for these operations are included in our companywide data in this report at these percentages. For the operations in Korea and Malaysia, we report operational data at 100%. In Korea, we hold an approximate 100% equity interest in the Ulsan and Assurance Yeongju plants. We hold a 59% equity interest in the We did not seek third-party assurance of this report; Aluminum Company of Malaysia Berhad, a publicly however, we systematically gathered our data with traded company that operates from Bukit Raja, Selangor, future assurance in mind. Some of the data we disclose Malaysia. Unlike our production-sharing joint ventures at has undergone various forms of internal and thirdAlunorf and Logan, we market 100% of the Korean and party verification. For example, most financial data was Malaysian plants’ output. derived from financial statements included in the Annual Report on Form 10-K (see p.67 of the Form 10-K), and some environmental data was reported to regulatory authorities. In addition, the third-party environmental and sustainability certifier SCS Global Services, Inc., certified the recycled content for evercan™. 73 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report The Global Reporting Initiative Index We have aligned this report to conform to the Global As such, Novelis has consulted the G4 Mining and Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Metals Sector Disclosures and has responded where Guidelines at the Comprehensive level. Novelis received they are applicable to our operations in FY14. We have a GRI ‘Materiality Matters’ check for this report, which included an abbreviated GRI Content Index on the verifies that, at the time of publication of the G4 following pages, to help readers easily locate information Guidelines-based report, General Standard Disclosures on indicators spelled out in the GRI guidelines. G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly located in both the Supplemental data and other information on our Content Index and in the text of the final report. During performance against the GRI’s criteria can be found in the FY14, we still owned mining rights in the Ouro Preto complete GRI Content Index on our website at novelis. region of Brazil, though they were not being utilized. com/sustainability. We discuss our approach to external These sites have since been divested. assurance for this report on page 73. GRI Index in Accordance with Comprehensive G4 Guidelines General Standard Disclosures Strategy and Analysis Organizational Profile continued… G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-1 Letter from Our Chief 4–5 G4-9 About Novelis 7–8 Executive Officer Full GRI Index Appendix See G4-2 Letter from Our Chief 4–5 A assurance Executive Officer Corporate website: statement, Performance Summary 6 Investors page 73 Strategy 9–22 Novelis FY14 10-K Novelis FY14 10-K 16–24 G4-10 Full GRI Index Appendix B G4-11 Employee Engagement 47 Organizational Profile G4-12 Re-engineering Our 24–29 G4 Omission / Supply Chain Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-13 Positioning Novelis to Meet 12 G4-3 About Novelis 7–8 Growing Demand G4-4 About Novelis 7–8 Full GRI Index Where Novelis Aluminum 8 Novelis FY14 10-K 38–39 is Used G4-14 Full GRI Index Corporate website: G4-15 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Who We Are Responsible Sourcing 29 G4-5 About Novelis 7–8 Full GRI Index G4-6 About Novelis 7–8 Novelis FY14 10-K 10–11; 25–28 Full GRI Index G4-7 Full GRI Index About Novelis 7–8 Sustainability Management 21 and Governance G4-8 About Novelis 7–8 Where Novelis Aluminum 8 is Used Customers 60–66 74 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Governance G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-16 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 G4-34 Sustainability Management 21–22 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-17 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index About Novelis 7–8 Corporate Website: Scope and Boundaries 73 Executive Officers Novelis FY14 10-K Corporate Website: G4-18 Materiality 16–17 Board of Directors Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 Full GRI Index G4-35 Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance G4-19 Materiality 16–17 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 G4-20 Materiality 16–17 Safety and Quality Scope and Boundaries 73 Management Systems Reporting Period 73 Full GRI Index G4-21 Materiality 16–17 G4-36 Sustainability 19 Scope and Boundaries 73 Advisory Council Reporting Period 73 Sustainability Management 21–22 G4-22 Reporting Period 73 and Governance Scope and Boundaries 73 G4-37 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 G4-23 Reporting Period 73 Sustainability 19 Advisory Council Stakeholder Engagement Engaging on Policy 19 Full GRI Index G4 Omission / G4-38 Sustainability Management 21–22 Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance and Governance G4-24 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Full GRI Index G4-25 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Corporate Website: G4-26 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Executive Officers G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Corporate Website: Board of Directors Report Profile Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 G4-39 Full GRI Index G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-40 Full GRI Index Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 G4-28 Reporting Period 73 G4-41 Full GRI Index G4-29 Full GRI Index Corporate Website: G4-30 Full GRI Index Code of Conduct Reporting Period 73 Corporate Website: G4-31 Report Back Cover Code of Ethics G4-32 GRI Index 74–80 G4-42 Sustainability Management 21–22 G4-33 Assurance 73 and Governance Full GRI Index G4-43 Full GRI Index G4-44 Full GRI Index G4-45 Full GRI Index Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 Continued… 75 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Governance continued… G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-46 Full GRI Index Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 G4-47 Full GRI Index G4-48 Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Full GRI Index G4-49 Full GRI Index G4-50 Full GRI Index G4-51 Full GRI Index Novelis FY14 10-K 143–147 G4-52 Full GRI Index Novelis FY14 10-K 143–147 G4-53 Full GRI Index See response to G4-51 Novelis FY14 10-K 143–147 G4-54 Data is confidential G4-55 Data is confidential Ethics and Integrity G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-56 Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Employee Code of Conduct 51 and Human Rights Corporate Website: Code of Conduct Corporate Website: Code of Ethics Full GRI Index G4-57 Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Employee Code 51 of Conduct and Human Rights Corporate Website: Code of Conduct Corporate Website: Code of Ethics Full GRI Index G4-58 Full GRI Index 76 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Environmental continued… G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Aspect: Economic Performance G4-EN3 Energy Use 36–39 DMA Performance Summary 6 Full GRI Index About Novelis 7–8 G4-EN4 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 Sustainability Management 21–22 Energy Use 36–39 and Governance Full GRI Index G4-EC1 About Novelis 7–8 G4-EN5 Energy Use 36–39 Novelis' Charitable 59 See Full GRI Index Investments assurance G4-EN6 Pioneering a New Way of 10 Novelis FY14 10-K 4, 9, 35, statement, Doing Business 37, 48 page 73 Energy Use 36–39 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-EC2 CEO Letter 4–5 G4-EN7 Energy Use 36–39 Drivers of Demand for 11 Customers 60–66 Our Products Full GRI Index Engaging on Policy 19 Aspect: Water Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Energy Use 36–39 and Governance Full GRI Index Our Environment, Health, 32–33 G4-EC3 Full GRI Index Safety and Quality Novelis FY14 10-K 20, 54, Management Systems 78, 147 Water Use 40–41 G4-EC4 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index Aspect: Market Presence Aspect did not meet G4-EN8 Water Use 40–41 threshold for materiality Full GRI Index Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Aspect did not meet G4-EN9 Not available: we expect threshold for materiality this data to be available Aspect: Procurement Practices Aspect did not meet in the next 3–5 years threshold for materiality G4-EN10 Water Use 40–41 Full GRI Index Environmental Aspect: Biodiversity Aspect did not meet Aspect: Materials threshold for materiality DMA Pioneering a New Way of 10 Aspect: Emissions Doing Business DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance and Governance Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 Sourcing 23–29 Non-GHG Air Emissions 45 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-EN1 Full GRI Index G4-EN15 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 G4-EN2 Re-engineering Our 24–29 Full GRI Index Supply Chain G4-EN16 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index Aspect: Energy G4-EN17 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 DMA In partnership with the 20 Full GRI Index World Wildlife Fund G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 Sustainability Management 21–22 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-EN19 Greenhouse Gas Emissions 34–36 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 Full GRI Index Safety and Quality Management Systems Energy Use 36–39 Continued… Full GRI Index 77 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Environmental continued… Environmental continued… G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance G4-EN20 Full GRI Index Aspect: Transport Aspect did not meet G4-EN21 Non-GHG Air Emissions 45 threshold for materiality Full GRI Index Aspect: Overall Aspect did not meet Aspect: Effluents and Waste threshold for materiality DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment and Governance DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 and Governance Safety and Quality Our Supply Chain 24–25 Management Systems Impacts and Risks Waste to Landfill 42–44 Responsible Sourcing 29 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-EN22 Water Use 40–41 G4-EN32 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-EN33 Full GRI Index G4-EN23 Waste to Landfill 42–44 Aspect: Environmental Grievance Aspect did not meet Full GRI Index Mechanisms threshold for materiality G4-EN24 Full GRI Index G4-EN25 Full GRI Index Social – Labor Practices and Decent Work G4-EN26 Full GRI Index Aspect: Employment Aspect: Products and Services DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 DMA See DMA for Materials and and Governance all other Environmental Developing Our People 46–51 aspect DMAs Full GRI Index Strategy 9–15 G4-LA1 Full GRI Index Sustainability Management 21–22 G4-LA2 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-LA3 Per company policy, Customers 60–66 this information is Consumers 67–72 confidential Full GRI Index Aspect: Labor/Management Relations G4-EN27 Pioneering a New Way of 10–15 DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Doing Business and Governance Sourcing 23–29 Employee Engagement 47 Our Environmental 33–45 Full GRI Index Performance MM4 Full GRI Index Customers 60–66 G4-LA4 Full GRI Index Increasing 69–71 Aspect: Occupational Health & Safety Post-Consumer Recycling DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-EN28 Increasing 69–71 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 Post-Consumer Recycling Safety and Quality Full GRI Index Management Systems Aspect: Compliance Health and Safety 46–47 DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-LA5 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 Our Environment, Health, 32–33 Safety and Quality Safety and Quality Management Systems Management Systems Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-LA6 Health and Safety 46–47 G4-EN29 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index G4-LA7 Full GRI Index G4-LA8 Full GRI Index 78 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Labor Practices and Decent Work continued… Labor Practices and Decent Work continued… G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Aspect: Training and Education Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance and Governance Employee Evaluations 48 Investing in Women in 51 Talent Management 49–51 the Workforce Full GRI Index Employee Code 51 G4-LA9 Sharing Global 32 of Conduct and Best Practices Human Rights Novelis Joins the DOE’s 38 Corporate Better Plants Program Governance website How We Are Managing Our 38 Full GRI Index Energy Use G4-LA13 Per company policy, Employee Code 51 this information is of Conduct and confidential Human Rights Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Full GRI Index DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 G4-LA10 Employee Evaluations 48 and Governance Employee Recognitions 48 Our Supply Chain Impacts 24–25 Talent Management 49–51 and Risks Full GRI Index Responsible Sourcing 29 G4-LA11 Employee Evaluations 48 Novelis Supplier Code of Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Conduct DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Full GRI Index and Governance G4-LA14 Full GRI Index Investing in Women in 51 G4-LA15 Full GRI Index the Workforce Aspect: Labor Practices Aspect did not meet Employee Code 51 Grievance Mechanisms threshold for materiality of Conduct and Human Rights Human Rights Novelis Code of Conduct Aspect: Investment Aspect did not meet Corporate threshold for materiality Governance website Aspect: Non-Discrimination Aspect did not meet Full GRI Index threshold for materiality G4-LA12 Full GRI Index Aspect: Freedom of Association and Aspect did not meet Corporate Website: Collective Bargaining threshold for materiality Executive Officers Aspect: Child Labor Aspect did not meet Corporate Website: threshold for materiality Board of Directors Aspect: Forced and Aspect did not meet Novelis FY14 10-K 139–143 Compulsory Labor threshold for materiality Aspect: Security Practices Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Aspect: Indigenous Rights Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Aspect: Assessment Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Continued… 79 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Human Rights continued… Product Responsibility G4 Omission / G4 Omission / Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Indicator Report Section or Location Page Assurance Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Aspect: Materials Stewardship DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance and Governance Our Supply Chain Impacts 24–25 Pioneering a New Way of 10 and Risks Doing Business Responsible Sourcing 29 Re-Engineering 24-25 Novelis Supplier Code of Our Supply Chain Conduct Our Global 26-28 Full GRI Index Recycling Strategy G4Responsible Sourcing 29 Waste to Landfill 42-44 HR10 Full GRI Index Increasing 69-71 Post-Consumer Recycling G4-HR11 Responsible Sourcing 29 Full GRI Index Full GRI Index Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Aspect: Human Rights Aspect did not meet Grievance Mechanisms threshold for materiality DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Society Our Environment, Health, 32–33 Safety and Quality Aspect: Local Communities Management Systems DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 Product Safety and Health 72 and Governance Full GRI Index Engaging with Our 52–59 G4-PR1 Product Safety and Health 72 Communities Full GRI Index Making Recycling 70 G4-PR2 Full GRI Index Convenient Aspect: Product and Aspect did not meet Educating Consumers 71 Service Labelling threshold for materiality Full GRI Index Aspect: Marketing Communications Aspect did not meet G4-SO1 Engaging with 52–59 threshold for materiality Our Communities Aspect: Customer Privacy Aspect did not meet Engaging with Consumers 67–72 threshold for materiality Full GRI Index Aspect: Compliance Aspect did not meet G4-SO2 Full GRI Index threshold for materiality Aspect: Anti-corruption Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Aspect: Public Policy DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Engaging on Policy 19 Full GRI Index G4-SO6 Full GRI Index Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Aspect: Compliance Aspect did not meet threshold for materiality Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society DMA Sustainability Management 21–22 and Governance Our Supply Chain Impacts 24–25 and Risks Responsible Sourcing 29 Full GRI Index G4-SO9 Full GRI Index G4-SO10 Full GRI Index Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society 80 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report UNGC Communication on Progress Index As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), we are committed to upholding the Compact’s principles on human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption in our everyday business operations as well as reporting our progress. Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Principle References: GRI Index/Other References: Report Section Report Page HUMAN RIGHTS 1. Businesses should Novelis endorses the UNGC, International Labor Organization’s CEO Letter 4–5 support and respect Conventions on Human Rights and the Universal Declaration the protection of of Human Rights. internationally General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 45, 53, 56, 57 Sustainability Management and 21–22 proclaimed Governance human rights; and DMAs: Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration Our Supply Chain Impacts and Risks 24–25 for Women and Men, Supplier Human Rights Assessment Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-HR10, 11 Responsible Sourcing 29 Corporate Governance website Investing in Women in the Workforce 51 Employee Code of Conduct and 51 Human Rights 2. Make sure that they General Standard Disclosures: G4-37, 47, 49, 53, 58 CEO Letter 4–5 are not complicit in DMAs: Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration Sustainability Management and 21–22 human rights abuses. for Women and Men, Supplier Human Rights Assessment Governance Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-HR10, 11 Responsible Sourcing 29 Corporate Governance website Investing in Women in the Workforce 51 Employee Code of Conduct and 51 Human Rights LABOR 3. Businesses should General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 37, 45, 47, 49, 58 Sustainability Management and 21–22 uphold the freedom Governance of association DMAs: Labor/Management Relations Responsible Sourcing 29 and the effective Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-LA4 Employee Engagement 47 recognition of the Corporate Governance website Employee Code of Conduct and 51 right to collective Human Rights bargaining, and 4. The elimination of all General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 45, 53, 56, 57 Sustainability Management and 21–22 forms of forced and Governance compulsory labor, DMAs: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Responsible Sourcing 29 Human Rights Assessment Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-LA14, 15, HR10, 11 Employee Code of Conduct and 51 Human Rights Corporate Governance website 5. T he effective General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 45, 53, 56, 57 Sustainability Management 21–22 abolition of child and Governance labor, DMAs: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Supplier Responsible Sourcing 29 Human Rights Assessment Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-LA14, 15, HR10, 11 Employee Code of Conduct 51 and Human Rights Corporate Governance website 81 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact continued… Principle References: GRI Index/Other References: Report Section Report Page 6. T he elimination Novelis does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, Sustainability Management and 21–22 of discrimination national origin, color, sex, age, veteran status, or disability. Governance in respect of General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 45, 53, 56, 57 Responsible Sourcing 29 employment and Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-LA12, 13 Investing in Women in the Workforce 51 occupation. DMAs: Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Equal Remuneration Employee Code of Conduct and 51 for Women and Men, Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices, Human Rights Supplier Human Rights Assessment Corporate Governance website ENVIRONMENT 7. Businesses General Standard Disclosures: G4-14 CEO Letter 4–5 should support Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-EN27 Strategy 9–22 a precautionary DMAs: Products and Services Sourcing 23–29 approach to Our Environment, Health, Safety and 32–33 environmental Quality Management Systems challenges, and 8. Undertake initiatives General Standard Disclosures: G4-14, 15, 16, 27, 37, 45 CEO Letter 4–5 to promote greater Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-EN2, 6, 7, 10, 19, 27, 32, 33 Strategy 9–22 environmental responsibility, DMAs: Materials, Energy, Water, Emissions, Products and Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 Services, Effluents and Waste, Supplier Environmental Assessment Corporate Website: Novelis Environment, Health, Safety, and Sustainability Management and 21–22 Quality Policy Governance Sourcing 23–29 Our Environment, Health, Safety and 32–33 Quality Management Systems Our Environmental Performance 33–45 Community Engagement Initiatives: 58 Recycling Increasing Post-Consumer Recycling 69–71 9. E ncourage the Specific Standard Disclosures: G4-6, 7, 10, 27, 32, 33 CEO Letter 4–5 development DMAs: Energy, Water, Products and Services, Effluents and Strategy 9–22 and diffusion of Waste, Supplier Environmental Assessment environmentally Corporate Website: Novelis Environment, Health, Safety, and Stakeholder Engagement 18–20 friendly technologies. Quality Policy Sustainability Management and 21–22 Governance Sourcing 23–29 Our Environment, Health, Safety and 32–33 Quality Management Systems Our Environmental Performance 33–45 Consumer Viewpoints on Sustainability 68–69 ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should Novelis does not tolerate corruption, extortion Sustainability Management and 21–22 work against or bribery. Governance corruption in all its General Standard Disclosures: G4-15, 41, 45, 49, 50, 56, 57 Responsible Sourcing 29 forms, including Corporate Governance website Employee Code of Conduct and 51 extortion and Human Rights bribery. 82 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Overview Strategy Sourcing Manufacturing Customers Consumers About This Report Awards and Recognitions In September 2013, Metal September 2013 Also in September, Novelis Korea Limited, the Bulletin named Novelis Asia-Pacific operating unit of Novelis Inc., won Aluminum Fabricator of the the South Korean Prime Minister’s 2013 Leading Year and also recognized Resource Recycling Corporation Award. The our Yeongju Recycling award was given in recognition of our efforts Center as Best Brownfield to minimize our environmental footprint, Technology Project. including through aluminum recycling, resource conservation and carbon emission reduction. February 2014 In February 2014, Novelis In March 2014, Novelis was honored as an was recognized among Outstanding Contributor for Investment the U.S. Environmental Promotion by the Changzhou National Protection Agency’s High-Tech District in China. This award is Climate Leadership given to investors who have made a significant Awardees, specifically for March 2014 contribution to the development of Excellence in Greenhouse the city. Novelis was recognized for our Gas Management (Goal $100 million investment to build the country’s Achievement Award). first aluminum automotive sheet plant, which will be commissioned in late 2014. In May 2014, for the second Novelis took year in a row, Novelis home the 2014 earned recognition at the Edison Green May 2014 Platts Global Metals Awards Award™ Silver ceremony in London. Trophy in This year, we took home May 2014 for gold in the category of Industry Leadership in transforming to Aluminum, in recognition of our leadership as a closed-loop a first mover and our willingness to take risks business model and transform our business. Platts also honored and pursuing Novelis as a finalist for Breakthrough Innovation aggressive of the Year for our state-of-the-art cold rolling sustainability targets. The Edison Green mills in Pinda, Brazil, and Yeongju, South Award recognizes an organization’s Korea, and as a finalist for the Corporate Social commitment to developing sustainable Responsibility Award. In 2013, Platts named solutions and green business models. Novelis Global Metals Company of the Year and Edison Award winners are judged by more named the Novelis CEO, Phil Martens, CEO of than 3,000 senior business executives the Year. and academics from across the nation. Two Novelis employees also Karen Renner, Novelis’ earned well-deserved recognition Vice President and Chief recently. Leslie Joyce, Senior Vice Information Officer (CIO), President and Chief People Officer, was named Georgia CIO won the first-ever Values Award of the Year in late 2013 by from the Best Practice Institute (BPI) the Georgia CIO Leadership in late 2013. The award recognizes Association. Renner talent management leaders who best exemplify BPI’s core was honored for her values. In 2014, Joyce won another award – the SHRM-Atlanta leadership, business value Pegasus Award honoring excellence in human resources. This creation, innovation and award was presented at the 24th Annual Society for Human community involvement. Resource Management–Atlanta (SHRM) Conference. 83 Adding More, Creating Value Novelis Sustainability Report 2014 Design and production: Flag Content: BuzzWord Novelis Inc. is the global leader in aluminum rolled products and the world’s largest recycler of aluminum. The company operates in nine countries, has approximately 11,200 employees and reported revenue of approximately $10 billion for its 2014 fiscal year. Novelis supplies premium aluminum sheet and foil products to transportation, packaging, construction, industrial and consumer electronics markets throughout North America, Europe, Asia and South America. The company is part of the Aditya Birla Group, a multinational conglomerate based in Mumbai, India. For more information, visit novelis.com and follow us at facebook.com/NovelisInc and twitter.com/Novelis. We very much welcome your feedback or partnership on sustainability. If you have any questions or comments about this sustainability report or about sustainability at Novelis, please contact: Tel: +1 404 760-4483 john.gardner@novelis.com Novelis Inc. Two Alliance Center 3560 Lenox Road, Suite 2000 Atlanta, GA 30326, USA Tel: +1 404 760-4000 © Novelis 2014 www.novelis.com/sustainability
