Quality, environment and ethics Sustainability issues are integrated into NOTE’s business operations. Segments covered are quality issues, environmental impact, business ethics and human rights. This work is decentralised and co-ordinated using collective targets and guidelines. NOTE is a member of the UN Global Compact, which was started on a UN initiative. Holistic perspective raises standards resources. An external party verifies and During the year we continued our Taking an integrated approach to various certifies its management system. efforts to progressively integrate the sustainability issues is crucial to how Quality audits are regularly conducted Global Compact’s ten principles into our effective overall results are. These on NOTE’s strategic suppliers. working methods, our future plans and matters involve everything from helping together with our collaboration partners. customers to select components with Environmental policy and working Peter Laveson, CEO and President good environmental and quality performethods mance, to locating manufacture close to NOTE strives for long-term and sustaifinal markets, so that the environmental nable development by producing with Additionally, NOTE units collaborate to impact of transportation is limited. When the minimum possible environmental share experiences, good examples and mitigating its customers’ impact on the impact. NOTE endeavours to comply suggested improvements. environment and wider society, NOTE with, or exceed, applicable environEnvironmental audits are regularly works actively to limit the group’s negamental legislation, work on continuous conducted on NOTE’s strategic suppliers. tive impact on its surroundings. improvement and maintain an updated environmental policy. Ethics Quality policy and working methods Environmental work follows interNOTE has been a member of the Global NOTE creates competitiveness for its national ISO guidelines, mainly the ISO Compact, started on a UN initiative, customers by delivering the right quality 14000 series. All the group’s production since autumn 2011. The Global Compact at the right time and at the right price. units have ISO 14001 certification and states ten principles member companies To achieve this, NOTE continuously deare audited by internal and external undertake to comply with. These principles velops and improves its services with the resources. govern human rights, labour law, the aim of constantly satisfying applicable Although different countries’ environenvironment and corruption. In 2014, standards and customer expectations. mental legislation varies, NOTE’s ambiNOTE will make its second Communication Production units work towards shared tion is for all units to follow a common on Progress (CoP) to the UN. This and measurable targets. For example, line of environmental work. Production reviews the work being conducted within product quality and delivery precision units sort consumables and monitor the group internally and with customers, are continuously measured for both energy consumption continuously. Other suppliers and other stakeholders. customers and suppliers. parts of operations also include enviIn 2013, NOTE updated and NOTE utilises a portfolio of quality ronmental considerations, such as in strengthened its policy work and execuassurance tools and methods whose discussions with customers regarding ted an employee satisfaction survey. In origins lie in the quality systems of the materials sourcing and production 2014, NOTE intends to continue develoautomotive and pharmaceutical industries. arrangements. ping its policy initiatives and to make a ISO 9000 is a series of international Electronic scrap, glass and paper are more active contribution to the progress standards used to direct the focus of recycled. Improvement projects reduce of its surroundings on a number of our corporate quality management systems. waste and limit energy consumption and markets. All the group’s production units have ISO CO2 emissions. Corrugated board and NOTE’s Code of Conduct is based on 9001 certification. Using its quality macombustible waste are compacted to the UN Global Compact and is available nagement system, NOTE can trace faults minimise the number of waste transporat www.note.eu. and continuously develop the company’s tation runs affecting the environment. A summary of the NOTE units’ executed methods and processes. NOTE ensures NOTE also co-ordinates freight agreeand prospective work on Global Compact its work is functioning through regular ments in the group to optimise transport, principles is on the following page. audits, which monitor standards and and thus limit energy consumption and procedures, by internal and external CO2 emissions. NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 15 INTRODUCTION OPERATIONS THE NOTE SHARE FORMAL ANNUAL ACCOUNTS UN Global Compact principles NOTE’s approach HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Companies are requested to support and respect the protection of international human NOTE has been using its Code of Conduct since 2006. The company endeavours to develop rights in their spheres of influence; and business with companies that have the corresponding ethical rules on accountability. Principle 2 ensure that their own company is not party to breaches of human rights. NOTE has been applying its Code of Conduct since 2006. LABOUR LAW Principle 3 Companies are requested to maintain freedom of association and make actual NOTE respects that its employees form and join labour organisations, and negotiation is collective recognition of the right of collective bargaining; Principle 4 abolition of all forms of forced labour; As part of its business principles, NOTE and its customers’ and suppliers’ employees should enter employment and contracts of their own free will. Principle 5 abolition of child labour; and NOTE does not employ children and does not collaborate with companies that use children as part of their workforce. Principle 6 abolition of discrimination in employment and at work. NOTE believes in a workplace where everyone has equal opportunities to work and progress. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Companies are requested to support the principle of prudence in terms NOTE’s units run improvement projects in the environmental segment, and measure a series of of environmental risks; environmental factors such as electronic scrap, energy consumption, CO 2 emissions and transport. All units have environmental targets, which is monitored regularly. Principle 8 take the initiative to promote acceptance of far-reaching environmental NOTE works actively on developing policies and methodologies designed to minimise the company’s responsibility; and negative environmental impact. Employees are encouraged to participate in this process. Principle 9 encourage the development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technology. NOTE takes a positive view of developing environmental technology and actively supports new manufacturing methods and components that are more environmentally friendly. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Companies should counteract all forms of corruption, including blackmail and extortion. NOTE encourages employees to resolutely counteract all forms of corruption, blackmail and extortion. Simultaneously, NOTE expects the corresponding attitudes from its customers and suppliers. 16 NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 Results 2013 Targets 2014 NOTE works actively on securing compliance with NOTE’s Code of Conduct. NOTE encourages customers and suppliers Increase the number of suppliers and customers that accept to join the UN Global Compact by communicating the significance of these issues. A further 18 agreements were signed NOTE’s Code of Conduct or support UNGC’s ten principles. with suppliers who had accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or follow similar codes in the year. In addition, NOTE inforPrepare and implement a Code of Conduct to be used in the med new customers of its membership of the UN Global Compact and its principles and benefits. NOTE also supported sales organisation. Continue to actively help children and uphold UNICEF in 2013, which works actively to help children and uphold their rights. their rights. NOTE works actively to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct. In 2013, NOTE prepared and implemented a Strengthen the implementation of the revised policy for human revised human rights policy in the group subsidiaries. rights in all group subsidiaries. NOTE has had employee representatives on the parent company’s Board of Directors since 2009. Collective bargaining Maintain existing collective bargaining agreements. agreements are in place at most NOTE units. NOTE works actively to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct. NOTE encourages customers and suppliers to join Increase the number of suppliers and customers that accept the UN Global Compact by communicating the significance of these issues. A further 18 agreements were signed with NOTE’s Code of Conduct or support the UNGC. suppliers who had accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or follow similar codes in the year. In addition, NOTE informed new customers of its participation in the UN Global Compact and its principles and benefits. NOTE works actively to ensure compliance with its Code of Conduct. NOTE encourages customers and suppliers to join Increase the number of suppliers and customers that accept the UN Global Compact by communicating the significance of these issues. A further 18 agreements were signed with NOTE’s Code of Conduct or support the UNGC. suppliers who had accepted NOTE’s Code of Conduct or follow similar codes in the year. In addition, NOTE informed new customers of its membership of the UN Global Compact and its principles and benefits. NOTE sees and benefits from all employees’ specific competence and developmental opportunities, regardless of sex, Conduct another employee satisfaction survey. ethnicity, sexual orientation, disability, age and social background. NOTE’s units work on integrating equal opportunities and diversity in all parts of their operations. In 2013, NOTE prepared and implemented a revised human rights policy in the group subsidiaries. A group-wide employee satisfaction survey was completed for the first time in many years in 2013. Principle 7 and 8. Principle 7 and 8. NOTE’s units worked slightly differently on environmental issues in the year, towards individual goals. Employees receiv Continue to fulfill new and previously achieved targets. ed training in environmental thinking and action. A “green” power contract, with electricity is sourced from hydroelectric stations and wind turbines, was signed for all the group’s Nordic units. NOTE’s consumption of energy, gas, paper and water reduced, as did the share of products containing lead and waste derived from components and PCBs in production. The proportion of group shipments increased, fire extinguishers were replaced with more environmentally friendly models. In addition, separate waste collection points for cardboard, plastic bottles and other waste were provided. Hazardous waste was separated, marked and correctly disposed of. NOTE has implemented a database used for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict minerals in components. (RoHS is an EU directive that prohibits or limits use of certain heavy metals and fire retardants in electrical and electronic products on the market, Reach is an EU regulation governing chemicals and other hazardous substances.) A third party review of the environmental management system was conducted by an external party. NOTE conducts environmental assessments when introducing new equipment, technology and logistics solutions. The Continue progress towards even more environmental production. knowledge gained is shared between units in the group. An environmental perspective is considered jointly with customers when tailoring product manufacture. NOTE has implemented and uses a database for identifying RoHS, Reach and conflict minerals in components. NOTE has group-wide and local authorisation procedures expedient for its business. NOTE’s purchasing policy stipulaStrengthen the implementation of the anti-corruption policy in all tes that sourcing is conducted in accordance with ethical rules, and that bribery and corruption are forbidden. In 2013, group subsidiaries. Further develop internal processes and conNOTE prepared and implemented an anti-corruption policy for group subsidiaries. The number of suppliers that accept trol functions relating to authorisation rights in all group units. NOTE’s Code of Conduct increased by 18 in the year. NOTE ANNUAL REPORT 2013 17
